{"id": "2101020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101020", "title": "Global Leadership Foundation", "text": "Global Leadership Foundation\n\nThe Global Leadership Foundation (GLF) is a not-for-profit, non-governmental organisation comprising a network of former heads of state or government and other distinguished leaders who seek to assist developing countries improve governance, bolster democratic institutions and resolve conflicts. The organisation does so by providing free confidential advice to current heads of governments committed to peace, democracy and development. It was formed in 2004 by former South African President F. W. de Klerk and is active across the world. It does not publicize the countries in which it works.\n\nThe Global Leadership Foundation is based on the General Assembly of members (GLF members), who are led by a board of directors and served by a small secretariat.\n\nThere are currently 44 GLF members, all former heads of government and distinguished leaders. New members are selected by existing members.\n\nThe GLF Board is responsible for the objectives of the Global Leadership Foundation and for all decisions relating to the foundation's structure, governance, strategic aims and financial management, including the secretariat work plan and budget. The chairman of the GLF Board is F. W. de Klerk.\n\nThe board is advised on the strategic direction and evolution of the foundation by a strategy and development committee. The chair of the committee is Sir Victor Blank.\n\nThe activities of the organization are coordinated by a small secretariat based in London. The secretariat is the hub of the GLF network, linking GLF members with other parts of the network, including the foundation's business, governmental and non-governmental partners. The CEO of GLF is Sir Robert Fulton.\n\nThe foundation is supported by the GLF International Council, which consists of organisations and individuals who recognize the importance of GLF's work and support the foundation financially. A limit is placed on the size of each donation to preserve the foundation's independence.\n\nGLF is registered in the Canton of Bern, Switzerland. It has two associate foundations: GLF (USA), a 501(c)(3) foundation registered in Delaware, US; and GLF (UK), a charity registered in England and Wales.\n\nList of GLF members:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101036", "title": "Norton Rose Fulbright", "text": "Norton Rose Fulbright\n\nNorton Rose Fulbright is an international law firm. It is the second largest law firm in the United States and one of the ten largest in the world, by both lawyers and revenue. In 2017/18, Norton Rose Fulbright had total revenue of US$2.1 billion.\n\nIt has more than 4000 lawyers and other legal staff based in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa and the Middle East. \n\nThe firm was formed by the merger of UK-based Norton Rose and US-based Fulbright & Jaworski in June 2013. \nNorton Rose Fulbright US LLP, Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, Norton Rose Fulbright Australia, Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP and Norton Rose Fulbright South Africa Inc are separate legal entities, all of which are members of Norton Rose Fulbright Verein.\n\nThe origin of Norton Rose dates back to 1794 when the sole practitioner Robert Charsley opened for business. In 1821, Charsley formed a partnership with William Barker, creating Charsley & Barker. Later that century, Phillip Rose (later Sir Philip Rose) joined the firm, creating Barker & Rose. In the years that followed, a new partnership between Phillip Rose and Henry Elland Norton was formed under the name Barker, Rose & Norton. By the turn of the 20th century, the firm was called Norton, Rose, Norton & Co., and had maintained its position as a powerful force in the City of London for six decades.\n\nIn 1960, the firm, by then re-named Norton, Rose & Co., amalgamated with specialist shipping firm Botterell & Roche (founded 1861) to form Norton, Rose, Botterell & Roche. With its expertise in shipping, the firm benefited from the growth of the international shipping market in the early 1960s, and was involved in the nationalization of British Steel and the after-arrangement of its subsidiary companies.\n\nThe firm continued to grow, and in 1976 established its first international office in Hong Kong, followed by Bahrain in 1979 and Singapore in 1982. By 1988, the firm had shortened its name and over the next ten years Norton Rose commenced a programme of international expansion, with the establishment of offices across Asia, Europe and the Middle East, taking the firm’s international operations to 22 offices. In 2007, Norton Rose converted to a Limited Liability Partnership.\n\nWith a vision to become one of the world’s top global legal brands, Norton Rose embarked on the first phase of rapid expansion when it combined with Australian firm Deacons in 2010, adding to the strength and size of the firm across the Asia-Pacific region. In early 2011, Norton Rose Australia announced an association with a firm in Indonesia.\n\nBy June 2011, Norton Rose had combined with Canadian law firm Ogilvy Renault and South African firm Deneys Reitz, creating a top 10 global legal practice with 38 offices and 2500 legal staff, totaling more than 5000 people worldwide. The combination was followed by the opening of new offices in Europe and Africa.\n\nIn January 2012, a combination with Canadian firm Macleod Dixon made Norton Rose Group one of the largest law firms in Canada.\n\nOn 3 June 2013, Norton Rose combined with Fulbright & Jaworski to become Norton Rose Fulbright, establishing a market leading presence in the United States and a global law firm with 3800 lawyers and legal staff, and a worldwide headcount of more than 7000 people.\n\nIn January 2017, Norton Rose Fulbright combined with leading Vancouver firm, Bull Housser.\n\nIn June 2017 Norton Rose Fulbright combined with Chadbourne & Parke, strengthening its market leading presence in the United States and growing the global firm to more than 4000 lawyers.\n\nIn December 2017, Norton Rose Fulbright combined with leading Australian firm, Henry Davis York.\n\nIn August 2018 the High Court of Justice in London criticized Norton Rose of unfair and misleading presentation a case of the Fundo Soberano de Angola: \"The breaches of duty are sufficiently serious and culpable to warrant discharging the WFO and not granting fresh relief, irrespective of the other grounds of challenge\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2101039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101039", "title": "Cockayne, North Yorkshire", "text": "Cockayne, North Yorkshire\n\nCockayne is an isolated hamlet in North Yorkshire, England. It is the largest settlement in the civil parish of Bransdale, in the North York Moors national park. The nearest towns are Helmsley and Kirkbymoorside, both away, to the south and south east respectively.\n\nThe Cleveland Way long distance footpath crosses the northern end of Cockayne Ridge, which rises above the hamlet to the north, reaching a summit of at Cockayne Head. The settlement, under the southern tip of the ridge, is a mere above sea level, according to the Ordnance Survey. Cockayne is at the head of Bransdale, a southward facing valley cut into the moors. The hamlet is the furthest north that can be travelled in the dale by vehicle (apart from a track through the plantation north of the hamlet).\n\nBransdale Lodge (or Cockayne Lodge) is a house built in the mid 19th century and once used by the Earl of Feversham as a shooting lodge. The small church of St Nicholas, now a grade II listed building, was built about 1800 as a chapel of ease in the ancient parish of Kirkby Moorside.\n\nThe hamlet is, with the exception of the Church and Glebe, entirely owned by the National Trust. The overwhelming part of the Bransdale estate was transferred to the National Trust through National Land Fund procedures in 1972 and comprises all the farmland and a small amount of woodland in the valley.\n\nStudies carried out on the heather moorland at Cockayne Head and Ridge have shown that repairing the moorland after major fires helps prevent flooding in times of heavy rain. When the moorland is burnt the peat dries out and flakes, but when the peat is allowed to grow back, it acts like a natural sponge to retain water and release it slowly over days and weeks, which helps to prevent flooding further downstream.\n"}
{"id": "2101043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101043", "title": "Métis Population Betterment Act", "text": "Métis Population Betterment Act\n\nThe Métis Population Betterment Act was a 1938 act of the Alberta Legislature in Canada that created a committee of members of the Métis and the government to plot out lands for allocation to the Métis. Twelve areas were mapped out for this purpose, with the idea of creating an ongoing cooperation between the Métis and Crown representatives toward the improvement of quality of life for the Métis. In 1940, however, certain revisions in the act's effects reduced the role of the Métis in their affairs, leaving them in charge of land occupation and timber, among several other things. Throughout the subsequent decade, the Métis received government funds to construct schools, roads, housing, engage in commercial fishing, and extracting timber. Meanwhile, it came to light that certain lands given to the Métis were insufficient to create a living for the people placed there, and these settlements were rescinded. By 1960, only eight of the original lands were still in the hands of the Métis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101048", "title": "Hypomyces lactifluorum", "text": "Hypomyces lactifluorum\n\nThe Lobster mushroom, Hypomyces lactifluorum, contrary to its common name, is not a mushroom, but rather a parasitic ascomycete fungus that grows on certain species of mushrooms, turning them a reddish orange color that resembles the outer shell of a cooked lobster. \"H. lactifluorum\" specifically attacks members of the genera \"Lactarius\" and \"Lactifluus\" (milk-caps), and \"Russula\" (brittlegills), such as \"Russula brevipes\" and \"Lactifluus piperatus\" in North America. At maturity, \"H. lactifluorum\" thoroughly covers its host, rendering it unidentifiable. Lobster mushrooms are widely eaten and enjoyed fresh. They are commercially marketed and sometimes found in grocery stores; they have been made available at markets in Oregon. They have a seafood-like flavor and a firm, dense texture.\n\nWhile edible, field guides caution against eating this fungus as some of the host species it parasitizes are poisonous or toxic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101053", "title": "Völsa þáttr", "text": "Völsa þáttr\n\nVǫlsa þáttr is a short story which is only extant in the \"Flateyjarbók\" codex, where it is found in a chapter of \"Óláfs saga helga\". It is probably from the fourteenth century but takes place in 1029, when Scandinavia was still largely pagan, and it appears to preserve traditions of a pagan phallos cult, the \"vǫlsi\" (see also blót).\n\nIt relates that an old man and an old woman lived with their brisk son and intelligent daughter on a promontory far from other people. They also had a male and a female thrall.\n\nWhen the thrall had butchered a horse and was to throw away the horse's penis, the boy ran past, took it, and went to the place where his mother, sister, and the slave woman were sitting. There he joked at the slave woman, telling her the organ would not be dull between her legs, whereupon the slave woman laughed. The daughter asked her brother to throw away the disgusting object, but her old mother rose and said it was a useful thing that should not be thrown away. She wrapped it in a cloth of linen together with onions and herbs to conserve it and put it in her coffer.\n\nEvery evening in the autumn, she took it out of the coffer and prayed to it as to her god and had the rest of the household take part. She recited a verse over it, handed it to her husband who did the same, and so on until every one had taken part.\n\nOne day, when king Olaf II of Norway was fleeing king Canute the Great, he came by their promontory. He had heard of their worship and wanted to convert them to the Christian faith. He went to their abode and only brought with him Finnr Árnason and Þormóðr Kolbrúnarskáld, and they were all wearing grey cloaks to hide their identities.\n\nThey entered the house and, when it was dark, they met the daughter who asked them who they were. They all answered that their name was \"Grímr\" (hooded). The girl was not fooled and said she recognized King Olaf; he asked her to keep quiet about it.\n\nThey then met the rest of the household and were invited for dinner. The old woman came last and carried the \"vǫlsi\" (the penis). She put it in her husband's lap and read a poem, saying: \"May the giantess (\"Mǫrnir\") accept this holy object\". The husband accepted it and read a poem including the same phrase, and this continued until everybody in the company, but the king, had recited a poem with this phrase.\n\nWhen it was the king's turn, he revealed himself and preached about Christianity, but the old woman was very skeptical, whereas her husband was very interested. Finally, they all agreed to be baptized by the king's chaplain and they remained Christian ever since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101061", "title": "Friends Select School", "text": "Friends Select School\n\nFriends Select School (FSS) is a college-preparatory, Quaker school for pre-kindergarten through 12th grade located at 1651 Benjamin Franklin Parkway at the intersection of Cherry and N. 17th Streets in Center City, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. With Friends (Quaker) education dating to 1689, Friends Select, which was founded in 1833, has been located on this site since 1885. The current building, which includes an office building owned by the school, was built in 1967-69. An adjacent campus building is located across the street at 1700 Race Street (Friends Select @ 1700). The Race Street Meetinghouse, built in 1856, is used by students and faculty for Meeting for Worship each Wednesday and Thursday. The school is under the care of both the Central Philadelphia Monthly Meeting and the Monthly Meeting of Friends of Philadelphia at 4th & Arch (held at the Arch Street Meeting House). The school is currently governed by a board of trustees divided equally between the two monthly meetings that oversee the school.\n\nFriends Select School, FSS, traces its history to the founding of the first Friends school managed directly by the Monthly Meeting of Friends of Philadelphia in 1689. Friends Select has existed in its current form since 1833 and has been at its present location since 1885. In 1832, a committee was appointed to set up two select schools. In January 1833, a Select School for Boys opened in the meetinghouse on Orange Street (located from Seventh to Eighth Streets, between Locust & Spruce) and a Select School for Girls opened in the meeting house on Twelfth Street (Twenty South Twelfth St). In 1885, a new school building on Sixteenth Street above Arch was nearing completion with a capacity for 60 scholars of each sex in the upper schools, and of twenty in each of the Primaries. In 1886, the boys' select school and the girls' select school moved to Sixteenth and Cherry (same location as Seventeenth and Parkway - in 1886 the Parkway had not been constructed).\n\nThe school was built on the site of what was originally a Quaker burial ground (the entire block); the remains were re-interred elsewhere to accommodate construction of the Parkway and site buildings. An additional building was constructed in 1892 and a covered passageway joined the two buildings in 1894. A succession of additions extended the school along Cherry Street, almost the length of the block. Construction of the Benjamin Franklin Parkway was completed in 1916. A modern gymnasium was added in the late 1950s. In 1965, the school committee became serious about developing 17th and the Parkway for joint use.\n\nThe decision was made to tear down the old Friends Select School and to build a new school building and office building on the same site. Once school closed in the sixth month of 1967, preparations were made to move to the Central YMCA located at 1421 Arch Street. For approximately a year and a half, the school relocated and classes were held at the Central Branch of the YMCA, about two blocks away, first on the third floor for the 1967-68 school year, then on the fourth floor for the fall of the 1968-69 school year. Construction had proceeded far enough for classes to move into the uncompleted new school building when Christmas break ended following New Year's Day, 1969. The Class of 1967 was the last class to graduate from the old school building, the Class of 1968 graduated from the YMCA location, and the Class of 1969 was the first class to graduate from the current school building.\n\nThe current building, which includes an office building owned by the school, was begun in 1967 and completed in 1969. An adjacent campus building is located across the street at 1700 Race Street. The office building occupies a 110 ft. wide strip along the south side of the property (FSS owns the entire city block on which both structures are located). This building was originally leased to the Pennsalt Chemicals Corporation (later PennWalt) on a 99-year ground lease to help finance construction of the current school building. Drexel University is the tenant as of 2016.\n\nClass size usually ranges from 12 to 20 students, with assistant teachers providing additional support in pre-kindergarten through grade three.\n\nClass size ranges from 15 to 20 students. Students have separate teachers for English, history, mathematics, science, and world languages. Specialists teach music, performance, visual art, and physical education. There is a six-day circuit, so students do not have the same classes every specific day of the week. Seventh and eighth graders sit for final academic exams. All students receive letter grades supplemented by extensive teacher commentary.\n\nClass size ranges from 5 to 18 students, and major courses meet five times in a six-day cycle, including a double period for each course. Faculty advisers counsel students on academic and social issues. A grade dean, a faculty member who monitors student progress and oversees the grade's advisory structure, remains with the class through graduation. Advisories, groups of eight to 10 students, also stay together through twelfth grade.\n\nThe athletic program, open to students in grades five through twelve, helps students build a sense of self-esteem and of community through teamwork and individual accomplishment. Students learn skills and strategies of the games and participation in the athletic program encourages good sportsmanship, responsibility, and time management skills.\n\nFriends Select's athletic facilities include:\n\nAbington Friends School, The Academy of the New Church, Friends' Central School, George School, Germantown Friends School, Moorestown Friends School, The Shipley School, and the Westtown School are the other eight members of the conference.\n\nThe art curriculum, often interdisciplinary and multicultural, centers on engaging lessons based on the elements and principles of art and design. A major focus each year is the Lower School Artist Study. Weekly sessions in the art room from pre-kindergarten through second grade are taught in half-class groups.\n\nMusic is a multi-tiered program offering singing, Orff instruments, movement and at least two stage performances per year. These revolve around thematic studies, or might simply be songs, skits, or dances that develop from students’ collective creativity. There are two weekly sessions in the music room for pre-kindergarten through second grade; three weekly sessions are offered to grades three and four.\n\nFor a period each year, the lower school studies a special artist, one whose life provides an interesting story and whose artwork has a special appeal to children. Artists chosen recently have included ceramist, naturalist, painter and printer Walter Inglis Anderson; sculptor and teacher Selma Burke; architect Frank Lloyd Wright; illustrator and author Charles Santore; ceramist Josefina Aguilar; film maker Hayao Miyazaki; and designer/director Julie Taymor. The objective is to experience the vision of an individual artist, learn ways that art is used in various cultures and come to appreciate the choices that each artist makes in terms of work and life. Each student artist creates his or her own artwork based on the themes and techniques of the artist being studied. The study concludes with an exhibit of every child's work and an interdisciplinary music-drama-art performance.\n\nAll middle school students take visual arts and music each year. In addition, students can choose to participate in orchestra, ensemble, chorus, or drama. These are performing ensembles. There is also an annual middle school drama production open to any middle school student who wishes to participate.\n\nStudents complete at least two fine arts courses. Offerings in the performing arts include Choir, Introduction to Directing, Instrumental Ensemble and American Music in the 20th Century. Courses in the visual arts include Art Foundations, Drawing and Painting I and II, Photography I and II, Introduction to Filmmaking, Studio Major, Graphic Design and Metalsmithing.\n\nIn year two of the Interdisciplinary Sequence, ninth grade students study at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. There, students select a work of art from the Medieval to Renaissance periods as their research focus. The culmination of the course is an evening at the museum, where each student presents a detailed and comprehensive description of a work of art to an audience of parents, friends, faculty and museum-goers.\n\nCo-curricular involvement is an integral part of each middle schooler's experience. It may include the literary magazine, mainstage theater, student government, peer tutoring, movie night and more. In addition, each student is required to participate in at least one season of after-school interscholastic athletics per year.\n\nUpper school students select co-curricular activities from a variety of options. Opportunities include two mainstage productions each year, instrumental music and choir performances, student government, and such organizations as the Multicultural Student Union, the Jewish Student Union, the \"Falcon\" (student newspaper), \"The Cauldron\" (arts and literary journal), Worship & Ministry, the Operation Smile Club, and the Mock Trial Team. In ninth and tenth grades, all students are required to participate in at least one season of after-school sports or in one theatrical production. Friends Select competes in the Friends School League and with other independent as well as public and parochial schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101067", "title": "Chain Letters", "text": "Chain Letters\n\nChain Letters is a British television game show produced by Tyne Tees and Barry & Enright Productions. The show was filmed at their City Road studios in Newcastle Upon Tyne and first broadcast on ITV in the United Kingdom from 7 September 1987 to 6 July 1990, then again from 2 January 1995 to 25 April 1997.\n\nThree contestants competed to win money by changing letters in words to form new words. Its original host was Jeremy Beadle, followed by Andrew O'Connor, Allan Stewart, Ted Robbins, Vince Henderson and Dave Spikey.\n\nA computer named Wordsworth generated words and checked their validity, and occasionally provided the host with definitions of unusual words that came up during the game.\n\nThe first round was entitled Chain Letters (Make a Chain in the final series). Each contestant chose one of four hidden four-letter words and had 45 seconds to create as long a chain as possible by changing one letter at a time. Proper nouns and plurals were not allowed, and the contestant could not change the same letter position on consecutive plays. (E.g. SALE to MALE to MILE was allowed, but SALE to MALE to TALE was not.)\n\nEach valid word added £5 to the contestant's score. Words had to appear in the \"Longman Dictionary of the English Language\" (\"Chambers English Dictionary\" in later series) in order to be valid. At each step, the contestant had to call out both the letter being changed and its replacement, then say and spell the new word. If a word was invalid, the letter change was undone.\n\nContestants played in descending order of their scores from Round 1. The contestant in control chose one four-letter word from a group of four, then selected one letter to change. Both opponents then secretly wrote down their predictions of the word they thought the contestant would make. The contestant then changed the letter, and won £10 if the new word did not match either opponent's prediction. The contestant could then change the word up to twice more for higher stakes, with the opponents' predictions staying the same on each attempt. If the new word matched a prediction at any time, the opponent received the money at stake instead, and the contestant forfeited it and ended their turn. Both opponents won the money if each of their predictions were correct, or if the contestant formed an illegal word. After the first or second word, the contestant could end their turn and take the money.\n\nFor all but the last two series, the money at stake doubled on the second and third words, to a maximum of £40. Beyond this point, every word added £10 to the stakes, for a maximum of £30.\n\nA third round was added in the revival of \"Chain Letters\" in 1995 and would eventually involve two different formats.\n\nOne contestant was given a four-letter word and had to change one letter to form a new word, which was then given to the next contestant in line. Each valid word awarded £5, and each invalid word deducted the same amount. If a contestant formed a word that could not be changed by either opponent, they won an additional £10 and received a new word. The round ended after 60 seconds.\n\nEach contestant in turn was given a three-letter word and had to add one letter at a time to create a new word. The added letter could be placed either within the word or at its start or end, but the existing letters could not be rearranged. They won £5 for each valid word and could make up to four plays, for a maximum length of seven letters. If the contestant either chose to stop or created an invalid word, their turn ended.\n\nA five-letter word was displayed, with a plus sign at the left end and a minus sign at the right. The host read a toss-up clue whose answer differed from the displayed word by one letter. The change that needed to be made was displayed when a contestant buzzed-in. If a letter was highlighted, it needed to be changed. The plus and minus signs indicated that a letter had to be added or removed, respectively, without changing the order of the others. Answers could be three, four, or five letters in length.\n\nBuzzing-in also stopped a randomiser that determined the value of the word: £10, £20, £40 (£30 in the last two series), or \"Tie,\" which if hit by the second- or third-place contestant, immediately increased their score to match that of the leader. An incorrect answer gave the opponents a chance to buzz-in.\n\nWhen the round ended, the contestant in the lead won the game and advanced to the bonus round. All three contestants kept whatever money they had earned in the game.\n\nThe contestant was shown a four-letter word with one letter highlighted, and had to change that letter to form a new word. If they passed or gave an invalid word, a different letter would be highlighted. The contestant won £50 for each new word formed, or £1,000 for making 10 changes in 60 seconds.\n\nA board game based on the series was released by Spear's Games in 1990.\n\nThe theme was created by Mike Moran.\nThe opening four lines of the lyrics came from Mark Maxwell-Smith and were used in the opening announce of the original U.S. pilot.\n\n\"Chain Letters\" was one of the first UK game shows to air in the 9:25am slot, the slot was previously used to air the first programme in the ITV Schools programming block, which was moved to Channel 4.\n\nThe first series originally aired on Monday to Friday mornings at 9:25am from 7 September to 9 October 1987, the series moved to Monday to Friday afternoons at 1:00pm from 4 January to 19 February 1988, with the exception of TVS and Channel who moved the series to 3:00pm (but not every day), then they dropped it in February before airing the remaining episodes over the summer.\n\nThe second series aired on Thursday evenings at 7:30pm. A number of regions aired the series at either 12:30pm (Grampian and Granada) or 5:15pm (Central and Anglia). Scottish originally aired the series on Tuesday evenings at 7:30pm, then moved to Thursday late nights at 10:35pm from November to December 1988 and then finally moved to Sunday afternoons at 3:00pm in February 1989, but did not air all the episodes.\n\nThe third series aired on Thursday evenings at 7:30pm, the last 2 episodes aired on Friday afternoons at 1:30pm. Scottish aired the series on Wednesday afternoons at 1:30pm from January to March 1990.\n\nThe fourth and fifth series aired on Monday to Friday mornings at 9:25am.\n\nThe sixth series aired on Monday to Friday afternoons, at different time depending which region you were in, since this series was not networked, with the Granada and Border regions airing episodes after a few weeks at 5:10pm on certain days, which took until August to complete.\n\nThe seventh series aired on Monday to Friday mornings at 9:25am.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101071", "title": "Marcus Jastrow", "text": "Marcus Jastrow\n\nMarcus Jastrow (June 5, 1829 – October 13, 1903) was a German born American Talmudic scholar, most famously known for his authorship of the popular and comprehensive \"A Dictionary of the Targumim, Talmud Babli, Talmud Yerushalmi and Midrashic Literature\". He was also a progressive, early reformist rabbi in America.\n\nJastrow was born in Rogasen in the Grand Duchy of Posen, Prussia. After receiving rabbinical ordination, Ph.D., and \"Doctorate of Letters\" (D.Litt.), he became the rabbi of the then Orthodox Congregation Rodeph Shalom in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1866, at the age of thirty-seven. In 1886, he began publishing his magnum opus, \"A Dictionary of the Targumim, Talmud Babli, Talmud Yerushalmi and Midrashic Literature\", in pamphlet form. It was finally completed and published in two-volume form in 1903, and has since become a popular resource for students of Talmud. In the preface to this work, Jastrow sharply criticized those linguistic and etymological scholars who claimed that obscure terms in Talmudic literature are primarily derived from Greek. Jastrow held that Greek influence on Talmudic Aramaic was minimal, and that most obscure terms could be much more simply traced to Hebrew origins. Jastrow was also responsible for most Talmud-related articles in the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\".\n\nHe was the father of Joseph Jastrow, Morris Jastrow, Jr., Alice Jastrow, Annie Jastrow and Nellie Jastrow. Elisabeth Jastrow, the classical archaeologist, was his niece.\n\nMarcus Jastrow was the fifth child of Abraham Jastrow and Yetta (Henrietta) Rolle. Until 1840 he was privately educated. In 1844 he entered the third-year class of the Friedrich Wilhelm Gymnasium at Posen, graduating in 1852. From there he went to Halle, where he was graduated in 1855, receiving the degree of doctor of philosophy. In the meantime he continued his Jewish studies and in 1853, at the age of 24, he received his rabbinical ordination from Rabbi Moses Feilchenfeld in Rogasen and later, in 1857, from Rabbi Wolf Landau in Dresden. Jastrow taught briefly at Orthodox Jewish schools in Berlin, first at a school by Dr. David Rosen then at Michael Sachs' school.\n\nIn 1858, recommended by Heinrich Graetz, Jastrow moved again as rabbi to the leading Orthodox congregation in Warsaw, the so-called German synagogue on Daniłowiczowska Street, and threw himself into the study of the Polish language and of Polish conditions. By February 27, 1861, national feeling had risen so high in Poland that the government called out the military; five victims fell in the Krakowskie Przedmieście, Warsaw, and their burial and the memorial service were turned into patriotic demonstrations, in which, for the first time, \"the Old Testament Brethren\" of the Poles participated as a community. Though it was Sabbath, three rabbis, including Jastrow, joined the funeral cortège; at the memorial service in his synagogue, also on a Sabbath, Jastrow preached his first Polish sermon, which aroused such great enthusiasm that on Sunday his auditors reassembled and took it down at his dictation. Circumventing the censor, they distributed ten thousand manuscript copies within a week.\n\nAlthough it was controversial at the time, delivering a sermon in Polish does not violate any Orthodox Jewish restriction. (Neither does following a funeral procession on foot on the Sabbath.) Today most Orthodox rabbis give lectures in their local vernacular.\n\nOn various pretexts the three rabbis were arrested (November 10, 1861) and incarcerated in the citadel of Warsaw. For 23 days Jastrow was kept in solitary confinement; for 72 days he shared the cell of Rabbi Meisels. His release came on February 12, 1862, when, being a Prussian subject, he was sent across the frontier. During his imprisonment he had been required to answer in writing three questions concerning the relation of the Jews to the Polish Christians in their opposition to the government.\n\nBroken in health, Jastrow, with his family, spent the spring and summer of 1862 in Breslau, Berlin, and Dresden; in the autumn he accepted a call from the Jewish community in Mannheim. A few weeks later, Nov., 1862, the order for his expulsion was revoked, and gave occasion for a controversy between the congregation at Warsaw (which had continued his salary until he went to Mannheim) and that of Mannheim; at Jastrow's request the latter released him. A few months after his return to Warsaw (Jan. 1863) the revolution broke out. During its progress, and while Jastrow was traveling, his Prussian passport was canceled, and he was not permitted to return to Warsaw.\n\nThe literary results of his Polish period are: \"Die Lage der Juden in Polen\" (anonymous; Hamburg, 1859); \"Kazania Polskie,\" a volume of Polish sermons (Posen, 1863); \"Die Vorläufer des Polnischen Aufstandes\" (anonymous; Hamburg, 1864). He probably had a considerable share in the production of \"Beleuchtung eines Ministeriellen Gutachtens\" (Hamburg, 1859 [?]). In July, 1864, Jastrow accepted a call to Worms as district rabbi, and while there he produced \"Vier Jahrhunderte aus der Gesch. der Juden von der Zerstörung des Ersten Tempels bis zur Makkabäischen Tempelweihe\" (Heidelberg, 1865).\n\nIn the autumn of 1866 he went to Philadelphia as rabbi of the Ashkenazi, Congregation Rodeph Shalom, with which he was connected until his death, remaining in active service until 1892 and identifying himself with the interests of the Jewish community. The problem under discussion at the time was organization, urged in the Eastern States by the Orthodox Isaac Leeser, and in the Western by the Reform Isaac Mayer Wise. It dealt with higher education, representation, and the regulation of liturgical changes, and Jastrow's personality became a factor in its solution. When, through the exertions of Leeser, the Maimonides College, the first rabbinical college in the U.S., was opened at Philadelphia, Oct., 1867, Jastrow occupied the chair of religious philosophy and Jewish history, and later also of exegesis; he was identified with the college until it closed its doors four years later. He supported the plan of organizing the Board of Delegates of Civil and Religious Rights, and, under its auspices, the American Jewish Publication Society (1873). His main activity, however, from 1867 to 1871, was directed toward combating the tendencies expressed in the resolutions of the rabbinical conferences of 1869 and 1871. His opposition to them found expression in a series of polemical articles published in \"The Hebrew Leader\" and \"The Jewish Times.\"\n\nTo the same period belongs his collaboration with the leading rabbi in Baltimore, Benjamin Szold, in the revision of the latter's prayer-book (\"Avodat Yisrael\") and home prayer-book (\"Hegyon Leb\"), and his translation of the same prayer-books into English. (The prayer-book was later more thoroughly revised after his death.) In his own congregation his influence effected consolidation and growth; in the Jewish community he participated in the formation and reorganization of societies.\n\nIn 1876 Jastrow fell severely ill, and for some years his public activities were limited by his poor health, which necessitated a sojourn in the south of Europe. During this period of withdrawal he fully matured the plans for his great work, \"A Dictionary of the Targumim, the Talmud Babli and Yerushalmi, and the Midrashic Literature\" (London and New York, 1886–1903). When the dictionary was approaching completion in manuscript (1895), the Jewish Publication Society of America was about to begin work on its projected new translation of the Bible into English, and to Jastrow was entrusted the chief-editorship. At the time of his death the translation of more than half the books of the Bible had been revised by him. In addition to these two great undertakings, he was a member of the Publication Committee of the Jewish Publication Society from the time of its establishment, and was connected with the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" as editor of the department of the Talmud; he took a prominent part in the proceedings of the Jewish Ministers' Association, held a seat in the central board of the Alliance Israélite Universelle at Paris, was on the committee of the Meḳiẓe Nirdamim, was one of the vice-presidents of the American Federation of Zionists, and was active in relieving the needs, material and intellectual, of the Russian immigrants.\n\nJastrow initially allowed his congregation to join the Reform Union of American Hebrew Congregations. After the Reform movement united around the radical \"Pittsburgh Platform\" in 1885, Jastrow, along with many other rabbis of the time, withdrew his congregation's membership.\n\nIn 1886 together with Rabbi Henry Pereira Mendes (founder of the Orthodox Union) he helped Rabbi Sabato Morais establish the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. It was only in 1913, ten years after Jastrow's death, that the next generation of management altered the Orthodox principles of the school, and from them emerged Conservative Judaism.\n\nHe was removed by his congregation in September 1892 in favor of the Reform ordained Dr. Henry Berkowitz. Dr. Jastrow attributed this decision to the growing popularity of radical reforms and the congregation's desire to compete for membership with the more liberal synagogues. In his farewell speech he chastised his congregation insisting that \"he who does not feel himself in unison with the tenets of Israel's religion as they have been transmitted from generation to generation, [is] not justified in occupying a Jewish pulpit established for the proclamation of Jewish doctrines.\" Several efforts were made by him to prevent the introduction of certain reforms, including articles in the public press. In 1894, the Board felt the necessity to write him to ask him to refrain from publishing articles that might create strife in the congregation. He served as rabbi emeritus of the congregation until his death in 1903, on the Jewish festival of Shemini Atzereth.\n\nIn 1900 the University of Pennsylvania conferred upon him the doctorate of literature. He died three years later in Germantown, Philadelphia.\n\nBesides the journals previously mentioned, articles of his appear in the \"Revue des Études Juives\"; Frankel's \"Monatsschrift\"; Berliner's \"Magazin für die Wissenschaft des Judenthums\"; \"Sippurim\"; \"Journal of Biblical Literature\"; \"Hebraica\"; \"Young Israel\"; \"Libanon\"; \"Jewish Record\"; \"Jewish Messenger\"; \"American Hebrew\"; \"Jewish Exponent\"; etc.\n\nAlong with Benjamin Szold and Frederick de Sola Mendes, Marcus Jastrow was characterized by Jewish historian Jacob Rader Marcus as being on the right-wing of early American Reform. While opposed to the Pittsburgh Platform, he allowed an organ to be installed in the Rodeph Shalom Congregation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101077", "title": "Remanufacturing", "text": "Remanufacturing\n\nRemanufacturing is \"the rebuilding of a product to specifications of the original manufactured product using a combination of reused, repaired and new parts\". It requires the repair or replacement of worn out or obsolete components and modules. Parts subject to degradation affecting the performance or the expected life of the whole are replaced. Remanufacturing is a form of a product recovery process that differs from other recovery processes in its completeness: a remanufactured machine should match the same customer expectation as new machines.\n\nIn 1995, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) implemented the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline (CPG) program to promote waste reduction and resource conservation through the use of materials recovered from solid waste, and to ensure that the materials collected in recycling programs will be used again in the manufacture of new products. The EPA is required to designate products that are or can be made with recovered materials, and to recommend practices for buying these products. Once a product is designated, state and federal procuring agencies are required to purchase it with the highest recovered material content level practicable.\n\nIn 2004, the EPA published its third CPG update (CPG IV) which designated seven additional products and revised three existing product designations. One of the new product categories to be added was Rebuilt Vehicular Parts. The EPA defines rebuilt vehicular parts as \"vehicle parts that have been re-manufactured, reusing parts in their original form. Rebuilt parts undergo an extensive re-manufacturing and testing process and must meet the same industry specifications for performance as new parts.\"\n\nIn the UK, a market potential of up to 5.6 billion GBP has been identified in remanufacturing, with the benefits said to be improvement to business margins, revenues and security of supply.\n\n\nMany formal definitions of remanufacturing exist in the literature, but the first published report on remanufacturing, by R. Lund (1984), describes remanufacturing as \"... an industrial process in which worn-out products are restored to like-new condition. Through a series of industrial processes in a factory environment, a discarded product is completely disassembled. Useable parts are cleaned, refurbished, and put into inventory. Then the product is reassembled from the old parts (and where necessary, new parts) to produce a unit fully equivalent and sometimes superior in performance and expected lifetime to the original new product\".\n\nFurthermore, the Automotive Parts Remanufacturers Association (APRA) realized that communication problems can arise when people from different countries with different language skills talk about remanufacturing. Certain terms can have different meanings as definitions between countries and individuals vary. In 2013, APRA was able to solve these communication problems by publishing a common translation list in many different languages in order to unite all those who deal with the automotive industry.\n\nThere are three main types of remanufacturing activities, each with different operational challenges.\n\nRemanufacturing by Recoating of Worn Engine Parts\n\nIn addition to these is a less significant type of remanufacturing, \"remanufacturing by recoating of worn engine parts.\" This type of remanufacturing serves many engine parts and other large and expensive components that become worn after a period of use. An example of such a part is the engine block, in particular the cylinder engine bores, which must withstand explosions during piston firing. Instead of disposing of large engine blocks, remanufacturing has resulted in re-use of the parts by coating them with plasma transferred wire arc spraying (PTWA). Remanufacturing by recoating of parts is also very popular in the aircraft field, the geothermal pipe field and the automotive engine field.\n\nRebuilding is an old name for remanufacturing. It is still widely used by automotive industry. For example, the Automotive Parts Remanufacturers Association (APRA), have the new term in their name, but to be safe on their own website use the combined term 'rebuild/remanufacture'.\n\nThe term 'rebuilding' is also often used by railway companies; a steam locomotive may be rebuilt with a new boiler or a diesel locomotive may be rebuilt with a new engine. This saves money (by re-using the frame, and some other components, which still have years of useful life) and allows the incorporation of improved technology. For example, a new diesel engine may have lower fuel consumption, reduced exhaust emissions and better reliability. Recent examples include British Rail Class 57 and British Rail Class 43.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101090", "title": "BETA Cargo", "text": "BETA Cargo\n\nBETA Cargo (Brazilian Express Transportes Aéreos) was a cargo airline based in Brazil. It operated international cargo charters in the Americas. Its main base was Guarulhos International Airport, São Paulo.\n\nThe airline was established in 1990 as Brasair Transportes Aéreos. On July 10, 2012 Beta lost its operational license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101103", "title": "Tux Alps", "text": "Tux Alps\n\nThe Tux Alps () or Tux Prealps (\"Tuxer Voralpen\") are a sub-group of the Austrian Central Alps, which in turn form part of the Eastern Alps within Central Europe. They are located entirely within the Austrian federal state of Tyrol. The Tux Alps are one of three mountain ranges that form an Alpine backdrop to the city of Innsbruck. Their highest peak is the Lizumer Reckner, , which rises between the glen of Wattentaler Lizum and the valley of the Navisbach. Their name is derived from the village of Tux which is tucked away in a side valley of the Zillertal.\n\nThe Alpine Club classification of the Eastern Alps (AVE) calls this range the Tux Alps. The name Tux Prealps was declared in the 1984 edition of the AVE as outdated and not longer applicable. The reality is that the mountain range can hardly be described as \"prealps\" in view of their sheer extent and height. The description only makes any sense when the range is seen in the context of the Zillertal Alps to the south, which are considerably higher than the Tux Alps and permanently covered in glaciers.\n\nThe Tux Alps are surrounded by the following other ranges in the Alps:\n\n\nTo the north the lower Inn valley forms the boundary of this range from Innsbruck downstream to the Inn's confluence with the \nZiller. The Ziller valley (Zillertal) borders the range in the east from the mouth of the Ziller on the Inn upstream as far as Mayrhofen. In the south the Tuxertal valley outlines the range from Mayrhofen to Hintertux. From there the boundary continues up to the saddle of the Tuxer Joch and through the Schmirntal valley to Sankt Jodok. To the west the Tux Alps are bounded by the Wipptal valley from Sankt Jodok downstream to Innsbruck.\n\nThe Tuxer Joch saddle links the Tux Alps to the Zillertal Alps.\n\nThe Tux Alps are a popular ski touring and hiking area. Its ski resorts are Glungezer, Lizum im Wattental, Hochfügen-Hochzillertal, Penken and Kellerjoch, Patscherkofel. The Patscherkofel mountain was a venue for the 1964 and 1976 Winter Olympics held in nearby Innsbruck.\n\nThe largest part of the Tux Alps comprises low grade metamorphic rocks, that are classified as part of the \"Innsbruck quartz-phyllite complex\" (quartzitic phyllite slate). Next to this zone of Paleozoic rocks to the south there is a localised zone of various Mesozoic rocks, the so-called \"Tarntal Mesozoic\". This complex zone belongs, like the quartz-phyllite zone, to the tectonic unit of the Lower Eastern Alps. Amongst the rocks of Tarntal Mesozoic may be found dolomite and limestones that are the basis of rock faces (\"Kalkwand\" and \"Torwand\") in the area of the Wattentaler Lizum. On the other hand, there are also elements of the former ocean bed, in the shape of serpentinite that make up the Lizumer Reckner. The southern perimeter of the Tux Alps belongs to the tectonically deeper-lying Penninic \"Hohe Tauern window\". Here in the Tux Alps these are mainly rocks of the Penninic \"Glockner Nappe\" (calc-schist envelope of the Tauern). The northeasternmost corner of the Tux Alps, from the area of Schwaz to Fügen im Zillertal, belongs to the Upper Eastern Alpine \"greywacke zone\", which consists of Paleozoic rocks. Silver and copper were once extensively mined in this zone in the area around Schwaz.\n\nThe long-distance hiking trail known as the \"Munich to Venice Dream Path\" (\"Traumpfad München-Venedig\") runs through the Tux Alps. This is not an official long-distance trail. Nevertheless, the route, which was first proposed in 1977, has achieved a greater profile than many of the other trails officially established and maintained by states or rambling clubs.\n\nThe 9th day leg of the dream trail runs from Hall in Tirol up to the Glungezer Hut; the next stage over the \"seven tuxer summits\" and the Naviser Jöchl to the Lizumer Hut which is operated by the Austrian Alpine Club section at Hall.\n\nThe 10th and 11th days run from the Lizumer Hut to the Tuxer Joch Haus, then over the Pluderling Saddle and the Gschützspitze Saddle.\nOther long-distance trails in the Tux Alps are the Eagle Way (\"Adlerweg\"), the Via Alpina (red), Olympic Way (\"Olympiaweg\"), Glungezer & Geier Way No. 335 (\"Glungezer&Geier-Weg 335\"), and Central Alpine Way No. 02a.\n\nThe following Alpine Club huts are located in the Tux Alps:\n\n"}
{"id": "2101106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101106", "title": "Reverse logistics", "text": "Reverse logistics\n\nReverse logistics is for all operations related to the reuse of products and materials. It is \"the process of moving goods from their typical final destination for the purpose of capturing value, or proper disposal. Remanufacturing and refurbishing activities also may be included in the definition of reverse logistics.\" Growing green concerns and advancement of green supply chain management concepts and practices make it all the more relevant. The number of publications on the topic of reverse logistics have increased significantly over the past two decades. The first use of the term \"reverse logistics\" in a publication was by James R. Stock in a White Paper titled \"Reverse Logistics,\" published by the Council of Logistics Management in 1992. The concept was further refined in subsequent publications by Stock (1998) in another Council of Logistics Management book, titled Development and Implementation of Reverse Logistics Programs, and by Rogers and Tibben-Lembke (1999) in a book published by the Reverse Logistics Association titled Going Backwards: Reverse Logistics Trends and Practices. The reverse logistics process includes the management and the sale of surplus as well as returned equipment and machines from the hardware leasing business. Normally, logistics deal with events that bring the product towards the customer. In the case of reverse logistics, the resource goes at least one step back in the supply chain. For instance, goods move from the customer to the distributor or to the manufacturer.\n\nWhen a manufacturer's product normally moves through the supply chain network, it is to reach the distributor or customer. Any process or management after the delivery of the product involves reverse logistics. If the product is defective, the customer would return the product. The manufacturing firm would then have to organise shipping of the defective product, testing the product, dismantling, repairing, recycling or disposing the product. The product would travel in reverse through the supply chain network in order to retain any use from the defective product. The logistics for such matters is reverse logistics.\n\nIn today's marketplace, many retailers treat merchandise returns as individual, disjointed transactions. \"The challenge for retailers and vendors is to process returns at a proficiency level that allows quick, efficient and cost-effective collection and return of merchandise. Customer requirements facilitate demand for a high standard of service that includes accuracy and timeliness. It’s the logistic company's responsibility to shorten the link from return origination to the time of resell.\" By following returns management best practices, retailers can achieve a returns process that addresses both the operational and customer retention issues associated with merchandise returns. Further, because of the connection between reverse logistics and customer retention, it has become a key component within Service Lifecycle Management (SLM), a business strategy aimed at retaining customers by bundling even more coordination of a company's services data together to achieve greater efficiency in its operations.\n\nReverse logistics is more than just returns management, it is \"activities related to returns avoidance, gatekeeping, disposal and all other after-market supply chain issues\". Returns management—increasingly being recognized as affecting competitive positioning—provides an important link between marketing and logistics. The broad nature of its cross-functional impact suggests that firms would benefit by improving internal integration efforts. In particular, a firm's ability to react to and plan for the influence of external factors on the returns management process is improved by such internal integration. In a firm's planning for returns, a primary factor is the remaining value of the material returning and how to recover that value. \"Returned goods, or elements of the product, could even be returned to suppliers and supply chain partners for them to re-manufacture\".\n\nThird-party logistics providers see that up to 7% of an enterprise's gross sales are captured by return costs. Almost all reverse logistics contracts are customized to fit the size and type of company contracting. The 3PL's themselves realize 12% to 15% profits on this business.\n\n\"Studies have shown that an average of 4% to 6% of all retail purchases are returned, costing the industry about $40 billion per year.\" \n\nReverse logistics research has also found that 84.6 percent of companies in the United States use secondary market and 70 percent see the secondary market as a \"competitive advantage.\"\n\nIn certain industries, goods are distributed to downstream members in the supply chain with the understanding that the goods may be returned for credit if they are not sold e.g., newspapers and magazines. This acts as an incentive for downstream members to carry more stock, because the risk of obsolescence is borne by the upstream supply chain members. However, there is also a distinct risk attached to this logistics concept. The downstream member in the supply chain might exploit the situation by ordering more stock than is required and returning large volumes. In this way, the downstream partner is able to offer high level of service without carrying the risks associated with large inventories. The supplier effectively finances the inventory for the downstream member. It is therefore important to analyze customers’ accounts for hidden costs.\n\nReusable packaging systems require a closed-loop logistics system. Examples include reusable pallets, bulk boxes such as Euro containers, Reusable bottles for milk, soda, and beer, compressed gas cylinders, beer kegs, etc.\n\nIn case of e-commerce business, many websites offer the flexibility of cash on delivery (COD) to their customers. Sometimes customers refuse the product at the time of delivery, as there is no commitment to take the product. Then the logistics service provider follows the process of reverse logistics on the refused cargo. It is also known as Return to Origin (RTO). In this process, the e-commerce company adds the refused cargo to its inventory stock again, after proper quality checks per the company's rules.\n\nIn case of the Demonstration of Products to the client as part of Pre-Sales process, The Demonstration equipment is sent to the Customer and has to be returned to maintain Revolving Inventory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101107", "title": "Arqiva", "text": "Arqiva\n\nArqiva is a British telecommunications company which provides infrastructure and broadcast transmission facilities in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, along with commercial WiFi and smart meter facilities for Scotland and the north of England. The company headquarters is located at Crawley Court in the village of Crawley, Hampshire, just outside Winchester. Its main customers are broadcasters and mobile phone network operators, and its main asset is a network of circa. 1,500 radio and television transmission sites. It is owned by a consortium of investors led by CPP (Canada Pension Plan) and the Australian investment house Macquarie Bank. Arqiva is a patron of The Radio Academy.\n\nThrough its NOW Digital subsidiary, it operates various local digital radio ensembles.\n\nThe company, which has a history that dates back to the beginning of regular public broadcasting in the United Kingdom, was actually only formed in 2005. Below is a potted history of the various organisations that are now part of Arqiva:\n\nResponsibility for the transmitter assets of the BBC lay solely within the corporation until 1997. The assets were then split into a separate company, prior to being sold.\n\nThe domestic transmitter network was purchased by a US company, Crown Castle, when it was privatised in 1997. Subsequently, in 2004, this was purchased by National Grid plc, which merged in its own private communication network, the name changing to National Grid Wireless in October 2005. Transmitters used by the BBC Overseas services were sold to a new startup company, called Merlin Communications.\n\nNational Grid plc had a large internal network for the communication of its engineers serving initially the electricity companies, but subsequently, the gas industry as well. This company developed on the back of the growth in mobile phones, and its large portfolio of tower locations. This was added to by the purchase of the former BBC network (as above).\n\nNational Grid Wireless, as it became, led a consortium bidding for the second UK national DAB multiplex licence, but was unsuccessful. The licence was awarded instead to 4 Digital Group in July 2007.\n\nThe Television Act 1954 gave birth to the Independent Television Authority (ITA). The ITA appointed and regulated a number of regional programme contractors, and built and operated a network of transmitters.\n\nThe Sound Broadcasting Act 1972 created legal commercial radio in the UK for the first time. It was modelled on ITA, in that programmes were made by local contractors while the regulator, renamed the Independent Broadcasting Authority, owned and operated the transmitters.\n\nThe Broadcasting Act 1990 split the IBA into three bodies. The Independent Television Commission (ITC) regulated commercial TV and the Radio Authority (RA) regulated commercial radio. The IBA's engineering division, which operated the transmitters as well as doing research and development, became an independent company called National Transcommunications Limited (NTL), also known as \"Transcom\". At this point, technical standards regulation, previously carried out in accordance with the IBA engineering \"Code of Practice\", seems to have disappeared from the regulatory landscape.\n\nTranscom was acquired by International CableTel Inc., which subsequently built its brand around the NTL name. It ran up huge debts during the dot-com boom which crippled the company for many years. In 1998, NTL acquired the UK antenna sites business of Simoco, a private mobile radio (PMR) company formed from Philips Telecom - PMR. In 1999 NTL acquired the UK field service operations business of Simoco. In 2004, NTL sold its 'broadcast unit' to Macquarie Communications Infrastructure Group, but continued as a cable operator.\n\nIn January 2005, Macquarie Communications Infrastructure Group renamed its new subsidiary Arqiva.\nSubsequently in July 2009, Macquarie sold off a substantial part of its holding and moved the remaining amount to its investment fund. Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) now has a 48% holding and Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund 2 (MEIF 2) has 21%, with other Macquarie Group funds holding 13% \n\nArqiva acquired Inmedia Communications from the Carlyle Group for £68.5 million in July 2005 to form the new Satellite Media Solutions business unit. Inmedia was owned by Kingston Communications and known as Kingston inmedia before being bought by the Carlyle Group in 2004.\n\nArqiva announced the signing of a Sale & Purchase Agreement (SPA) with BT to acquire the full-time service components of BT’s Satellite Broadcast Services business for £25 million in cash in November 2006. The deal will include long-term customer contracts, operations and personnel located in the USA, France, Italy and the Netherlands, as well as the UK. Deal completion is subject to regulatory approval in the UK and Germany.\n\nArqiva purchased National Grid Wireless on 3 April 2007 for £2.5billion. The company planned to run NGW as a separate company – Macquarie UK Broadcast Ventures Ltd – pending review of the deal by competition regulators. Regulatory agreement was reached in late 2008 and National Grid Wireless was amalgamated into Arqiva. The new company employs around 2,300 people and operates all the TV and most of the radio transmitters in the UK (BBC national and local and many commercial stations). It is deemed to be a monopoly operator and as such is regulated by Ofcom.\n\nArqiva purchased PMSE band manager JFMG 19 February 2009. JFMG were contracted by communications regulator OFCOM to provide spectrum management and licensing services for programme making and special events (PMSE). In May 2015 Ofcom made the decision to end the contract with Arqiva and to insource the existing services.\n\nDuring 2009, Arqiva were involved in the possibility of provision of digital pay TV in Ireland.\n\nIn March 2010, Arqiva invested in and launched a catch-up Internet television, IPTV service called SeeSaw.\nSubsequently the holding in the company was reduced to 25%.\n\nIn July 2012, Arqiva bought Spectrum Interactive, a wholesale only WiFi provider.\n\nIn 2016, Arqiva sold its WiFi Business to Virgin Media \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101109", "title": "Gumtree", "text": "Gumtree\n\nGumtree.com, known as Gumtree, is a British online classified advertisement and community website based at Hotham House, Richmond, London. Classified ads are either free or paid for depending on the product category and the geographical market. As of November 2010, it was the UK's largest website for local community classifieds and was one of the top 30 websites in the UK, receiving 14.8 million monthly unique visitors according to a traffic audit in 2010.\n\nGumtree was founded in March 2000 by Michael Pennington and Simon Crookall as a local London classified ads and community site, designed to connect Australians, New Zealanders and South Africans who were either planning to move, or had just arrived in the city, and needed help getting started with accommodation, employment and meeting new people. The term 'gum tree', the local Australian phrase for the Eucalyptus tree, was chosen as a word that linked the three communities (even though the gum tree in South Africa is a completely different type to the variety in Australia and New Zealand). The founders also felt it reflected the roots and branches of a real community.\nIn May 2005, Gumtree was acquired by eBays classifieds group for an undisclosed sum, however eBay disclosed that it paid a collective $81.6 million for three classified sites - Gumtree, LoQUo, and opusforum (with Gumtree being the largest). At the time of the acquisition, Gumtree already was available in multiple cities in a number of countries including the United Kingdom, Poland, France, Canada, Australia (Gumtree Australia), Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa and Hong Kong.\n\nOn 7 January 2016, Gumtree's re-branding was published on their website and respective apps.\n\nInternational expansion beyond the UK include:\n\nWhile the largest category of advertisements on Gumtree is \"goods for sale,\" the site is also home to around 200,000 motors listings across the UK at any one time .\n\nGumtree has an extensive social media presence on Twitter and Facebook, with 35,000 and 471,000 followers, respectively. Gumtree uses social media to communicate news and information about the brand as well as launch competitions and promotions.\n\nAlthough predominantly a free listings website, Gumtree provides users with paid promotional options for increased advert visibility. Users can also pay to \"bump up\" their adverts in the listings.\n\nIn more recent years , Gumtree has extended its service to business customers. The site began selling classified advertising packages to companies looking to post multiple job vacancies and properties.\n\nIn 2013, Gumtree extended bulk classifieds listings accounts to car dealers. In 2010, Gumtree launched its Gumtree Media website to publicize its services to potential business clients. The site showcases paid classified listings options as well as display advertising on the Gumtree site.\n\nIn June 2013 an advert was posted on Gumtree offering a rent-free accommodation to a lodger that would be prepared to dress and act like a walrus. The advert was shared around various sites such as BuzzFeed and Mashable and caught the eye of Hollywood director Kevin Smith, who used the ad as his inspiration for his 2014 film, \"Tusk\", a story of an evil scientist who plans to permanently sew a human into a walrus suit.\n\nThe convicted British online sex offender Matthew Falder approached most of his victims via Gumtree.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101115", "title": "Enya discography", "text": "Enya discography\n\nThe discography of Enya, an Irish singer-songwriter, consists of eight studio albums, three compilation albums, twenty-one singles and a number of other appearances. Enya achieved a breakthrough in her career in 1988 with the album \"Watermark\", containing the hit song \"Orinoco Flow\" which topped the charts in the United Kingdom and reached number 2 in Germany. Three years later, \"Shepherd Moons\" followed. In 1992, a re-mastered version of the 1987 \"Enya\" album was released as \"The Celts\". Four years after \"Shepherd Moons\", she released \"The Memory of Trees\" (1995), another top five success in both the UK and Germany, as well as her first top 10 album in the US. Singles released from the album were \"Anywhere Is\" and \"On My Way Home\". In 1997, Enya released her greatest hits collection, \"Paint the Sky with Stars: The Best of Enya\", again a top five album in the UK and Germany, which featured two new songs: \"Paint the Sky with Stars\" and \"Only If...\". Following a five-year break, Enya released the album \"A Day Without Rain\" in 2000. The album is Enya's most successful to date, peaking at No. 2 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart. The first single, \"Only Time\", was used in the film \"Sweet November\" and peaked at No. 10 on the US Hot 100 and number 1 in Germany.\n\nIn 2001, Enya recorded \"May It Be\", which featured in the first installment of \"The Lord of the Rings\" film series, \"\", and was her second consecutive single to enter the German charts at number 1. In November 2005, a new album, entitled \"Amarantine\", was released. It reached the Top 10 in both the UK and the US, and peaked at number 3 in Germany. In 2006, Enya released several Christmas-themed CDs with newly recorded material. On 10 October 2006, \"\", containing six songs, was released only in the United States. In November 2008, \"And Winter Came...\" was released. The album is a Christmas- and Winter-themed album and was another sizable hit, reaching the top 10 in many countries, an unusual accomplishment for a seasonal album. Following the release of \"And Winter Came...\", Enya released her second compilation, \"The Very Best of Enya\" in November 2009 and took an extended break from writing and recording. In 2012, she returned to the studio to record \"Dark Sky Island\", and it was released in November 2015. The album received a mostly positive reception from critics and was a commercial success upon release, within the top ten in sixteen countries worldwide. She has sold over 26.5 million albums in the United States alone according to Nielsen Soundscan, making her one of the best-selling artists in the country. She has won four Grammy Awards and placed five consecutive albums at top ten on the US \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nEnya has achieved worldwide record sales of more than 80 million, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101119", "title": "Jack Fina", "text": "Jack Fina\n\nJack Fina (August 13, 1913 – May 14, 1970) was a bandleader, songwriter, and pianist.\n\nFina was born in Passaic, New Jersey, and educated at the New York College of Music and was a student of August Fraemcke and Elsa Nicilini. He started out playing piano in Clyde McCoy's band sometime in the 1930s, but it wasn't until he joined Freddy Martin’s band in 1936 that he gained real fame, when he was featured on Martin’s famous recording of \"Tonight We Love\".\n\nAfter leaving Martin in 1946, Fina formed his own 16-piece band. His first appearance was at the Claremont Hotel. The vocals were handled by Harry Prime and Gil Lewis. With good air time and good recordings, Fina became a national figure. Because of this, Fina appeared at some of the top venues in the country, including the Waldorf-Astoria, the Aragon Ballroom, and the famous illegal gambling casino/night club in Galveston, the Balinese Room. He also appeared in several films, including \"Melody Time\" (sequence \"Bumble Boogie\", 1948) and \"Disc Jockey\" (1951). A noted songwriter, his credits included \"Dream Sonata\" (his theme song), \"Chango\" and \"Piano Portraits\".\n\nIn the 1950s, he reduced the size of his band and settled in San Francisco. He also operated a talent agency called the Concerto Music & Entertainment Agency with his manager Al King. In the early 1960s, Fina led a small band at the Beverly Hills Hotel, where he remained for a successful eight years. It was also around the same time that he appeared, as a single, on Dick Sinclair’s television show.\n\nFina died aged 56, from a heart attack during an engagement at the Beverly Hills Hotel, Sherman Oaks, California. He is buried at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Hollywood Hills.\n"}
{"id": "2101122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101122", "title": "Jump the Shark (The X-Files)", "text": "Jump the Shark (The X-Files)\n\n\"Jump the Shark\" is the fifteenth episode of the ninth season of the American science fiction television series \"The X-Files\". The episode first aired in the United States on April 21, 2002 on the Fox network. It was written by executive producers Vince Gilligan, John Shiban and Frank Spotnitz, and directed by Cliff Bole. The episode is a \"monster-of-the-week\" episode—unconnected to the series' wider mythology—and was created to give closure for \"The Lone Gunmen\" television series, which was a spin-off of \"The X-Files\". The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 5.1 and was viewed by 8.6 million viewers. The episode received mixed to negative reviews from television critics.\n\nThe show centers on FBI special agents who work on cases linked to the paranormal, called X-Files; this season focuses on the investigations of John Doggett (Robert Patrick), Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish), and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson). In this episode, Doggett and Reyes attempt to locate a female friend of The Lone Gunmen after former Area 51 Man-in-Black Morris Fletcher appears and claims that she is actually a super-soldier. What Doggett and Reyes soon discover is a bizarre plot to unleash a biological weapon via the use of grafted shark organs.\n\n\"Jump the Shark\" features the death of The Lone Gunmen—popular recurring characters who first appeared in the first season episode \"E.B.E.\", although this plot was later retconned in the comic book series \"The X-Files Season 10\". The episode proved difficult to make because, after the cancellation of \"The Lone Gunmen\" television series, Fox was adamant that the characters not have a featured role back on \"The X-Files\". (The characters did appear in four previous season 9 episodes, but always very briefly.) The choice to kill off the trio was controversial. Writers Spotnitz and Gilligan later revealed some regret with the way the episode was handled. However, actors Bruce Harwood and Dean Haglund were happy with the way the episode ended. The episode title is a humorous reference to the phrase \"jumping the shark\", which is used to describe shows that are in decline and therefore try a gimmick to get attention.\n\nThe episode begins with Morris Fletcher (Michael McKean) on a boat in the Bahamas, where he is accosted by armed men and his vessel is blown up. When he is rescued and detained, he approaches FBI agents Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish) and John Doggett (Robert Patrick) with information related to the Super Soldiers in exchange for his release. Doggett and Reyes turn to The Lone Gunmen when Fletcher provides an alleged photo of the Super Soldier, whom the Gunmen recognize as Yves Adele Harlow (Zuleikha Robinson), a fellow hacker who went missing a year ago. The Gunmen refuse to believe the evidence, especially when they find that Fletcher provided it, although the agents continue to pursue the trail.\n\nMeanwhile, Harlow murders a biology professor, cuts out an organ and disposes of it in a furnace. After the Gunmen capture her, she reveals that he had been experimenting with the immune system of sharks and had been grafting pieces of shark onto his body in order to become a living host to a biological weapon. His research had been funded by Harlow's arms dealing father, who had commissioned Fletcher to find her and prevent her from stopping his biological terrorism plot. She further informs them that there is another host, whom she is trying to identify and locate before he can unleash his deadly payload.\n\nOnce Fletcher realizes that he has been used by Harlow's father, he teams with the Gunmen to help her find the second bio-terrorist. After a few false starts and chases, the Gunmen corner the bio-terrorist with only a few minutes before his virus is due to be released. They realize that they lack the time to destroy his virus-filled organ and therefore pull a fire alarm, causing large emergency doors to seal shut, simultaneously containing the virus and entrapping them with it. Their sacrifice earns them a final resting place in Arlington National Cemetery, where Fletcher, Doggett, Reyes, Harlow, Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson), Walter Skinner (Mitch Pileggi), and Jimmy Bond (Stephen Snedden) pay their respects to them.\n\nIn the comic book adaptation of the series \"The X-Files Season 10\"—which takes place in alternate universe after the events of \"\"—it is revealed that the Lone Gunmen are alive and well, having faked their deaths during the events of \"Jump the Shark\". The group was aided by the FBI and have since been working underground, aiding the US government; for instance, Langly mentions that he was responsible for the Stuxnet virus in 2010. (The \"X-Files Season 10\" comic series is not considered canon due to the television tenth and eleventh seasons reaffirming their deaths in the series.)\n\n\"Jump the Shark\" was written by Vince Gilligan, John Shiban, and Frank Spotnitz; it was directed by Cliff Bole. After the cancellation of \"The Lone Gunmen\" television series, which aired in 2001, Fox reportedly \"hated [the] characters\". Executive producer and co-writer Frank Spotnitz had to fight to get the episode made, as the studio was not interested in bringing the characters back for the ninth season. Actor Bruce Harwood later explained that \"I think if the studio objected to anything, it was wasting time on our characters long enough to kill us off.\" Co-writer Gilligan later recalled \"\"The Lone Gunmen\" was still kind of an open wound for me.\" Thus, the episode was crafted as a way to wrap up the series. Due to the nature of the episode—which effectively works as a tie-in—various long-term characters from both \"The X-Files\" and \"The Lone Gunmen\" make cameo appearances.\n\nThe episode title is a humorous reference to the phrase \"jumping the shark\", coined when Fonzie did a water ski jump of a shark pen on the television series \"Happy Days\". The phrase is used to describe shows that have peaked and are in decline. Executive producer Chris Carter said that the title was tongue-in-cheek, and further stated that it was their \"way of lowering the boom on anybody who thought that it did\". He further stated that the series was \"good\" until the end, even after the departure of David Duchovny as Fox Mulder. According to \"IGN\", the episode's title was a homage to the popular website \"Jump the Shark\". In fact, during the commentary for \"Jump the Shark\", Vince Gilligan makes a direct reference to the website.\n\nVarious plotlines leaked before the episode's release, the most notable being the death of the Lone Gunmen. The choice to kill off the trio was controversial; Gilligan himself later admitted that \"I still think we made the wrong choice on that one.\" Spotnitz later said, \"I can't say I regret killing them off, as you know, no one really dies in \"The X-Files\" [...] But I do feel tonally it was a mistake to end the episode on such a somber note. I wish we'd ended it on a laugh or smile.\" The actors who played The Lone Gunmen complimented the script. Harwood admitted that the episode would have either featured the trio's death or would have featured them \"walk[ing] off into the sunset without hobo bags over our shoulders.\" Ultimately, he concluded, \"I was glad we were killed off in the end\". Dean Haglund said that he \"liked the way we were sent off\", and called the ending \"cool\".\n\n\"Jump the Shark\" first aired on the Fox network in the United States on April 21, 2002. The episode later aired in the United Kingdom on Sky One and later on BBC One on 23 February 2003. The episode earned a Nielsen household rating of 5.1, meaning that it was seen by 5.1% of the nation's estimated households and was viewed by 5.38 million households, and 8.6 million viewers. \"Jump the Shark\" was the 58th most watched episode of television that aired during the week ending April 21.\n\nThe episode received mixed to negative reviews from television critics. Aaron Kinney from \"Salon\" magazine said that the episode title showed that the creators at least still had a sense of humor, but that the episode demonstrated some of the flaws that caused the series to jump the shark in the first place: \"cheesy melodrama, deathly slow pacing, and a lack of coherence\". Robert Shearman and Lars Pearson, in their book \"Wanting to Believe: A Critical Guide to The X-Files, Millennium & The Lone Gunmen\", rated the episode one star out of five, and noted that \"there's nothing celebratory\" about the entry. The two were highly critical of the episode's conclusion, calling it \"such a bland way of dying that for a moment, you feel you must have missed the point\". Shearman and Pearson, furthermore, argued that \"The Lone Gunmen deserved better. No, worse than that—we deserved better.\" M.A. Crang, in his book \"Denying the Truth: Revisiting The X-Files after 9/11\", criticized the \"goofy tone\" of the episode, saying it felt \"very out of place\" within the context of the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101123", "title": "Chief Justice John Marshall silver dollar", "text": "Chief Justice John Marshall silver dollar\n\n\nThe John Marshall Commemorative Dollar was issued in 2005 making it a modern commemorative. The Obverse depicts a profile of John Marshall and was designed by John Mercanti. The reverse shows the interior of the Supreme Court Chamber during the time Marshall was a justice.\n\nProof and Uncirculated\n\nUnited States Mint Certificate of Authenticity for the John Marshall Commemorative Dollar\n"}
{"id": "2101137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101137", "title": "The Fantastics", "text": "The Fantastics\n\nThe Fantastics were a professional wrestling tag team composed of Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers that worked together extensively between 1984 and 2007. At times, Bobby Fulton would team up with his brother Jackie Fulton under the same name.\n\nWhile in the Mid-Southern area (Memphis), Terry Taylor was teamed with a budding young wrestler named Bobby Fulton, who at the time was a jobber on TV but showed promise. To capitalize further on the success of The Fabulous Ones, they were named \"The Fantastic Ones\" and teamed only for a brief time before splitting up. In 1984, Bobby Fulton moved to the Mid-South area and teamed with Tommy Rogers shortening the name of the team to \"The Fantastics\". They began a feud with The Midnight Express that would extend into the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA). In 1985 \"The Fantastics\" would continue the Midnight Express feud over the World Class Wrestling Association's WCWA Tag Team Championship. They hired a bodyguard, Silo Sam who stood at 7\"7. In 1986, they had a feud with The Sheepherders in the Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF). In 1987, back in World Class Championship Wrestling, they feuded with Mike Davis and Tommy Lane, The Rock 'N Roll RPM's. They won the feud by winning a scaffold match at the Parade of Champions 4 on May 3, 1987. In 1988, they went to the NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions to continue their feud with the Midnight Express, going on to win the NWA United States Tag Team Title on two separate occasions throughout the year. In 1989, they left the NWA, due to problems with booker Kevin Sullivan. Rogers wrestled in Japan while Fulton resurfaced in the American Wrestling Association (AWA) teaming with his brother, Jackie Fulton, as the Fantastics. They briefly feuded with AWA Tag Team Champions Mike Enos and Wayne Bloom. In 1990, the brother tandem also had a short run in the NWA and wrestled on the independent circuit. Rogers and Fulton would reunite a year or so later and both versions of the team (Rogers and Fulton/Fulton and Fulton) would team together throughout the country and in Japan. When Jim Cornette began his own promotion, Smokey Mountain Wrestling (SMW) Fulton and his brother wrestled as \"The Fantastics\" for Cornette's company and occasionally as \"The Fantastic Ones\" in other promotions. In subsequent years the Fantastics occasionally worked as a team on the independent circuit, until 2007, when Rogers retired from the ring.\n\nOn June 1, 2015, Tommy Rogers died at the age of 54. Since then, Fulton has done multiple reunions with Terry Taylor as the Original Fantastics aka The Fantastic Ones. On April 12, 2019, Bobby and Jackie Fulton were scheduled to have a Fantastics reunion at the NCWA's Chair City Clash in Thomasville, North Carolina, where they were to go into battle against George South and Dangerous E.\n\nIn their early years, they used the ZZ Top song \"Sharp Dressed Man\" as an entrance theme. One night they were approached and told that Dusty Hill was inviting them to meet him at a local bar in Texas, which Rogers and Fulton thought was a prank. When Hill actually showed up, they expected to be served with a cease and desist order for using the song. Hill was actually a huge fan of them, and loved that they used the song.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101156", "title": "List of communes of the Province of Como", "text": "List of communes of the Province of Como\n\nThis is a list of municipalities (\"comuni\") of the Italian province of Como. There are 149 \"communes\" in the province.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101164", "title": "Brasmex – Brasil Minas Express", "text": "Brasmex – Brasil Minas Express\n\nBrasmex – Brasil Minas Express was a cargo airline based in Brazil.\n\n\nThe airline was established in 2001 and ceased operations in February 2004.\n\nBrasmex operated cargo services from Belo Horizonte, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo to Luxembourg, Manaus, Miami and Milan.\n\nThe Brasmex fleet included 1 McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30 aircraft.\n"}
{"id": "2101170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101170", "title": "Deutscher", "text": "Deutscher\n\nDeutscher is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101171", "title": "Marching Chiefs", "text": "Marching Chiefs\n\nThe Florida State University Marching Chiefs is the official marching band of the Florida State University. The band has served in this capacity since the 1940s and continues to perform at all home football games as well as several away games each year. There are 420+ members, or Chiefs, as members are sometimes known, in the band who hail from almost every academic department within the university.\n\nThe first appearance of a formal band was organized in the late 1930s by Charlotte Cooper, Jean Hitchcolk, Allice Ludlaw, and director Owen F. Sellars. The band, which consisted of less than twenty students, performed at the Odds and Evens intramural football game on Thanksgiving Day 1939. The following year the \"Florida Flambeau\" ran an announcement of try-outs for the now established band. In 1942 Sellars took military leave for World War II and Frank Sykora became the interim director. The same year uniforms were purchased and worn for the first time at the inauguration of Doak S. Campbell as the new college president. 1946 saw the first option for students to take marching band for credit.\nIn 1947 the Florida State College for Women officially became Florida State University and the university was changed to coeducational by an act of the Florida Legislature. With the change to a coed school came the introduction of a male football team which competed in a five-game season. The marching band performed at the games and practiced on Landis Green under Robert Smith. \n\n1949 saw a new director for the band, Robert T. Braunagel, and the new, official name of \"Marching Chiefs.\" The name was chosen by a newspaper survey sponsored by the Student Government Association. The first appearance of the newly christened Marching Chiefs was at Stetson University. Dr. Manley R Whitcomb became the new director of the Marching Chiefs in 1953 after transferring from Ohio State University and joining the FSU faculty. Dr. Whitcomb brought with him a talented young arranger by the name of Charles Carter who became the official arranger of the Marching Chiefs. Carter's arrangements gave the Marching Chiefs a distinctive style that survives to this day. Whitcomb also brought with him the traditional eight-to-five step, fast marching tempos, and the high step with arm swing now known as \"Chief Step.\"\n\nThe 1949-50 football season saw the Seminoles' and the Marching Chief's first appearances in a postseason bowl game at the Cigar Bowl in Tampa, FL. 1954 marked the Seminoles next appearance in a bowl at the Sun Bowl in El Paso, Texas. The \"Miami Daily News\" proclaimed, \"FSU's bid to Sun Bowl clinched by Marching Chiefs.\" In the spring of 1955 FSU received a charter of Kappa Kappa Psi honorary band fraternity. The brothers of KKPsi, as the organization is commonly known, produced a newsletter named \"The Chieftain\" which aimed to keep band members informed of upcoming events and activities. In 1956 Charlie Carter arranged J. Dayton Smith's \"The Hymn to the Garnet and the Gold\" for band. The Charlie Carter arrangement had its premier performance at the 1958 homecoming game.\nThe in-state American football rivalry between Florida State and UF began with their first meeting in 1958 but it was not until 1964 that a standing home-and-away series was launched. \n\n1969 saw the beginning of a new tradition for the Marching Chiefs with the newly created Band Alumni Association putting graduates of the Marching Chiefs onto the field for halftime. \n\nIn 1971 Richard Mayo, an FSU alumnus and former drum major, take over direction of the Chiefs in a year in which membership grew to over 200 students. The Marching Chiefs were also finalists in the Best College Marching Band contest on ABC-TV which established their reputation as one of the nation's finest marching bands. In 1974 the Marching Chiefs gained the title of \"world-renowned\" as a result of an international performance at the International Trade Fair in Damascus, Syria as a guest of State Department. While in the Middle East, Chiefs performed in Amman, Jordan as a command performance for King Hussein.\n\nColor guard auxiliary was added in 1970. The 1976 season marked the term of William Raxdale as director of the Chiefs. The step was introduced as part of an overall shift to a strict drum-and-bugle-corps aesthetic in which the Chiefs performed the same show at every game during the '76 football season. While the overall philosophy was not retained, the glide step introduced in that season is still used as a contrasting marching style by the Chiefs. \n\nIn 1977 Bentley Shellahamer, a Chiefs alumnus, took over directorship. Shellahamer reinstated the Chiefs' characteristic style of marching while emphasizing flexibility and innovation in matching visuals to music. In 1978 Chiefs performed their second of many NFL performance during a game for the New Orleans Saints. Chiefs surpassed 300 members during the 1981 football season which was marked by a trip to Ohio State University. Dr. Whitcomb conducted the combined bands in a performance of the National Anthem which Dr. Shellahamer described as the \"ultimate experience.\" 1981 was also the year that alumnus Dave Westberry took on the role of the \"Voice of the Marching Chiefs.\" The next year Andre Arrouet became interim director while Dr. Shellahamer took leave to work on his doctorate at Ohio State.\n\nIn 1982, Sports Illustrated featured the Marching Chiefs in an eight-page photo spread. The magazine echoed a longstanding slogan of the Chiefs in declaring that \"Florida State occasionally may lose a football game, but never a halftime show\" (December 6, 1982). Also in 1982 was the addition of the yearly Prism Concert to be included with the annual Tri-State Band Festival and Conducting Conference. Dr. Shellahamer resumed directorship in 1984 and Chiefs, along with the Gator Band, performed at Super Bowl XVIII in Tampa, FL. 1988 saw the Marching Chiefs hit another membership milestone when it reached 400 students, thus making Chiefs the world's largest collegiate marching band. In 1989 Chiefs got a new director, Robert Sheldon, and new uniforms. Though not successful at the time, a campaign was launched by band members to designate the Chiefs' practice field \"Manley Whitcomb Memorial Field.\"\n1991 began the current era of the Marching Chiefs. Patrick Dunnigan gained directorship of the band and was instrumental in the production of the Chiefs' first CD, \"Our Best Foot Forward\". Though currently commonplace, the CD was the first end-of-season CD recording of a college marching band. The next year was Charlie Carter's 40th year at FSU and was celebrated by a special halftime show in his honor. 1993 was another momentous year, beginning with a trip to East Rutherford, New Jersey for the Kickoff Classic against the University of Kansas Jayhawks. Doak Campbell Stadium was also renovated before this season including a section was added in the south end zone for the Chiefs and the new \"Elephant Doors\" underneath the section. The Homecoming Show celebrated 50 years of bands at FSU. To end the season the Marching Chiefs participated in FSU's first National Championship win over the University of Nebraska Cornhuskers.\n\nThe Chiefs renewed their \"world renowned\" laurels in 1997 when they traveled to London, England to perform a halftime show for a game of the World Football League's London Monarchs. The following season Dunnigan took leave to pursue a doctorate at the University of Texas and Dr. John L. Baker served as interim director. In 1998 the Marching Chiefs found themselves heading to Tempe, Arizona for another shot at the National championship but lost to the Tennessee Volunteers in the Fiesta Bowl. The newly hooded Dr. Dunnigan returned for the 1999 season which ended with a National Championship win against the Virginia Tech Hokies in the Sugar Bowl.\n\nIn 2002 the Marching Chiefs' practice field was at last officially named in honor ofDr Manley Whitcomb. In 2005 a donation of over $350,000 was made to the university by Bill Harkins, former FSU lacrosse head coach, for a new practice field for The Florida State Lacrosse Team. This allowed Chiefs to start off the '05 season with a new, artificial-turf field for rehearsals. This field, Bill Harkins field at the Manley R. Whitcomb Band Complex, replicated the appearance of Bobby Bowden Field on game day as it appeared in 2005. The turf choice resulted from less-than-ideal conditions faced in rehearsals due to the previous natural grass surface. In 2009 The Marching Chiefs continued to set records in collegiate band size with 460 members.\n\nWork on the Manley Whitcomb Band Complex was finally completed in time for the 2013 homecoming game. On November 15, 2013 the new field house and ceremonial arch were dedicated by Dr. Dunnigan. The new building will serve as storage facilities for the equipment that the Marching Chiefs use on a daily basis during marching season. As part of an effort to keep the band in tip-top condition, a fund was started in 2013 to replace many of the aging instruments loaned to students who don't own their own. When the 2013 Seminoles football team made it to the National Championship game the Marching Chiefs traveled with them to Pasadena for the Rose Bowl and contributed to the school's third national championship.. In 2018, the Marching Chiefs were invited to perform at the 75th Anniversary of D-Day Parade in Normandy, reclaiming their \"World-Renowned\" Title.\nAspiring members of the Marching Chiefs complete a week of Preseason Training that begins with a music audition. Following the music audition is a process of learning how to march as a Chief for rookies and a three-day refresher for veterans. After being taught how to march, the week concludes with the marching audition. The playing audition and marching audition each account for 50% of the total audition score which assists in completing the official Marching Chiefs \"Block List.\" Anyone who wishes to be a member of the Marching Chiefs in a given year, new and returning, must audition to be in the band each year.\n\nThe band institutes an \"alternate\" system due to the number of members and the limitations of drill. Members declared alternates share their field position with another member and perform the pregame and/or halftime show every other football game. The number of alternates varies by section and by year.\n\nMarching Chiefs rehearse for two hours on Monday through Friday from 4pm to 6pm. On game days, the band has early morning Continuity rehearsals to review the halftime show and pregame.\n\nDrum Majors and Assistant Drum Majors of the Marching Chiefs fulfill ceremonial as well as musical positions of leadership within the band. One of the most significant and visible responsibilities of the Drum Major is the pre-game strut, which includes a 40-yard strut and mace toss prior to the beginning of the Marching Chiefs' pre-game show. This tradition began with Jim Bruce during his tenure as Drum Major in the late 1970s. Over the years, Marching Chiefs added the position of Assistant Drum Major (and later a second) to serve as an additional field commander and conductor. For halftime and special appearances, the Drum Major dresses in a uniform designed in the likeness of the Seminole Indian Tribe, incorporating designs and colors representative of traditional tribal attire. The current head drum major is Jordan Fraze for 2020-2021.\n\ndid not complete season\n\nThe Marching Chiefs' instrumental sections are known by its members by their own specific names and are as follows:\n\nFlutes & Piccolos: \"Chiefs Flutes\"\n\nClarinets: \"Five Easy Pieces\" commonly referred to as \"Pieces\"\n\nAlto & Tenor Saxophones: \"Section X\"\n\nMellophones: \"HornZ\"\n\nTrumpets: \"Screech\"\n\nBaritones & Euphoniums: \"T.O.N.E.\" commonly referred to as \"Tones\"\n\nTrombones: \"The Roamin' Bones,\" commonly referred to as \"Bones\"\n\nSousaphones: \"The Royal Flush,\" commonly referred to as \"Flush\"\n\nPercussion: \"The Big 8 Drumline,\" commonly referred to as \"Big 8\"\n\nAuxiliary consists of Color Guard, Majorettes and Feature Twirler(s)\n\nMajorettes, commonly referred to as \"Rettes\"\n\nEach section has its own set of history and traditions, some with their own colors, mottos, symbols, songs, pre-game rituals and/or crests.\n\n\"Skull Session\" - The Chiefs perform together at a pregame \"Skull Session\" before each home football game in Tallahassee. When Manley Whitcomb came to Florida State University from Ohio State University he brought several traditions with him, one of those being the \"Skull Session.\" The idea is that the Chiefs get the music into their skulls \"before\" the game and can focus more on the marching and visual performance during the game. Originally, Skull Session was held in Opperman Music Hall but has since become a public performance. Now, performing on Mike Martin Field at Dick Howser Stadium (located next to Doak Campbell Stadium), the Chiefs perform section cheers and then go on to give the audience a sneak preview of the day's halftime show selections. Most section cheers tend to be either well-known pop songs, opportunities to poke fun at school opponents/other sections or inside jokes. All cheers are arranged by students who are current/alumni Chiefs.\n\n\"Come On and Go\" - This is a pregame tradition which the band opens with. The drumline begins by playing the cadence \"Come On and Go\" as the band \"Chief Steps\" out onto the field from under the stadium. As the cadence progresses, the band performs a double-time high step known as \"Go Cadence\" onto the field.\n\n\"The Good, The Bad and The Ugly\" (Retired)- This was a tradition that started in the early 1980s when the Chiefs were under the direction of Dr. Bentley Shellahamer. As the Florida State football team was finishing its on-field pre-game warm up routine, the Chiefs joined the team's vocals. As they finished, the players lined up shoulder to shoulder on the fifty-yard line, held up their helmets and walked in a side-by-side line toward the North end zone as the Chiefs played the \"main title\" theme from the 1966 film \"The Good, The Bad and The Ugly\" which has been arranged into \"G.B.U.\", an extended intro which then leads into the playing of the \"FSU Fight Song,\" or the \"Warchant\". Even though this tradition was retired in 2010, the Chiefs still play \"G.B.U.\" in the stands.\n\n\"'Flushing' The Field\" - The Royal Flush, during every pregame performance, \"flushes\" the field by running around the Seminole head logo at the center of Bobby Bowden Field while the head drum major stands at the center of it. As the rest of the band transitions to the team entrance formation, The Royal Flush follows and the entire band ends the exit cadence by counting aloud the number of Flush members and ending with \"Flush!\" This can be heard on each and every recording of the Exit Cadence.\n\n\"Roamin' The Stadium\" - The Roamin' Bones \"roam\" the stadium during 3rd or 4th quarter and perform different arrangements from the Bone Book, their collection of musical charts written specifically for the Roamin' Bones.\n\n\"The Hymn To The Garnet & Gold\" - Most Chiefs will agree that their favorite school song is what is commonly known as \"The Hymn\". When Florida State University was looking for an alma mater, several composers sent in their contributions. The Hymn did not make it as the official FSU Alma Mater, but it lives and thrives as a long-standing school tradition, as the Chiefs sing it at the end of every game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101181", "title": "Smokies Stadium", "text": "Smokies Stadium\n\nSmokies Stadium (formerly known as Smokies Park) is a baseball stadium located in Kodak, Tennessee, just east of Knoxville and adjacent to the tourist centers of Sevierville, Pigeon Forge, and Gatlinburg. The park, which opened in 2000, has a capacity of 6,412. It is the home of the Tennessee Smokies of the Southern League. Smokies Park was constructed as a replacement facility for the since shuttered Bill Meyer Stadium in Knoxville.\n\nJust like the playing field, the grandstand is symmetrical and it extends well down the outfield lines, where stadium-style seats give way to bleachers with backs. All chair back seats contain cup holders and are painted dark green.\n\nThe park has 18 suites located above the seating bowl. Each 300-square-foot suite holds 20 people and has a balcony with a dozen stadium-style seats. Suite dimensions are 20 feet deep by 13 feet wide.\n\nParty porches bookend the suites. Copper Cellar Clubhouse (first base) and Davey Crockett Porch (third base), each porch measures 33 feet deep by 28 feet wide (about 900 square feet) and has stadium seating for 26 people with 11 elevated patio chairs placed directly behind the two rows of regular seats. The porches are open-air but covered by the stadium's roof. Another porch, Calhoun's at the Yard completed in 2014, is located in left field. Pioneer Porch, added in 2015, is a smaller porch in right field suitable for group outings.\n\nThe park's scoreboard, stationed behind the left field berm, features a large high-definition video board. The 36-foot wide by 17-foot high HD-X LED video display was installed in 2008 and displays crisp player pictures and real-time stats. Beneath it is a 36-foot by 9-foot broad which displays the line score.\n\nIn the right field corner of the ballpark is \"Homer's Playland\", named after the Smokies' newest mascot, Homer the Hound. The area consists of a slide, obstacle course, 2 moon bounces (big and small), a Homerun Challenge, Speed Pitch, and a prize wheel. Parents can purchase a single ticket for one attraction or buy a wristband and get unlimited slide, both moon bounces, and obstacle course until the top of the eighth inning when the Playland closes.\n\nThree flag poles are erected behind the waterfall portion of the nature scene. Depending on the day, a white flag with a blue \"W\" may fly alongside the prerequisite state and American flags. Since 2007, the Smokies have been a Cubs affiliate and the \"win\" flag is one of many traditions that make Chicago's \"Friendly Confines\" the baseball shrine that it is. Just like at Wrigley Field, the Smokies copycat version flaps following victories by the home team.\n\nThe ballpark's single-game attendance record was set on May 13, 2017, when 7,958 people watched the Smokies play the Montgomery Biscuits on \"Star Wars\" Night.\n\nThe Tennessee Smokies beat the Chattanooga Lookouts 10–7 on April 20, 2000, in front of 7,318 fans in the first game at the ballpark. On May 24, 2008, John Smoltz, then of the Atlanta Braves, made a rehab appearance with their Double-A affiliate Mississippi Braves. News of his appearance drew a crowd of 7,381 to the ballpark as the Smokies won 3–2. Smokies Park experienced a then record breaking crowd of 7,655 on July 3, 2009, against the Huntsville Stars. The Smokies won the intense game, 5–3, which included Hall of Fame manager Ryne Sandberg being ejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101182", "title": "John Dutton (quarterback)", "text": "John Dutton (quarterback)\n\nJohn Dutton (born September 20, 1975) is a former Arena Football League quarterback. He was drafted out of University of Nevada, Reno in the 6th round of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Miami Dolphins. In 2005, he led the Crush to the ArenaBowl XIX title. In 2006, he was on the cover of the EA Sports first AFL video game, Arena Football, making him the first player to pose for the cover. He had been the backup quarterback for the San Jose SaberCats behind Mark Grieb. After Grieb's suffered a season-ending injury earlier in the year, Dutton quarterbacked the SaberCats to a 52–14 victory over the Arizona Rattlers in ArenaBowl XVI. He was named Offensive Player of the Game for his performance. In June 2009, Dutton was signed by the RiverCity Rage of the Indoor Football League. On February 12, 2010, it was announced that Dutton had been signed by the Cleveland Gladiators.\n\nDutton attended Fallbrook Union High School in Fallbrook, California, and was a letterman in basketball and football. In football, he passed for 2,056 yards and ten touchdowns as a senior. Dutton then played college football for the Texas Longhorns, but was only a backup to starting quarterback James Brown. He later transferred to Nevada, and played for the Nevada Wolf Pack. Dutton helped the Wolf Pack win two Big West championships, and the 1996 Las Vegas Bowl.\n\nDutton was selected by the Miami Dolphins in the 6th round of the 1998 NFL Draft. He was released during the Dolphins' training camp.\n\nDutton was picked up in training camp by the Atlanta Falcons, but never played in a game.\n\nIn 1999, Dutton was signed by the Cleveland Browns, but was placed on injured reserve after breaking his ankle. .\n\nAfter being placed on the IR, Dutton signed to play in the Arena Football League where he was the backup quarterback for the San Jose SaberCats behind Mark Grieb. After Grieb suffered a season-ending injury earlier in the year, Dutton quarterbacked the SaberCats to a 52–14 victory over the Arizona Rattlers in ArenaBowl XVI. He was named Offensive Player of the Game for his performance.\n\nIn 2005, he led the Crush to the ArenaBowl XIX title. In 2006, he was on the cover of the EA Sports AFL video game, \"Arena Football\".\n\nWhen the Arena Football League suspended play in 2009, Dutton was signed by the RiverCity Rage of the Indoor Football League.\n\nOn February 12, 2010 it was announced that Dutton had been signed by the Cleveland Gladiators.\n\nIn March 2013, Dutton was assigned to the San Antonio Talons. One game into the season, he tore his tendon forcing him out of action and finally retired at season's end.\n\n\"Stats from ArenaFan\":\n\nDutton coached high school football at Linfield Christian School in Temecula, California during the 2004–2005 season. As the quarterback and wide receiver coach, Dutton helped lead Linfield Christian on to a 10–2–1 overall record. He served as quarterback and running backs coach at College of the Siskiyous in Weed, California in 2015. Starting in 2017, Dutton became head coach at Mt. Shasta High School in Mt. Shasta, California, where he coached the team to a 1-9 record in his first season. In 2018, he was named the new head coach at McCloud High School in McCloud, California, coaching 8-man football, their first program in 17 years.\n\nDutton, his wife Terina and their children serve as missionaries in Africa. They founded The Dutton Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101193", "title": "Thomson's gazelle", "text": "Thomson's gazelle\n\nThomson's gazelle (\"Eudorcas thomsonii\") is one of the best-known gazelles. It is named after explorer Joseph Thomson and is sometimes referred to as a \"tommie\". It is considered by some to be a subspecies of the red-fronted gazelle and was formerly considered a member of the genus \"Gazella\" within the subgenus \"Eudorcas\", before \"Eudorcas\" was elevated to genus status. Thomson's gazelles can be found in numbers exceeding 550,000 in Africa and are recognized as the most common type of gazelle in East Africa. The Thomson's gazelle can reach speeds of . It is the fourth-fastest land animal, after the cheetah (its main predator), pronghorn, and springbok.\n\nThe scientific name of Thomson's gazelle is \"Eudorcas thomsonii\". It is a member of the genus \"Eudorcas\" and is classified under the family Bovidae. Thomson's gazelle was first described by British zoologist Albert Günther in 1884. The relationships between Thomson's gazelle and the congeneric Mongalla gazelle (\"E. albonotata\") remain disputed; while some authors such as Alan W. Gentry of the (Natural History Museum, London) consider the Mongalla gazelle to be a subspecies of Thomson's gazelle, others (such as Colin Groves) consider the Mongalla gazelle to be a full species. Zoologist Jonathan Kingdon treated Heuglin's gazelle, sometimes considered a species of \"Eudorcas\" (\"E. tilonura\") or a subspecies of the red-fronted gazelle (\"E. r. tilonura\"), as a subspecies of Thomson's gazelle. Thomson's gazelle is named after the Scottish explorer Joseph Thomson; the first recorded use of the name dates to 1897. Another common name for the gazelle is \"tommy\".\n\n\"Antilope\", \"Eudorcas\", \"Gazella\", and \"Nanger\" form a clade within their tribe Antilopini. A 1999 phylogenetic analysis showed that \"Antilope\" is the closest sister taxon to \"Gazella\", although the earliest phylogeny, proposed in 1976, placed \"Antilope\" as sister to \"Nanger\". In a more recent revision of the phylogeny of the Antilopini on the basis of nuclear and mitochondrial data in 2013, Eva Verena Bärmann (of the University of Cambridge) and colleagues constructed a cladogram that clearly depicted the close relationship between \"Nanger\" and \"Eudorcas\". \"Antilope\" and \"Gazella\" were found to have a similar relationship.\n\nTwo subspecies are identified:\n\nThomson's gazelle is a relatively small gazelle; it stands at the shoulder. Males weigh , while the slightly lighter females weigh . The head-and-body length is typically between . Kingdon noted that physical measurements show a decrease from the northern to the southern parts of the gazelle's range. Facial characteristics of the gazelle include white rings around the eyes, black stripes running from a corner of the eye to the nose, rufous stripes running from the horns to the nose, a dark patch on the nose, and a light forehead.\nThe coat is sandy brown to rufous; a distinctive black band runs across the flanks, from the upper foreleg to just above the upper hind leg. A buff band can be seen just above the black stripe. Short, black streaks mark the white rump. The black tail measures . Males have well-developed preorbital glands near the eyes, which are used for scent-marking territories. Both sexes possess horns that curve slightly backward with the tips facing forward. The horns, highly ringed, measure on males and on females. However, females have highly fragile horns; some are even hornless. Grant's gazelle is very similar to Thomson's gazelle, but can be differentiated by its larger size and a large white patch on the rump.\n\nThe two subspecies differ markedly in their appearance. The eastern Thomson's gazelle is the larger of the two, with fainter facial markings. The Serengeti Thomson's gazelle, though, has a whiter face with more conspicuous markings. The horns of females are shorter than those of males to a greater degree in the eastern Thomson's gazelle; moreover, the horns are more divergent in the eastern Thomson gazelle.\n\nThomson's gazelle lives in Africa's savannas and grassland habitats, particularly the Serengeti region of Kenya and Tanzania. It has narrow habitat preferences, preferring short grassland with dry, sturdy foundation. It does, however, migrate into tall grassland and dense woodland. Gazelles are mixed feeders. In the wet seasons, they eat mainly fresh grasses, but during the dry seasons, they eat more browse, particularly foliage from bushes, forbs, and clovers.\n\nThomson's gazelles are dependent on short grass. Their numbers are highly concentrated at the beginning of the rains since the grass grows quickly. They follow the larger herbivores, such as plains zebras and blue wildebeests as they mow down the tall grasses. Then, the gazelles spread out more. In the wild, Thomson's gazelles can live 10–15 years. Their major predators are\ncheetahs, which are able to attain higher speeds, but gazelles can outlast them in long chases and are able to make turns more speedily. This small antelope-gazelle can run extremely fast, from , to 96 km/h (60 mph) and zigzag, a peculiarity which often saves it from predators. Sometimes, they are also chased by leopards, lions, and hyenas, but the gazelles are faster and more agile; these predators attack especially the young or infirm individuals. They can also be prey to crocodiles and pythons, and their fawns are sometimes the prey of eagles, african wild dogs, jackals, and baboons. A noticeable behaviour of Thomson's gazelles is their bounding leap, known as stotting or pronking, used to startle predators and display strength.\n\nDuring the wet season, a time when grass is abundant, adult male gazelles graze extensively. They spread out more and establish breeding territories. Younger males usually spend their time in bachelor groups, and are prevented from entering the territories. Females form migratory groups that enter the males' territories, mostly the ones with the highest-quality resources. As the female groups pass through and forage, the territorial males may try to herd them, and are usually successful in preventing single females from leaving, but not whole groups. Subadult males usually establish dominance through actual combat, while adults are more likely to do rituals. If a bachelor male should be passing through a territorial male's region, the male will chase the offender out of his territory.\n\nWhen patrolling his territory, a male may use his horns to gore the grass, soil, or a bush. Males also mark grass stems with their preorbital glands, which emit a dark secretion. Territories of different males may share a boundary. When territorial males meet at the border of their territories, they engage in mock fights in which they rush towards each other as if they are about to clash, but without touching. After this, they graze in a frontal position, then in parallel and them in reverse, and move away from each other while constantly grazing. These rituals have no victor, but merely maintain the boundaries of the territories. Territorial males usually do not enter another male's territory. If a male is chasing an escaping female, he will stop the chase if she runs into another territory, but the neighboring male will continue the chase.\n\nA male gazelle follows a female and sniffs her urine to find out if she is in estrus, a process known as the Flehmen response. If so, he continues to court and mount her. Females leave the herd to give birth to single fawns after a five- to six-month gestation period. They give birth twice yearly with one or two fawns. When birthing, a female gazelle crouches as the newborn fawn drops to the ground, tearing the umbilical cord. The mother then licks the fawn clean of amniotic fluid and tissues. In addition, licking possibly also serves to stimulate the fawn's blood circulation, or to \"label\" it so its mother can recognize it by scent.\n\nIn the first six hours of the fawn's life, it moves and rests with its mother, but eventually spends more time away from its mother or hides in the grass. The mother stays in the vicinity of the fawn and returns to nurse it daily. Mother and fawn may spend an hour together before the fawn goes and lies back down to wait for the next nursing. Mother gazelles may associate with other gazelle mothers, but the fawns do not gather into \"kindergartens\". Mothers defend their young against jackals and baboons, but not against larger predators. Sometimes, a female can fend off a male baboon by headbutting him with her horns to defend her fawn.\n\nAs the fawn approaches two months of age, it spends more time with its mother and less time hiding. Eventually, it stops hiding. Around this time, the fawn starts eating solid food, but continues to nurse from its mother. The pair also joins a herd. Young female gazelles may associate with their mothers as yearlings. Young males may also follow their mothers, but as they reach adolescence, they are noticed by territorial males, so cannot follow their mothers into territories. The mother may follow and stay with him, but eventually stops following him when he is driven away; the male will then join a bachelor group.\n\nThe population estimate is around 550,000. The population had declined 60% from 1978 to 2005. Threats to Thomson's gazelles are tourist impacts, habitat modification, fire management, and road development. Surveys have reported steep declines (60-70%) over periods of about 20 years dating from the late 1970s in several places, including the main strongholds for the species: Serengeti, Masai Mara, and Ngorongoro.\n\nReferences to the Thomson's gazelle were an occasional running gag in \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\".\n\nThe 2016 Disney film \"Zootopia\" features an anthropomorphic Thomson's gazelle pop star, voiced by Shakira.\n\nThe Thomson's gazelle served as the inspiration for Alexander McQueen's 1997 Autumn/Winter collection, \"It's a Jungle Out There\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101195", "title": "0-0", "text": "0-0\n\n0-0 or O-O may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2101206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101206", "title": "The Compleat Al", "text": "The Compleat Al\n\nThe Compleat Al is a mockumentary about the life of \"Weird Al\" Yankovic, from his birth in 1959, to 1985. It was partially written by Yankovic and directed by Jay Levey. An abbreviated version premiered on August 7, 1985 on the Showtime network before the full film was released on video on September 25, 1985. The title of the film is a parody from the 1982 documentary \"The Compleat Beatles\".\n\nAlthough it is a mockumentary, it is roughly based on Yankovic's real life. For example, Yankovic was raised in Lynwood, California, and has a degree in architecture from Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. His real-life parents appear in the mockumentary, as does a picture of his real-life childhood house. Because of the mixture of Yankovic's real life and fiction, many of the film's fabricated information was accepted by fans as real. For example, the false information that Yankovic was born in a Saint Vitus hospital (the Catholic patron saint of comedy); or the film's pun which claimed his birth in an elevator signified his \"rise to the top.\"\n\nThe mockumentary also contains clips from the first three \"AL-TV\" specials, and all of Yankovic's music videos up to 1985: \"Ricky\", \"I Love Rocky Road\", \"Eat It\", \"I Lost on Jeopardy\", \"This Is the Life\", \"Like a Surgeon\" ,\"One More Minute\", and \"Dare to Be Stupid\".\n\nThe parody also extends to the technical aspects of the film, such as the copyright warning message which starts routinely but escalates to warnings that copying the video may result in damage to your VCR, smoke may come out of your TV set, escalating to possible destruction of the planet due to the greed of the viewer.\n\nThe film came about when CBS Home Video approached Yankovic to make a long form music video. It was produced by Yankovic's manager Jay Levey, Levey's friend Hamilton Cloud, and Robert K. Weiss, who had previously produced \"Kentucky Fried Movie\" and \"The Blues Brothers\". The production, which had a budget of $250,000, also included making videos for \"Like a Surgeon\", \"Dare to Be Stupid\", and \"One More Minute\", which were included in the film. The film, including the music videos, was directed by Levey and Weiss.\n\nThe film first premiered on August 7, 1985 on the premium cable channel Showtime, which aired a 60-minute version of the film. The full film was then released on VHS and Betamax on September 25, 1985. The film was later released on Laserdisc in 1986. A 10-minute version of the mockumentary appeared on the sixth \"AL-TV\" special, which aired on MTV in 1992.\n\nA book entitled \"The Authorized Al\" () was released shortly after the film as a companion piece. It is essentially a book version of the video.\n\nShout! Factory released \"The Compleat Al\" on DVD for the first time on November 11, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2101207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101207", "title": "Larry Gomes", "text": "Larry Gomes\n\nHilary Angelo Gomes (born 13 July 1953) is a former Trinidad and Tobago and West Indian cricketer.\n\nGomes toured England with the West Indian youth team in 1970 and made his first-class debut as a left-handed batsman for Trinidad and Tobago against New Zealand in 1971-72. He played county cricket for Middlesex between 1973 and 1976. \n\nGomes was a successful batsman for the West Indies, usually playing at number 3. He was part of the West Indies team which beat England 5-0 in 1984, the only time a touring side has won in England by such a margin. Gomes was named man of the match in both the First and Third Tests, in which he scored 143 and 104 respectively.\n\nGomes scored six centuries against Australia, most notably one on a bouncy Perth strip in 1984 that set up an innings victory. However, he is also remembered in Australia as the batsman whose wicket Dennis Lillee took during the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne in 1981 to break Lance Gibbs's world record for most Test wickets.\n\nHe was named Wisden Cricketer of the Year in 1985. The Larry Gomes Stadium in Malabar, Arima, is named after him.\n\nAt the 1997 ICC Trophy in Malaysia, Gomes served as the head coach of the Canadian team.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101217", "title": "Chattem", "text": "Chattem\n\nChattem is an American, Chattanooga, Tennessee-based, producer and marketer of over-the-counter healthcare products, toiletries, dietary supplements, topical analgesics, and medicated skin care products. Originally named the Chattanooga Medicine Company, the company’s brand portfolio holds twenty-two brands including Allegra, Gold Bond, Flexall, IcyHot, Rolaids, Sun-In, Pamprin, Dexatrim, Aspercreme, and Selsun Blue. The company produces two-thirds of its products at its Chattanooga production facilities with the remaining produced by third-party producers. The company is a subsidiary of the French multinational pharmaceutical company Sanofi.\n\nThe company’s brands are sold nationally through mass merchandiser, drug and food retailers. In 2005, 70% of the firm's sales were made through its top ten customers, which include Wal-Mart, Walgreens, and Kroger. Sales to Wal-Mart constituted 36% of Chattem’s total sales in 2005. Chattem supports these sales with a forty-five-person sales force and broadcast media advertising. Chattem has market penetration in the United States, Europe, Canada, Latin America, and the Caribbean.\n\n\nIn October 2006, Chattem announced it would acquire five brands for $410 million as a result of the merger between Johnson & Johnson and the consumer healthcare business of Pfizer. These brands are:\n\nPending the US government’s approval of the merger of Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, Chattem will acquire five brands divested from the firms. Chattem has announced it expects to take possession of the brands around January 2007. These mature brands will provide $150 million in additional revenue to Chattem per year.\n\nOn December 21, 2009, Paris-based (France) Sanofi, the world's fourth largest drugmaker, said it was acquiring Chattem in a $1.9 billion cash deal. Sanofi said the acquisition would be completed by the first quarter of 2010.\n\nChattem manufactures many over-the-counter healthcare products. They are marketed in three categories: pain relief, skin & hair care, and health & wellness. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101218", "title": "Joan (album)", "text": "Joan (album)\n\nJoan is a 1967 album by Joan Baez. Having exhausted the standard voice/guitar folksong format by 1967, Baez collaborated with arranger-conductor Peter Schickele (with whom she'd worked on the 1966 Christmas album, \"Noël\"), on an album of orchestrated covers of mostly then-current pop and rock and roll songs. Works by Donovan, Paul Simon, Tim Hardin, the Beatles, and Richard Fariña were included, as well as selections by Jacques Brel and Edgar Allan Poe.\n\nThe recording of \"Children of Darkness\" was a tribute to Baez's brother-in-law, novelist and musician Richard Fariña, who had been killed in a motorcycle accident a year earlier.\n\n\"La Colombe\" is a French anti-war anthem about French soldiers being sent to fight Algeria in the latter country's bid for independence.\n\nThe 2003 Vanguard reissue contains two bonus tracks: \"Oh, Had I a Golden Thread\" and \"Autumn Leaves\".\n\nAccording to the liner notes on the 2003 reissue, in the cover photo of Baez, she was actually lying down. A candid photo taken during recording sessions while she was resting between songs was spun around so it looked as though she was sitting or standing upright. The photo was by French photographer Alain Gaveau, with whom she was romantically attached at the time. He also contributed the photo for her previous album, \"Noel\" and her book \"Daybreak\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101220", "title": "AxKit", "text": "AxKit\n\nApache AxKit was an XML Apache publishing framework run by the Apache foundation written in Perl. It provided conversion from XML to any format, such as HTML, WAP or text using either W3C standard techniques, or flexible custom code.\n\nAxKit was a standard tool in early digital humanities presentation work, being used to convert formats such as Text Encoding Initiative XML to HTML. It is still used by some institutions, but software such as eXist and Apache Cocoon is normally used in modern projects.\n\nApache Axkit was retired in August 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101244", "title": "Nylon 6", "text": "Nylon 6\n\nNylon 6 or polycaprolactam is a polymer developed by Paul Schlack at IG Farben to reproduce the properties of nylon 6,6 without violating the patent on its production. (Around the same time, Kohei Hoshino at Toray also succeeded in synthesizing nylon 6.) It is a semicrystalline polyamide. Unlike most other nylons, nylon 6 is not a condensation polymer, but instead is formed by ring-opening polymerization; this makes it a special case in the comparison between condensation and addition polymers. Its competition with nylon 6,6 and the example it set have also shaped the economics of the synthetic fiber industry. It is sold under numerous trade names including Perlon (Germany), Dederon (former East Germany), Nylatron, Capron, Ultramid, Akulon, Kapron (former Soviet Union and satellite states), and Durethan.\n\nNylon 6 can be modified using comonomers or stabilizers during polymerization to introduce new chain end or functional groups, which changes the reactivity and chemical properties. It’s often done to change its dyeability or flame retardance. Nylon 6 is synthesized by ring-opening polymerization of caprolactam. Caprolactam has 6 carbons, hence 'Nylon 6'. When caprolactam is heated at about 533 K in an inert atmosphere of nitrogen for about 4-5 hours, the ring breaks and undergoes polymerization. Then the molten mass is passed through spinnerets to form fibres of nylon 6.\n\nDuring polymerization, the amide bond within each caprolactam molecule is broken, with the active groups on each side re-forming two new bonds as the monomer becomes part of the polymer backbone.\nUnlike nylon 6,6, in which the direction of the amide bond reverses at each bond, all nylon 6 amide bonds lie in the same direction (see figure: note the N to C orientation of each amide bond).\n\nNylon 6 fibres are tough, possessing high tensile strength, as well as elasticity and lustre. They are\nwrinkleproof\nand highly resistant to abrasion and chemicals such as acids and alkalis. The fibres can\nabsorb up to 2.4% of water, although this lowers tensile strength. The glass transition temperature of\nNylon 6 is 47 °C.\n\nAs a synthetic fiber, Nylon 6 is generally white but can be dyed to in a solution bath prior to production for different color results. Its tenacity is between 6 and 8.5 gm/den with a density of 1.14 gm/cc. Its melting point is at 215 °C and can protect heat up to 150 °C on average.\n\n\"Flavobacterium\" sp. [85] and \"Pseudomonas\" sp. (NK87) degrade oligomers of Nylon 6, but not polymers. Certain white rot fungal strains can also degrade Nylon 6 through oxidation. Compared to aliphatic polyesters, Nylon 6 has poor biodegradability. Strong interchain interactions from hydrogen bonds between molecular nylon chains is said to be the cause by some sources.\n\nAt present, polyamide 6 is the most significant construction material used in many industries, for instances in automotive industry, aircraft industry, electronic and electrotechnical industry, clothing industry and medicine. Annual demand for polyamides in Europe amounts to a million tonnes. They are produced by all leading chemical companies.\n\nThe largest producers of polyamide 6 in Europe:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101248", "title": "Chromosome regions", "text": "Chromosome regions\n\nSeveral chromosome regions have been defined by convenience in order to talk about gene loci. Most important is the distinction between chromosome region p and chromosome region q. These are virtual regions that exist in all chromosomes.\n\nDuring cell division, the molecules that compose chromosomes (DNA and proteins) suffer a condensation process (called the chromatin condensation) that forms a compact and small complex called a chromatid. The complexes containing the duplicated DNA molecules, the sister chromatids, are attached to each other by the centromere. The centromere divides each chromosome into two regions: the smaller one, which is the p region, and the bigger one, the q region. The sister chromatids will be distributed to each daughter cell at the end of the cell division.\n\nThe p region is represented in the shorter arm of the chromosome (p is for petit, French for small) while the q region is in the larger arm (chosen as next letter in alphabet after p).\n\nAt either end of a chromosome is a telomere, a cap of DNA that protects the rest of the chromosome from damage. The areas of the p and q regions close to the telomeres are the subtelomeres, or subtelomeric regions. The areas closer to the centromere are the pericentronomic regions. Finally, the interstitial regions are the parts of the p and q regions that are close to neither the centromere nor the telomeres, but are roughly in the middle of p or q.\n"}
{"id": "2101253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101253", "title": "Riverworld (2003 film)", "text": "Riverworld (2003 film)\n\nRiverworld is a sci-fi/fantasy feature-length pilot episode for a series that was never produced. It aired on the Sci-Fi Channel in 2003. It was loosely based on the Hugo Award-winning \"Riverworld\" saga by Philip José Farmer. Production began in 2001. It was rebooted in 2010, under the same title.\n\nIn the year 2009, a meteor shower above Earth claims the life of American astronaut Jeff Hale (Brad Johnson). He awakens inside a jade-green bubble beneath the surface of a body of water filled with other such bubbles. A mysterious cloaked figure pierces his bubble with a staff pressing it against his forehead, forcefully filling his mind with images to come. Dazed and in pain, he soon finds himself crawling nude onto a beach littered with metal canisters containing unisex clothing. Soon dozens of people from different lands and historical eras emerge from the water, also nude, and distribute the canisters. All understand each other's language, except a lone Neanderthal man, who lacks the capacity for speech.\n\nHale learns that the \"known world\" is the bank of a massive river. Anyone who has ever lived on Earth at any time in history is qualified to start life anew on Riverworld, reborn in his or her prime of life. Other cloaked figures are seen fleetingly, but their purpose is unknown. Food is provided, and the climate is clement. The need for shelter is easily provided by available resources and simple manual labor.\n\nHale meets and makes close friends with some of his fellow castaways, all of them from different time periods: Alice Liddell Hargreaves (Emily Lloyd); Mali (Karen Holness), a former slave of the pre-Civil War era; and Lev Ruach (Jeremy Birchall), a Jewish victim of the Nazi Holocaust. The Neanderthal among the castaways is later killed by a man introducing himself as Lucius Domitus Ahenobarbus (Jonathan Cake), a citizen of Ancient Rome. When Hale begins to argue with Lucius about the latter's ethics, Lucius attacks him for the leadership; but their fight is interrupted by slavers under the rulership of one Valdemar (Kevin Smith), who has erected his own empire and plans to expand it.\n\nWhile in captivity, Hale and the others are joined by two more prisoners: Monat (Brian Moore), an extraterrestrial who died – along with the rest of mankind – in a cataclysm in the year 2039; and a young girl named Gwenafra (Nikita Kearsley), the only human being in Riverworld reborn as a child. During the night, Hale is freed by the hooded stranger he saw upon his reawakening in Riverworld, hides from Valdemar's men, and follows his fellow resurrectees to Valdemar's fortress. While freeing his mates, he witnesses Valdemar holding gladiatorial games, in which the despot is challenged and killed by Lucius, who identifies himself as the historical Nero and subsequently takes over Valdemar's forces.\n\nMonat leads his fellow captives to a community of fugitives led by Samuel Clemens (Cameron Daddo), who has built a riverboat christened the \"Go For Broke\", augmented by Monat's technological expertise, to explore the river. Nero intends to use Clemens' riverboat to extend his dominion downriver. With the aid of a traitor in Sam's ranks, he invades the fugitives' camp, imprisons Hale and his comrades, and forces Clemens to show him how to operate it. Hale and the others overcome Nero and his men, reclaiming the riverboat, and Hale personally kills Nero in combat.\n\nFollowing their liberation, the band travel upstream to explore the Riverworld. Sam gives command to Hale, but remains pilot. Nero is subsequently shown resurrected in a new body somewhere else underneath the river.\n\nA number of liberties are taken in the film with regards to the source material. The original hero and villain are replaced by other characters, the timeline of events is compressed (including the learning of languages which is eliminated entirely), and the nature of the resurrection process and food and clothing production are altered. Instead of a single meteor of iron, a \"valley of meteors\" with a constant stream of small falling objects provides the metals used by the characters. The Riverboat is powered by fusion rather than being recharged by Grailstones. The character Loghu is apparently replaced with another female warrior named Mali, and the alien Monat is radically different in appearance and behavior from that described in the books.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101268", "title": "Sex trafficking", "text": "Sex trafficking\n\nSex trafficking is human trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, including sexual slavery. A victim is forced, in one of a variety of ways, into a situation of dependency on their trafficker(s) and then used by said trafficker(s) to give sexual services to customers. There are three types of activities defined as sex trafficking crimes: acquisition, transportation and exploitation; this includes child sex tourism (CST), domestic minor sex trafficking (DMST) or other kinds of commercial sexual exploitation of children, and prostitution. Sex trafficking is one of the biggest criminal businesses in the world.\n\nIn 2012 the International Labour Organization, reported 20.9 million people were subjected to forced labour, and 22% (4.5 million) are victims of forced sexual exploitation. The same organization reported in 2016 that of the estimated 25 million persons in forced labor, 5 million were victims of sexual exploitation. However, due to the covertness of sex trafficking, obtaining accurate, reliable statistics is difficult for researchers. The global commercial profits for sexual slavery are estimated to be $99B according to this same source. In 2005, the figure was given as $9B for the total human trafficking industry.\n\nMost victims find themselves in coercive or abusive situations from which escape is both difficult and dangerous. Locations where this practice occurs span the globe and reflect an intricate web between nations, making it very difficult to construct viable solutions to this human rights problem.\n\nThere are a number of misconceptions about sex trafficking. Sex trafficking and human trafficking are not to be confused with human smuggling. Human trafficking for sexual or other labor may involve transporting victims across international borders, but to meet the definition of trafficking, there needs only to be exploitation of an individual after they have been coerced or deceived, so it does not necessarily involve transportation across national borders. Human trafficking and sex trafficking are often used as synonyms. However, trafficking for non-sexual exploitation may be even more prevalent than trafficking for sexual exploitation, though accurate estimates of trafficking rates are extremely difficult to obtain. Sex trafficking tends to receive more attention from aid organizations and donors due to the greater public outrage that forced sexual labor evokes compared to forced non-sexual labor and thus incidents of sex trafficking are more frequently reported.\n\nSex trafficking is also commonly conflated with non-coerced sex work criminalized as prostitution. These misconceptions often stem from underreporting of trafficking because of the survivor's fear of their trafficker, ever-changing legal definitions of what qualifies as sex trafficking and prostitution, and conflicting views of trafficking and sex work. In addition, some researchers argue that the main research that underscores these debates is flawed for leaving sex workers and survivors of sex trafficking out of the conversation. Other scholars argue the two are commonly conflated because of the inherent link between volitional prostitution and sex trafficking. Those who argue this believe that commercial sex increases the demand for sexual services and consequently increases sex trafficking. Some anti-sex trafficking programs and initiatives have been criticised for contributing to these misconceptions because they give non-trafficked sex workers incentives to identify as victims of trafficking, such as gaining access to resources like shelters. Law enforcement agencies have been criticised for providing similar incentives, because they threaten suspected prostitutes with jail time if they admit they are working by choice, while those who claim they are trafficking victims get training workshops and social services instead of jail time. Such policies, though beneficial to actual trafficking victims, inflate reported rates of trafficking.\n\nMany feminist scholars conflict on their view of trafficking and sex work. There are two dominant frameworks that demonstrate the divide: the abolitionist discourse, which derives from dominance feminist theory, and the sex work discourse. Feminist scholars in the abolitionist discourse argue that all prostitution is coerced due to the prevalence of Compulsory heterosexuality and social and economic pressures stemming from Neoliberalism and patriarchy. These arguments frame women as victims of sexual slavery and attribute male sexuality as the problem. The abolitionist discourse is often at odds with the sex work discourse. This framework views sex workers as autonomous, entrepreneurial workers who work consensually with third parties such as brothels and club owners and see the higher remuneration and flexibility of sexual labor as preferable to poorer paying and inflexible mainstream employment where they are subject to sexual harassment and assault by male employers and colleagues. This view also sees sex work as a means of survival given the unequal distribution of wealth and poverty, as well as a result of structural factors such as racism, classism, and sexism, not just a result of men's sexuality and lust. On the abolitionist side of the debate, a number of activist organizations seeking to provide services to trafficking victims, lobby for anti-trafficking legislation, and raise public awareness about sex-trafficking. These activists often advocate for the criminalization of voluntary sex work as well. On the sex work discourse side of the debate, advocates argue for reduced stigmatization of prostitution, improved working conditions, and accessible social services. Some extreme advocates on this side of the debate lobby for decriminalization of prostitution since it is viewed as a legitimate, autonomous choice of profession.\n\nSome third-way feminist scholars combine aspects of both frameworks to create new theoretical lenses for viewing sex trafficking and prostitution. Third-way frameworks affirm that sex trafficking and prostitution are forms of sex-based domination and exploitation, however they also allow room for a diverse array of women's experiences with these industries. Under this framework, neither sex trafficking nor prostitution are monolithic issues and often intersect with other forms of oppression but can also involve autonomous choices. This theoretical lens advocates for reform of police investigation and prostitution, increased availability of labor and social services outside of sex work to decrease the likelihood of entering either industry, and including women's voices in conversations regarding intervention.\n\nThese misconceptions often lead to law enforcement misidentifying sex trafficking as prostitution and vice versa.\n\nIn 2000, countries adopted a definition set forth by the United Moms. The United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime, Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, is also referred to as the Palermo Protocol. The Palermo Protocol created this definition. 147 of the 192 member states of the UN ratified the Palermo Protocol when it was published in 2000; as of September 2017, 171 states are parties. Article 3 of the Palermo Protocol states the definition as:\n\nArticle 5 of the Palermo Protocol then requires the member states to criminalize trafficking based on the definition outlined in Article 3; however, many member states' domestic laws reflect a narrower definition than Article 3. Although these nations claim to be obliging Article 5, the narrow laws lead to a smaller portion of people being prosecuted for sex trafficking.\n\nThe UN established various anti-trafficking tools, including a Global Report on Trafficking in Persons and an Inter-Agency Coordination Group Against Trafficking in Persons. The Global Report on Trafficking in Person provides new information based on data gathered from 155 countries. It offers first global assessment of the scope of human trafficking and what is being done to fight it. The UN General Assembly passed several resolutions on measuring to eliminate human trafficking. In 2010 the UN Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons was adopted. Various other organizations have engaged in global efforts against sex trafficking. \"The UN Protocol's is the bedrock of the international initiatives against human sex trafficking.\" This protocol defines certain elements of sex trafficking: \"action\", which describes the recruitment and transportation of victims, \"means\", which includes coercion, fraud, or abuse of power, and \"purpose\", which includes exploitation such as prostitution, forced labor or slavery, and the removal of organs. The UN requires member states to establish the trafficking of humans as a criminal offense.\n\nAfter members of Prostitutes Anonymous who were survivors of modern domestic sex trafficking spent 13 years doing TV, radio, public appearances, news interviews, etc. and calling out that this country needed to \"'do something' about it\" an internationally recognized definition for sex trafficking was finally established with the Trafficking Act of 2000. It was during the same year the Palermo Protocol was enacted, the United States passed the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA) to clarify the previous confusion and discrepancies in regards to the criminalizing guidelines of human trafficking. Through this act, sex trafficking crimes were defined as a situation where in which a \"commercial sex act is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age.\" If the victim is a child under the age of 18 no force, fraud, or coercion needs to be proven based on this legislation. Susan Tiefenbrun, a professor at the Thomas Jefferson School of Law who has written extensively on human trafficking, conducted research on the victims addressed in this act and discovered that each year more than two million women throughout the world are bought and sold for sexual exploitation. In order to clarify previous legal inconsistencies in regards to youth and trafficking, the United States took legal measures to define more varieties of exploitive situations in relation to children. The two terms they defined and focused on were \"commercial sexual exploitation of children\" and \"domestic minor sex trafficking.\" Commercial sexual exploitation of children (CSEC) is defined as \"encompassing several forms of exploitation, including pornography, prostitution, child sex tourism, and child marriage.\" Domestic minor sex trafficking (DMST) is a term that represents a subset of CSEC situations that have \"the exchange of sex with a child under the age of 18, who is a United States (US) citizen or permanent resident, for a gain of cash, goods, or anything of value.\"\n\nAccording to ECPAT USA, the average age of entry into street prostitution is between 12 and 14 years old. The demographic of street prostitutes range from poor women, kids, ethnic minorities, and immigrants. In the United States, sex traffickers and pimps often find their victims in malls or on the streets. Sometimes vulnerable looking girls will be abducted while walking to their cars. Other times the pimps will go up to a victim and convince them to leave with them, often offering a job of some kind and money. Vulnerability increases when girls are young or homeless. Emotional and physical coercion is used in order for the victim to trust the pimp and build a relationship. This coercion often makes the relationships between trafficker and trafficked and pimp and prostitute difficult to identify. Often, the victims are tricked into thinking they will have freedom in the work they are promised along with a large sum of money but instead, they become a sex slave. After the victim has agreed to the pimp's offer, they are forcibly dissuaded from leaving by forcing addictive drugs, withholding money and physical/sexual abuse. Girls are often motivated by finances and basic survival. It is very common in the United States for pimps to own a business or store, especially nail salons and massage parlors. It is also very common for sex slavery businesses to be conducted near U.S. military bases, because of the business soldiers bring.\n\nHotel brands owned by Hilton, Intercontinental and Best Western are among a number of leading global chains accused in 2019 of profiting from sex trafficking.\n\nIn pimp-controlled trafficking, the victim is controlled by a single trafficker, sometimes called a pimp. The victim can be controlled by the trafficker physically, psychologically, and/or emotionally. In order to obtain control over their victims, traffickers will use force, drugs, emotional tactics as well as financial means. In certain circumstances, they will even resort to various forms of violence, such as gang rape and mental and physical abuse. Traffickers sometimes use offers of marriage, threats, intimidation, brainwashing and kidnapping as means of obtaining victims.\n\nA common process is for the trafficker to first gain the trust of the victim, called the grooming stage. They seek to make the victim dependent on them. The trafficker may express love and admiration, make lofty promises such as making the victim a star, offer them a job or an education or buy them a ticket to a new location. The main types of work offered are in the catering and hotel industry, in bars and clubs, modeling contracts, or au pair work. Once the victim is comfortable, the pimp moves to the seasoning stage, where they will ask the victim to perform sexual acts for the pimp, which the victim may do because they believe it is the only way to keep the trafficker's affection. The requests progress from there and it can be difficult for the victim to escape.\n\nAnother tactic is for traffickers to kidnap their victims, and then drug them or secure them so they cannot escape. Traffickers may seek out potential victims who are traveling alone, are separated from their group, or seem like they have low self-esteem. They may go to places likes malls where they are more likely to find girls without parents.\n\nTraffickers are using social media at an increasing rate to find victims, research potential victims, control their victims and advertise their victims. Traffickers often target people who post things that indicate that they are depressed, have low self-esteem or are angry with their parents. Traffickers also use social media posts to establish patterns and track the locations of potential victims.\n\nAfter the victim has joined the offender, various techniques are used to restrict the victim's access to communication with home, such as imposing physical punishment unless the victim complies with the trafficker's demands and making threats of harm and even death to the victim and their family. Sometimes, the victims will succumb to the Stockholm syndrome because their captors will pretend to \"love\" and \"need\" them, even going so far as promise marriage and future stability. This is particularly effective with younger victims, because they are more inexperienced and therefore easily manipulated.\n\nIn India, those who traffic young girls into prostitution are often women who have been trafficked themselves. As adults they use personal relationships and trust in their villages of origin to recruit additional girls. Also, some (migrating) prostitutes (See: migrant sex work) can become victims of human trafficking because the women know they will be working as prostitutes; however, they are given an inaccurate description by their \"boss\" of the circumstances. Therefore, they consequently get exploited due to their misconception of what conditions to expect of their sex work in the new destination country.\n\nGang-controlled sex trafficking and Pimp-controlled sex trafficking run their operations in very similar ways. The largest difference between the two is that gang-controlled trafficking is run by a large group of people whereas pimp-controlled trafficking is run by only one person. In general, gang members are expected or forced to participate in tasks that involve illegal and violent activity. Some of these criminal behaviors may include: distributing drugs, robbery, trafficking drugs, extortion, and murder. One money making source that many people do not necessarily associate with gangs is human sex trafficking. Gangs are now turning to sex trafficking as it is seen as safer and more lucrative than drug trafficking.\n\nThe gangs can make larger amounts of money quicker by selling other people's bodies, and are less likely to get caught. In certain circumstances, gangs may team up with other gangs in the area, and work together as a sex ring. There are a number of different reasons that gangs make this decision. One reason is that it enables them to increase profits by trading different girls, women, boys or men. This gives their client, also known as a john, a greater variety of options to choose from. Clients are often willing to pay a larger price for a sexual experience with someone new. Another reason that gangs will share females is because this makes it more difficult for law enforcement to keep track of the victims, ultimately preventing them from making a positive identification.\n\nWhen people think or talk about sex trafficking a very common question people will ask is, “where do they find people to traffic?” In many cases, gang members will scope girls out at malls, skip parties, online and through social media. In addition, they often will seek out female runaways from their neighborhood. Many of the girls they look for have been physically or sexually abused, have low self-esteem, struggle with drug and alcohol dependency, or are seeking a home/family environment.\n\nIn order for the gang to sex traffic an individual, the first thing they need to do is gain that person's trust. They shower the victim with praise and attention, making her feel important and desired. This is referred to as the Romeo Method. It consists of different manipulation techniques. A member will take her to a fancy restaurant, flounder her with lavish gifts, and take her to parties where they are provided with endless supplies of drugs and alcohol. They also learn their weaknesses at the same time, find his or her vulnerabilities and once they find that soft spot they can use it against them.\n\nGang members often wear certain types of clothing or colors to prove their commitment or loyalty to the gang. It is also very common to represent your gang by branding your body with tattoos. Unfortunately, many victims of sex trafficking are being branded as well. By forcing a tattoo onto their victims they are essentially marking their territory and officially displaying ownership of that person. In the short film, Unbranded: Sex Trafficking Tattoo Removal, Vice Media dives deep into the recovery stages of a young girl who was trafficked for three years. During her time of being exploited, she was forced to receive a tattoo by her trafficker.\n\nIn familial trafficking, the victim is controlled by family members who allow them to be sexually exploited in exchange for something of value, such as drugs or money. For example, a mother may allow a boyfriend to abuse a child in exchange for housing. Usually, it begins with one family member and spreads from there. Familial trafficking may be difficult to detect because these children often have a larger degree of freedom and may still attend school and after-school functions. These children may not understand that they are being trafficked or may not have a way out. Familial trafficking is considered by some to be the most prevalent form of human sex trafficking within the United States.\n\nThis form of trafficking is also extremely common outside of the United States. Many families from impoverished areas (India, Thailand, Philippines, etc.) find themselves in situations where debt or tradition calls for the selling of a loved one, most commonly female. In Thailand there is a tradition known as \"bhun kun,\" which establishes the youngest daughter as financially responsible for her parents as they grow old. Author Kara Siddharth interviewed a Thai victim who stated that, though she hated the men she was with, “she was proud to fulfill her duty to her parents in the form of tiny payments that the brothel owner sent to her father after her trafficking debts were repaid”. This is just one of the many countries whose lower class turn to this form of income. Many children are sold to repay debts, or merely to put food on the table for their family for a month.\n\nCybersex trafficking involves trafficking and the live streaming of coerced sexual acts and or rape on webcam. Victims are abducted, threatened, or deceived and transferred to 'cybersex dens.' The dens can be in any location where the cybersex traffickers have a computer, tablet, or phone with internet connection. Perpetrators use social media networks, videoconferences, pornographic video sharing websites, dating pages, online chat rooms, apps, dark web sites, and other platforms. \n\nThis type of sex trafficking has surged since the advent of the Digital Age and the development of online payment systems and cryptocurrencies that hide the transactors' identities. Millions of reports of its occurrence are sent to authorities annually. New laws and police procedures combating cybersex trafficking are needed in the twenty-first century.\n\nA forced marriage is a marriage where one or both participants are married without their freely given consent.\n\"Servile marriage\" is defined as a marriage involving a person being sold, transferred or inherited into that marriage. According to ECPAT, \"Child trafficking for forced marriage is simply another manifestation of trafficking and is not restricted to particular nationalities or countries\".\n\nA forced marriage qualifies as a form of human trafficking in certain situations. If a woman is sent abroad, forced into the marriage and then repeatedly compelled to engage in sexual conduct with her new husband, then her experience is that of \"sex trafficking\". If the bride is treated as a domestic servant by her new husband and/or his family, then this is a form of \"labor trafficking\".\n\nApproximately 140 million girls under the age of 18, which is about 39,000 a day, will be forced into early marriages between 2011 and 2020. Forced marriage, which is identified by the United Nations as a “contemporary form of slavery,” occurs without full consent of the man or woman, and is associated with threats by family members or the bride/groom. Forced marriage occurs not only in foreign countries but in the US as well. The service providers in the United States cannot successfully respond to forced marriage cases because they lack clarity and a true definition of what a forced marriage is.\n\nOn a global scale, some scholars argue that the unequal distribution of wealth is a strong causal factor for sex commerce. On an individual scale, economic vulnerability, poverty, and homelessness can increase one's propensity to engage in sex work. Limited education, limited mobility, and a history of physical and emotional abuse or family drug use can also increase the likelihood of turning to sex work as a means of survival. Engaging in sex work in order to obtain basic commodities for subsistence is often labeled \"survival sex.\" In these situations, selling sex as a commodity is an economic strategy for survival needs or an income. In addition to money, persons engaging in survival sex may trade sexual favors for food, shelter, or drugs. Those who are at a higher risk of survival sex include runaways, homeless, foster kids, orphans, and migrant workers. A significant number of cases are from homeless youth that perform sexual acts for shelter or a place to sleep. Among those youth, some studies show that survival sex is more prevalent for youth runaways living on the street compared to those living in shelters. Some scholars argue engaging in survival sex is a way to achieve equality of opportunity when other economic opportunities are limited. Minors involved in survival sex meet the federal definition of sex trafficking according to the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000.\n\nThere is not one simple factor that perpetuates sex trafficking, rather a complex, interconnected web of political, socioeconomic, governmental, and societal factors. The causes of sex trafficking which have been identified lie at the intersections of these factors. There are three types of causes which have been identified: gender hierarchies, migration for work (pull factors), and neoliberal globalization (push factors).\n\nMany scholars critique the power hierarchies based on gender, race, and class which underlie economic systems as perpetuators of women's vulnerability to sex trafficking. Copley argues that women in underdeveloped countries are powerless due to these hierarchies of power. Matusek also argues this point, noting that globalization spreads power hierarchies while spreading economic policy. Ideas of gender are thus perpetuated through globalization, leaving women vulnerable. Matusek cites masculinity as privileged with power and control in these hierarchies. Femininity, she notes, is associated with submissive and passive qualities. Femininity's lack of power leaves women to be used by men and consequently be seen as disposable. This view of women is perpetuated through the globalization of power hierarchies, which Matusek argues justifies and normalizes violence and power against women. This normalization of violence and power is a key player in the existence and continuation of sex trafficking. Vesna Nikovic-Ristanovic also cites this normalization of violence and power as a cause of sex trafficking.\n\nNikovic-Ristanovic analyzes the role of perceived femininity in women's vulnerability to sex trafficking, by specifically looking at the links between militarism and female sexuality. Nikovic-Ristanovic cites a connection between war rapes and forced prostitution and sex trafficking. The way women's bodies are used in war relate to the normalization of violence and power against women. Nikovic-Ristanovic argues that military presence, even in times of peace, promote ideas of gender which render women vulnerable. These ideas concern hegemonic masculinity, which Nikovic-Ristanovic defines as the hyper sexuality of men and the submissiveness or passivity of women and girls. Nikovic-Ristanovic notes that the global acceptance of this definition justifies exploitation and violence against women since women are viewed as sex objects for the fulfillment of male's sexual desire. This Western ideal of heteronormative sexuality, Nikovic-Ristanovic argues, is also perpetuated through media and advertisements, in which women are encouraged to appear sexually attractive for men.\n\nKim Anh Duong argues that social narratives about women which arise from power hierarchies, coupled with women's economic realities, render women vulnerable to exploitation and sex trafficking. Duong identifies the prevailing narrative of women as the disadvantaged victim. She cites powerlessness as the result of this narrative, which is further perpetuated by social and economic realities which result from development process which leave women dependent on men. This overall powerlessness, according to Duong, makes women easy targets of exploitation and violence.\n\nSusan Tiefenbrun, like Duong, notes women's lower status of power and consequential dependence on men. Tiefenbrun, unlike Duong, cites cultural norms as the cause of this vulnerability. She argues that cultural norms deprive women of access to and time for receiving an education or learning skills to improve employment opportunities. This lack of education and access to employment results in women's dependence on men. Tiefenbrun argues that women's dependence renders them more vulnerable to traffickers.\n\nAnother school of thought attributes women's migration for work in a context of strict immigration controls as the primary factor in women's vulnerability in becoming trafficked for sex. There has been an increase in women migrating within and across borders. Duong cites a demand for women migrant workers which encourages migration. The globalization of neoliberalism has shifted the global economy's focus to export production. Duong notes that there is a demand for women in export production because employers are able to pay them the lowest wages. Another reason for the demand of women workers is that there is a demand for care work. Since care work is gendered as women's work, Duong argues that women are encouraged to migrate in order to fill this demand. Janie Chuang is one scholar who notes the strict border controls which leave women who migrate for work in informal labor sectors, such as for care work, with little opportunity for legal migration. Chuang notes that women are thus more vulnerable to being taken advantage of by sex traffickers who provide opportunities for illegal migration. Strict immigration laws are also cited by Tiefenbrun as a key factor in individuals entering sex trafficking because women will agree to debt bondages and sex traffickers’ incentives in order to flee their social and economic realities.\n\nOne cause for women's migration that is widely agreed upon by scholars is the economic pressure upon women due to neoliberal globalization. Siddharth Kara argues that globalization and the spread of Western Capitalism drive inequality and rural poverty, which are the material causes for sex trafficking. Dong-Hoon Seol points out unequal development between countries as an effect of the globalization of neoliberalism. He argues that the growing disparity of wealth between developed and underdeveloped countries leads to migration of women from underdeveloped countries.\n\nDuong cites structural adjustment programs (SAPs), an aspect of development policies in the globalization of neoliberalism, as a cause for women's poverty, unemployment, and low wages which promote migration. SAPs affect men and women differently, she argues, because men and women experience poverty differently. This is known as the feminization of poverty. Much of women's time is spent doing unpaid labor such as housework and care work, leading to an overall lower income. Duong further argues that women are placed at a greater disadvantage due to their lack of access to land and other resources. Matusek also argues that the unequal distribution of resources and power lead to both push and pull factors of migration. According to Matusek, women are pushed to migrate on account of a lack of education and employment opportunities.\n\nOther scholars focus on the demand for sex itself as a cause of sex trafficking. The pull factor comes from globalization creating a market around sex. Matusek cites the commodification aspect of capitalism as the cause for the industrialization of sex. The pull factor comes from globalization creating a market around sex. Seol also cites the globalization of the commodification aspect of capitalism as a cause of sex trafficking.\n\nAnyone is permitted to contact The National Human Trafficking Resource Center at 1(888)-373-7888. The hotline is beneficial since providers are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to assist victims and provide information for those who are at risk. There are a variety of ways in order to help prevent trafficking. One must be aware of the indicators to identify victims: abnormal behavior, poor physical health, lack of control, and work and living conditions. However, these signs may only be shown through a number of people - there may be more severe, serious indicators of sex trafficking. If you are a huge supporter in anti-trafficking, you can host events in the community to raise awareness of how people are targeted and who.\n\nOne of the main causes of sex trafficking is the lack of knowledge, especially in young girls. It is extremely important to educate the youth in possible prevention methods. As social media can be a large form of “recruiting” victims, it can also be a useful tool in preventing sex trafficking (Kempadoo). Since teenagers are constantly going through Twitter and Instagram, posting possible prevention methods and information on the topic is a great way to inform your peers. It is also a fast way of posting potential dangerous/suspicious areas to avoid. One of the most common forms of abduction/coercion are in parking lots, especially if it's dark outside and not many people around. It is important to always be looking at your surroundings if you are in this position. One of the most common ways that young girls get abducted if they are walking to their car while they are looking at their phone, looking for their keys, or just distracted by something. A common tactic of the attacker will follow a girl to her car and waits to see if she doesn't leave right away. If she is on her phone it is an easy way to get in the passenger seat and oftentimes the victim will be held at gunpoint until they drive to the demanded location. Small but crucial safety tips like these should be taught in school and at home in order for children to be more cautious and aware of their surroundings when they could be in danger. For women who started as either strippers or escorts, it is extremely important to be informed of the serious danger of getting into sex-trafficking. It starts off as voluntary, but once the pimps have a relationship and they like the victim trusts them, that is when it goes downhill. Once the pimps know the girl trusts them, is when all emotions are turned off and starts treating them as slaves. Again, informing the masses is key to preventing sex-trafficking.\n\nThere is no single profile for victims of human trafficking. Most are women, though it is not uncommon for males to be trafficked as well. Victims are captured then exploited all around the world, representing a diverse range of ages and backgrounds, including ethnic and socioeconomic. However, there is a set group of traits associated with a higher risk of becoming trafficked for sexual exploitation. Persons at risk include homeless and runaway youth, foreign nationals (especially those of lower socioeconomic status), and those who have experienced physical, emotional, or sexual abuse, violent trauma, neglect, poor academic success, and inadequate social skills. Also, a study of a group of female sex workers in Canada found that 64 percent of them had been in the child welfare system as children (this includes foster and group homes). This research conducted by Kendra Nixon illustrates how children in or leaving foster care are at a higher risk of becoming a sex worker.\n\nIn the United States, research has illustrated how these qualities hold true for victims, even though none can be labeled as a direct cause. For example, more than 50 percent of domestic minor sex trafficking victims have a history of homelessness. Familial disruptions such as divorce or the death of a parent place minors at a higher risk of entering the industry, but home life in general influences children's risk. In a study of trafficked youth in Arizona, 20 to 40 percent of female victims identified with experiencing abuse of some form (sexual or physical) at home before entering into the industry as a sex slave. Of the males interviewed, a smaller proportion, 0 to 30 percent, reported former abuse in the home.\n\nChildren are at risk because of their vulnerable characteristics; naïve outlook, size, and tendency to be easily intimidated\". The International Labor Organization estimates that of the 20.9 million people who are trafficked in the world (for all types of work) 5.5 million are children.\n\nChildren do not need to be forced into sexual exploitation according to the Victims Protection Law to be considered victims of Sex Trafficking. Under this act a child is defined as anyone under the age of 18, however the exploitation of children under the age of 14 carries a harsher punishment, though this is rarely enforced. The Bureau of Justice Statistics states that 100,000 children who fall under the age of 18 are trafficked daily in the United States, and only 150 child trafficking cases have been brought to court. Many children who are trafficked are also at higher risk of turning to prostitution, a crime that many of them face criminal charges for, even under the age of 18.\n\nThe main motive of a woman (in some cases, an underage girl) to accept an offer from a trafficker is better financial opportunities for herself or her family. A study on the origin countries of trafficking confirms that most trafficking victims are not the poorest in their countries of origin, and sex trafficking victims are likely to be women from countries with some freedom to travel alone and some economic freedom.\n\nThere are numerous fake businesses that sound realistic that convince people to apply for the job. Some places have a reputation for holding an illegal business in order to attract their victims.\n\nSex trafficked people face similar health consequences to women exploited for labor purposes, people who have experienced domestic violence, and migrant women. Many of the sex workers contract sexually transmitted infections (STIs). In a study conducted by the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, \"only one of 23 trafficked women interviewed felt well-informed about sexually transmitted infections or HIV before leaving home.\" Without knowledge about this aspect of their health, trafficked women may not take the necessary preventative steps and contract these infections and have poor health seeking behavior in the future. The mental health implications range from depression to anxiety to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) due to the abuse and violence victims face from their pimps or \"Johns\". With such a mindset, many individuals develop alcohol or drug addictions and abusive habits. Also, traffickers commonly coerce or force their sex workers to use alcohol or drugs when they are in childhood or adolescence. Many victims use these substances as a coping mechanism or escape which further promotes the rate of addiction in this population. In a 30-year longitudinal study conducted by J. Potterat \"et al.\", it was determined that the average lifespan for women engaged in prostitution in Colorado Springs was 34 years.\n\nSex trafficking of women and children is the second most common type of trafficking for export in Africa. In Ghana, \"connection men\" or traffickers are witnessed regularly at border crossings and transport individuals via fake visas. Women are most commonly trafficked to Belgium, Italy, Lebanon, Libya, the Netherlands, Nigeria, and the United States. Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United States are also common destination countries for trafficked Nigerian women. In Uganda, the Lord's Resistance Army traffics individuals to Sudan to sell them as sex slaves. The Nigerian syndicates dominate sex trades in multiple territories. The syndicates recruit women from South Africa and send them to Europe and Asia, where they are forced into prostitution, drug smuggling, or domestic violence. Law enforcement reported that sex traffickers force drug use to persuade these unwilling women.\n\nSex trafficking is a problem in North America, Central America, and South America People have been sex trafficked to and through Mexico.\n\nThe key hubs for both source transportation and destination of the sub-region of Asia include India, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. India is a major hub for trafficked Bangladeshi and Nepali women. In India itself, there are an estimated 3 million sex workers, 40% of whom are trafficked children, mostly girls from ethnic minorities and lower castes. In Thailand, 800,000 children under the age of 16 were involved in prostitution in 2004. Also, according to UNICEF and the International Labour Organization there are 40,000 child prostitutes in Sri Lanka. Thailand and India are in the top five countries with the highest rates of child prostitution. The 2014 Global Slavery Index (GSI) says that there are about 36 million victims of trafficking in the world, and nearly two-thirds of the people are from Asia. Pakistan, Thailand, China, India, and Bangladesh are in the top 10 for countries with the largest number of trafficking victims around the world. India is at the top of the list with 14 million victims, China comes in second with 3.2 million victims, and Pakistan comes in at third with 2.1 million victims. Cambodia is also a transit, source, and a destination country for trafficking. 36% of trafficked victims in Asia are children, while 64% are adults.\n\nIn general, countries who are members of the European Union are destinations for individuals to be sex trafficked whereas the Balkans and Eastern Europe are source and transit countries. Transit countries are picked for their geographical location. This is because the locations the traffickers pick usually have a weak border control, the distance from the destination countries, corrupt official, or the organized crime groups are in on the sex trafficking. In 1997 alone as many as 175,000 young women from Russia, as well as the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, were sold as commodities in the sex markets of the developed countries in Europe and the Americas The European Union reported that from 2010–13 30,146 individuals were identified and registered as human trafficking victims. Of those registered, 69 percent of the victims were sexually exploited and more than 1,000 were children. Although many sex trafficked individuals are from outside of Europe, two-thirds of the 30,146 victims were EU citizens. Despite this high proportion of domestic sex slaves, the most common ethnicities of women who are trafficked to the United Kingdom are Chinese, Brazilian, and Thai. Moldova is a known country in Europe for women, children and men to be subjected to sex trafficking. Girls from Moldova become sex slaves starting at the age of 14. On average, they have sex with 12 to 15 men per day. The national Bureau of Statistics in Moldova says that in 2008 there were almost 25,000 victims of trafficking. When the women from Moldova are being trafficked for sex, they are most likely to be sent to countries such as, Russia, Cyprus, Turkey, and other Middle Western and Eastern European countries. This is because, in Russia, it is said that the government is well aware about people being sex trafficked and maybe even promote it. 85 percent of the victims leave their country to find a better job to support their family, but they are tricked into becoming a sex slave and are forced to become a prostitute. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) asked victims what country they came from and 61 percent of the victims came from Moldova, 19 percent came from Romania, and the rest came from Albania, Bulgaria, Russia, and Ukraine. More than 60 percent of the victims had a secondary school education or better, and their average age was 21.\n\nIran is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to sex trafficking and forced labor. Iranian girls between the ages of 13 and 17 are targeted by traffickers for sale abroad; younger girls may be forced into domestic service until their traffickers consider them old enough to be subjected to child sex trafficking. An increase in the transport of girls from and through Iran en route to other Gulf States for sexual exploitation has been reported from 2009–2015; during the reporting period, Iranian trafficking networks subjected Iranian girls to sex trafficking in brothels in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region. Organized criminal groups kidnap or purchase and force Iranian and immigrant children to work as beggars and street vendors in cities, including Tehran. These children, who may be as young as 3, are coerced through physical and sexual abuse and drug addiction; reportedly many are purchased for as little as $150. Dozens of girls from Iran are brought to Pakistan to be sold as sex slaves every day. Most of these women have already been raped within the first 24 hours of their departure. It was also said in the Tehran newspapers that senior figures from the government have been involved in buying, selling, and abusing young women and children. Runaway girls in Iran are sought out for by the traffickers because it is incredibly easy to put them in the sex trafficking market since they have no home. There are about 84,000 women and girls in prostitution in Tehran. Most of them are on the streets, while others are in the 250 brothels.\n\nThe trafficking of women into prostitution in Israel increased in the early 1990s. An estimate of three thousand women were being trafficked in the 1990s and early 2000s. Many of the women came from “post-Soviet states particularly Russia, Ukraine, Moldova and many more.” The women ended up in brothels where they worked seven days a week and served up to 30 clients a day. The traffickers used physical violence and threats to dissuade the women from leaving, they also confined women behind locked doors and barred windows. Throughout the 1990s the Israeli authorities failed to view sex trafficking as a problem, they simply viewed it as prostitution. They failed to interfere with brothel operations. If a case was filed the trafficker would have had a plea bargain with light punishment. The women who were being trafficked on the other hand were classified as illegal alien or criminals since they entered Israel illegally, so authorities concentrated on catching the women rather than the traffickers. Usually the victims of trafficking are vulnerable because they live in poverty, or they are not educated. Trafficking affects the mental health of the victim as well as physical health. Israel has become a country of destination for women who had been trafficked from surrounding countries.\n\nIn 2000, the Knesset amended the Penal Law to prohibit sex trafficking. In 2006, an Anti-Trafficking Law was enacted. In 2001, Israel was placed in U.S. State Department Trafficking in Persons Report Tier 3. Between 2002-2011 Israel was placed in Tier 2. Since 2012 through the recent 2019 report Israel has been ranked Tier 1 (full compliance with the TVPA's minimum standards).\n\nThere are many public health initiatives that are being implemented to identify victims of sex trafficking. There are few professionals that are likely to encounter victims of sex trafficking, but healthcare providers are a unique group because they are more likely to come into contact with individuals that are still in captivity. The National Human Trafficking Resource Center provides guidelines to aid healthcare providers in identifying victims of sex trafficking. They provide general guidelines to indicate human trafficking (i.e. inconsistent/scripted history, unwillingness to answer questions about illness or injury, etc.), but also includes indicators to home in on sex trafficking. In addition, this network has created a framework for sex trafficking protocols in healthcare settings once a victim is suspected or identified. The goal of the protocol is to provide those interacting with the patient step-by-step instructions on how to proceed once a potential trafficking victim has been identified. Additionally, an initiative known as the HEAL Trafficking and Hope for Justice Protocol Toolkit is being made accessible to healthcare providers. The goal of the toolkit is to provide a uniform medical response to trafficking. The toolkit combines known policies and procedures with tenets of trauma informed care. The toolkit is intended for the use of different healthcare providers such as community health workers, social workers, mental health counselors, nurses, and many others.\nA second initiative was taken on by the Centers for Disease Control. They have started to implement new fields of data collection through International Classification of Diseases (ICD) in order to better identify and categorize cases of sex trafficking. The new fields are ICD-10-CM codes. These are further categorized into T codes and Z codes. The T codes are further subcategorized into specific diagnoses that are used to indicate suspected and confirmed cases of trafficking. In addition, Z codes are also further categorized, but will be used for examination or observation of trafficking victims for other reasons.\n\nApproximately 87.8% of trafficking victims have come in contact with a healthcare professional either during of after their time of exploitation and labor. On February 26, 2018, the Office on Trafficking in Persons (OTIP) under the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services passed the SOAR to Health and Wellness Act of 2018. SOAR which is an acronym which stands for Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond is a training program which aims to properly equip professionals with the necessary resources and methods to identify victims of human trafficking. The training aids to help others recognize key indicators and characteristics of human trafficking as well as aid in key communication techniques that are effective for everyone involved. Response tactics can be key to identifying victims without causing harm and putting them in increased danger. The trainings also provide key communities with the support and resources they may need to bring attention to a crime which may be heavily impacting that area. The training can either be taken online or in person and can be personalized based the role of the professional. SOAR is available to anyone who may be interested in learning how to identify victims or situations of human trafficking in a healthcare setting. Trainings are available for social workers, medical and public health professionals, and even educators.\n\nPhysicians against the trafficking of humans (PATH) is a program of the American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) that was started in 2014 with efforts to encourage medical professionals including physicians, residents, and medical students to become more aware of human trafficking. The initiative was initially brought into discussion by Dr. Gayatri Devi in 2012, the president of AMWA at the time. She identified human sex trafficking as a key issue to be addressed. This discussion then progressed into forming a Human Trafficking Committee to handle the issue. PATH has since been creating content for hospitals and other medical facilities to use in order to educate professionals and students on the identification and advocacy for human trafficking. PATH has also been featured in many media outlets such as Politico and TEDx.\n\nThere are three main tactics social workers use to aid in the recovery of sex trafficking survivors: ecological, strengths-based, and victim-centered. Using the ecological approach, the social worker evaluates their client's current environment and goals for reintegration into the community. By examining how justice systems, legal, and medical services impact their client, they can help them look into areas of future employment, gaining legal status, and reuniting with family. The strengths-based approach aims to create a bond of trust between the social worker and their client to build confidence as well as autonomy and leadership skills. Lastly, when using the victim-centered approach, social workers develop services and plans for the future specifically catered to their client's individual needs. These services are developed through a survivor's lens, which allows social workers to easily meet the needs of their clients. All three methods have proven to be effective in the recovery of sex trafficking survivors.\n\nThere are many control tactics used by sex traffickers in order to control their victims, such as threats, physical and sexual assault, confiscating legitimate travel and immigration documents, and threats against the victim's family. The University of Minnesota Duluth published the Power and Control Wheel to help target domestic abuse intervention. The wheel identifies eight different mechanisms of power and control used on victims including: intimidation, emotional abuse, isolation, denying, blaming, and minimizing, sexual abuse, physical abuse, using privilege, economic abuse, coercion and threats. The wheel was developed to be used in counseling and education groups for victims of sex trafficking. It breaks down the tactics used against victims so the cycle of violence may become visible and stopped. \nAnother mechanism used to understand control is the BITE Model created by Steven Hassan. The BITE Model describes four categories of coercion used on sex trafficking victims: behavior control, information control, thought control, and emotional control. He says that it is essential to understand the loss of identity victims experience in order to help them get out or recover from sex trafficking.\n\nInternational pressure to address trafficking in women and children became a growing part of the social Reform movement in the United States and Europe during the late nineteenth century. International legislation against the trafficking of women and children began with the conclusion of an international convention in 1901, and the International Agreement for the suppression of the White Slave Traffic in 1904. (The latter was revised in 1910.) The first formal international research into the issue was funded by American philanthropist John D. Rockefeller, through the American Bureau of Social Hygiene. The League of Nations, formed in 1919, took over as the international coordinator of legislation intended to end the trafficking of women and children. An international Conference on White Slave Traffic was held in 1921, attended by the 34 countries that ratified the 1901 and 1904 conventions. Another convention against trafficking was ratified by League members in 1922, and like the 1904 international convention, this one required ratifying countries to submit annual reports on their progress in tackling the problem. Compliance with this requirement was not complete, although it gradually improved: in 1924, approximately 34 percent of the member countries submitted reports as required: this rose to 46 percent in 1929, 52 percent in 1933, and 61 percent in 1934. The 1921 International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children was sponsored by the League of Nations. In 1923, a committee from the bureau was tasked with investigating trafficking in 28 countries, interviewing approximately 5,000 informants and analyzing information over two years before issuing its final report. This was the first formal report on trafficking in women and children to be issued by an official body.\n\nEfforts to combat sex trafficking are often linked to efforts against prostitution; however, this is often problematic in regards to legal recourse of sex trafficking victims. While prostitutes are nominally working by choice, sex trafficking victims do so under duress. Recognizing this, many states have passed legislation that allows sex trafficking victims amnesty under prostitution laws, however many fail to do so due to legal illiteracy and institutional prejudices. As such, sex trafficking victims often risk legal persecution when alerting authorities to their situation.\n\nJane Addams was one of the most notable reformers during the Progressive Era, and refined the still early concepts of white slavery and sex work in her book \"A New Conscience and an Ancient Evil\". She, among others, fought to classify all people coerced into prostitution as victims of sexual slavery, and believed that all sex work was sexual exploitation of women by more powerful men. Addams also believed that abolishing white slavery would bring more women into the suffrage movement. Alex Smolak, a physician, has studied many of the health risks faced by women in white slavery during the Progressive era. She says in her article titled “White Slavery, Whorehouse Riots, Venereal Disease, and Saving Women...\" that “The Progressive Era was a time when society was rapidly changing, with influences stemming from urbanization, industrialization, commercialization, immigration, and civilizing morality, all interacting with one another to fuel both prostitution and the anti-prostitution movement.” Along with “The U.S. White Slave act of 1910”, the “International Agreement for the Suppression of the White Slave Trade” was ratified by 13 nations, including the United States in 1904. Throughout the next 45 years the International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children was adopted by the League of Nations and the term white slavery was replaced by trafficking, the word used commonly today.\nThe first formal international research into the scope of the problem was funded by American philanthropist John D. Rockefeller, through the American Bureau of Social Hygiene.\n\nThe first international protocol dealing with sex slavery was the 1949 UN Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and Exploitation of Prostitution of Others. This convention followed the abolitionist idea of sex trafficking as incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person. Serving as a model for future legislation, the 1949 UN Convention was not ratified by every country, but came into force in 1951. These early efforts led to the 2000 Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, mentioned above. These instruments contain the elements of the current international law on trafficking in humans.\n\nIn 2011, the United Nations reported that girl victims made up two-thirds of all trafficked children. Girls constituted 15 to 20 percent of the total number of all detected victims, whereas boys comprised about 10 percent. The UN report was based on official data supplied by 132 countries.\n\nIn 2013, a resolution to create the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons was adopted by the United Nations. The first World Day against Trafficking in Persons took place July 30, 2014, and the day is now observed every July 30.\n\nCurrent international treaties include the Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage, and Registration of Marriages, entered into force in 1964.\n\nIn 1910, the U.S. Congress passed the White Slave Traffic Act of 1910 (better known as the Mann Act), which made it a felony to transport women across state borders for the purpose of \"prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose\". Its primary stated intent was to address prostitution, immorality, and human trafficking particularly where it was trafficking for the purposes of prostitution, but the ambiguity of \"immorality\" effectively criminalized interracial marriage and banned single women from crossing state borders for morally wrong acts. In 1914, of the women arrested for crossing state borders under this act, 70 percent were charged with voluntary prostitution. Once the idea of a sex slave shifted from a white woman to an enslaved woman from countries in poverty, the US began passing immigration acts to curtail aliens from entering the country in order to address this issue. (The government had other unrelated motives for the new immigration policies.) Several acts such as the Emergency Quota Act of 1921 and Immigration Act of 1924 reduced the number of emigrants from Europe and Asia from entering the United States. Following the increased restrictions of the 1920s (which were significantly relaxed by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 and Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965), human trafficking was not considered a major issue until the 1990s.\n\nThe Commercial Sex Act makes it illegal to recruit, entice, obtain, provide, move or harbor a person or to benefit from such activities knowing that the person will be caused to engage in commercial sex acts where the person is under 18 or where force, fraud or coercion exists.\n\nTowards the end of President Clinton's administration,Congress passed the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA), intended to fight human trafficking globally. Under the George W. Bush Administration, fighting sex trafficking within the scope of TVPA became a priority, framing human trafficking and sex trafficking as modern-day slavery. The TVPA intends to strengthen services to victims of human trafficking and sex trafficking, increase law enforcement's ability to prosecute traffickers by incentivizing survivors to cooperate in the prosecution, increase education about human trafficking, and train law enforcement to identify human trafficking. TVPA also has a mandate to collect funds for the treatment of sex trafficking victims that provided them with shelter, food, education, and financial grants. Internationally, the TVPA set standards for other countries to follow in order to receive aid from the U.S. to fight human trafficking. TVPA also establishes two stipulations an applicant can meet in order to receive the benefits of a T-Visa. First, a trafficked victim must prove to being trafficked and second must submit to prosecution of his or her trafficker. While providing incentives for survivors of trafficking to assist in the prosecution process, some scholars see these incentives as invalidating as they force the burden of proof to fall on the victim. An example of an alternative can be found in Connecticut, where there are safe harbor laws for minor victims of sex trafficking. These laws provide immunity to the survivors and shifts the burden of proof away from the individual. In general, incentivizing survivor cooperation in the prosecution process can be helpful considering the emotional manipulation and perceived romantic attachment that often stop survivors from accusing their traffickers or seeking help. After TPVA's initial implementation, several agencies and task forces were created. The Act has also undergone multiple revisions and authorizations. In February 2000, the Department of Justice established a Trafficking in Persons and Worker Exploitation Task Force hotline that increased the number of trafficking cases that were opened and investigated. In 2001, the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons was established. In both 2001 and 2003, new criminal statues were added to TVPA to make it easier to prosecute traffickers. In 2003, TPVA was amended to provide access to civil remedies to trafficking cases to reduce a survivor's reliance on the criminal justice system. The Act was reauthorized in 2003, 2005, 2008, and 2013. The State Department publishes an annual Trafficking in Persons Report (TIP Reports), which examines the progress that the U.S. and other countries have made in destroying human trafficking businesses, arresting the traffickers, and supporting the victims.\n\nOn the state level, sex trafficking legislation varies in terms of definitions and approaches. California sex trafficking legislation offers legal protection for women so they can make choices outside the criminal justice system and pursue civil remedies. California legislation also offers case worker privileges in sex trafficking cases. In Connecticut, in addition to safe harbor laws for minor victims of sex trafficking, there is also an emphasis on educating employees in the hotel industry to identify sex trafficking. The logic is that since trafficking activities often happen in hotels, employees need to be able to identify and report these occurrences. There are also arguments that the hotel industry needs to be offered incentives to report sex trafficking since they benefit financially from having guests in their hotels. Another provision in Connecticut's sex trafficking legislation is increased punishment for purchasers of sex.\n\nIn July 2019, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) conducted a month-long operation to detect and detain sex traffickers and recover child victims. More than 100 sex trafficking victims were successfully rescued across the United States, under the initiative called “Operation Independence Day”. Besides, a total of 67 suspected traffickers were arrested.\n\nComplementary protection is ensured through the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse (signed in Lanzarote, 25 October 2007). The Convention entered into force on 1 July 2010. As of September 2018, the Convention has been ratified by 44 states, with another 3 states having signed but not yet ratified. The goal of the Convention is to provide the framework for an independent and effective monitoring system that holds the member states accountable for addressing human trafficking and providing protecting to victims. To monitor the implementation of this act, the Council of Europe established the Group of Experts on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings (GRETA). The Convention address the structure and purpose of GRETA and holds the group accountable to publish reports evaluating the measures taken by the states who have signed the Convention.\n\nActions taken to combat human trafficking vary from government to government. Some government actions include:\n\n\nRaising awareness can take three forms. First, governments can raise awareness among potential victims, particularly in countries where human traffickers are active. Second, they can raise awareness amongst the police, social welfare workers and immigration officers to equip them to deal appropriately with the problem. And finally, in countries where prostitution is legal or semi-legal, they can raise awareness amongst the clients of prostitution so that they can watch for signs of human trafficking victims. Methods to raise general awareness often include television programs, documentary films, internet communications, and posters.\n\nMany countries have come under criticism for inaction, or ineffective action. Criticisms include the failure of governments to properly identify and protect trafficking victims, enactment of immigration policies which potentially re-victimize trafficking victims, including by deporting them, and insufficient action in helping prevent vulnerable populations from becoming trafficking victims. A particular criticism has been the reluctance of some countries to tackle trafficking for purposes other than sex.\n\nStudies of sex work and anti-sex trafficking efforts, intended to combat sex trafficking or provide support to victims, have raised concerns over the unintended effects of certain national and international policies, law enforcement strategies, and activist efforts on both sex-trafficked individuals and non-trafficked sex workers. For example, The United States' Tier 2 assessment of Japan on its 2004 TIP Report encouraged the Japanese government to add additional constraints to its procedures and policies for obtaining an entertainer visa, sometimes used by migrant workers seeking employment at businesses within the sex industry. However, these regulations provided opportunities for some third-party facilitators of these visas to exploit migrants while also limiting migrants' ability to leave employers with poor working conditions or overly restrictive practices, such as holding their passports or limiting their ability to leave the premises of the business. Practices of law enforcement officers in some countries have also been criticized for incentivizing non-trafficked sex workers to declare themselves to be trafficking victims and enter aid and rehabilitation programs in order to avoid prison sentences for prostitution charges.\n\nMany NGOs work on the issue of sex trafficking. One major NGO is the International Justice Mission (IJM). IJM is a U.S.-based non-profit human rights organization that combats human trafficking in developing countries in Latin America, Asia, and Africa. IJM states that it is a \"human rights agency that brings rescue to victims of slavery, sexual exploitation, and other forms of violent oppression.\" It is a faith-based organization since its purported goal is to \"restore to victims of oppression the things that God intends for them: their lives, their liberty, their dignity, the fruits of their labor.\" The IJM receives over $900,000 from the US government. The organization has two methods for rescuing victims: brothel raids in cooperation with local police, and \"buy bust\" operations in which undercover agencies pretend to purchase sex services from an underage girl. After the raid and rescue, the women are sent to rehabilitation programs run by NGOs (such as churches) or the government.\n\nThere are also survivor-led organizations that provide services to victims of exploitation and trafficking including Treasures, founded by Harmony (Dust) Grillo in 2003 and GEMS founded by Rachel Lloyd in 1998.\n\nThere are also national non-governmental organizations working on the issue of human trafficking, including sex trafficking. In Kenya, for example, Awareness Against Human Trafficking (HAART) works on ending all human trafficking in the country. HAART has also participated in the UNANIMA International Stop the Demand campaign.\n\nIn India, J. Walter Thompson Amsterdam has opened a school called School for Justice. Here, survivors of sex trafficking are educated to become lawyers. The entire program is expected to take five to six years for each girl to complete. The women will graduate with law degrees, with a special focus on commercial sexual exploitation cases. JWT hopes that one day they may become prosecutors, or even judges, empowered to combat the criminals who once exploited and abused them.\n\nNGOs often have the best of intentions when combating sex-trafficking. NGOs are often funded by the West and are implemented in countries that have a very different culture. Research shows that employees of the Western NGOs are slow to adapt to the culture of the community they are providing services to. This often leads to a disconnect between the NGO and the community. Employees of NGOs hold the responsibility of relaying the narrative of sex-trafficked people. This can create a hierarchical structure that makes the voice of Western NGOs as more legitimate than the voice of the people they are serving. Thus, reinforcing the essentialized notion of third-world women as backwards and other.\n\nJapan is a popular place for sex-trafficking. Japan has a long history with the trade of women for sex. For a good part of the countries history, sex work was legal in Japan. This makes it difficult for the government to decipher between legal sex work and illegal prostitution. This is where NGOs step in to assist the government. NGOs provide services in countries where the government policies are failing to combat a specific issue. However, in Japan it is difficult for NGOs focused on issues with women to receive local funding. This weak political support makes the work for NGOs in Japan much more difficult. Japan's lack of support for women's rights shows why the role of NGOs is so important in that country.\n\nPublic information campaigns are defined as a “...government-directed and sponsored effort to communicate to the public or a segment of the public in order to achieve a policy result”.\n\nIn the past ten years, Spain has seen a surge of sex trafficking. In light of this crisis, social movements, organizations and government institutions have enacted policies like the Second National Plan against Sex Trafficking and Anti-Trafficking laws. Campaigns to fight against sex trafficking in Spain between 2008-2017 have been examined by researchers. Their research showed that that many campaigns focus on the narrative of the victim as vulnerable and weak, rather than focusing on the actual crime of sex trafficking and the economic system that allows it to flourish. According to the research these narratives disempower sex trafficked people through repeated language of vulnerability and innocence. The researchers explain that the lack of information provided in these campaigns hinders their success. Campaigns will throw out huge numbers of women exploited into sex work but gives no context to the system that allows sex trafficking to flourish.\n\nIn 1994, Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women was established to combat trafficking in women on any grounds. It is an alliance of more than 100 non-governmental organizations from Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean and North America. The Demi and Ashton (DNA) Foundation was created by celebrity humanitarians Demi Moore and Ashton Kutcher in 2009 in their efforts to fight human trafficking (specifically focusing on sex trafficking of children) in the U.S. In September 2010, the pair announced the launch of their \"Real Men Don't Buy Girls\" campaign to combat child sex trafficking alongside other Hollywood stars and technology companies such as Microsoft, Twitter, and Facebook. \"Real Men Don't Buy Girls\" is based on the idea that high-profile men speaking out against child sex trafficking can help reduce the demand for young girls in the commercial sex trade. The popular TV channel MTV started a campaign to combat sex trafficking. The initiative called MTV EXIT (End Exploitation and Trafficking) is a multimedia initiative produced by MTV EXIT Foundation (formerly known as the MTV Europe Foundation) to raise awareness and increase prevention of human trafficking.\n\nAnother campaign is the A21 Campaign, Abolishing Injustice in the 21st Century, which focuses on addressing human trafficking through a holistic approach. They provide potential victims with the education and valuable information on how to best reduce their likelihood of being trafficked through strategies that reduce their vulnerability. The organization also provides safe environments for victims and runs restoration programs in their aftercare facilities. In addition, they provide legal council and representation to victims so they can prosecute their traffickers. Another key component of the campaign is to help influence legislation in order to enact more comprehensive laws that place more traffickers in prison. \nThe Not for Sale (organization) Campaign works in the United States, Peru, the Netherlands, Romania, Thailand, South Africa, and India to help victims of human trafficking. In 2013 alone, they provided 4,500 services to 2,062 individuals. The vast majority of victims who received assistance were from the Netherlands and the number of victims served increased by 42 percent from 2012. The campaign allocates the majority of their funds to providing victims health and nutritional care and education. Not for Sale provides a safe shelter for victims and empowers them with life skills and job training. This helps trafficked individuals re-enter into the workforce through a dignified form of work. In the organization's 2013 Annual Impact Report, it was determined that 75 percent of the victims had been sexually exploited.\n\nWhile globalization fostered new technologies that may exacerbate sex trafficking, technology can also be used to assist law enforcement and anti-trafficking efforts. A study was done on online classified ads surrounding the Super Bowl. A number of reports have noticed increase in sex trafficking during previous years of the Super Bowl. For the 2011 Super Bowl held in Dallas, Texas, the Backpage website for the Dallas area experienced a 136 percent increase on the number of posts in the Adult section that Sunday. Typically, Sundays were known to be the day of the week with the lowest number of posts in the Adult section. Researchers analyzed the most salient terms in these online ads and found that most commonly used words suggested that many escorts were traveling across state lines to Dallas specifically for the Super Bowl. Also, the self-reported ages were higher than usual which conveys that an older population of sex workers were drawn to the event, but since these are self-reported the data is not reliable. Despite a lot of media hype about a supposed spike in sex trafficking surrounding the Super Bowl, academics and anti-trafficking campaigners have said this is largely a myth. They say that while the commercial sex market does grow modestly during large events, sex trafficking is a year-round problem. Twitter was another social networking platform studied for detecting sex trafficking. Digital tools can be used to narrow the pool of sex trafficking cases, albeit imperfectly and with uncertainty.\n\nThe term \"End Demand\" refers to anti-sex trafficking strategies that focus on the \"Johns\", the sex buyers. A common strategy is to make it a crime to buy sex, whether consensual or not. End Demand is very popular in some countries, including the United States and Canada. In the 1990s, for example, specific media attention was paid to sex trafficking of women outside the United States. The feminist reaction to this at the time was to not just call for social services for trafficked people but also for harsher punishments for Johns. Proponents of the End Demand strategy support initiatives such as \"John's schools\" to \"rehabilitate\" the Johns, increased arrests of johns, and public shaming (e.g. billboards and websites that publicly name johns who were caught). John's Schools were pioneered in San Francisco in 1995 and now used in many cities across the U.S. as well as other countries such as the UK and Canada. Some compare John's Schools programs to driver's safety courses, because first offenders can pay a fee to attend class(es) on the harms of prostitution, and upon completion, the charges against the john will be dropped. Another initiative in line with the End Demand strategy is the cross-country tour \"Ignite the Road to Justice,\" launched by the 2011 Miss Canada, Tara Teng. Teng's initiative circulates a petition to end the demand for commercial sex that drives prostitution and sex trafficking. End Demand efforts also include large-scale public awareness campaigns. Campaigns were started in Sweden, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Atlanta, Georgia. Massachusetts and Rhode Island also had legislative efforts that criminalized prostitution and increased end demand efforts by targeting Johns.\n\nThe Atlanta campaign ran from 2006 to 2008 and was titled \"Dear John\". It ran ads in local media reaching out to potential Johns to discourage them from buying sex. The ads mimicked a break-up letter to John.\n\nCritics of the Dear John campaign focus on the ‘male demand’ aspect of the campaign and find that this style of campaign reinforces gendered, racialized and sexualized assumptions about Johns and trafficked women. The historical discourse in the U.S. concerning Johns is racially charged. An example of this racialized nature is associated with the temptations of Thai massage parlors. Despite these objections, lawmakers have found this messaging morally compelling. The campaign was run by locals of Atlanta. Advocates for the campaign informed citizens through media that young women were the ones being arrested while the Johns were not. Contextual analysis research has shown the essentialized nature of the campaign. The Dear John campaign posters define women in terms of their relationship to sex. They also only depict white girls in the images inferring that the only victims worth caring about are young white and innocent.\n\nIt is interesting to note that there are no images of Johns in the campaign posters. A plausible explanation for this would be an effort by the campaign to widen the scope of the messaging and to avoid racial stereotypes. Conversely, the racial stereotypes of trafficked girls is made clear. This excludes a majority of victims who do not identify with the image that the poster conveys. Lawmakers in Atlanta were fully behind the campaign as a statement to the public that they will not tolerate the purchasing of sex. These public statements are in stark contrast to the actual amount of funding that the city gave to organizations who provide housing and services for victims. The city did no research into the effectiveness of the campaign and therefore there is no data on its actual impact on the city. It is also important to note that the campaign ads were only in English and many people are not familiar with the Dear John reference. Lawmakers believe that the campaign was effective in bringing awareness to the issue and therefore shaped public opinion and policy.\n\nThe lack of conversation, advocacy, legal/social support services, and academic work around the sexual exploitation of men and boys can be traced to larger social discourses surrounding male sexuality, dominance, and behavior. Media representations of masculinity and sexual dominance contribute to the idea that men cannot be victims, especially in regards to sex-related crimes. The lack of public knowledge and attention to male victimhood and vulnerability is strongly reflected in the quality of services and strength of legal frameworks available to male victims of sex trafficking . Experts describe the \"perceived agency and resilience in young males\" to be a strong force in deterring male victims from seeking the support they need, and discouraging male-inclusive anti-trafficking service and support networks from forming in the first place. Within the spare support frameworks for male victims that do exist, the specific vulnerabilities of different populations in different areas around the world—regarding nationality and migration status, sexual orientation, drug use, socio-economic status, health status, family structure, and more—are often unaddressed, leaving crucial groups' needs unmet. The double stigma that surrounds male victims of sex trafficking, involving homosexuality and sex work more broadly—makes it incredibly difficult for male victims to come forward and seek help, or even to self-organize. Some scholars report that male victims have also faced higher rates of police violence and brutality than female victims in regards to contact with law enforcement.\n\nLaws regarding the purchase and sale of voluntary and involuntary sex vary greatly across the developed world. Their effects on sex trafficking are difficult to discern. Proponents of various forms of criminalization, legalization, or regulation of prostitution, may all argue their model decreases sex trafficking.\n\nThe Dutch model of legalization and regulation and the Swedish model of criminalizing purchasers and pimps but not prostitutes are often discussed. The difference of these models casts the prevention of trafficking against the rights of voluntary sex workers and purchasers. It is argued that a hybrid model of licensing sex workers and criminalizing the purchase of unlicensed sex would reduce trafficking without crushing civil rights.\n\nNumerous international organizations have partnered to create an anti-human trafficking Giving Day to raise awareness and funds on July, 30th 2017. This is the day designated by the United Nations as the World Day against Trafficking in Persons. The Giving Day is being hosted by Charidy.com, a crowdfunding platform for non-profits.\n\nThe General Assembly in 2010, adopted the Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons, encouraging Governments around the world to undergo drastic measures in order defeat human trafficking. The goal was to put the fight against human trafficking into the United Nation's programmes to strengthen positive development and security around the world. A main section of the plan is to place a United Nations Trust Fund for the women and children who fell victim of trafficking. The Trust Fund in the plan ensures to assist and protect the victims of trafficking through grants to certified NGOs. In the future, the goal is to make the victims a priority who are come were victims and had issues with migration. It also places a focus on the aid to victims who were trafficked by their perpetrator for the goal of sexual relations, organ removal, forced begging, forced criminality, and emerging exploitative reasons.\n\nThe General Assembly in the year 2013, gathered a meeting to go over the world's plan of action. Numerous states also declared July 30 as the World Day against Trafficking in Persons. They came to the conclusion that day of remembrance and awareness was crucial to remember the victims, the right's they possess and their protection.\n\n\"Buying Sex Is A Crime\" is a slogan used by anti human trafficking and abolitionist groups. The first known public use of the slogan was by thetraffickedhuman.org. in 2016 on a billboard campaign in metro Vancouver, British Columbia. thetraffickedhuman.org is a coalition that works to end the exploitation of women, youth, and girls.\n\nThe slogan with the same billboard artwork was also used by buyingsexisacrime.ca in 2017 throughout Canada including Edmonton, Alberta. The slogan was also picked up by the Edmonton Police's own awareness initiative. In 2018, a new campaign was launched at buyingsexisacrime.org sponsored by the Vancouver Collective Against Sexual Exploitation. The collective is a Vancouver, British Columbia based abolitionist group of lawyers, judges, social workers, professionals, teachers, activists and advocates working to end sexual exploitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101284", "title": "Richard Fisk", "text": "Richard Fisk\n\nRichard Fisk is a fictional character, a criminal appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appears in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #83 (April 1970) and was created by Stan Lee and John Romita Sr. He is the son of Wilson Fisk and Vanessa Fisk. Although he was originally a villain, he became an antihero.\n\nA young version of the character appeared in the 2018 animated film \"\".\n\nThe character Richard Fisk first appears as The Schemer in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #83 (April 1970), created by Stan Lee and John Romita Sr. He first appeared as The Rose in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #253 (June 1984), but was not revealed as the Rose until \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #286 (March 1987).\n\nRichard Fisk grew up as a child of privilege, believing that his father Wilson Fisk was a respectable and honorable businessman. Wilson was sometimes abusive to Richard, but Richard still loved him. At one point he and his childhood friend Samuel Silke saw Wilson roughing up someone. It was when he was attending a prestigious college in Switzerland that he discovered that his father was, in reality, the Kingpin of Crime. Realizing the luxuries of his youth had been financed by a criminal empire, Richard was distraught and vowed to make atonement for his father's crimes. When his parents received word that Richard had perished in a skiing accident, they suspected that it was really a suicide after Richard learned the truth of his father's identity. Heartbroken and furious that his son could have acted so spinelessly, the Kingpin sunk into a spell of depression.\n\nNot long afterward, a new gang emerged in New York, led by a mysterious figure calling himself the Schemer. Unlike most gangs in New York, the Schemer's organization seemed bent solely on dismantling the Kingpin's empire. After a series of confrontations, the Kingpin and the Schemer finally met face to face. It was then that the Schemer revealed that his face was really a mask, and that his true face was that of Richard Fisk. Richard explained that he had faked his death in the Alps and was striking back at his father using his own money. This final shock was too much for the Kingpin to bear, and he collapsed into catatonia. This finally made Richard realize how much he had hurt his father, and he set off to find a way to cure his comatose state. Richard joined the international terrorist group HYDRA, becoming a leader of the Nevada fragment of HYDRA and eventually rising to the rank of Supreme Hydra. Now with HYDRA's expansive resources at his disposal, Richard was able to return his father to full health. The Kingpin, reconciled with his son, proved that he was back to normal by clandestinely taking over as ruler of HYDRA. However, it was soon revealed that the true leader of HYDRA was the Nazi supervillain the Red Skull, and the Fisks had to team up with Captain America and the Falcon to stop the mad dictator. Richard was critically wounded in the final battle, and the Kingpin had his son placed in suspended animation, finally curing him by siphoning some life force from Spider-Man. \n\nSeveral years later, Richard joined his father's organization, calling himself the Rose, a crime lord under the Kingpin's control. However, this was all a ruse to undermine the Kingpin's empire from within. Aiding Richard in this scheme were his good friend Alfredo Morelli and Ned Leeds, who was brainwashed to act as the supervillain the Hobgoblin. However, the Rose's subterfuge resulted in an explosive gang war that tore New York City apart. During a shoot-out Richard shot and killed a police officer, an act that became a turning point for him - no longer could he consider himself morally superior to his father. After Leeds' death and the end of the gang war, Richard resigned himself to his birthright and rejoined the Kingpin's organization as himself. However, the desire to overthrow his father once again arose, and Richard and Alfredo plotted to make the Kingpin think that Richard was ready to inherit his father's position. Alfredo had plastic surgery to make himself look just like Richard (since he had more combat experience), and slowly began climbing the ladder of power. However, when the Kingpin was overthrown by the combined forces of Daredevil and HYDRA, Alfredo betrayed his old friend by maintaining that he was truly Richard, and took over as the new Kingpin. Richard then became Blood Rose, a Punisher-like vigilante, and began gunning down criminals in a bloody purge of the city. The Blood Rose even shot and wounded Alfredo, who later returned under the alias of Gauntlet, although he was ultimately defeated by NightWatch and incarcerated. Finally caught by Spider-Man and arrested, Richard entered the Witness Protection Program.\n\nYears later, Wilson Fisk once again regained the mantle of the Kingpin, and Richard re-emerged to public life and rejoined the Kingpin's organization, once again vowing to never again attempt to overthrow his father. However, upon meeting his old childhood friend, the ambitious enforcer Silke, Richard thought that he at last had found the perfect way to make his father pay for his crimes. Silke's assassination attempt nearly did succeed, stabbing and seriously wounding the Kingpin (already blinded from an earlier attempt on his life). However, Richard did not count on the tenacity of his mother Vanessa. Vanessa quickly made a startling counterstrike, eliminating the rebellion and selling her husband's territory so he could travel to Europe and recover. Richard cornered her, insisting that by getting rid of the Kingpin they could be free to have a new life, but Vanessa coldly shot her son dead, eliminating him as a threat once and for all.\n\nRichard Fisk has no superhuman powers, however he is trained in the use of guns and has some martial arts training. He is highly intelligent and also has a number of criminal contacts. As the Rose he wears a bulletproof three-piece suit. He always carries a handgun and often a variety of mini-grenades as well.\n\nAnother version of Richard Fisk appeared in Punisher MAX's first story arc called \"Kingpin\". Here, he is depicted as an eight-year-old child rather than a young adult, and his death is caused by his father's takeover of the mob. During his final confrontation with Fisk, mob boss Rigoletto takes Richard hostage and threatens to kill him but Fisk, showing no concern for his son's fate, stands idly by as Rigoletto slits the boy's throat. Fisk later reflects that he had always thought that he was trying to advance his criminal career for his son's sake, while in reality it was only for himself. Richard's fate causes Vanessa Fisk to plot the downfall of her estranged husband.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101290", "title": "Cairo Opera House", "text": "Cairo Opera House\n\nThe Cairo Opera House (, \"Dār el-Opera el-Masreyya\"; literally \"Egyptian Opera House\"), part of Cairo's National Cultural Centre, is the main performing arts venue in the Egyptian capital. Home to most of Egypt's finest musical groups, it is located on the southern portion of Gezira Island in the Nile River, in the Zamalek district near downtown Cairo.\n\nThe opera house was inaugurated on 10 October 1988. The funds for the complex were a gift from the nation of Japan to Egypt as a result of President Hosni Mubarak's visit to Japan in April 1983. Construction began in May 1985 and lasted for three years.\n\nIn October 1988, President Mubarak and Prince Tomohito of Mikasa, the younger brother of the Japanese Emperor, inaugurated the National Cultural Centre Cairo Opera House. It was the first time for Japan to stage a \"Kabuki\" show, a traditional popular drama with singing and dancing, in Africa or the Arab World.\n\nIn recognition of the Cairo Opera House, the London Royal Philharmonic Orchestra chose it as a venue for their first performance in the Middle East and Africa in January 2007. The Arabic Oud House was created in its premises before moving to a building in the old town.\n\nIn 1869, Khedive Ismail gave instructions to build an opera house to celebrate the opening of the Suez Canal. It was called Khedivial (Royal) Opera House and was meant as a lasting and outstanding symbol of the arts of drama and music. Designed by Italian architects Avoscani and Rossi, the opera house was completed in six months, in the center of Cairo near the Azbakeya district.\n\nThe Khedive commissioned a performance which would reflect the ancient Egyptian history. French archaeologist Auguste Mariette, in the Khedive’s service, wrote a plot which eventually served the respected Italian librettist Antonio Ghislanzoni as a basis for his libretto. Giuseppe Verdi was appointed to compose the music. The result was the famous opera, \"Aida\", with its heroic quality, powerful dramatic scenes and its passionate music.\n\nBecause of delays caused by the Franco-Prussian war, the sets and costumes for the premiere of \"Aida\" could not be transported from Paris in time, and in 1869 the Opera House opened instead with Verdi's \"Rigoletto\", one of Verdi's earlier masterpieces. \"Aida\" would receive its world premiere in Cairo in 1871. Contrary to general belief, \"Aida\" was not commissioned for the inauguration of the Suez Canal.\n\nThe Khedivial Opera House was the first on the African continent to perform world famous operas and symphonic masterpieces.\n\nA little over a century later, in the early morning of 28 October 1971, the great Khedivial Royal Opera House was completely destroyed by a fire.\n\nThe Cairo Opera Complex consists of seven theaters, a music library, an art gallery and a museum. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101301", "title": "Joe W. Davis Stadium", "text": "Joe W. Davis Stadium\n\nJoe W. Davis Stadium is a minor league baseball park in Huntsville, Alabama, United States, which hosted the Huntsville Stars of the Southern League from 1985 until 2014, and then served as a temporary home for the Stars' successor (the Biloxi Shuckers) in 2015.\n\nBuilt in 1985, the stadium is located on the grounds of Huntsville's former airport, adjacent to Huntsville's main north–south thoroughfare, U.S. Highway 231 (S. Memorial Parkway). The stadium is a multi-purpose facility that seats 10,488 with 15 air-conditioned skyboxes. Ticket offices and the general office are located on the second floor of the stadium. Closed circuit television above the main concourse allows for viewing of the game while grabbing a bite at the concession stands. In addition to baseball, Joe W. Davis Stadium has been used for high school football, monster truck rallies, and concerts.\n\nNicknamed \"The Crown Jewel of the Southern League\" upon its construction, the stadium was the oldest venue in the league during its final year of operation.\n\nThe stadium is named for the longtime mayor of Huntsville, Joe W. Davis, who was instrumental in the city's efforts to construct the stadium. Construction came about in 1984 after Nashville Sounds owner Larry Schmittou purchased the Evansville Triplets with the intent of moving the team in 1985 to Nashville, Tennessee to effectively elevate his Double-A Sounds to the Triple-A level. As a result of this move, the existing Double-A franchise needed a new home. Schmittou considered a swap, which would have sent the Double-A team to Evansville, Indiana to replace the Triplets. Evansville city leaders balked at the requested stadium upgrades, leading Schmittou to seek alternate arrangements, which resulted in the franchise's move to Huntsville. The team became known as the Huntsville Stars, and Schmittou continued to own the franchise until selling it to a local ownership group in 1994.\n\nThe first game was held on April 19, 1985. The Stars defeated the Birmingham Barons 10-0 in a game that included a grand slam from future major-leaguer Jose Canseco.\n\nOn July 10, 1991, the ballpark hosted the first Double-A All-Star Game. A team of American League-affiliated All-Stars defeated a team of National League-affiliated All-Stars, 8–2, before 4,022 people in attendance.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, renovations began on the stadium, including the replacement of all the stadium's box seats. In 2004, Joe Davis Stadium's current scoreboard, a 36-by-48-foot scoreboard complete with LED numbering and a 12-by-18-foot videoboard, was installed.\n\nIn 2014, the Stars were sold to an ownership group with the intent of relocating the franchise to Biloxi, Mississippi at the end of the season. The sale followed years of failed attempts to secure a new ballpark for the team in Huntsville. However, due to construction delays preventing the new Biloxi stadium from being completed in time for the Southern League's 2015 opening day, and because the franchise was still operating under a lease to use Joe Davis Stadium, the newly-christened Biloxi Shuckers played 15 of its first 25 scheduled home games in Huntsville. (The remaining ten home games were played with Biloxi acting as the home team on its opponents' home fields.)\n\nThe final game at Joe Davis Stadium was played on May 25, 2015 – a 7-2 rain-shortened win for the Shuckers over the Barons.\n\nSoon after the last game, the Huntsville city administrator said that the stadium would be razed later in 2015, but its fate was still being debated in May of 2018.\n\nIn November 2019, the City of Huntsville began implementing plans to renovate the stadium into a multi-use facility, awarding an architectural contract for the design and construction documents needed to put the project out for bid.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101324", "title": "Paul Oudin", "text": "Paul Oudin\n\nPaul Marie Oudin (1851–1923) was a French physician and medical researcher. He was born, and later died, in Épinal. He conducted research in the Victorian era medical field of high frequency electrotherapy, the application of radio frequency electric currents to the body, and collaborated with the founder of the field, pioneering physiologist and biophysicist Dr. Jacques Arsene d'Arsonval. In 1893 he modified d'Arsonval's electrotherapy equipment by the addition of a wire coil resonator to produce higher potentials, inventing the Oudin coil. This device, very similar to a Tesla coil, could produce very high voltages from several hundred thousand to a million volts. In use, the brush discharges from a pointed electrode attached to the high voltage terminal of the coil would be played over various parts of the body to treat a variety of medical conditions. The Oudin coil was used in electrotherapy and diathermy through the 1920s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101333", "title": "Cruiser Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Cruiser Linhas Aéreas\n\nCruiser Linhas Aéreas was an airline based in Curitiba, Brazil. It used to operate domestic services to 10 destinations in the states of Paraná, Rondônia and Mato Grosso, as well as charter and air taxi services within Brazil. Its main base is Curitiba-Bacacheri Airport (BFH).\n\nThe airline began with air taxi services, but added scheduled services on 4 June 2001.\n\nOn March 4, 2010 National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil suspended the operations license of the airline due to maintenance problems. The license became active on July 17, 2010.\n\nIn February 2010, before having its operational license suspended, Cruiser Linhas Aéreas operated services to the following destinations:\n\nAs of June 2010 the fleet of Cruiser Linhas Aéreas included the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "2101342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101342", "title": "Linnaean Garden", "text": "Linnaean Garden\n\nThe Linnaean Garden or Linnaeus' Garden () is the oldest of the botanical gardens belonging to Uppsala University in Sweden. It has been restored and is kept as an 18th-century botanical garden, according to the specifications of Carl Linnaeus. \n\nThe garden was originally planned and planted by Olaus Rudbeck, professor of medicine, in 1655. Rudbeck also built the house adjacent to the garden. At the end of the 17th century it had about 1,800 different species, but was damaged in the Uppsala city fire 1702. Linnaeus became responsible for the garden in 1741 and had it rearranged according to his own ideas, documented in his work \"Hortus Upsaliensis\" (1748). \n\nAfter the gardens of Uppsala Castle had been donated to the university by King Gustav III to serve as a new botanical garden, the old one was left to decay. It was bought by the Swedish Linnaean Society in 1917 and restored according to the detailed description in the \"Hortus Upsaliensis\". The garden was later taken over by the university, while the Linnaean Museum in the house in which Linnaeus had his home is still run by the Society. It is now one of two satellite gardens of the larger University of Uppsala Botanic Garden near Uppsala Castle. The second satellite is Linnaeus Hammarby, the former summer home of Linnaeus and his family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101353", "title": "CoKu Tau/4", "text": "CoKu Tau/4\n\nCoKu Tau/4 is a pre-main-sequence binary T Tauri star system in the constellation Taurus. The stars are surrounded by a circumbinary disc with a central cavity of radius 10 astronomical units. Before its binary nature was known, the central cavity in the system's disc was thought to have been cleared out by a planet of at least 10 Jupiter masses, a rare example of a so-called \"transitional disc\". This model was disproven in 2008 when the star was resolved using adaptive optics as a system of two near-equal-mass stars with a projected separation of 8 AU. The central cavity is thus cleared out by the stars, not by the gravitational influence of a planet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101367", "title": "KV43", "text": "KV43\n\nTomb KV43 is the tomb of Pharaoh Thutmose IV in the Valley of the Kings in Luxor, Egypt. It has a dog-leg shape, typical of the layout of early 18th Dynasty tombs. KV43 was rediscovered in 1903 by Howard Carter (for Theodore M. Davis).\n\nLocated high in the cliffs above the valley floor, it had been spared the extensive flood-water damage suffered by other tombs, and its wall decorations are consequently very well preserved. The pharaoh's outer stone sarcophagus is also still in place in the burial chamber.\n\nTwo of the pharaoh's children, Prince Amenemhat and Princess Tentamun were also buried here.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101380", "title": "Fly Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Fly Linhas Aéreas\n\nFly Linhas Aéreas was a Brazilian airline, which operated between 1995 and 2003.\n\nThe airline began operations on August 25, 1995, with a Boeing 727-200 as a charter carrier linking Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo to holiday destinations in the northeast of Brazil. Originally it was a direct competitor of Air Vias, another Brazilian airline dedicated to charter flights. Eventually Fly became a carrier with both charter and scheduled low-cost operations.\n\nThough successful in its first years, it suffered a hard economic blow during the 1999 currency exchange devaluation crisis, and a great decrease in traffic, following a world trend, in the second semester of 2001. Those difficulties led to increasing administrative difficulties. The final blow came with increasing competition with Gol Airlines which led to the ceasing of operations in 2003.\n\n\nFly did not have an airline affinity program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101384", "title": "TNT (Norwegian band)", "text": "TNT (Norwegian band)\n\nTNT is a Norwegian heavy metal band from Trondheim, formed in 1982. The band has released thirteen studio albums, three EPs and four live albums while going through numerous line-up changes since its formation. Guitarist Ronni Le Tekrø is the only consistent member of TNT. TNT has sold between 4-5 million albums worldwide as of 2016.\n\nTNT was formed in the Norwegian city of Trondheim in 1982, by vocalist and rhythm guitarist Dag Ingebrigtsen, guitarist Ronni Le Tekrø, bassist Steinar Eikum and drummer Diesel Dahl. Securing a national record contract with PolyGram subsidiary Vertigo Norway, they released their self-titled debut album the same year — their only album that features Norwegian lyrics — and got a hit with the single \"Harley-Davidson\". In August 1983 bassist Morty Black replaced Eikum, and the following year American vocalist Tony Harnell replaced Ingebrigtsen, making his debut on TNT's second album, \"Knights of the New Thunder\". His unique and powerful 4 octave range was the final element the band needed to break out of Norway and into the world market. The album was a huge success in Scandinavia and the band then was offered a worldwide deal with Mercury/Polygram worldwide out of New York. \"Knights of the New Thunder\" was then released in the U.S. in 1984 and the video for \"Seven Seas\" got heavy rotation on MTV and the album entered the billboard charts.\n\nTNT's third album, \"Tell No Tales\", was released in 1987 and produced the band's biggest hit, the single \"10,000 Lovers (In One)\". \"Tell No Tales\" marked a slight change in sound from melodic Euro-metal to a more palatable hard rock style, with Le Tekrø and Harnell gaining a reputation as a talented duo. The album was the best selling release in Norway and Sweden that year (outselling hugely popular artists like Michael Jackson and Def Leppard). \"Tell No Tales\" also saw the band establishing a mainstream following in Japan and the U.S. Promotional Videos for \"Everyone's a Star\" and \"10,000 Lovers (In One)\" were featured on both European and American MTV. They were also featured on \"Headbangers Ball\". The band supported Stryper on a sold-out arena tour in the U.S. followed by a tour with Twisted Sister and Great White as well as headlining shows in large clubs in the U.S.. In the fall of 1987 Diesel Dahl parted ways with TNT due to personal and professional differences and made his last public appearance with the band at the Spellemannprisen awards in January 1988, where TNT received the Best Rock Album award for \"Tell No Tales\".\n\nKenneth Odiin became TNT's new drummer and played on TNT's fourth studio album, \"Intuition\", which was released in 1989. This release marked a more AOR-oriented sound, still maintaining a little of the hard rock edge of the previous album. \"Intuition\" was another huge success in Scandinavia and Japan. It was also the band's best received American release and saw the band embarking on their first headlining tour of the U.S. which broke attendance records across the country in small theaters and large clubs, thanks to the prominent display of the video for the title track on MTV.\n\nAfter the \"Intuition\" tour, Odiin left the band and was replaced by John Macaluso. The band negotiated a new (and generous) record contract with Atlantic Records, and released the studio album \"Realized Fantasies\" and the live recording \"Three Nights in Tokyo\", both in 1992. However, Atlantic did a poor job of promoting the album in the States (assuring that TNT would never find huge success in America) and also the rest of the world. The same year they decided to take a break, choosing to focus on various solo projects. In 1996 the compilation \"Till Next Time – The Best of TNT\" was released, and Harnell, Le Tekrø and Black reformed TNT with session drummer Frode Lamøy. That line-up recorded two albums, \"Firefly\" in 1997 and \"Transistor\" in 1999.\n\nDiesel Dahl returned to TNT in 2000, and the band started working on new material. Their eighth studio album, \"My Religion\", was released in 2004. Months after the album release, Morty Black decided to leave the band due to personal and professional differences, and Sid Ringsby took his place for the following concerts and the album \"All the Way to the Sun\", which was released in the fall of 2005. A single, \"Sometimes\" was released on July 25 in Norway. At the end of the year Victor Borge became TNT's new permanent bassist.\n\nTony Harnell left the band in April 2006 for both personal and professional reasons, although his final show was on June 30, when TNT played the Polar Rock Festival in Storsteinnes, Norway. He was replaced by British hard rock singer Tony Mills (of UK act Shy, \"coincidentally\" supporting TNT for Harnell's farewell show). Despite leaving the band, Harnell collaborated with iMagic Films and producer Darren Paltrowitz on a live DVD featuring his performance with the band in Madrid, Spain from April 1, 2006. The \"Live in Madrid\" CD + DVD package was released in Japan in August 2006 and elsewhere in the world in September.\n\nIn 2007 TNT released their tenth studio album, \"The New Territory\" to mixed reviews and controversy amongst the fans. Their eleventh studio album, \"Atlantis,\" was released on September 22, 2008 in both Norway and Japan. The album was influenced by The Beatles and Queen, and was mixed by Tommy Hansen, who also worked on \"My Religion\" and \"All the Way to the Sun\". On December 12, 2008, the original TNT line-up, consisting of Dag Ingebrigtsen, Ronni Le Tekrø, Steinar Eikum and Diesel Dahl, did a one-off reunion during a concert that was done to celebrate Ingebrigtsen's 50th birthday.\n\nTNT's twelfth studio album, \"A Farewell to Arms\", was released in Japan on December 15, 2010. Diesel Dahl has said that the album is an attempt to recapture the old TNT sound. Bård Svendsen, who provided keyboards and backing vocals on \"Knights of the New Thunder\" and \"Tell No Tales\", worked on the album as well. The album was mixed by Tommy Hansen, and has been described by him as \"Def Leppard on speed\". It was released in Europe in January 2011. The album has been retitled as \"Engine\" for the Scandinavian and American release. In Norway the album was released as an exclusive joint publishing deal between the Narvesen chain of convenience stores and TNT on December 27. In an interview on the Norwegian radio show \"Stjerneklart\" in January 2011, Ronni Le Tekrø stated that it might be TNT's last album. \"I can promise that it will be the very last TNT album,\" he said, \"It might not be fully decided, but we might feel that this album is an honorable end to albums [being released] from the band. TNT will not split up, but I can't see that we're going to make a new studio album for many years.\"\n\nOn April 27, 2011 keyboardist Dag Stokke, who had toured with TNT since April 1987 and appeared on every album from \"Realized Fantasies\" to \"A Farewell to Arms\", died of cancer. He was replaced by Roger Gilton.\n\nTNT's concert at Sala Heineken in Madrid on September 17, 2011 was filmed for a future DVD release. TNT celebrated its 30th anniversary by playing one concert at the Clarion Hotel in Trondheim on June 2, 2012, where they performed with the Trondheim Symphony Orchestra as well as both former vocalists, Dag Ingebrigtsen and Tony Harnell, and one concert at Rockefeller Music Hall in Oslo on November 17, 2012, where they performed with Ingebrigtsen and original bassist Steinar Eikum. The Trondheim concert will be released on DVD in the fall of 2013.\n\nVictor Borge left TNT in December 2012 to pursue another project. In March 2013 TNT announced that bassist Sid Ringsby was back in the band. In August 2013 Tony Mills announced that he had decided to leave TNT to pursue solo projects, stating, \"For most of this year we have barely played [live] and have not written or recorded anything new. To me that's not how it's supposed to be when you're in a band.\" In a personal statement published on his official website, Mills stated, \"There are other contracts I need to fulfill and a different focus I have to maintain in the coming years. I wish Ronni and his team all the best for their future, however it may shape itself. I shall be fulfilling all the previous engagements booked by the band and expected by the public, with great pleasure.\"\n\nAt the same time, Tony Harnell confirmed that he had had discussions with Ronni Le Tekrø and Diesel Dahl about a reunion. \"It's true that the three of us have talked about it, but there are still details that remain to be discussed before I will make any commitments.\" When asked whether this would only be a one-off reunion, Harnell answered, \"I've considered doing a show or two, but those are very imminent and have already been booked with Tony Mills as the vocalist. I've decided that it's best if he carries out as planned, and then the band and I can sit down and discuss if we're going to do anything in the future - with enough time to do it right.\" On October 17, 2013 Harnell confirmed that he had rejoined TNT, stating, \"I'm very proud of all we accomplished over the years and proud to have written and recorded all those great songs with my brother from another mother, Ronni Le Tekrø. Sometimes it's just time to give the fans what they're asking for.\" Shortly after Harnell's return, long-time bassist Victor Borge also rejoined the band after a year's absence. The band announced several dates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany and Japan from January through to August 2014 and these shows would be the first with Harnell since 2006.\n\nIn January 2015 Harnell announced that he had left TNT again, but on May 21, 2016, he announced his return to TNT. In 2017 TNT embarked on an anniversary tour to celebrate the 30th anniversary of \"Tell No Tales\" with a line-up consisting of Harnell, Ronni Le Tekrø, Diesel Dahl, live keyboardist Roger Gilton and new bassist Ove Husemoen. A new TNT album was said to be released by Frontiers Music Srl in the spring of 2017, however on October 11, 2017 TNT issued a press release confirming that Harnell had once again parted ways with the band. The press release also stated that TNT would continue with a new vocalist. TNT officially revealed their new and fourth vocalist, Baol Bardot Bulsara, at their opening act gig for Scorpions at Oslo Spektrum on November 22, 2017. TNT's thirteenth studio album, \"XIII\", was released via Frontiers Music Srl. on June 8, 2018.\n\nOn September 16, 2019 TNT was inducted into the Rockheim Hall of Fame, the Norwegian equivalent of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. A week before the induction ceremony, it was revealed that Dag Ingebrigtsen would not be inducted, which caused Rockheim to receive backlash from the public. The following day Rockheim announced that Ingebrigtsen would be inducted after all, together with Ronni Le Tekrø, Diesel Dahl, Morty Black, Tony Harnell, Victor Borge and Tony Mills, all of which attended the ceremony with the exception of Mills, who was diagnosed with terminal pancreatic cancer in April 2019 and had become too ill to attend, but Rockheim was able to give him the award a week before the ceremony. Mills died on September 18, 2019, at the age of 57.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101400", "title": "Till I Waltz Again with You", "text": "Till I Waltz Again with You\n\n\"Till I Waltz Again with You\" is a popular song written by Sid Prosen and published in 1952. Rather than a waltz, it is a slow AABA shuffle.\n\nThe recording by Teresa Brewer took place on August 19, 1952, and was released by Coral Records as catalog number 60873. It first reached the Billboard magazine Best Seller chart on December 6, 1952, and lasted 22 (7 weeks at #1) weeks on the chart, peaking at #1. The song also reached number one on the Cash Box chart for six weeks in 1953. In April 1953, during his senior year in high school, Elvis Presley sang the song in his high school's \"Annual Minstrel\" show. Presley recalled that the performance did much for his reputation: \"I wasn't popular in school ... I failed music—only thing I ever failed. And then they entered me in this talent show ... when I came onstage I heard people kind of rumbling and whispering and so forth, 'cause nobody knew I even sang. It was amazing how popular I became after that.\"\n\nAccording to some sources, a record by Dick Todd reached #17, one by Russ Morgan reached #23, and one by The Harmonicats reached #26 on the charts, as well. Coral successfully marketed the song to the country audience. A version by South Carolinian Tommy Sosebea reached #7 on Billboard's most played by country disc jockeys survey.\n\nAlma Cogan and The Kordites with orchestra cond. Frank Cordell recorded it in London on February 10, 1952. The song was released by EMI on the His Master's Voice label as catalog number B 10449.\n\nThe song was also recorded by Joan Regan in the United Kingdom around the same time. In Australia in 1953, it was recorded by Bob Gibson & His Orchestra, featuring vocalist Ross Higgins, on Pacific label catalogue number PB-086, backed with Have You Heard?.\n\nSemprini, pianoforte with Rhythm accompaniment recorded it in London on March 11, 1953, as the third song of the medley \"Dancing to the piano (No. 20) - Hit medley of foxtrots\" along with \"Why Don't You Believe Me\" and \"Downhearted\". The medley was released by EMI on the His Master's Voice label as catalog number B 10457.\n\nOn May 25, 1953 Harry James recorded a live version performed at the Astor Roof in New York City. (\"One Night Stand With Harry James\", 1975, Joyce LP-1014)\n\nJane Morgan released a single version in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101413", "title": "Xavier's Security Enforcers", "text": "Xavier's Security Enforcers\n\nXavier<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Security Enforcers (also known as the XSE) are a fictional superhero team/police force appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The characters are depicted as being from the fictional 2070s, a time ruled by mutant hunting/killing robots called Sentinels, who at this point in time had run amok, essentially ruling Earth in order to carry out their objective to protect humanity. The XSE is formed in the fallout of the Gene War (a conflict first mentioned in \"X-Treme X-Men\" #4) and the Summers Rebellion, during which mutants and humans join forces to defeat the Sentinels.\n\nThe team was featured in the eponymous 1996 limited series \"XSE\", which was followed by the 1998 mini-series \"Bishop: XSE\".\n\nThe XSE is a team of mutants dedicated to bringing criminal mutants to justice. Initially called the Xavier's School Enforcers, the team was named after Professor Charles Xavier because the members of the XSE believe in his ideals. The team was apparently founded by the mutant Forge, in this era known as Genesis.\n\nNotable members of the team's original roster include Archer, Bishop, Trevor Fitzroy, Fixx, Greystone, Malcolm, Randall, and Bishop's younger sibling Shard. In the XSE, Bishop led Randall and Malcolm, and the three men were known as the Omega Squad. Shard was also a member of the Omega Squad until her promotion to Lieutenant. Bishop had turned down several promotions in order to stay with his team, leading to her outranking him. She was later killed in the line of duty.\n\nFitzroy dropped out of the XSE and turned against them. Years later, he opened a portal through time before traveling to Earth-616, the present setting of the X-Men universe, with a group of mutant criminals. This led the Omega Squad to follow them to the same timeline, where they encountered the X-Men. Due to the time-traveling abilities of Fitzroy, Bishop and a holographic version of Shard then stayed in the present, and Malcolm and Randall were killed. Bishop became a member of Storm's Gold Team when the X-Men split their large team roster into a Blue and a Gold Team. Shard, once carried on a holographic projector by Bishop, regained sentience due to a computer virus and previous tinkering of Forge. Shard eventually became a member of the government-funded X-Factor team.\n\nDisgruntled by XSE tactics and the world they lived in, Archer, Fixx, and Greystone became members of a splinter team of \"rogues\" called the X.U.E. (Xavier's Underground Enforcers). They wished to travel back in time to prevent their era from happening. Shard also joined their ranks for a brief period. It is quite possible that the X.U.E.'s creator is none other than the mutant inventor Forge.\n\nWhile a member of the X.U.E., Shard was permanently linked to Fixx, a mutant with psionic abilities. This mental link allowed for the spirits of the X.U.E. (who are all linked to each other in like fashion) to enter present-day Earth in order to complete their mission from the future.\n\nBishop later became part of a team of X-Men known briefly as the X-Treme Sanctions Executive. He developed misgivings about his role in the present because he did not want to accidentally help create a version of the future he preferred to prevent. However, that notion fell away, along with the XSE's government-sanctioned role, after M-Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101416", "title": "The Godwinns", "text": "The Godwinns\n\nThe Godwinns was a gimmick of the professional wrestling tag team composed of Dennis Knight (Phineas I. Godwinn) and Mark Canterbury (Henry O. Godwinn) that they used in the WWF. The team has used other gimmicks before they joined the WWF and had a gimmick change in the WWF shortly before disbanding. Their original WWF gimmick was that of two cousins who were hog farmers from Arkansas.\n\nThe two men who would later be known as the Godwinns first started teaming in the United States Wrestling Association under the names Tex Sallinger (Phineas) and Master Blaster (Henry) in 1991. Master Blaster was masked while Sallinger was not. Due to their stature and ring outfits, some mistakenly believed that Sallinger and Blaster were a well traveled team known as \"The Texas Hangmen\" under a different gimmick as the Hangmen had recently left the USWA. The team feuded mainly with Jeff Jarrett and Robert Fuller as a part of the “Texas/Tennessee” storyline. After achieving little notoriety in the USWA, the two men were signed by World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1992.\n\nThe duo was renamed \"Tex Slazenger\" and \"Shanghai Pierce\" who remained masked and made their debut in November 1992. Their debut was without much fanfare as they were at best perceived as a mid-card team used to help establish higher level teams. They did have a “mini-feud” of sorts with Kent and Keith Cole, the Cole Twins. Tex and Shanghai would mainly appear on the WCW “B” shows such as \"WorldWide\" and \"WCW Saturday Night\". Tex Slazenger somehow got a cult following among the fans of the “Saturday Night” tapings who’d chant for him when he was in the ring. During one Saturday Night show, color commentator Jesse Ventura nicknamed them \"the Texicans\" although the name never became official.\n\nTex and Shanghai appeared at very few WCW pay-per-view (PPV)s losing every time they were in the spotlight except for one occasion: Battlebowl in 1993. Tex and Shanghai found themselves on opposite sides in a “Lethal Lottery” tag-team match, which meant that one of them would actually get a PPV victory. Rick Rude and Shanghai Pierce won the match but Shanghai was quickly eliminated in the ensuing battle royal.\n\nIn their time in WCW, they helped put over future tag-team champions such as 2 Cold Scorpio and Marcus Alexander Bagwell and Cactus Jack and Maxx Payne. In 1994, Shanghai Pierce was unmasked during a bout with Johnny B. Badd and from that day forward appeared unmasked. Sometime after the summer of 1994, Tex and Shanghai left WCW; Shanghai was signed by the WWF while Tex worked a stint in the independent circuit that included a return to his old stomping grounds of the USWA.\n\nCanterbury had joined the WWF in late 1994 and been repackaged with a “Hog Farmer” gimmick and renamed “Henry O. Godwinn”. Canterbury first worked as a heel with the Million Dollar Corporation under Ted DiBiase’s management and then later as a face after being kicked out of the stable.\n\nIn the early parts of 1996, Dennis Knight was signed with the WWF and became “Phineas I. Godwinn”, Henry’s cousin (later brother). The team was managed by Hillbilly Jim and actually made their debut shortly before the tournament began to crown new tag team champions after Billy Gunn suffered a neck injury. The Godwinns made it all the way to the finals at WrestleMania XII where they lost to the Bodydonnas. The Godwinns feuded with the Bodydonnas for the next couple of months, not just over the tag team titles but because Phineas had become infatuated with the Bodydonnas' manager Sunny, something which initially worked against the Godwinns.\n\nThe Godwinns finally got their revenge on the Bodydonnas by winning the tag team titles from them in May 1996. Sunny also joined with them at this point, although she specifically joined to use Phineas and remain near the tag team gold. At , the Godwinns lost the titles to the Smokin' Gunns, and Sunny moved on as she paired up with Billy Gunn and kept close to the tag team titles. The Godwinns would feud with the Gunns over the summer but would not regain the titles. For the rest of 1996, the Godwinns would remain a solid mid-card team.\n\nDuring a match in April, Henry Godwinn suffered a cracked C7 vertebra when the Legion of Doom botched a Doomsday Device.\n\nHenry was told to take at least 15 weeks off to fully recover from the injury but returned in less than 8 weeks. Henry returned to active duty but acted more heelish and less cheerful, the team would slowly turn heel. They ditched their goofy pig farmer gimmick for that of bitter southern boys who wanted to hurt people like Henry got hurt. They also ditched their manager Hillbilly Jim and for a short time was without a manager. They eventually took Uncle Cletus as their manager and began attacking their opponents with their slop buckets. The turn and subsequent feud with the Headbangers would pay off as the Godwinns won tag gold once more on October 5, 1997 at Badd Blood. However, the title run was short-lived as they would lose the titles to the Legion of Doom only two days later in a retirement match thanks to a botched interference by Uncle Cletus. Following their loss, the Godwinns took out their frustration on Uncle Cletus by busting his head wide open, and he was never seen again in the WWF after that.\n\nAfter the feud with the Legion of Doom ended, they engaged in a short feud with the returning Quebecers that failed to gain fan interest. The team began to flounder again with no real direction. As a result, the two were repackaged, thus ditching the Hillbilly gimmick and false names. On the June 1st, 1998 edition of Raw, the two adopted a \"Southern Hired Gun\" type of gimmick that saw them wear sharp suits and sunglasses and use their real names of Mark Canterbury and Dennis Knight for the first time and backing up Jeff Jarrett. The team was named \"Southern Justice\" and they backed up Jeff Jarrett in a feud with D-Generation X. They even clashed with D-X at the PPV where they lost to Billy Gunn, Road Dogg, and X-Pac.\n\nShortly after the PPV, Canterbury herniated his C7 vertebrae and pinched a spinal nerve; this necessitated spinal fusion surgery, a result of Canterbury returning to the ring before he should have. After the neck injury and spinal fusion, Canterbury left the WWF and retired from pro wrestling. Dennis Knight remained with the company until January 2001, repackaged as \"Mideon\" and later, \"Naked Mideon\".\n\nIn September 2006, Canterbury wrestled several tryout matches with World Wrestling Entertainment. On September 15, 2006, WWE announced that he had been signed to a contract. He debuted in Deep South Wrestling on 30 November , as a tag partner for Ray Gordy. They wrestled a dark match before WWE SmackDown around this time. But the gimmick never came into fruition on the main roster. Gordy was known as Cousin Ray as the team used the ”Pigfarmer” gimmick; Gordy would later be moved to the SmackDown brand under the ring name \"Jesse\".\n\nBoth men came out of retirement in 2011 for Great Lakes Championship Wrestling in Wisconsin. Gimmicked as the Texas Hangmen They lost to Demolition on December 3. A year later they lost to them again.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101419", "title": "M. A. Chidambaram Stadium", "text": "M. A. Chidambaram Stadium\n\nM. A. Chidambaram Stadium (எம். ஏ. சிதம்பரம் விளையாட்டு அரங்கம்) is a cricket stadium in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. It was established in 1916 and it is the second oldest cricket stadium in the country after Eden Gardens in Kolkata. Named after M. A. Chidambaram, former President of BCCI, the stadium was formerly known as Madras Cricket Club Ground and is also nicknamed the Chepauk stadium. It is the home ground of the Tamil Nadu cricket team and the Indian Premier League team Chennai Super Kings. Chepauk hosted its first Test match on 10 February 1934, the first-ever Ranji Trophy match in 1936 and Indian cricket team's first-ever test victory in 1952 against England. The 1986 India-Australia match held at Chepauk was only the second ever Tied Test in the history of the game.\n\nThe stadium is located at Chepauk, a few hundred meters from Marina beach along the Bay of Bengal. The stadium can be accessed from Wallajah Road in the north, Babu Jagjivanram Road in the west and Pycrofts Road in the south. Adjacent to the east of the stadium is the Chepauk MRTS railway station which lies on the Chennai Beach—Velachery section of the Chennai MRTS. The Cooum river runs tangentially to the north side of the stadium.\n\nChepauk Stadium was established in 1916 and has been the home venue of the Tamil Nadu cricket team ever since. It is the second oldest cricket stadium in the country after Eden Gardens in Kolkata, still holding all international cricket matches. Bombay Gymkhana being the first is not in use for international cricket.\n\nThe Chepauk crowd is known to be amongst the most appreciative in the country. The crowd gave a standing ovation to Saeed Anwar after scoring the highest ever ODI score of 194 against India in 1997. The crowd was again appreciative when Pakistan won a Test match in 1999 and the Pakistani team made a lap of honour in appreciation of the spectators' sporting behaviour.\n\nIn June 2009, reconstruction work of the stadium was taken up at the cost of . The plan consisted of constructing three new reinforced concrete stands designated I, J, and K accommodating 12,000 spectators and 24 hospitality boxes under translucent PTFE membrane roofs. Hopkins Architects, London and Nataraj & Venkat Architects, Chennai were contracted by the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association.\n\nThe renovation was completed in 2011 and the old roofing with pillars that often blocked the view in the old stadium were replaced by light quad conical roofing held together by cables. The stadium can currently accommodate 50,000 spectators. The stands are at a gradient of 36° and lets the sea breeze in to get the ground's traditional swing back.\n\nOn 31 March 2015, the Supreme Court ruled that the renovation violates regulations relating to public safety. The court ruled that the parts of the renovation which violate the regulations must be demolished and until the appropriate planning permissions are issued and the demolition is complete, three stands (I, J, K) must remain sealed. Cricket matches take place in the stadium with the I, J, and K stands locked for spectators.\n\nThe total area of the stadium is 752,000 square feet. This is under lease agreement between government and the association. In April 2015, the lease agreement between the government and association lapsed.\n\nThis stadium has hosted 7 One Day International matches across 3 world cups. The World cup matches hosted by this stadium are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "2101422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101422", "title": "Juan Pedro Villamán", "text": "Juan Pedro Villamán\n\nJuan Pedro (J.P.) Villamán (April 5, 1959 - May 30, 2005) was a Dominican-American sportscaster who served as the Spanish language play-by-play announcer for the Boston Red Sox.\n\nThe youngest of nine children, Villamán fell in love with broadcasting at an early age. At age of 13, he called baseball and basketball games from a local radio station in San Francisco de Macorís, where he was born and raised by his aunt, Orfelina Villamán, after his mother died giving birth to him. Like most Dominicans, Villamán played baseball and was a pretty good catcher. His best sport, though, was basketball; he played on the national teams in Panama and Puerto Rico.\n\nVillamán came to the U.S. in 1986 and followed the trail blazed from New York City to Lawrence, Massachusetts by thousands of other Dominican immigrants. He landed a job with radio station WCCM in Lawrence in 1990. Four years later, he was recommended for the job when the Red Sox were looking for a Spanish-speaking broadcaster for a new radio venture aimed at reaching the growing population of baseball-mad Latinos in cities like Lawrence and Worcester. Villamán was hired as a part-time broadcaster by Bill Kulik, a former freelance TV sports producer and writer and baseball fanatic. For the next seven seasons, Villamán was the play-by-play announcer for selected Red Sox home games carried by small Spanish-language stations.\n\nThe initially haphazard venture really took off after Pedro Martínez joined the Red Sox in 1998. Villamán said the Red Sox ace brought thousands, maybe even millions, of Latino fans into \"Red Sox Nation.\" Before the 2001 season, Kulik organized the \"Spanish Beisbol Network\" to carry every Red Sox game, home and away, and made Villamán a permanent Red Sox announcer alongside young newcomer Adrian Garcia Marquez who also called games for ESPN Deportes. The radio show aired in Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island and New York. Villamán's Spanish commentary was also available on NESN, and baseball fans as far away as the Dominican Republic, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Venezuela and Spain heard him via satellite. They would sometimes call into his pregame show, which pleased Villamán enormously. Listeners called him \"Papá Oso\" (Papa Bear)a nickname given to him by his friend and co-announcer Garcia Marquez.\n\nIn April 2005, at Fenway Park, Red Sox owners John Henry and Tom Werner showed their respect for Villamán and his worldwide audience by delivering him a diamond-encrusted World Series championship ring during his broadcast of home opener against the New York Yankees. The ring, which came with a notarized appraisal putting its value at $14,100, was the official acknowledgement that Villamán was part of the Red Sox extended family (500 or so got rings), from ushers to superstars. Villamán's ring also recognized the importance of the team's growing Latino fan base. With top Latin stars such as Manny Ramírez, David Ortiz, Édgar Rentería and, before, Pedro Martinez, Rich Garcés and Orlando Cabrera, the Red Sox are becoming Latin America's team.\n\nOn May 30, 2005, Villamán, at age 46, was on his way home around 3:40 a.m. after broadcasting from Yankee Stadium over the weekend. He died when his sport utility vehicle sideswiped a truck on Interstate 93 near Wilmington, Massachusetts, rolled down an embankment, and slammed into a tree. He was pronounced dead at the scene. The loss of the charismatic broadcaster was also felt deeply in San Francisco de Macoris, where he was raised. Portions of his funeral, held at St. Mary-Immaculate Conception Church in Lawrence, were broadcast live on three regional radio stations. He is buried at St. Mary's cemetery in Lawrence, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101423", "title": "Allison Brewer", "text": "Allison Brewer\n\nAllison Brewer (born July 15, 1954) is a Canadian social activist and politician, and the former leader of the New Brunswick New Democratic Party. She has been particularly active in areas of lesbian and gay rights and access to abortion. She is openly lesbian.\n\nBrewer was born in Fredericton, New Brunswick. She was the founder and longtime director of Dr. Henry Morgentaler's abortion clinic in Fredericton, New Brunswick, before moving to Nunavut in 2000. In Nunavut, she continued her activism organizing gay pride events and lobbying for the passage of the \"Nunavut Human Rights Act\".\n\nA prominent member of Egale Canada, she was one of its two representatives to the United Nations Conference on Women in 1995. At the event, which was held in Beijing, she was briefly detained by Chinese officials for displaying a banner which read \"Lesbian rights are human rights\".\n\nIn 2004, she was one of seven recipients of the \"Governor General's Award in Commemoration of the Persons Case\".\n\nBrewer returned to her native New Brunswick in late 2004 and on May 14 of the following year announced her candidacy for the leadership of the New Brunswick New Democratic Party. On June 23, 2005, the final day for candidates to register, she briefly became the leader-presumptive as the only candidate, however the party extended the deadline to July 12 with her consent and two other candidates entered the race. Brewer went on to win the leadership on September 25, 2005, at a convention in Fredericton, becoming the first openly gay leader of a provincial party.\n\nBrewer was thrust quickly into a potential election campaign. Her predecessor as leader, Elizabeth Weir resigned from the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick on October 13, 2005, and a by-election was set for November 14. Brewer briefly toyed with running but held a news conference on October 18 indicating she would not run saying that it was too soon after her election as leader to enter another election campaign and citing her desire to prepare the party for the next election and improve her command of French.\n\nShe later announced that she intended to run against Minister of Health Brad Green in the riding of Fredericton South in the next election but, following an electoral redistribution, she announced she would run in the new riding of Fredericton-Lincoln.\n\nAn early election was called for September 2006 and the NDP faced a number of challenges.\n\nOn August 21, CBC Radio reported that \"NDP staff had set up signs and a podium on the steps of the legislature for Brewer to make an announcement on respect for the legislature, this was in contravention of rules that forbid campaigining on the legislative grounds and the announcement was moved to the sidewalk adjacent to the property.\" Brewer has said that this is \"a misrepresentation of what happened and is the subject of a complaint with the broadcaster\" and that she \"was not on the steps, nor anywhere near the steps of the Legislature that day\" Regardless of the veracity of the report, the fact that this was reported as such was disadvantageous.\n\nDespite expecting to run a full slate of candidates as late as August 23, the NDP only nominated 48 of a possible 55 candidates.\n\nFinally, despite a commitment to participate in the French debate, Brewer later withdrew when the Radio-Canada television network would not provide simultaneous translation.\n\nOn election day, the NDP suffered its worst result since the 1974 election, winning no seats and only 5.1% of the popular vote. In her own riding of Fredericton-Lincoln, Brewer finished third with 15% of the vote despite a visit to her riding by federal NDP leader Jack Layton.\n\nShortly after the election, other candidates including the sitting party president, offered their renewed support and Brewer herself described the support she was receiving from party members as \"overwhelming\".\n\nHowever, on November 6, 2006, Brewer announced her resignation to the press, stating that it was for financial reasons. It was also announced that party president Pat Hanratty served as interim leader until the October 13, 2007 leadership convention, which chose Duguay as the party's new leader.\n"}
{"id": "2101431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101431", "title": "The Invasion (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Invasion (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Invasion is the partly missing third serial of the sixth season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in eight weekly parts from 2 November to 21 December 1968. \n\nIn the serial, the megalomaniac Tobias Vaughn (Kevin Stoney), the head of the hugely successful electronics company International Electromatics, forms an alliance with the Cybermen to take control of Earth.\n\n\"The Invasion\" marks the first appearance of UNIT, the second appearance of Lethbridge-Stewart (Nicholas Courtney), now promoted to Brigadier, and introduces Corporal Benton (John Levene), later to become a sergeant during the Third Doctor's era. It was the first incomplete \"Doctor Who\" serial to be released on DVD with full-length animated reconstructions of its two missing episodes.\n\nAfter escaping the Land of Fiction, the Doctor, Jamie and Zoe find that they have materialized near the Moon in the late twentieth-century. A missile is fired from the surface, forcing the crew to land the TARDIS in England. With the visual stabiliser damaged, the TARDIS is rendered invisible and they decided to head to London to find Professor Edward Travers for his assistance. Hitching a lift with a van driver, they learn of International Electromatics, a mysterious company which has become the world's leading electronics producer. Arriving at Traver's address, the crew learn he has left for America with his daughter, Anne, and left the house in the care of his colleague, Professor Watkins, and his niece Isobel. As the professor has gone missing working for International Electromatics, the Doctor and Jamie leave to investigate its head office. After being caught, they are brought to Tobias Vaughn, the company's Managing Director. He claims that Professor Watkins was at a delicate stage of his work and refusing to see anyone, though the Doctor notices unusual behavior and quickly becomes suspicious. When they leave, Vaughn opens up a section in his wall to reveal a Cyber-planner.\n\nShortly after their meeting, the Doctor and Jamie are abducted by two strangers and taken to meet their commanding officer, Alastair Lethbridge-Stewart. Having been promoted to Brigadier after their encounter with the Great Intelligence, he reveals that he has been placed in charge of a military taskforce called UNIT, which investigates unusual activities around the world. Currently investigating International Electromatics after multiple claims surrounding the organization, the Brigadier asks for their assistance, having lost contact with an operative investigating the company. Tired of waiting for the Doctor and Jamie to return, Zoe and Isobel leave to investigate the company on their own, only to be captured after Zoe destroys a robotic receptionist. The Doctor and Jamie follow them and are also captured, after noticing them being loaded into transportation cases.\n\nTaken to the company's countryside base, the Doctor and Jamie meet Isobel's uncle, who is working on a \"Cerebration Mentor\" device, intended to be a teaching machine. The professor reveals that Vaughn is working with an unspecified ally and that they are planning to take over the world. After escaping from their security guards, the Doctor radios the Brigadier to rescue them and also locates Zoe and Isobel. During the investigation, Jamie finds a living creature in some kind of cocoon inside one of the containers. The Doctor and his companions escape via helicopter, but by doing so alert Vaughn that UNIT is a threat to his plans. Back at UNIT HQ, the Doctor investigates photos of UFOs near the factory and reasons that Vaughn's allies are alien invaders. Heading back to the factory to intercept one of the pods, he and Jamie witness scientists reviving one of the creatures from the cocoons: a Cyberman.\n\nFurther investigation by UNIT is stymied by the interference of a retired general at the Ministry of Defense, who is actually under Vaughn's hypnotic control. The Cybermen begin moving through the London sewers in preparation for the invasion. Hedging his bets in case he needs a weapon to maintain control of the Cyberman after they have arrived, Vaughn tests a prototype of the \"cerebration mentor\" machine on an awakened Cyberman. The Cyberman is driven insane by the emotional overload and flees into the sewers. Whilst the Doctor investigates an International Electromatics device, Isobel, Zoe and Jamie venture into the sewers to obtain proof of the Cybermen's presence on Earth. After becoming trapped between a group of normal Cybermen and the victim of Vaughn's tests, they are rescued by Captain Turner and a UNIT squad.\n\nIn order to circumvent Vaughn's plant at the Ministry of Defense, the Brigadier leaves to seek help from UNIT international HQ in Geneva. In his absence, Captain Turner arranges for professor Watkins to be rescued from International Electromatics to help the Doctor. Using accounts from the professor, they deduce that the Cybermen intend to send a hypnotic signal through the devices produced by International Electromatics, which will incapacitate the world's population and nullify resistance. In the nick of time the Doctor is able to protect his companions and their UNIT allies with specially-made depolarizers that neutralize the Cybermen's signal. As the Cybermen take over, the Brigadier arranges for the Doctor and company to be transported to UNIT headquarters in Geneva to help battle the invasion.\n\nAfter completing production on more depolarizers, the Doctor leaves to confront Vaughn in London whilst UNIT works to stop the Cybermen. Uncovering the Russian's plans to launch a rocket at the ship sending the signals, Turner leads a squadron to assist them whilst Zoe helps the Brigadier predict the Cyberfleet's movements. Using British artillery, they are able to destroy the full fleet, causing the Cybermen to turn on Vaughn and decide to destroy Earth with a megatron bomb. When the Cyber-planner reveals that they no longer need Vaughn, he uses the \"Cerebration Mentor\" Prototype weapon to destroy it. With his plans ruined, Vaughn agrees to thwart the invasion and helps the Doctor locate the homing signal. With UNIT sending troops to help, they are able to defeat the Cybermen guarding the beacon and turn it off, though Vaughn is killed in an ambush. The megatron bomb is destroyed by an anti-missile defense rocket, while the Russian rocket destroys the Cybership broadcasting the hypnotic control signal, ending the invasion.\n\nWith repairs on the circuit completed, the Doctor, Jamie and Zoe return to the TARDIS, accompanied by Isobel and Turner. After finding the ship, the trio bid farewell to the two before dematerializing.\n\nOriginally \"The Invasion\" was going to be a six-part story called \"Return of the Cybermen\". The character of Professor Travers (who appeared in the two earlier Yeti stories) was to have appeared for a third time, but the decision was made to replace him with Professor Watkins as using him would involve paying Mervyn Haisman and Henry Lincoln (who were against their characters' usage following \"The Dominators\"), although Travers is still referenced by name several times. The sequence where Gregory describes UNIT's attack on an IE car and then is subsequently killed by a Cyberman was written into the script after time pressures prevented the production team from filming the car attack on location. (Ian Marter, however, did reinstate the lost car attack scene in his novelisation.)\n\nWendy Padbury does not appear in episode 3, as she was on holiday. Frazer Hines was on a scheduled break during the last episode but did appear in a pre-recorded film insert at the conclusion.\n\nAccording to Frazer Hines in an interview on the audio CD of \"The Invasion\", Sally Faulkner's skirt kept getting blown up around her neck whilst climbing up the rope ladder to the helicopter. To avoid the same thing happening to his kilt, he remembered reading somewhere that The Queen had lead weights sewn into the hem of her skirt to stop this from happening to her. It so happened that Frazer's dresser was a keen fisherman, who sewed some lead weights into his kilt.\n\nThis was one of the first Doctor Who serials in which scenes were recorded out of order. This was due to the then-improved videotape editing technology.\n\nDue to director Douglas Camfield's refusal to use regular composer Dudley Simpson, Don Harper was hired to do the music for this serial. It would be Harper's only work with \"Doctor Who\".\n\nKevin Stoney previously played Mavic Chen in \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" (1965–66) and would later play Tyrum in \"Revenge of the Cybermen\" (1975). Peter Halliday, who plays Packer, also supplied the voice of the Cyber-Director in all eight episodes of the serial, in addition to the Cybermen voices in the last four episodes. In addition, Halliday went on to do several other roles (both voice and acting) in several later serials in the series. Edward Burnham also portrays Professor Kettlewell in the Tom Baker serial, \"Robot\" (1974–75). Clifford Earl previously played the station sergeant in \"The Daleks' Master Plan\". Sheila Dunn previously played Blossom Lefavre in \"The Daleks' Master Plan\" and would later play Petra Williams in \"Inferno\". Sally Faulkner later played Miss Tremayne in the audio play \"Winter for the Adept\". Ian Fairbairn had previously played Questa in \"The Macra Terror\" (1967) and would later played Bromley in \"Inferno\" (1970) and Doctor Chester in \"The Seeds of Doom\" (1976), both stories directed by Camfield.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995) noted that the serial \"shows the advantages of recognisable Earth settings\" and described it as \"an all action romp\". In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker wrote that \"The Invasion\" was \"one of the very best stories to feature the Cybermen\", with praise for Stoney's Tobias Vaughn. In 2009, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" wrote that the story was plotted with \"scarcely a dull moment\", with the first four episodes \"grippingly plotted\" to lead up to the cliffhanger of the Cybermen. Mulkern also praised the dynamic and characters of the Doctor, Jamie, and Zoe, as well as Tobias Vaughn. \"The A.V. Club\" reviewer Christopher Bahn said that the story's length allowed for \"an awful lot of contrivance, drawn-out scenes, and running back and forth between locations with one group of characters just missing the other group\", but it still remained enjoyable, especially because of Stoney's performance. He also noted that \"there's a tendency in this story to cut corners, sometimes forgivably and sometimes not\". Ultimately, Bahn felt that the story was more about Vaughn than the Cybermen and, like Mulkern, highlighted Zoe's character. DVD Talk's Stuart Galbraith gave \"The Invasion\" a rating of three and a half stars out of five, noting that it borrowed from other science fiction tales and could have been shorter, but ultimately was entertaining and delivered an \"atmospheric tale full of dread and high-tension suspense\". In 2013, Ben Lawrence of \"The Daily Telegraph\" named \"The Invasion\" as one of the top ten \"Doctor Who\" stories set in the contemporary time.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Ian Marter, was published by Target Books in May 1985. The novelisation restores material cut from the original shooting scripts including the UNIT raid to rescue Professor Watkins and Vaughn convincing Routledge to shoot himself. In this novel the Russian Air Base is named as Nikortny, a punning tribute to actor Nicholas Courtney.\n\nAs with many serials from the Troughton era, a complete version of \"The Invasion\" does not exist in the BBC's archives, as Episodes 1 and 4 were lost. However, their soundtracks survive, recorded off-air by fans at home.\n\nThe soundtracks for \"The Invasion\" and \"The Tenth Planet\" along with a bonus disc, \"The Origins of the Cybermen\", an audio essay by David Banks, were released in a collector's tin called \"Doctor Who: Cybermen\".\n\nThe story was released on BBC Video in 1993, with the missing Episodes 1 and 4 summarised on-screen by Nicholas Courtney.\n\nIn June 2006, the BBC announced that the animation studio Cosgrove Hall, who previously created the webcast \"Scream of the Shalka\", had produced full-length animated versions of the two missing episodes. These episodes, along with newly remastered copies of the rest of the serial, were released on DVD on 6 November 2006.\n\nA re-recording of Don Harper's score for \"The Invasion\" was released 6 June 2014 on LP and 17 June 2014 on CD by Dual Planet on LP and CD under the title \"Cold Worlds\". Also included on the release are tracks by Harper used in \"Dawn of the Dead\", and a 1973 recording of the Doctor Who theme music by Harper.\n\nTwo of Harper's original tracks (\"The Dark Side of the Moon\" and \"The Company\") were included on the 4-disc edition of the album \"\", with the 11-disc edition containing an additional two (\"Brigadier-Lethbridge Stewart\" and \"Mysteries\"). The complete original score, including unused cues and Radiophonic effects by Brian Hodgson, will be released on CD and LP in 2018. The complete original soundtrack was released on 14 September 2018. including Radiophonic effects by Brian Hodgson. It will also be released on LP 28 September 2018, omitting some effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101432", "title": "Radek Štěpánek", "text": "Radek Štěpánek\n\nRadek Štěpánek (; born 27 November 1978) is a retired professional tennis player from the Czech Republic. His career-high singles ranking was world No. 8 and best doubles ranking was world No. 4. Štěpánek's biggest achievements are reaching two Masters 1000 event finals and the quarterfinals of Wimbledon in 2006, as well as winning the deciding match for Czech Republic's Davis Cup winning team in 2012 and again in 2013. In doubles, he won his first Grand Slam title at the 2012 Australian Open, along with Indian partner Leander Paes, defeating the Bryan Brothers in the final. Paes and Štěpánek also won the men's doubles title at the 2013 US Open, defeating Bruno Soares and Alexander Peya in the final. In November 2017, he became a coach of Novak Djokovic and in May 2019, he joined Andre Agassi as part of Grigor Dimitrov's coaching staff. \n\nBorn in Karviná, Moravia-Silesia, Štěpánek began playing tennis at age three with his father Vlastimil, who was a tennis coach.\nŠtěpánek's brother is a policeman and his mother a librarian. His cousin is Jaromír Blažek, who represented the Czech Republic as a football goalkeeper. Štěpánek grew up admiring Czech tennis player Ivan Lendl, particularly noting \"he was the one who brought professionalism to the sport with his conditioning.\"\n\nŠtěpánek turned professional in 1996. He started on tour as a doubles specialist, winning 12 ATP titles. Since 2002, Štěpánek has focused on being a better singles player while still playing top-level doubles. He is known for his after-the-shot grunting, his over-the-top celebrations and his many relationships with WTA players.\n\nŠtěpánek first came to mainstream notice when he defeated former World No. 1 Gustavo Kuerten in five sets on his way to the third round of the 2003 Australian Open.\n\n2006 was Štěpánek's best year to date; he found himself on the verge of getting into the top ten of ATP rankings, as he defeated José Acasuso in the semi-finals of the Masters Series event in Hamburg. He went on to lose the final in straight sets against Spain's Tommy Robredo. At that point, he achieved a career-high ATP world ranking of No. 11 in singles.\n\nEarlier in 2006, he won his first ATP singles title, beating Christophe Rochus in Rotterdam, but he had yet to progress beyond the third round of a Grand Slam tournament until he got into the quarter-finals at Wimbledon beating Frank Dancevic, Xavier Malisse, Juan Carlos Ferrero and Fernando Verdasco, before he was eliminated by 34-year-old Jonas Björkman, after holding match point at 7–6 in the fourth-set tie-break.\n\nThis performance helped Štěpánek break into the top 10 and achieve his highest world ranking of no. 8. However, after Wimbledon, Štěpánek was out of action for the rest of the year due to a chronic neck injury.\n\nIn the second round of the 2007 US Open, Štěpánek played a match against third seed Novak Djokovic, which he ended up losing after 4 hours and 44 minutes of play in a fifth-set tiebreak.\n\nEarlier in 2007, he won his second ATP singles title, beating James Blake in Los Angeles in three sets.\n\nIn 2008, he achieved some good results such as reaching the final in San Jose, but losing to Andy Roddick. He also made it to the semifinals in the Rome Masters, losing to Novak Djokovic after he retired due to heat exhaustion. In the 2008 Summer Olympics, he lost to Michaël Llodra in the first round in three sets. Štěpánek finished the season ranked no. 27, but attended the year-end Masters Cup as an alternate. He was vacationing in Thailand and so was able to come to the tournament held in Shanghai without delay. Since he did not have his own tennis gear which got stuck in customs (they were sent from home), he had to borrow a racquet from Novak Djokovic and socks from Andy Murray. After Andy Roddick pulled out due to injury before his second match, Štěpánek entered the tournament with two round-robin ties to play against Roger Federer and Gilles Simon. He gave the second seed Federer a tough match, but lost. He was beaten comprehensively by Simon.\n\nŠtěpánek started his 2009 season at the Brisbane International with a new Bosworth racquet, where he claimed his third ATP title after coming back from a set down to defeat Fernando Verdasco in the final. Then, at the Australian Open, he made it to the third round and was overpowered by Verdasco in straight sets.\n\nAt the SAP Open in San Jose, he won his fourth ATP singles title, beating American Mardy Fish in a three-set final. He also snapped a four-match losing streak in the tournament against Andy Roddick, upsetting him in the semifinals. He also captured the doubles title teaming up with German Tommy Haas, making it his first time to win the singles and doubles titles at the same tournament.\n\nIn the Davis Cup first round tie against France, he lost his opening match to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in straight sets. However, he regained his confidence and won the doubles rubber the next day and his second singles match against Gilles Simon in straight sets to give the Czech Republic a berth in the quarterfinals. Then, in the Davis Cup quarterfinals, he won the deciding fifth rubber to lead his country to the semifinals. In the semifinals, Štěpánek battled Ivo Karlović to victory in a marathon opener in which the 82 games played equalled the highest number in a Davis Cup rubber since the introduction of the tiebreak in 1989.\nIn that match, he was aced 78 times, but overall hit more winners, over 170 (including service winners). The match was one of the longest in the history of the Davis Cup, lasting 5 hours and 59 minutes. There were only three breaks of serve in the match.\nIn the finals of the Davis Cup versus Spain, Štěpánek lost to David Ferrer after being two sets up. The Czech Republic lost 5–0 to Spain.\n\nŠtěpánek returned to the Brisbane International to defend his title. He made a second final appearance, but failed to defend the title, losing to Andy Roddick in straight sets. He also teamed up with Tomáš Berdych to reach the doubles quarterfinals, only to lose to eventual champions Jérémy Chardy and Marc Gicquel. Seeded 13th at the 2010 Australian Open, he lost in the first round to Ivo Karlović in five sets.\n\nŠtěpánek began the 2011 season with a third successive appearance at the 2011 Brisbane International, hoping for a third successive finals appearance, despite only being ranked no. 62. For the first round he was drawn against world no. 67, German Tobias Kamke. Despite struggling for the first set, he eventually won, 5–7, 6–1, 6–4, to set up a second-round match against Mardy Fish, the fourth seed in the tournament. Štěpánek blazed through the match, thrashing the world no. 16 Fish, 6–3, 6–1. In the quarterfinals against seventh seed and world no. 37 Florian Mayer, he had a dominant start, leading 5–1 in the first set, before Mayer managed to break his serve. However, he continued his winning streak, emerging victorious, 6–3, 6–3, to place himself in the first semifinal against Robin Söderling, where he lost.\n\nŠtěpánek exited the 2011 French Open in the first round, losing in straight sets to Frenchman Richard Gasquet. He defeated Gaël Monfils in the final of the Legg Mason Tennis Classic.\n\nIn January 2012, Štěpánek won the Australian Open Men's doubles title, partnering Leander Paes. They beat top seeds Bob and Mike Bryan in the final.\n\nIn April 2012, Serbia's Janko Tipsarević defeated him in five sets to level the Davis Cup quarterfinal at 1–1, after a stormy five-hour match.\nTipsarević, Serbia's top player in the absence of world no. 1 Novak Djokovic, saved three match points before securing victory.\nAfter the match, Tipsarević accused Štěpánek of using his middle finger inappropriately during their handshake and calling him a \"stinky bastard\". Štěpánek denied that he did either of these things, and none of the footage taken at the match showed clearly what happened. An online photo of the hands of both players showed Štěpánek's finger folded in, but Štěpánek claims the picture was taken after he was already pulling his hand back. Neither this photo nor footage provided by a Czech TV station conclusively support Tipsarević´s version of the events. Štěpánek later stated that what he actually said to Tipsarević was \"You don't need to cheat\", referring to Tipsarević's winning a point after the ball had bounced twice and erasing a mark before the chair umpire could check whether the ball was in or out.\n\nŠtěpánek and Paes made it to the finals of US Open, this time losing to the Bryan brothers in straight sets.\nOn 7 November 2012, Štěpánek and Leander Paes started off with a win in the ATP world tour tournament.\n\nHe won the Davis Cup together with Tomáš Berdych against Spain playing both singles and doubles. In the Hollywood-script-like final in Prague, Štěpánek won the decisive rubber against Nicolás Almagro, at the time ranked 21 spots above Štěpánek on the ATP ranking ladder, becoming only the second player 30 or older to win a deciding Davis Cup final match in the history of the competition.\n\nŠtěpánek underwent neck surgery on January 21 to relieve pressure where a disc was pressing on a nerve rendering his right hand numb and weak.\nHe recovered well and won US Open in doubles with Leander Paes.\n\nLater in the year, at New York, he won his second major double title, again with Paes. They defeated the top seeds Mike and Bob Bryan in the semifinals, ending their streak of four major titles. Paes and Štěpánek went on to defeat the second seeds Bruno Soares and Alexander Peya in straight sets in the finals.\n\nIn the Davis Cup semifinal, he helped the Czech Republic beat Argentina as he beat Juan Mónaco in the opening singles match and continued to win the doubles with Berdych. In the final against Serbia, he won the doubles and the deciding singles match to defend their title. He became the first person in Davis Cup history to win consecutive live deciding singles rubbers.\n\nŠtěpánek played on the successful Czech Davis Cup that beat the Netherlands at home in the first round and Japan on the road in the quarterfinals.\n\nŠtěpánek then had an impressive run in the AEGON Championships, defeating Mikhail Kukushkin, Bernard Tomic, and then 2013's champion Andy Murray. He then took out Kevin Anderson in the quarterfinals, before losing to the eventual runner-up, Feliciano López.\n\nHe also reached the semifinals in the 250 event in Bogota, Colombia, losing to Ivo Karlović.\n\nThe rest of his singles season was disappointing, and he did not play any singles tournaments after the US Open. In August he brought his ranking up to no. 35.\n\nIn doubles, he reached the quarterfinals in Rome and London, before reaching the semifinals at Wimbledon partnering Leander Paes, where they lost to Vasek Pospisil and Jack Sock, the eventual champions.\n\nIn the first half of the year, Štěpánek played mostly in Challenger events. He lost in the second round of the French Open to Tomáš Berdych.\n\nOn January 30, 2016, Štěpánek and his doubles partner, Daniel Nestor, were defeated by Jamie Murray and Bruno Soares in a three-set match in the 2016 Australian Open final.\n\nAt 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Štěpánek won bronze medal in mixed doubles with partner Lucie Hradecká. They defeated Indian pair of Sania Mirza and Rohan Bopanna.\n\nIn 2017 Stepanek underwent back surgery after the Australian Open. He did not play again and chose to retire in November.\n\nŠtěpánek is noted for being one of the few serve and volley players on the tour. He is known for his resilience at the net as well as his entertaining and at times comedic plays during matches. Štěpánek has a strong and accurate first serve, often reaching up to 210 km/h with it. Like most serve and volley players, Štěpánek's second serve is slower, but has a great amount of top-spin, giving him time to come up to the net. On his serve, Štěpánek often immediately comes up to the net and volleys, finishing off points quickly. His net play is considered one of the best on the tour. He is known for his reach and anticipation at the net, which allows him to put away would-be passing shots at the net as well as engage in volley-to-volley exchanges, often coming out on top.\n\nHowever, unlike most serve and volley players, Štěpánek usually does not employ a Chip and charge form of play when receiving. Instead, he engages in baseline rallies. His groundstrokes are not exceptionally powerful, but are consistent and accurate on both wings, allowing him to maintain solid ground at the baseline. If caught up too long in a baseline rally, however, Štěpánek will often place a deep, accurate groundstroke or a drop-shot and come up to the net to volley, finishing off the point quickly. He is often more willing to use a slice than his double-handed backhand.\n\nOne of the signature characteristics of Štěpánek is his comedic and entertaining play. Due to the fact that he comes up to the net a lot, he often employs unconventional shots, as well as the occasional trick shot.\n\nŠtěpánek was engaged to Swiss tennis star Martina Hingis, but they split up in August 2007. He married former top-ten Czech tennis player Nicole Vaidišová in 2010. They separated in 2013. For several months, he dated Czech Wimbledon Champion Petra Kvitová. They split in April 2014. In 2018, he married Vaidišová again, and they have a daughter.\n\nŠtěpánek is coached by former Australian Open champion Petr Korda. He endorses ALEA clothing and Nike shoes and was sponsored by Bosworth racquets but later was seen also using Head racquets.\n\nCzech football goalkeeper Jaromír Blažek is his cousin.\n\n\"As of 2017 Australian Open.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101436", "title": "Dudy Noble Field, Polk–DeMent Stadium", "text": "Dudy Noble Field, Polk–DeMent Stadium\n\nDudy Noble Field at Polk-Dement Stadium is a baseball park on the campus of Mississippi State University, just outside the city limits of Starkville, Mississippi. It is home of the Mississippi State Bulldogs baseball team. DNF-PDS has been the setting of Southeastern Conference tournaments, NCAA Regional and Super Regional Championships, and it holds the current NCAA on-campus single-game attendance record at 15,586. It is known for the Left Field Lounge.\n\nMississippi State has been playing baseball at the present stadium site for 50 years, dating back to April 3, 1967 and a 5–3 Mississippi State win over Illinois Wesleyan.\n\nWhat today stands as one of college baseball's top facilities grew in large part from the labors of Tom D'Armi, chief assistant coach to longtime Bulldog skipper Paul Gregory. When the tin-roofed grandstand and bleachers seating more than 2,000 were moved to the stadium's present site in the mid-1960s, it became D'Armi's task to \"build\" the new field. The task of hauling in and leveling top soil, planting and nurturing the turf, building the bullpens, placing signs on the outfield fence and planting the cedar trees beyond the outfield fence, fell to D'Armi. The hard work didn't go unrecognized. The field was subsequently honored by the U.S. Groundskeeper's Association as the nation's best maintained athletic field.\n\nThe facility was constructed on schedule by W.G. Yates & Sons of Philadelphia, Miss.\n\nThe Bulldog Club, MSU's athletic fund-raising body, shouldered a $2 million bonding program to account for the biggest portion of the project, with the remainder financed by alumni and friends through the sale of $1,000, $500 and $250 chairback seats, honorary deeds to plots of Dudy Noble Field turf, and other general donations.\n\nFor the book \"Inside Dudy Noble, A Celebration of Mississippi State Baseball\", MSU alumnus John Grisham wrote an introduction about his time at MSU and in the Left Field Lounge.\n\nThe infield and portions of the adjoining outfield areas have in recent years been resodded, the infield dirt replaced, and the pitcher's mound rebuilt.\n\nThe green padding on the facing of the stadium wall was replaced prior to the 2002 season, and a new flooring material has been installed in both dugouts and the tunnels leading to them. The Bulldog locker room has been completely recarpeted, improved lighting added and new lockers installed, one of many projects funded by the four-year-old MSU Dugout Club.\n\nEarly in the 2004 season a speaker system was added near the concession stand area, while a new state-of-the-art scoreboard/message center was installed in the middle of the season beyond the existing scoreboard.\n\nAlso begun during the final week of the 2004 home season was the installation of wrought iron fencing and gates beneath the grandstand.\n\nAdditional stadium improvements are on the drawing board, all part of Mississippi State's commitment to maintain Dudy Noble Field, Polk–DeMent Stadium as the consummate collegiate ballpark for players and spectators alike.\n\nIn 2007 Dudy Noble held the largest crowd in super regional history of 13,715 in a victory over the Clemson Tigers that sent the Bulldogs to the College World Series in Omaha, NE.\n\nFollowing the 2008 Season, a new larger Hi-Def video board replaced the 4-year old smaller screen along with a covering for the back of the scoreboard which displays the current year's baseball schedule. Planned renovations for the summer of 2009 include replacing all the out-dated drainage and pump systems below the field and all grass on the field.\n\nIn March 2013, Dudy Noble debuted a new mobile concessions ordering service — dawgsnax.com — with in-seat food delivery for fans in the grandstand seating area.\n\nIn 2017, Dudy Noble was mostly leveled to make way for an all-new Dudy Noble Field scheduled to be completed by the 2019 season. The 2018 season will be played at 3/4 capacity as the upper level will not be complete.\n\nThe Left Field Lounge is the area beyond the outfield fence. It is unique in college baseball, and has enabled the grounds to be named the \"#1 place to watch college baseball\" and among the \"100 things you gotta do before you graduate\" by \"Sports Illustrated\". In 2009 the lounge was named \"the country's best tailgating experience\" (among all sports venues) by \"ESPN Magazine\".\n\nDudy Noble Field has hosted four SEC tournaments (1979, 1981, 1983, and 1988), one SEC Western Division Tournament (1995), two NCAA District III tournaments (1973 and 1974), 14 NCAA Regional tournaments (1979, 1984, 1985, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1992, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2013, 2016, and 2019), and 3 Super Regionals (2007, 2016, and 2019.)\n\nSEC weekend games typically draw the largest crowds, giving rise to huge weekend gatherings. Mississippi State currently holds the NCAA record for the largest single game on-campus baseball attendance at 15,586 and the largest SEC crowd for a 3-game weekend series at 39,181. In 2007 versus the Clemson Tigers, MSU had the NCAA's top two all-time highest attended Super Regional games with 12,620 and 13,715 fans.\n\nMississippi State has 15 of the top 16 on-campus crowds in the history of college baseball. Overall, DNF-PDS has held 19 crowds over 12,000 and 54 crowds over 10,000.\n\nIn 2013, the Bulldogs ranked 4th among Division I baseball programs in attendance, averaging 7,617 per home game.\n\nIn 2012, college baseball writer Eric Sorenson ranked the stadium as the best big game atmosphere in Division I baseball.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101440", "title": "Arun Jaitley Stadium", "text": "Arun Jaitley Stadium\n\nArun Jaitley Stadium (, ) is a cricket stadium located at Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi. Established in 1883 as the Feroz Shah Kotla Ground (being near the Kotla fort), it is the second oldest international cricket stadium still functional in India, after the Eden Gardens in Kolkata. As a matter of felicitation, the DDCA named four stands of the stadium after former India captain Bishan Singh Bedi, former India all-rounder Mohinder Amarnath, former India opener and Delhi ranji player Gautam Gambhir and current captain Virat Kohli. It was also decided to name the home team's dressing room after Raman Lamba and the opposition's dressing room after Prakash Bhandari.\n\nAs of 2016, the India national cricket team has been undefeated for over 28 years in Test matches and for over 10 years in ODI matches at this ground.\n\nFormerly Sunil Gavaskar hit his 29th test ton in this ground to equal Don Bradman's then record tally of 29 centuries. The ground is also known for Anil Kumble's 10 wickets in an innings against Pakistan and Sachin Tendulkar's 35th test ton to overcome Gavaskar to become the batsman with the most international Test centuries. As of 25 October 2019 it has hosted 34 Tests, 25 ODIs and 6 T20I.\n\nOn 12 September 2019, the stadium was renamed in memory of former Finance Minister and former DDCA President Arun Jaitley. The decision to name the stadium after the politician, who was once the president of DDCA and also the vice-president of the BCCI came after he died on 24 August 2019. Speaking on the name change, current DDCA president Rajat Sharma said: \"It was Arun Jaitley's support and encouragement that players like Virat Kohli, Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir, Ashish Nehra, Rishabh Pant and many others could make India proud.\"\n\nAfter announcing the name change, DDCA put out a clarification stating the stadium is only being renamed but the ground will be still called \"Feroz Shah Kotla Ground\".\n\nThe first Test match at this venue was played on 10 November 1948 when India took on the West Indies. It is owned and operated by the DDCA (Delhi District Cricket Association).\n\nIn 1952, playing against Pakistan, Hemu Adhikari and Ghulam Ahmed were involved in a record tenth wicket stand of 111 runs – a record that still stands. In 1965, S Venkataraghavan, in his debut series, demolished the New Zealand line up with figures of 8 for 72 and 4 for 80. In 1969–70, Bishen Singh Bedi and Erapalli Prasanna combined to spin India to a famous seven wicket win over Australia, the duo picking 18 wickets between themselves.\nIn 1981, Geoff Boycott surpassed Gary Sobers' world record test aggregate.\n\nIn 1983–84, Sunil Gavaskar scored his 29th century to equal Don Bradman's long standing record for the highest number of hundreds in Test cricket. In 1999–2000, in a match against Pakistan, Anil Kumble took 10 for 74 in fourth inning of a Test Match and became the second person to take 10 wickets in an innings after Jim Laker. In 2005–06, at the same ground, Sachin Tendulkar broke Gavaskar's record of most centuries with his 35th Test century.\n\nOn 27 December 2009, an ODI match between India and Sri Lanka was called off because pitch conditions were classed as unfit to host a match. Based on match referee's report of the match, the ground was banned by ICC for 12 months and returned as one of the venues for the 2011 Cricket World Cup.\n\nSince 2008 the stadium has been the home venue of the Delhi Capitals (formerly Delhi Daredevils) of the Indian Premier League.\n\nDuring the second day of third test of Sri Lankan cricket team in India in 2017-18 at Delhi, smog forced Sri Lanka cricketers to stop play and wear anti-pollution masks, a rare sight in terms of play interruptions. Cricketer Lahiru Gamage reported to have shortness of breath. Nic Pothas, coach of Sri Lankan cricket team, reported that cricketer Suranga Lakmal had vomited regularly due to severe pollution effect on the Delhi ground. There was a haltage of play between 12:32pm to 12:49pm, which caused Indian coach Ravi Shastri to come out to consult with the on-field umpires. BCCI president C. K. Khanna accused the Sri Lankan team of making fuss while Indian spectators called the team \"melodramatic\". On day 4, India's Mohammed Shami was also seen vomiting on the field.\n\nFollowing the match, both participating countries criticised the choice to play the Test in Delhi with the high levels of pollution. The Sri Lanka manager Asanka Gurusinha said that both teams were using oxygen cylinders in their dressing rooms due to breathing difficulties, and suggested the use of air-quality meters in future fixtures. President of the Indian Medical Association, KK Agarwal, said that playing in such conditions could result in lung and heart disease, and recommended the inclusion of atmospheric pollution as a factor in the assessment criteria for a match.\n\nThe DDCA announced on 27 August 2019 that the Feroz Shah Kotla Ground would be renamed as Arun Jaitely Stadium, in honour of the late Union Minister and former DDCA President Arun Jaitley, Interestingly the ground would retain the name of Feroze Shah Kotla Ground. Jaitley was credited with turning the stadium into a modern facility, increasing its seating capacity and building better facilities for players during his tenure as DDCA President. The stadium was officially renamed at a function that took place on 12 September 2019. One of the stands of the stadium was named after Indian captain Virat Kohli on the same date.\n\nIndian cricket team have won 10 test matches here till date out of 18 test matches.(Matches which have loss or win)\n\n\nThe highest test score on this ground is by West Indies, when scored 644–8 in 1959 and 631 all out in 1948. The next highest score was made by India scoring 613–7 in 2008. The most runs scored here is by Dilip Vengsarkar (673 runs), followed by Sunil Gavaskar (668 runs) and Sachin Tendulkar (643 runs). The most wickets taken here is by Anil Kumble (58 wickets), followed by Kapil Dev (32 wickets) and R Ashwin (27 wickets).\n\n\nThis stadium has hosted One Day International (ODI) matches when India hosted the Cricket World Cup in 1987, 1996 and 2011.\n\nThe ground was selected to host matches in the 2016 ICC World Twenty20. Three matches from Group A were scheduled to be played here as well as one semi-final. The first ever Twenty20 International held at the ground was a Group A match between England and Afghanistan.\n\nThe ground hosted a T20I match on 1 November 2017 between India and New Zealand which was the first ever Indian International Twenty-20 at this ground and also the last international match for Ashish Nehra. On the eve of his farewell game, Delhi & District Cricket Association renamed one end of the Feroz Shah Kotla Ground as \"Ashish Nehra End\" and thus Nehra became the second bowler in cricket history, after James Anderson (cricketer), to have bowled from an end named after him.\n\nThe first match of the Bangladesh tour of India 2019–20, the T20I in Delhi, was the 1,000th men's Twenty20 International match was played on 3 November 2019. Bangladesh won the match by seven wickets, to record their first ever victory against India in the format.\n\nRoad: Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg.\n\nDelhi Metro: Delhi Gate metro station.\n\nAir: Indira Gandhi International Airport.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101449", "title": "Courts-martial of the United States", "text": "Courts-martial of the United States\n\nCourts-martial of the United States are trials conducted by the U.S. military or by state militaries. Most commonly, courts-martial are convened to try members of the U.S. military for criminal violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), which is the U.S. military's criminal code. However, they can also be convened for other purposes, including military tribunals and the enforcement of martial law in an occupied territory. Federal courts-martial are governed by the rules of procedure and evidence laid out in the Manual for Courts-Martial, which contains the Rules for Courts-Martial, Military Rules of Evidence, and other guidance. State courts-martial are governed according to the laws of the state concerned. The American Bar Association has issued a Model State Code of Military Justice, which has influenced the relevant laws and procedures in some states.\n\nCourts-martial are adversarial proceedings, as are all United States criminal courts. That is, lawyers representing the government and the accused present the facts, legal aspects, and arguments most favorable to each side; a military judge determines questions of law, and the members of the panel (or military judge in a judge-alone case) determine questions of fact.\n\nState National Guards (air and army), can convene summary and special courts martial for state-level, peacetime military offenses committed by non-federalized Guard Airmen and Soldiers, in the same manner as federal courts martial proceed. The authority for State National Guards to convene courts martial is under Title 32 of the US Code. States that have militaries (State Guards) outside the Federally regulated National Guard convene courts-martial by authority of state laws.\n\nFrom the earliest beginnings of the United States, military commanders have played a central role in the administration of military justice. The American military justice system, derived from its British predecessor, predates the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution. While military justice in the United States has evolved considerably over the years, the convening authority has remained the instrument of selecting a panel for courts-martial.\n\nTribunals for the trial of military offenders have coexisted with the early history of armies. The modern court-martial is deeply rooted in systems that predated written military codes and were designed to bring order and discipline to armed, and sometimes barbarous, fighting forces. Both the ancient Greeks and the Romans had military justice codes, although no written versions of them survive. Moreover, nearly every form of military tribunal included a trial before a panel or members of some type.\n\nThe concept of the American military court-martial was derived from the Court of Chivalry in England and the military code of Sweden's King Gustavus Adolphus. These courts both strove to strike a balance between the demands of good order and discipline and the concept of due process. This, in turn, laid a foundation for modern systems of military justice that strive to do the same. The Court of Chivalry had a direct impact on the British Articles of War. The early British Articles of War reflected a concern for due process and panel member composition.\n\nWhen war broke out between the American Colonists and the British in 1775, the British were operating under the 1765 edition of the Articles of War. This version would serve as the template for military justice in the Continental Army. When the United States declared independence and fought the Revolutionary War, \"it had a ready-made military justice system.\" Despite the Colonists' dissatisfaction with the British, they still recognized the intrinsic value of the British military justice system in providing good order and discipline to its own armed forces. \n\nThe 1765 British Articles of War were the template for the American military justice system. Accordingly, a general court-martial panel consisted of thirteen commissioned officers selected by a convening authority, with a field grade officer as president. A regimental court-martial consisted of five commissioned officers selected by the regimental commander; however, unlike the British equivalent, the regimental commander could not sit as president. Further, the Continental Congress broke away from the British system in an even more significant way: the American Articles of War were created by a legislative enactment and not by an executive order. Thus, in the American system, the legislature undertook the government of the armed forces from the beginning—military justice was not going to be left to the executive. Second, Congress demonstrated its flexibility and willingness to change the Articles as necessary. The top military lawyer, Colonel William Tudor, informed Congress that the Articles were in need of revision. Congress would go on to revise the Articles several times to reflect the realities of a small military force. Nonetheless, the commander retained his role in the administration of justice.\n\nUntil 1916, a service-member accused in a general court-martial did not have a right to a defense counsel. The service member could, however, request a defense counsel or pay for one. A judge advocate, prior to 1916 had a three-fold duty. To prosecute the case, to ensure that the accused soldier’s or sailor’s rights were protected – including making sure that witnesses favorable to the accused were present – and to advise the court-martial on the law. Until 1969, there was no military trial judge ensuring that an accused’s due process rights were protected. According to University of New Mexico School of Law Professor Joshua E. Kastenberg, there were aspects of a court-martial that exceeded state criminal courts in due process protections, but, there were widespread due process deficits which caused Congress to reevaluate courts-martial in 1920 and 1945-50 respectively.\n\nAfter World War II, concerns from veterans’ organizations and bar associations regarding the military justice system in general, and, in particular, the problem of unlawful command influence of courts-martial, led to substantive Congressional reform. The 81st Congress (1949–51) set out to create a unified system of military justice for all the Federal military services, and appointed a committee chaired by Harvard Law Professor Edmund Morgan to study military justice and draft appropriate legislation. According to Professor Morgan, the task was to draft legislation that would ensure full protection of the rights of individuals without unduly interfering with either military discipline or the exercise of military functions. This would mean a \"complete repudiation of a system of military justice conceived of only as an instrument of command,\" but would also negate \"a system designed to be administered as the criminal law is administered in a civilian criminal court.\" The result was the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)—a code that afforded a measure of due process to service members, while retaining command control over the appointment of court-martial members.\n\nThe next time Congress had formal hearings on the UCMJ was when it passed the Military Justice Act of 1983. In 1999, the Secretary of Defense was required by Congress to study the issue of command selection of panel members. Congress did not take action when the Joint Services Committee (JSC) concluded that the \"current system is most likely to obtain the best members within the operational constraints of the military justice system.\"\n\nIn 2001, the Commission on the 50th Anniversary of the Uniform Code of Military Justice disagreed with the 1999 JSC Report, noting \"there is no aspect of military criminal procedure that diverges further from civilian practice, or creates a greater impression of improper influence than the antiquated process of panel selection.\"\n\nThe Framers of the Constitution were cognizant of the power struggle between Parliament and the King regarding the powers of the military. Many of the Framers were combat veterans from the Continental Army and understood the demands of military life and the need for a well-disciplined fighting force. The solution to the government of the armed forces was a classic balancing of constitutional interests and powers. They assured that Congress—with its responsiveness to the population, its fact-finding ability, and its collective deliberative processes—would provide for the government of the armed forces.\n\nThe Framers of the Constitution had a great respect for the value of separation of powers. One of the primary goals of the Constitutional Convention, in remedying the defects of the Articles of Confederation, was to create a government in which separate branches of power served as a check and balance against the other. Principles of separation of powers also applied to the military. The Framers vested power in the executive and legislative branches, but left the judiciary with only a collateral role in governing the armed forces.\n\nBy distributing power over the armed forces between the legislative and executive branches, the Framers \"avoided much of the political-military power struggle which typified so much of the early history of the British court-martial system.\" Moreover, the Framers made it clear that while the command of the military lie with the executive, the military would be governed and regulated according to the law handed down by the legislative branch. Therefore, the government of the armed forces would always reflect the will of the people as expressed through their representatives in Congress.\n\nAfter ratification of the Constitution in 1789, the First Congress undertook legislative action to provide for the government and regulation of the armed forces of the United States. On September 29, 1789, the Congress expressly adopted the Articles of War that were currently in place for the Continental Army. It can thus be said that Congress continued the court-martial as previously established, and \"the court-martial is perceived to be in fact older than the Constitution, and therefore older than any court of the United States instituted or authorized by that instrument.\"\n\nThe Framers consciously placed the power to regulate courts-martial and set military law in the legislative branch of the government. The First Congress and the Framers were also cognizant of the age and history of the court-martial with commander involvement, as well as the customs and traditions that pertained to it. In 1969, the Supreme Court in O’Callahan v. Parker, stripped the military of much of the jurisdiction that Congress had enabled in the UCMJ. However, by 1987, the Supreme Court reversed course and accepted that \n\nUntil 1950, the federal courts operated on the strict habeas test where often the sole question considered by the court was whether the military possessed personal jurisdiction over the soldier or sailor on trial. That is, the courts did not review whether the military had complied with due process. Beginning in the 1950s, the federal courts gradually accepted appeals based on claims of a denial of due process.\n\nThere are three types of federal courts-martial—summary, special, and general. A conviction at a general court-martial is equivalent to a civilian felony conviction in a federal district court or a state criminal trial court. Special courts-martial are considered \"federal misdemeanor courts\" akin to misdemeanor state courts, because they cannot impose confinement longer than one year. Summary courts-martial have no civilian equivalent, other than perhaps to noncriminal magistrate's proceedings, in that they have been declared by the US Supreme Court to be administrative in nature, because there is no right to counsel; though, as a benefit, the Air Force provides such to Airmen so charged. Enlisted personnel must consent to a trial by summary court-martial and commissioned officers may not be tried in such proceedings. A summary court conviction is legally deemed to be akin to an Article 15 proceeding.\n\nTrial by summary court-martial provides a simple procedure for resolution of charges of relatively minor misconduct committed by enlisted members of the military. Officers may not be tried by summary court-martial. The enlisted accused must consent to be tried by summary court-martial, and if consent is not provided then the command may dispose of the allegation through other means, including directing that the case be tried before a special or general court-martial.\n\nThe summary court-martial consists of one individual, who is not a military attorney, but still functions as judge and acts as the sole finder of fact. The maximum punishment at a summary court-martial varies with the accused's paygrade. If the accused is in the pay grade of E-4 or below, he or she can be sentenced to 30 days of confinement, reduction to pay grade E-1, or restriction for 60 days. Punishments for service members in pay grades E-5 and higher (i.e.., sergeant in the Army or Marine Corps, petty officer 2nd Class in the Navy or Coast Guard) are similar, except that they can only be reduced one pay grade and cannot be confined.\n\nAn accused before a summary court-martial is not entitled to receive legal representation from military defense counsel. However, while not required by law, some services, such as the United States Air Force, provide the accused at a trial by summary court-martial free military counsel as a matter of policy. If the government chooses not to provide free military defense counsel to the accused, then that person may retain civilian counsel to represent them, at their own expense.\n\nA special court-martial is the intermediate court level. It consists of a military judge, trial counsel (prosecutor), defense counsel, and a minimum of three officers sitting as a panel of court members (a jury). The military judge may detail a military magistrate to preside over the proceedings. An enlisted accused may request a court composed of at least one-third enlisted personnel. A special court-martial may instead consist of a judge alone if requested by the accused or it the convening authority decides so. An accused before a special court-martial is entitled to free legal representation by military defense counsel, and can also retain civilian counsel at his or her expense.\n\nRegardless of the offenses involved, a special court-martial sentence is limited to no more than forfeiture of two-thirds basic pay per month for one year, and additionally for enlisted personnel, one year confinement (or a lesser amount if the offenses have a lower maximum), and/or a bad-conduct discharge; if trial is by military judge alone, this is further reduced to a maximum of confinement for six months and/or forfeiture of pay for more than six months, and no discharge is available.\n\nA general court-martial is the highest court level. It consists of a military judge, trial counsel (prosecutor), defense counsel, and a minimum of five officers sitting as a panel of court-martial members. An enlisted accused may request a court composed of at least one-third enlisted personnel. An accused may also request trial by judge alone.\n\nIn a general court-martial, the maximum punishment is that set for each offense under the \"Manual for Courts-Martial\" (MCM), and may include death for certain offenses, confinement, a dishonorable or bad conduct discharge for enlisted personnel, a dismissal for officers, or a number of other forms of punishment. A general court-martial is the only forum that may adjudge a sentence to death.\n\nBefore a case goes to a general court-martial, a pretrial investigation under Article 32 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice must be conducted, unless waived by the accused; this is the equivalent to a civilian grand jury process. An accused before a general court-martial is entitled to free legal representation by military defense counsel, and can also retain civilian counsel at his or her expense.\n\nUnder Article 10 of the UCMJ, \"immediate steps\" should be taken to bring the accused to trial. Although there is currently no upper time limit on detention before trial, Rule 707 of the Manual for Courts-Martial prescribes a general maximum of 120 days for \"speedy trial\". Under Article 13, punishment other than arrest or confinement is prohibited before trial, and confinement should be no more rigorous than is required to ensure the accused's presence at trial. In UCMJ parlance, \"arrest\" refers to a physical restriction to specified geographic limits. \"Apprehension\", in United States military law, is what would normally be called an arrest in most legal systems.\n\nUnder Article 25 of the UCMJ, members of the court are selected from members of the armed forces by the convening authority.\n\nAlthough the Founding Fathers of the United States guaranteed American citizens the right of a jury trial both in the text of the Constitution and in the Bill of Rights, they determined that Congress would establish the rules for disciplining the armed forces. From the beginning, Congress has retained the long-standing practice whereby, contrary to the principle of random jury selection, the convening authority personally selects the members of a court-martial panel. Whether this practice is conducive to fair process has been the subject of critical investigation.\n\nA court-martial has always been an ad hoc tribunal created and appointed by the order of a commanding officer, as the convening authority. The tribunal is established with the express purpose of considering a set of charges that the commander has referred to the court. The convening Authority considers the statutory prescription offered by the United States Congress, those \"best qualified,\" in selecting the \"panel\" or jury for the court-martial. In turn, the members of the court-martial, who are generally under the command of the convening authority, take an oath to \"faithfully and impartially try, according to the evidence, their conscience, and the laws applicable to trial by court-martial, the case of the accused.\" By their oath, the panel members expressly agree to leave behind any influence from the commander who appointed them. In cases where the accused is an enlisted member, the accused may request that enlisted service members be appointed to the panel.\n\nThe appointed or retained defense attorney may challenge both the military judge and members of the panel for cause. However, the military judge determines the relevance and validity of any challenge. The prosecution and defense initially possess one peremptory challenge to members of the court-martial. The accused may also challenge a member of the panel for cause \"at any other time during trial when it becomes apparent that a ground for challenge exists.\" The UCMJ prohibits a convening authority from unlawfully influencing the court. A defense attorney may bring a motion to challenge the validity of the court-martial where it appears that a convening authority has unlawfully influenced court-martial members.\n\nAt a trial by court-martial, the accused service member is presumed innocent and the government bears the burden of proving his or her guilt, by legal and competent evidence, beyond a reasonable doubt. Reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the accused must be resolved in favor of the accused. In other words, an accused service member must be \"given the benefit of the doubt.\" If the accused is charged with an offense that carries a mandatory sentence to death, then a conviction on that allegation requires all of the court-martial members to vote \"guilty.\" Otherwise, for all other offenses, a conviction requires a two-thirds majority of the court-martial members to vote \"guilty.\" If an accused service member elects to be tried by a military judge sitting alone, rather than by a panel of court-martial members, then the military judge will determine guilt.\n\nSentencing in a trial by court-martial is carried out by the same forum that adjudicated guilt. In other words, if an accused service member elects to have court-martial members determine his or her guilt, those same court-martial members will adjudge a sentence upon a conviction. If an accused service member elects to be tried by military judge sitting alone, then that military judge will sentence the accused if a conviction results. A sentence to death requires trial by court-martial members and all the members must unanimously concur in that sentence. A sentence to more than ten years of confinement may be adjudged in a trial by military judge sitting alone, or if the accused elects to be tried by members, then by the concurrence of three-fourths of the court-martial members. Any lesser sentence may be adjudged in a trial by military judge sitting alone, or if the accused elects to be tried by members, then by the concurrence of two-thirds of the court-martial members.\n\nThere are procedures for post-trial review in every case, although the extent of those appellate rights depends upon the punishment imposed by the court and approved by the convening authority. Cases involving a punitive discharge, dismissal, confinement for one year or more, or death will undergo automatic review by the appropriate military Court of Criminal Appeals. Further review is possible to the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.\n\nIn every case resulting in conviction, the convening authority (usually the same commander who ordered the trial to proceed and selected the members of the court-martial) must review the case and decide whether to approve the findings and sentence. Prior to 24 June 2014, federal law provided that a convening authority's discretion to modify a finding or sentence to the benefit of a convicted servicemember was a matter of command prerogative, and was final. Following 24 June 2014, the convening authority's right to grant a convicted service member relief has been significantly curtailed.\n\nAfter 24 June 2014, convening authorities may not dismiss or reduce a conviction to one for a lesser offense unless the maximum possible sentence of confinement listed for the offense in the Manual for Courts-Martial is two years or less, \"and\" the sentence actually adjudged did not include a dismissal, dishonorable discharge, bad conduct discharge, or confinement for more than six months. Further, the convening authority may not dismiss or reduce a conviction for rape, sexual assault, rape or sexual assault of a child, or forcible sodomy, regardless of the sentence actually adjudged at trial.\n\nFurther, after 24 June 2014, convening authorities may not disapprove, commute, or suspend an adjudged sentence, in whole or in part, an adjudged sentence to be dismissed, dishonorably discharged, to receive a bad conduct discharge, or to serve more than six months of confinement. Exceptions to this limitation on the power to reduce those types of punishments exist for when the convicted service member enters into a pretrial agreement to plead guilty in return for having any adjudged dishonorable discharge reduced to a bad conduct discharge, or when the convicted service member provides \"substantial assistance\" to the investigation or prosecution of another person.\n\nAfter a conviction has been reviewed by the convening authority, if the sentence includes death, dismissal, a dishonorable discharge, a bad conduct discharge, or confinement for a year or more, then the case is reviewed by the appropriate service Court of Criminal Appeals. In cases where the sentence is not sufficiently severe, there is no right to appeallate review. The four service Courts of Criminal Appeals are:\n\n\nThe service courts of criminal appeals have the power to reverse convictions that are either legally or factually insufficient, and to reduce sentences that they deem to be inappropriately severe. The power to determine factual sufficiency is a unique power for an appellate court to possess, and in exercising that authority the courts of criminal appeals may separately weigh the evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses, and determine controverted questions of fact, even though only the trial court saw and heard the witnesses. The accused will be assigned an appellate defense counsel to represent him on appeal free of charge. Civilian counsel may be retained at the accused's own expense.\n\nFrom the service court of criminal appeals, a service member, if sentenced to either death, dismissal, dishonorable discharge, bad conduct discharge, or more than a year confinement, may also petition the United States' highest military court—the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (CAAF). This court consists of 5 civilian judges, appointed for a fifteen-year term, and it can correct any legal error it may find. Appellate defense counsel will also be available to assist the accused at no charge. Again, the accused can also be represented by civilian counsel, but at his or her own expense. Review by the CAAF is discretionary and a limited number of cases are reviewed each year. For the fiscal year beginning on October 1, 2012 and ending on September 30, 2013, CAAF received 964 cumulative filings and disposed of 900 cases. Of these 900 cases, 39 were disposed of by signed or per curiam opinions and 861 were disposed by memorandum or order.\n\nAs a final measure of appeal, a convicted service member may also petition the President of the United States for a reprieve or pardon under the Constitutional authority granted in Article II, .\n\nAs noted above, the federal courts had been historically reticent to grant appeals in courts-martial. In the 1857 decision, Dynes v. Hoover, the Supreme Court determined that the test for determining whether an Article III court possessed the constitutional authority to review the merits of an appeal from a court-martial rested on the sole question as to whether the court-martial possessed jurisdiction over the person prosecuted in it. As a result, the Army or Navy could deviate from their respective military crimes to the detriment of a service-member and unless the Army, Navy, or a president determined the court-martial had been conducted in error, there was little relief available to the service-member. Professor Kastenberg has pointed out that the Court issued Dynes almost contemporaneously with Dred Scott v. Sanford and there is a relationship between the two decision. The Court, apparently agreed with the arguments of the counsel for the United States, Ransom Hooker Gillet, that the Army's discipline in Kansas was in question as several officers found it appalling that they might have to enforce the Fugitive Slave Act. (Gillet later became a 'copperhead' during the Civil War and accused President Abraham Lincoln of being a tyrant). While one of the purposes for the government's argument in Dynes had been mooted by the Civil War, it remained the law on courts-martial appeals through the 1940.\n\nIt is important to place the Federal court-martial in its context as a legislative (Article I) court. Article III courts do not handle all of the judicial business in the United States. Congress has used its enumerated powers under the Constitution in conjunction with the Necessary and Proper Clause to create specialized tribunals, including courts-martial. Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution says Congress shall have the power \"To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval forces.\"\n\nEven where life and liberty are at stake, legislative courts are not required to grant all of the due process rights that are intrinsic to the Article III courts. The Supreme Court has, instead, only disturbed the statutory due process system of a given legislative court if the question concerns \"fundamental rights.\"\n\nOf all the legislative courts created by Congress, courts-martial have received the most deference from Article III courts. Under a standard of review known as the \"separate community\" or \"military deference\" doctrine, the courts have proclaimed the armed forces to be \"a specialized society separate from civilian society\" with unique needs. The Article III courts will not invalidate the balance reached by Congress as regards the administration of military justice unless the \"fundamental right\" being affected is \"extraordinarily weighty.\"\n\nToday's court-martial system, including command selection of jurors, the lack of unanimity in verdicts, and the allowance of 3 or 5 member panels, has thus far withstood scrutiny. This is perhaps because an accused in a trial by general or special court-martial enjoys significant statutory due process rights, such as:\n\nGiven those statutory rights, the balance that Congress has struck in the administration of justice will not be lightly disturbed by an Article III court.\n\nIn certain limited circumstances, service members have their cases heard by the Supreme Court. Since 2005, various bills have been introduced in Congress to give service members an appeal of their cases to the United States Supreme Court. None of these bills has been enacted, and as of 2010 there is legislation pending.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101450", "title": "Miaow (album)", "text": "Miaow (album)\n\nMiaow is the fourth album by The Beautiful South. It was released in 1994 via GO! Discs.\n\nAs with most Beautiful South albums, the songs were written by Dave Rotheray and Paul Heaton. The songs reflect a depressing period in Heaton's life, and this continues with the follow-up album \"Blue is the Colour\". The best example of this on the album is the opening track \"Hold on to What?\", which could be interpreted as an attack on the ruling classes, this is most evident at the end of the song where Heaton sings \"'Chamberlain had his paper, Jesus had his cross, They held on, We held on to what?' \"\n\nThe songs also led the South's first female singer, Briana Corrigan, to leave the band, after Heaton sent her copies of the songs, including \"Mini-correct\" and \"Worthless Lie\", she swiftly made the decision to leave. Equally swiftly, Heaton employed the then-unknown Jacqui Abbott in her place, who went on to appear on every album up to \"Painting It Red\".\n\nThe cover originally depicted a lot of dogs seated in a music hall with a gramophone on the stage. However, HMV made the band withdraw it as it mocked their trademark dog, and the band put out a second cover, depicting four dogs in a boat. Both paintings were created by Michael Sowa.\n\nIt reached number 6 in the album charts, and had three singles released from it.\nNorman Cook, former band member of The Housemartins with Paul Heaton, is credited in the sleeve notes as doing the \"Programming on Hooligans\" (track 7). The song later appeared on \"The Beautiful Game\", the various artists UEFA Euro 1996 tie-in album.\n\n\nAll songs written by Paul Heaton and Dave Rotheray, except where noted.\n\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums.\n\nfrom the \"Good As Gold\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"Good As Gold\" CD2\n\nfrom the \"Everybody's Talkin'\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"Everybody's Talkin'\" CD2\n\nfrom the \"Prettiest Eyes\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"Prettiest Eyes\" CD2\n\n\nwith:\n"}
{"id": "2101471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101471", "title": "University Ground (University of Lucknow)", "text": "University Ground (University of Lucknow)\n\nThe University Ground () was a test cricket stadium in Lucknow, India. \n\nThe first and the only international Test match was played on 23–26 October 1952 between India and Pakistan. The venue, however, was not as popular as Green Park Stadium in the nearby city of Kanpur which hosted most of the Test matches. \n\nThe stadium lies on the banks of the River Gomti. In 1994, the K.D. Singh Babu Stadium took its place as the city's premier cricket ground. The ground has a seating capacity of 52,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101472", "title": "Sabine Klaschka", "text": "Sabine Klaschka\n\nSabine Klaschka (born 8 August 1980) is a retired German tennis player.\n\nAt the 2005 Wimbledon Championships she beat British number one Elena Baltacha, before she was defeated in the second round by sixth seed Elena Dementieva.\n\nOn 12 September 2005, she reached her all time ranking high of world No. 133.\n\nSabine's younger sister, Carmen, also had been a professional tennis player.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101485", "title": "Beat (acoustics)", "text": "Beat (acoustics)\n\nIn acoustics, a beat is an interference pattern between two sounds of slightly different frequencies, \"perceived\" as a periodic variation in volume whose rate is the difference of the two frequencies.\n\nWith tuning instruments that can produce sustained tones, beats can be readily recognized. Tuning two tones to a unison will present a peculiar effect: when the two tones are close in pitch but not identical, the difference in frequency generates the beating. The volume varies like in a tremolo as the sounds alternately interfere constructively and destructively. As the two tones gradually approach unison, the beating slows down and may become so slow as to be imperceptible. As the two tones get further apart, their beat frequency starts to approach the range of human pitch perception, the beating starts to sound like a note, and a combination tone is produced. This combination tone can also be referred to as a missing fundamental, as the beat frequency of any two tones is equivalent to the frequency of their implied fundamental frequency.\n\nThis phenomenon is best known in acoustics or music, though it can be found in any linear system: \"According to the law of superposition, two tones sounding simultaneously are superimposed in a very simple way: one adds their amplitudes\". If a graph is drawn to show the function corresponding to the total sound of two strings, it can be seen that maxima and minima are no longer constant as when a pure note is played, but change over time: when the two waves are nearly 180 degrees out of phase the maxima of one wave cancel the minima of the other, whereas when they are nearly in phase their maxima sum up, raising the perceived volume.\n\nIt can be proven with the help of a sum-to-product trigonometric identity (see List of trigonometric identities) that the envelope of the maxima and minima form a wave whose frequency is half the difference between the frequencies of the two original waves. Consider two sine waves of unit amplitude:\n\nIf the two original frequencies are quite close (for example, a difference of approximately twelve hertz), the frequency of the cosine of the right side of the expression above, that is , is often too low to be perceived as an audible tone or pitch. Instead, it is perceived as a periodic variation in the amplitude of the first term in the expression above. It can be said that the lower frequency cosine term is an \"envelope\" for the higher frequency one, i.e. that its amplitude is modulated. The frequency of the modulation is , that is, the average of the two frequencies. It can be noted that every second burst in the modulation pattern is inverted. Each peak is replaced by a trough and vice versa. However, because the human ear is not sensitive to the phase of a sound, only its amplitude or intensity, only the magnitude of the envelope is heard. Therefore, subjectively, the frequency of the envelope seems to have twice the frequency of the modulating cosine, which means the audible beat frequency is:\n\nThis can be seen on the adjacent diagram.\nA physical interpretation is that when\nthe two waves are in phase and they interfere constructively. When it is zero, they are out of phase and interfere destructively. Beats occur also in more complex sounds, or in sounds of different volumes, though calculating them mathematically is not so easy.\n\nFor a human ear to hear beat phenomena, the ratio of frequencies should be less than formula_4 or else the brain perceives them as two different frequencies.\n\nBeating can also be heard between notes that are near to, but not exactly, a harmonic interval, due to some harmonic of the first note beating with a harmonic of the second note. For example, in the case of perfect fifth, the third harmonic (i.e. second overtone) of the bass note beats with the second harmonic (first overtone) of the other note. As well as with out-of tune notes, this can also happen with some correctly tuned equal temperament intervals, because of the differences between them and the corresponding just intonation intervals: see Harmonic series (music)#Harmonics and tuning.\n\nA binaural beat is an auditory illusion perceived when two different pure-tone sine waves, both with frequencies lower than 1500 Hz, with less than a 40 Hz difference between them, are presented to a listener dichotically (one through each ear).\n\nFor example, if a 530 Hz pure tone is presented to a subject's right ear, while a 520 Hz pure tone is presented to the subject's left ear, the listener will perceive the auditory illusion of a third tone, in addition to the two pure-tones presented to each ear. The third sound is called a binaural beat, and in this example would have a perceived pitch correlating to a frequency of 10 Hz, that being the difference between the 530 Hz and 520 Hz pure tones presented to each ear.\n\nBinaural-beat perception originates in the inferior colliculus of the midbrain and the superior olivary complex of the brainstem, where auditory signals from each ear are integrated and precipitate electrical impulses along neural pathways through the reticular formation up the midbrain to the thalamus, auditory cortex, and other cortical regions.\n\nSome potential benefits of binaural beats therapy may include: reduced stress, reduced anxiety, increased focus, increased concentration, increased motivation, increased confidence, and deeper meditation. However, research is inconclusive about the clinical benefits of binaural beat therapy, hence it is best not to replace traditional treatments for stress and anxiety with this type of intervention until conclusive evidence is presented. Binaural beat therapy is today (2020) not part of standard care for any condition.\n\nMusicians commonly use interference beats objectively to check tuning at the unison, perfect fifth, or other simple harmonic intervals. Piano and organ tuners even use a method involving counting beats, aiming at a particular number for a specific interval.\n\nThe composer Alvin Lucier has written many pieces that feature interference beats as their main focus. Italian composer Giacinto Scelsi, whose style is grounded on microtonal oscillations of unisons, extensively explored the textural effects of interference beats, particularly in his late works such as the violin solos \"Xnoybis\" (1964) and \"L'âme ailée / L'âme ouverte\" (1973), which feature them prominently (note that Scelsi treated and notated each string of the instrument as a separate part, so that his violin solos are effectively quartets of one-strings, where different strings of the violin may be simultaneously playing the same note with microtonal shifts, so that the interference patterns are generated). Composer Phill Niblock's music is entirely based on beating caused by microtonal differences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101495", "title": "HyperBlade", "text": "HyperBlade\n\nHyperBlade is an action video game, depicting a futuristic sport in a futuristic world. The sport is a mutated version of hockey, played in an egg-shaped arena rather than on a flat field or rink, which is loaded with weapons and deadly traps.\n\nIt was released by Wizbang! Software Productions in collaboration with Activision in 1996 for Windows 95, and serious graphics bugs are common in later operating systems. The game was to be released for the Sony PlayStation and Sega Saturn video game consoles as well, but was canceled months before its release.\n\nBrutality to an extreme is permitted, as advances in medical sciences have prevented once-fatal conditions (such as decapitation) from altering one's life. Each player must avoid the jaks of other players, as well as many arena objects. The players are allowed any enhancement, from steroids to bionic appendages. Each player is in a suit that allows maximum flexibility, strength, and protection, all of which are needed, colored to represent the team they play for. The players have one free gloved right hand, and a bladelike glove called a jak on their left. Players use this blade to pick up mines, swarves, and roks, as well as slash at their opponents (allowed). The primary method of transportation is skating, although jumping is very common to avoid obstacles and players.\n\nHyperBlade is played on a court called a drome, an elliptical dome, each long end with a relatively small goal built into the wall. Many objects litter the drome, each one deadly in its own way. Examples are the turnstile, which one skates through to set spinning, injuring any who travel through it, the laser hurdle, which players must avoid at all costs, and the killball charger, which one skates through while carrying the rok to convert the rok into a killball, a high voltage electrocutor that can be thrown at others. Each team owns an arena, which can have any number of fixed objects in any position in the field..\n\nThe winner is the team with the most points (scored by throwing the rok into the goal) at the end of the three-period match. Each period can be 3 minutes, 5 minutes, or 7 minutes, depending on the options the player has enabled before the start of the game. If a team is totally annihilated, they can still win by having scored more points.\n\nThe sponsors give out awards to those teams that perform spectacular feats, such as the Supernova if a team racks up 30 points in a game, the Anvil if a team takes another entire team out for the season, and the Archer if all the player's shots on goal are goals.\n\nEach team always has one goalie on the field. They also have two players out of four cycling in and out of the field at all times. When a player is killed or injured (the goalie is invulnerable to any attack except for mines), the player's spot cannot be filled until a goal is scored, or the period ends, and the body of the player is completely removed from the Drome. When a player is decapitated, his head is immediately magnetized and used as the rok, as the original rok (or, sometimes, previous head) vanishes.\n\nThe players vary greatly, some are light and fast, others are tough, slow and enforcer like, they also differ in other attributes, such as \"rok handling\".\n\nNearly all of the polygons which form the players and environments are flat shaded, an unusual design choice given that most games of that time applied texture mapping. Lewis Peterson of Activision said of this that \"Part of it was an aesthetic decision. More importantly, a texture-mapped polygon costs about 10 times the processor budget of a flat-shaded polygon, so we had to make a decision as to whether or not we wanted one big texture-mapped polygon, or \" Support for texture mapping using DirectX 3D graphics accelerators was added to \"HyperBlade\" after Peterson made this statement.\n\n\"HyperBlade\" was one of the first PC games that supported the new Microsoft DirectX APIs and supported full 3D texture map support for PCs with the 3D graphics accelerators as well as flat shaded polygons for PCs without a graphics accelerator. Many graphics hardware manufacturers bundled \"HyperBlade\" in the box of their 3D graphics accelerators so consumers would have a title which supported Direct3D out of the box.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101496", "title": "W. W. Behrens Jr.", "text": "W. W. Behrens Jr.\n\nVice Admiral William Wohlsen Behrens Jr. (September 14, 1922 – January 21, 1986) was an American naval officer and oceanographer who was instrumental in establishing the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.\n\nBehrens was born at Newport, Rhode Island, the son of Rear Admiral (then Lieutenant) William W. Behrens Sr. and Nellie Vasey Behrens. He graduated from Friends Select Academy in Philadelphia, from Rutherford Preparatory School in Long Beach, California and then from the United States Naval Academy in the class of 1944 (graduated early in June 1943), where he attended via a presidential appointment.\n\nBehrens graduated from the Submarine School, New London, Connecticut, in 1943, and was assigned to the as gunnery officer, for two war patrols, and was awarded Presidential Unit Citation. He was then assigned to the , as a communications and engineer officer, on four war patrols, and was awarded Navy Unit Citation, Silver Star, Bronze Star with \"V\", with personal citations for \"conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity\". He was credited with conceiving electronic slip rings allowing for continuous, non-reversing trainability of submarine sonar, as well as developing the first short form code for use in submarine \"wolfpack\" communications.\n\nFrom July 1946 to August 1948 he was assigned to the as engineer officer. From September 1948 to March 1950 to the as executive officer, operations officer and navigator. He was awarded a Navy \"E\".\n\nBehrens was then the project officer for the navy's first underwater telephone (UQC-1) for voice communications between ships and submerged submarines. Then he was project officer for first U.S. scanning sonar (QHB-1).\n\nFrom 1950 to 1952, he was at the U.S. Fleet Sonar School, as an ASW instructor and officer in charge in the C Pro-Submarine Sonar Instruction Section; from 1952 to 1953, he was assigned to the as executive officer and navigator, again being awarded a Navy \"E\". From 1953 to 1954 he was assigned to the as commanding officer and received another Navy \"E\"; from 1954 to 1955, he was assigned to the as commanding officer; and in 1955, he was assigned to the U.S. Submarine School as head of the Engineering Department. He began a study of nuclear physics and engineering.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1957, he was director of the first Nuclear Power School, and acquired a qualified faculty, where he wrote curricula for both officer and enlisted courses and set requirements for operation of nuclear reactors under rigid guidelines later adopted by the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC).\n\nFrom March 1957 to December 1957, he was at the Naval Reactors Branch, AEC, and was Special Advisor to the Chief, Naval Reactors, Admiral Hyman G. Rickover. He the completed nuclear physics study through the doctorate level and qualified as Nuclear Reactor Operator, License Number 5.\n\nFrom 1958 to December 1960, he was assigned to Construction and Commissioning, Command of the , the first modern submarine (designed from the keel up with improved marine nuclear reactor, fast attack, whale shaped, sail diving planes, high test steel, true submersible). Again he was awarded a Navy \"E\" and the Navy Unit Citation as well as the Legion of Merit Award for \"completion of a mission of great value to the United States.\"\n\nFrom January 1961 to March 1961 he was at the Guided Missile School, Dam Neck, Virginia in the Polaris Command Course. From March 1961 to May 1963 he was assigned to the as commanding officer (Gold) and again awarded a Navy \"E\". From 1963 to 1964 he attended the National War College as a student. His dissertation there was \"Nuclear Power for the U.S. Merchant Marine\". Behrens also attended George Washington University, where he was awarded an MA degree in international affairs.\n\nFrom August 1964 to January 1966 he was OpNav, NATO Nuclear Force Plans, Office of Strategic Plans. He received another Navy Unit Commendation (star for second award) for service aboard the , a NATO multi-national manned ship for \"planning to identify NATO nuclear force requirements and in his coordination with participating governments\".\n\nIn 1966 he was nominated by Secretary of Defense and chosen by the Secretary of State for assignment to the Policy Planning Council, Department of State, with rank of Deputy Assistant Secretary of State with additional duty with the National Security Council staff from January 1966 to August 1967. Additionally, he developed Fish Protein Concentrate and the legislation which was adopted to finance Fish Protein Concentrate factories in Southeast Asia and Latin America with the pilot program in Washington. In June 1967, he was selected for promotion to rear admiral.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1969, he was assigned to COMPHIBGRU ONE and COM PHIBFORSEVENTH FLT, where he served as commander (this command was composed of approximately 65 ships, including two LPH carriers with embarked Marine Landing Force Battalions). In this capacity, he served in 28 Vietnam amphibious operations, including the longest (Tet 1968) and the largest (January 1969) with both army division and air force support flights. He received the Legion of Merit (his 3rd award) with Combat V, the Bronze Star with Army Oak Leaf Cluster (second award), and was three times decorated by Vietnamese government with the Presidential Unit Citation, Meritorious Unit Citation, and Gallantry Cross.\n\nIn July 1969, he was appointed Director, Politico-Military Policy and was awarded his fourth Legion of Merit.\n\nIn September 1970 he was Oceanographer of the Navy, with collateral duty as Federal Coordinator for Ocean Mapping and Prediction. He then worked on the establishment of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency (NOAA) within the Department of Commerce as well as service on international and on various Oceanographic committees – including the initiation of talks on law of the sea, and as a presidential speechwriter on oceanographic policy.\n\nAdmiral Behrens was awarded a doctor of science degree (DSci) by Gettysburg College, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania in 1971.\n\nHe was the author of U.S. policy \"The Treasure of the Deep Ocean is the Property of all Mankind\". He also worked with United Nations environmental committees. For this service he was awarded his fifth Legion of Merit.\n\nIn 1972 he served as deputy administrator of NOAA. During August 1973, he received medical retirement with 100 percent disability and was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal and the permanent rank of vice admiral, United States Navy.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1975 he worked at J. Watson Noah Associates, Inc., Falls Church, Virginia, as a corporate vice president; from 1975 to 1976 at Wheeler Industries, Washington, D.C., as a science advisor. In 1975, he co-founded Services National Bank, Arlington, Virginia.\n\nIn 1976, he was appointed by the State of Florida to establish the Florida Institute of Oceanography under the Board of Regents. He acquired a vessel for conversion to a research ship, refitted a research vessel and set up the coordinating structure for oceanographic instruction and research at all Florida universities through the graduate level.\n\nHe then established guidelines for acquisition of contracts in oceanographic research with cooperative participation by contributing universities and initiated the oceanographic programs for community colleges and secondary schools, with \"at sea\" time donated by the university research vessels.\n\nAs a Bioneering Professional Engineer (nuclear), he authored many professional articles and journals.\n\nHe was a member of the Explorers Club of New York, New York Yacht Club, Army-Navy Club, Washington, D.C., Army & Navy Country Club, Arlington, Virginia, Rotary Club, the Florida Tiger Bay Club, the St. Petersburg Progress Club, among others.\n\nRear Admiral Behrens and Betty Ann Taylor Behrens of Tampa, Florida, were the parents of four children.\n\nHis son William W. Behrens III, was co-author, with Donella H. Meadows, Dennis L. Meadows and Jørgen Randers, of \"The Limits to Growth\" in 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101499", "title": "Arsenal W.F.C.", "text": "Arsenal W.F.C.\n\nArsenal Women Football Club, founded as Arsenal Ladies in 1987, is an English professional women's football club affiliated with Arsenal. The club plays in the Women's Super League, the top flight of English women's football.\n\nArsenal have won more trophies than any other club in English women's football, and have won the most titles in each domestic competition they have played in. The club have won 15 League titles, 14 FA Women's Cup, 5 FA WSL Cups, 10 Women's Premier League Cups, 5 FA Women's Community Shield, and one UEFA Women's Champions League. In the 2006–07 season, the club became the first in the history of women's football to achieve the continental European sextuple.\n\nArsenal were founded in 1987 following an initiative by Vic Akers, who became the club's first manager. He guided Arsenal to continued success until his departure in 2009, winning the most top-flight matches in English football history. The club have sustained this record, and have won the most doubles and trebles in English football history. Arsenal have also completed a record seven unbeaten league seasons, setting a number of English records for longest top-flight unbeaten run, for goals scored, and points won.\n\nArsenal have played their home games at Meadow Park, Borehamwood, since their founding.\n\nArsenal W.F.C. are the only club in European football to have won a continental treble, doing so while also going unbeaten in all competitions.\n\nIn 1987, long-term Arsenal men's team kit manager Vic Akers helped found a women's football club, and was appointed as their initial manager. The club began operating as Arsenal Ladies Football Club. Due to the status of women's football in England suffering from an overall decline in interest, Arsenal were limited to sparse, nomadic cup appearances for the first four years of their existence, and didn't turn professional until 2002. They won their first major honour, the Women's League Cup, in the 1991–92 season. Also in 1992, they won promotion to the FA Women's Premier League from the FA Women's National League South, and a season later, won the top division title at the first time of asking.\n\nThis began a period of sustained dominance for the club, who soon permanently moved into Meadow Park in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, in a groundshare agreement with non-league side Boreham Wood. Following the storied successes of the men's team, Arsenal made a conscious effort to brand women's football as equitable. Over the next twenty years, Arsenal approached all facets of the game, such as training, tactics, scouting, and finance, with the goal to maximize the growth of the club and attain trophies. Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, Arsenal lavished atop the Premier League for many seasons, boasting academy graduates like Marieanne Spacey and Faye White, as well as utilizing the club's income on stars like Emma Byrne, to allow the club to win a slew of trophies.\n\nUnder Akers' stewardship, Arsenal enjoyed unilateral domestic success, as the club claimed 11 league titles, nine FA Women's Cup titles, ten FA Women's Premier League Cup titles, and five FA Women's Community Shield wins. This included seven straight league wins from the 2003–04 season to 2008–09 season, as well as six unbeaten campaigns. Moreover, Akers lead the team to the most successful club season in English women's football in the 2006–07 season, as the team won every single competition available to them, including the ever elusive UEFA Women's Champions League. The win marked Arsenal's only trophy won from European competition, and the first time an English club won the competition. This unique sextuple was recognized with The Committee Award by the Sports Journalists' Association in the 2007 Sports Journalists' Awards.\n\nAkers also led the team to a number of English women's football records, including a six-year league unbeaten run from October 2003 to March 2009, marking 108 games without defeat. During that spell, Arsenal won a record 51 league games in a row, between November 2005 and April 2008. Following a domestic treble in the 2008–09 season, Akers retired from management, and was succeeded by Tony Gervaise. However, in February 2010, after eight months in charge, Gervaise resigned, suggesting his position had been undermined by outside interference. In an unusual development, reserve coach Laura Harvey became first-team manager and Gervaise became reserve coach. This appointment marked the club's first female coach in any capacity.\n\nAfter a year break in play in preparation for a reformatted league, Arsenal were named as founder members of the FA Women's Super League, which commenced in the spring of 2011. Arsenal won the inaugural season, marking their eighth consecutive English title, and secured another domestic double by also winning the FA Cup. After a two-year period without a league triumph, Shelley Kerr was announced as Harvey's successor in 2013. Under her management, the club won two FA Women's Cups, including a win in 2014, two weeks after the men's team won the 2014 FA Cup, completing a rare FA Cup double for the club. But after a poor run of form which saw Arsenal gain only one point from the opening four league matches of the 2014 season, including exits from the Champions League to minnows Birmingham and a shock lose to Reading, Kerr resigned. She was replaced by Pedro Losa. Losa led the team to the 2015 FA WSL Cup and the 2016 FA Women's Cup. Moreover, he helped the squad rebuild, notably recruiting younger stars like Daniëlle van de Donk, Kim Little, Beth Mead and Vivianne Miedema. Losa also brought through youngsters like Leah Williamson. However, following the season's end, Losa resigned, and was replaced by Joe Montemurro.\n\nIn July 2017, the club rebranded as Arsenal Women Football Club, in a move described by Arsenal as \"clear signal of togetherness and unity\", and to retain the progressive ethos of the club. Utilizing the core Losa helped build, Montemurro led Arsenal to the 2018–19 Women's Super League title, with a game to spare. The win marked their first title in seven years, and marked the club's return to the Champions League for the first time in five years.\n\nThe women's side has the full backing and support of Arsenal Football Club. David Dein, former vice-chairman of Arsenal F.C., held the position of club President until he left the club on 18 April 2007, and was replaced by Keith Edelman, Arsenal's managing director, until his departure from the club on 1 May 2008.\n\nA number of the playing staff are employed by Arsenal to develop and co-ordinate the women's teams and club Academy. Ties between the two are close; sponsorship by Emirates and Adidas (Puma and Nike before that) is shared, and the women's club played on occasion at Arsenal's home stadium (Highbury until 2005–06 and Emirates Stadium since then).\n\nOver the years, the women's team has been lauded by and done promotional work with counterparts from the men's team such as Tony Adams and Patrick Vieira. Ahead of a 2008 North London men's derby against Tottenham Hotspur, Cesc Fàbregas (then Arsenal's men's captain) told \"Loaded\" that he didn't believe that Arsenal Women would lose to the Tottenham men, saying, \"They would do really well. I'm sure they would get a point!\"\n\nArsenal Women play most of their home matches at Meadow Park, home of Vanarama National League side Boreham Wood, in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire. It has a capacity of 4,500, although attendances for most league matches are around 1,000. Arsenal's home UEFA Women's Champions League matches are also played here. However, due to the connection with Arsenal F.C., they are permitted to play in the Emirates Stadium on occasion.\n\nArsenal also operate a reserve team, which is mainly formed from Academy players. The reserves have won four FA Women's Premier Reserve League titles and five FA Women's Premier Reserve League Cups in their history.\n\n\"For notable current and former players, see .\"\n\n\"As of 16 December 2018.\"\n\nAs of 12 December 2019.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101503", "title": "It's April Again", "text": "It's April Again\n\n\"The Song from Moulin Rouge\" (also known as \"Where Is Your Heart\") is a popular song that first appeared in the 1952 film \"Moulin Rouge\".\n\nThe music was written by Georges Auric. The original French lyrics were by Jacques Larue, the English words by William Engvick. However, in the film the song is called \"It's April Again\", and there is no mention of the phrase \"Where Is Your Heart\".\n\nIn \"Moulin Rouge\", the theme song was sung by Muriel Smith, dubbing for Zsa Zsa Gabor who lip-synched to Smith's singing.\nThe most popular version of the song was made by Percy Faith's Orchestra, with a vocal by Felicia Sanders. The recording by Faith and Sanders was made on January 22, 1953 and released by Columbia Records in both 78 and 45 rpm single formats through catalog numbers 39944 and 4-39944 respectively. It first reached the \"Billboard\" chart on March 28, 1953 and lasted 24 weeks on the chart, peaking at No. 1 and spent ten weeks at the top. This version finished as the No. 1 song for 1953, according to \"Billboard.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the version by Mantovani was the biggest hit, on which recording the plaintive accordion theme was played by Henry Krein. This version also charted in the U.S. The recording by Mantovani was released in the U.S. by London Records as catalog number 1328. It first reached the \"Billboard\" chart on May 16, 1953 and lasted five weeks on the chart, peaking at No. 13. However, in the UK, Mantovani's version of the track reached No. 1 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe song also reached number one on the Cash Box chart, which combined all versions, in 1953. Both Faith's and Mantovani's versions sold over a million copies.\n\nA recording by Henri René and His Orchestra was made at Manhattan Center, New York City, on March 20, 1953. It was released by RCA Victor Records as catalog number 20-5264 (in U.S.) and by EMI on the His Master's Voice label as catalog number B 10483.\n\nVictor Skaarup wrote the Danish lyrics. The Danish title is \"Sangen fra Moulin Rouge\". Raquel Rastenni with Hans Peder Åse's orchestra recorded it in Copenhagen in 1953. The song was released on the 78 rpm record His Master's Voice X 8136.\n\nIn Australia, The Mastertouch Piano Roll Company released a player-piano roll version, number AD 4716, in 1953.\n\nConnie Francis included the song in her album \"Connie Francis Sings \"Never on Sunday\"\" (1961)\n\nRay Conniff and his Orchestra & Chorus released an instrumental version on their 1963 album \"The Happy Beat\".\n\nJerry Vale - recorded for his album \"The Language of Love\" (1963).\n\nPat Boone - for the album \"Days of Wine and Roses\" (1963).\n\nThe Norman Luboff Choir released a version of the song on their 1964 album, \"\"Great Movie Themes\"\".\n\nAndy Williams released a version of the song on his 1964 album, \"The Academy Award-Winning \"Call Me Irresponsible\" and Other Hit Songs from the Movies\".\n\nAl Hirt released a version on his 1965 album, \"They're Playing Our Song\".\n\nCliff Richard - included on an EP \"Look in My Eyes Maria\" (1965).\n\nJohn Gary - for his album \"The One and Only John Gary\" (1966).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101505", "title": "Charles Island", "text": "Charles Island\n\nCharles Island is a 14-acre (57,000 m²) island located roughly 0.5 mile (1 km) off the coast of Milford, Connecticut, in Long Island Sound centered at .\n\nCharles Island is accessible from shore via a tombolo (locally referred to as a sandbar), which is exposed at low tide. According to early local histories, the Sachem Ansantawae resided there during the summer months. European discovery of the island occurred in 1614 when Adriaen Block sailed through and mapped Long Island Sound. The island appears on his hand-drawn map found in The Netherlands National Archives.\n\nThough an island during high tide, during low tide it is accessible by foot using a rocky tombolo that stretches from the beach to the island. Visitors are cautioned about the strong undertow and twice-daily flooding of the sandbar as a result of the tides. Currently (2005) the crossing window is at least two hours. However, Milford locals note that earlier in the 20th century the window was much greater, but erosion has reduced the size and width of the island and sandbar.\n\nAccess to Charles Island via the sandbar is closed from dates including May 1 to August 31 to protect the bird population per sign posted and Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection. \n\nKayakers paddling on the side of the island not facing the Connecticut shore can be surprised by the wind and rougher waves, according to a spokesman for the Milford Fire Department. At about 2 a.m. on September 6, 2009, a 22-year-old kayaker went missing after his boat capsized. Another man with him swam to safety, but after more than a month, the victim's body had not been found.\n\nOriginally known as Poquehaug,\nafter the area was settled by the English in 1639 the island was referred to as Milford Island. After Charles Deal bought the island in 1657 it became known as Charles Island. Deal made a failed attempt to raise tobacco on the island – one of the first such efforts in Connecticut.\n\nThe WPA History of Milford indicates that Captain William Kidd visited Milford in 1699 when he was en route to Boston (where he was subsequently arrested for piracy and murder). Before Kidd's arrival in Boston, he off-loaded and buried treasure on Gardiners Island off the eastern tip of Long Island. The treasure was retrieved after his arrest but questions remain as to whether all the treasure was in that cache and whether he may have buried more of it along Long Island Sound.\n\nIn 1835, the first permanent residence was constructed on the island by John Harris. After his death the island was owned by several different owners and in 1852 it was purchased by Elizur Pritchard of Waterbury, Connecticut who turned the large house into a summer resort known originally as Charles Island House and later as Ansantawae House. After the Civil War the resort closed and the island was leased to the George Miles Company as a base for their fish fertilizer operations. After the Miles Company left the island it was relatively unused until the 1930s when the Dominican Order opened a religious retreat on the island. The Aquinas Retreat consisted of a chapel, small cabins for the retreatants, a central dining hall and religious shrines located along paths throughout the island. The retreat closed in the late 1930s and some remnants of it remain on the island.\n\nThe State of Connecticut now owns the island and it is part of Silver Sands State Park. It is designated a Natural Area Preserve for the local bird population of herons and egrets. White-tail deer were common, but the estimated 16 deer on the island were hunted by the Department of Environment Protection (now the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection) in February 2011 to protect the nesting birds. The waters around the island have bluefish, snapper blues, sand sharks, and horseshoe crabs.\n\nThe waters west of the island have been a site for oyster farming since 2013, in an area of approximately .\n\n"}
{"id": "2101507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101507", "title": "Dalhousie, India", "text": "Dalhousie, India\n\nDalhousie is a hill station in Chamba district, in the northern Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It is situated on 5 hills and has an elevation of 1,970 metres above sea level.\n\nDalhousie Town was named after The Earl of Dalhousie, who was the British Governor-General in India while establishing this place as a summer retreat.\n\nDalhousie has a humid subtropical climate. Late summer and early spring see torrential rainfall due to monsoonal influence. The city sees over 90 frost days per year and 45-50 snow days.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101509", "title": "Tom Arnold (literary scholar)", "text": "Tom Arnold (literary scholar)\n\nTom Arnold (30 November 1823 – 12 November 1900), also known as Thomas Arnold the Younger, was an English literary scholar.\n\nHe was the second son of Thomas Arnold, headmaster of Rugby School, and younger brother of the poet Matthew Arnold. After gaining a first class degree at University College, Oxford, Arnold grew discontented with Victorian Britain and attempted to take up farming in New Zealand. Failing to make a success of this career, in 1850 he moved to Tasmania, having been invited to take the job of Inspector of Schools by Governor William Denison. Soon after arriving in Hobart, he fell in love with and married Julia Sorell, granddaughter of former Governor William Sorell. They had nine children (four of whom died young), among them: Ethel, who was a suffragist and child model; Mary, who became a novelist under the name Mrs Humphry Ward; Julia, who married Leonard Huxley, the son of Thomas, and gave birth to Julian and Aldous; and William Thomas the journalist. After being widowed in 1888, Arnold in 1890 married for a second time, to Josephine Maria Benison, daughter of James Benison, Ballyconnell, County Cavan, Ireland.\n\nWhile in Tasmania Arnold converted from Anglicanism to Roman Catholicism, a move which angered his Protestant wife sufficiently to cause her to smash the windows of the chapel during his confirmation. The marriage was to be plagued by domestic strife over religious loyalty until Julia's death. At the time Tasmania would not employ Catholics in senior civil service positions, and so in 1857 the family moved back to England. Arnold took a job teaching English literature at the Catholic University in Dublin, and wrote \"A Manual of English Literature\" (1862), which became a standard textbook. He resigned from the university in 1862 to become head of classics at The Oratory School in Birmingham. He left in 1865, when a letter he had written insisting that he would need a higher salary to continue at the school was interpreted by Cardinal Newman as a tendering of resignation.\n\nArnold opened a private tutoring establishment in Oxford, and began to attend Church of England services. He edited a number of important literary works, including \"Beowulf\". In 1876 he stood for election to the Chair of Anglo-Saxon at Oxford. Finding that some supporters were campaigning for him as the \"Anglican\" candidate, he felt this put him in a false position; on the eve of the election he announced his intention of being reconciled to the Catholic Church. It is unlikely that this had much effect on the election, but family tradition maintained that he had cast away a great opportunity for a scruple. After a period of financial hardship, in which his main occupation was editorial work for the Rolls Series, Arnold returned to Dublin in 1882 as professor of English literature at University College, teaching to the end of his life in 1900. One of his last students was James Joyce.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101520", "title": "Anghel Iordănescu", "text": "Anghel Iordănescu\n\nAnghel Iordănescu (; born 4 May 1950), also known as \"Tata Puiu\", is a Romanian former footballer and former manager of the Romania national team, who played as a forward. In 2007, Iordănescu retired from football, and the following February, after his predecessor resigned, he became a member of the Romanian Senate, sitting on the Social Democratic Party benches. On 26 December 2011, he became an independent senator, affiliated to the National Union for the Progress of Romania.\nHis son, Edward Iordănescu, is also a former footballer and current manager.\n\nOne of Steaua București's greatest players, Iordănescu was a forward or attacking midfielder with a well-developed scoring technique and uncommon dribbling ability. He was also well known for his vision and set-piece ability. In Romania, he played only for Steaua, a team he joined as a youth in 1962, aged 12. Six years later, he made his debut for the first team, followed by his first appearance for the Romania national team in 1971. During this period, he scored 155 goals, becoming the team's highest ever goalscorer.\n\nIordănescu won two league championships (in 1976 and 1978) and four Cupa Romaniei (in 1970, 1971, 1976, and 1979). In 1981–82, he was Divizia A's top goalscorer.\n\nIn 1982, aged 32, Iordănescu left Romania to play for OFI Crete in Greece under head coach Les Shannon, but returned to Steaua two years later to become the club's assistant manager. Together with Emerich Jenei, then head coach, he won the championship in 1985 and helped lead the team to its European Cup triumph in 1986, playing as a substitute in the final against Barcelona.\n\nEmerich Jenei was appointed as Romania's manager in the summer of 1986, leaving Iordănescu as Steaua's new head coach. From his new position, he led his side to victory in three championships (1987, 1988 and 1989) as well as three Cupa Romaniei in the same years. At international level, Steaua and Iordănescu reached the European Cup semi-final in 1988 and the final one year later.\n\nIn 1990, he left Steaua for the second time as he signed a two-year contract with Cypriot club Anorthosis Famagusta. After being released from his contract, he returned to Steaua in 1992 to lead the club to the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup quarter-finals in 1993, and then a new league championship.\n\nIn the summer of 1993, he was asked to replace Cornel Dinu as Romania's coach and managed to lead the team to qualification for the 1994 FIFA World Cup, where Romania reached the quarter-finals, the best-ever performance of Romanian football at the national team level. He continued as Romania's coach after the World Cup and led the team to a new qualification, for UEFA Euro 1996 and the 1998 World Cup, where Romania reached the knockout stage as winners of Group G.\n\nHowever, although he had led the team to a new qualification for a World Cup, Iordănescu was harshly criticized by the media, with some journalists accusing him of the low level of the team during the process. After losing against Croatia in the second round of the 1998 World Cup, he resigned and took over the managerial position of Greece, from where he would be sacked in 1999 after Greece failed to qualify for Euro 2000.\n\nIn the 1999–2000 season, Iordănescu was appointed head coach of Saudi club Al-Hilal, where he won the Saudi Crown Prince Cup and the Asian Club Championship (the forerunner to the AFC Champions League). Despite these performances, he left the club to lead Rapid București. He led Rapid to the first round of the 2000–01 UEFA Cup, losing 1–0 on aggregate to eventual winners Liverpool. However, he was sacked after only three months, after which he signed with Emirati club Al Ain, guiding them to UAE President's Cup title.\n\nAfter Romania failed to qualify for the 2002 World Cup, Iordănescu was asked to replace Gheorghe Hagi, thereby becoming the national football team's coach for the second time. His main objective was to qualify the team for Euro 2004, but failed to do so. Saying that there was no one else both better than he and available to take charge of the national team, the Romanian Football Federation gave him credit for the 2006 World Cup qualifying stage, but after a poor performance away against Armenia, he was finally sacked.\n\nAfter his second stint as Romania's coach, Iordănescu returned to Saudi Arabia to manage Al-Ittihad, with whom he won his second AFC Champions League (in 2005) and the Arab Champions League, but one year later was sacked after drawing with Al-Ettifaq. Just as the 2006–07 UAE League season began, Iordănescu returned to coach Al Ain for a few months before announcing his retirement from professional football.\n\nIn October 2014, Iordănescu came out of retirement to take charge of Romania for a third time. On 27 June 2016, he resigned as Romania coach after an unsuccessful Euro 2016 finals campaign, finishing last place in Group A with just one point earned, from a 1–1 draw with Switzerland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101527", "title": "Job Cohen", "text": "Job Cohen\n\nMarius Job Cohen (; born 18 October 1947) is a retired Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA) and jurist.\n\nCohen worked as researcher at the Leiden University from September 1971 until September 1981 and at the State University of Limburg from September 1981 until September 1983. Cohen worked as a professor of Jurisprudence at the State University of Limburg from September 1983 until June 1993. He also served as Rector Magnificus of the State University of Limburg from January 1991 until June 1993. Cohen was appointed as State Secretary for Education and Sciences in the Cabinet Lubbers III following the resignation of Roel in 't Veld, taking office on 9 June 1993. In February 1994 Cohen announced that she would not stand for the election of 1994. Following the cabinet formation of 1994 Cohen per his own request asked not to be considered for a cabinet post in the new cabinet as his wife was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. The Cabinet Lubbers III was replaced by the Cabinet Kok I on 22 August 1994. Cohen returned to the public sector and served as a professor of Jurisprudence at the State University of Limburg and as the Rector Magnificus of the State University of Limburg from January 1995 until August 1998. Cohen was elected as a Member of the Senate after the Senate election of 1995, taking office on 13 June 1995. Cohen was selected as Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the Senate following the resignation of Joop van den Berg, taking office on 1 August 1996.\n\nAfter the election of 1998 Cohen was appointed as State Secretary for Justice in the Cabinet Kok II, taking office on 3 August 1998. In December 2000 Cohen was nominated as Mayor of Amsterdam, he resigned as State Secretary on 1 January 2001 and was installed as Mayor, taking office on 15 January 2001. In March 2010 the Leader of the Labour Party Wouter Bos unexpectedly announced his retirement from national politics and approached Cohen to seek the leadership for the election of 2010. Cohen accepted and resigned as Mayor of Amsterdam on 12 March 2010 and was unopposed in his candidacy and was elected as Leader and became the \"Lijsttrekker\" (top candidate) of the Labour Party for the election on 25 April 2010. Following the election the Labour Party suffered a small loss, losing 3 seats and now had 30 seats in the House of Representatives but retained its place as the second largest party. Cohen was elected as a Member of the House of Representatives and became the Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives, taking office on 17 June 2010. In February 2012 following increasing criticism on his performance as Opposition leader Cohen announced his retirement from national politics and that he was stepping down Leader and Parliamentary leader. Cohen stepped down on 12 February 2012 but retained his seat in the House of Representatives and continued to serve as a backbencher until his resignation on 29 February 2012.\n\nCohen retired from active politics and returned to the public sector and occupies numerous seats as a nonprofit director on several boards of directors and supervisory boards (Ronald McDonald House Charities, Openbare Bibliotheek Amsterdam, and the Anne Frank House) and as an trade association executive for the (Cedris) and the Copyright and Patent association (VOICE) and serves on several and councils on behalf of the government (Project X Haren Commission, Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP and the World War II reparations Commission) and as an advocate and lobbyist for social integration, social security and voluntary euthanasia. Cohen also served as a distinguished professor of Constitutional law and Governmental studies at the Leiden University holding the Thorbecke Chair from 1 April 2014 until 1 January 2019.\n\nCohen is known for his abilities as a consensus builder and mediator and continues to comment on political affairs.\n\nMarius Job Cohen was born in Haarlem. He is the second child (of two) of Adolf Emile \"Dolf\" Cohen (1913–2004) and Henriëtte \"Hetty\" Koster (1913–1996). His elder brother is Floris Cohen (born 1946).\n\nHis parents both studied history and became high school teachers of history. They were liberal (non-religious) Jews, and were forced into hiding until the end of World War II. His paternal grandparents Hendrik Cohen and Flora Polak both died in Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in 1945. After the war, his father worked at the Dutch Institute for War Documentation. Later he became a professor of medieval history and a \"rector magnificus\" at Leiden University. His mother became a member of the city council of Heemstede. His parents were both early members of the Labour Party.\n\nCohen attended public primary school in Heemstede. He attended the secondary school Stedelijk Gymnasium in Haarlem from 1960 to 1966. He studied Dutch public law at the University of Groningen from 1966 and obtained his Master of Laws degree in 1971. During his student years, he was a member of the student association Vindicat atque Polit.\n\nCohen married Lidie Lodeweges on 2 July 1972 in Groningen. She studied Dutch language in Groningen and was a high school teacher. She had multiple sclerosis and needed a wheelchair. Cohen and his wife had two children, son Jaap (born 1980) and daughter Lotje (born 1983). Lidie Cohen died on 4 August 2015.\n\nBetween 1 September 1971 and 1 September 1981, Job Cohen held a scientific position at the Bureau Research of Education at Leiden University. He obtained a doctorate (PhD) from this university in June 1981, with a dissertation on the rights of university students.\n\nOn 1 September 1981 he joined the State University of Limburg in a higher scientific capacity, and was chairman of the commission that prepared the establishment of a faculty of law. On 1 September 1983 Cohen became professor of methods and techniques at the faculty of law; on 1 January 1991 he also became \"rector magnificus\" of the State University of Limburg. He resigned from this position to become State Secretary for Education and Sciences in 1993.\n\nIn 1995 he returned to his position in Maastricht as professor and rector magnificus at Maastricht University (the former State University of Limburg). From 1 January 1998, he took a sabbatical year, but he resigned in August 1998 when he became State Secretary for Justice.\n\nCohen has received two honorary degrees for his contributions to law and society, one in 2007 from the University of Windsor and one in 2008 from the Radboud University Nijmegen.\n\nOn 2 July 1993, Cohen became State Secretary (deputy minister) for Education and Sciences in the third cabinet of Ruud Lubbers, under education minister Jo Ritzen. In Cohen's portfolio were higher and academic education, science policy, and adult education. The term of this post expired after a year and Cohen returned to his academic post in Maastricht.\n\nFrom 13 June 1995, Cohen was a member of the Senate of the Netherlands. Between 1 August 1996 until he resigned from the Senate on 3 August 1998, he was also the parliamentary group leader of the Labour Party in the Senate.\n\nDuring his period in the Senate, he also worked for the Maastricht University, where he began a sabbatical year on 1 January 1998. In February 1998 however, he took on the function of interim-director of the broadcasting organization VPRO, lasting until 15 August.\n\nOn 3 August 1998, he resigned from the Senate to take up the position of State Secretary for Justice in the second cabinet of Wim Kok, dealing chiefly with immigration. In this capacity he was responsible for a new immigration law, intended to restrict entry of refugees to \"genuine cases\".\n\nHe resigned his position as State Secretary on 31 December 2000 in order to take up the position of Mayor of Amsterdam (\"burgemeester\") on 15 January 2001. Mayors of Dutch cities are appointed by the cabinet in the name of the monarch.\n\nAt midnight on 1 April 2001, Cohen became the first public official to wed same-sex couples, following the passing of legislation opening up marriage to people of the same gender (see same-sex marriage in the Netherlands).\n\nOn 2 February 2002, Job Cohen performed the civil marriage of Prince Willem-Alexander and Máxima Zorreguieta in the Beurs van Berlage in Amsterdam.\n\nIn November 2004, controversial film maker Theo van Gogh was killed in Amsterdam by a Muslim extremist. \"Time\" awarded Cohen the title \"European Hero\" in 2005, for his inclusive approach towards the Muslim community after the murder, defusing tension in the city.\n\nCohen found himself thrown into the role of mediator between the city's Muslims, the original Dutch population and other groups in the cultural and racial mix. Almost half Amsterdam's residents are of non-Western descent, a majority of them Muslims.\"\"Islam is here to stay, in this country, in this city (...) We have to deal with Islam as a fact, not whether we like it. So the real question is how to get on with each other.\"\" Cohen took pride in the fact that in Amsterdam no violence or arson occurred in response to the killing. By his visiting ethnic groups, organizing debates among religious leaders and his listening and promoting dialogue, he received from opponents the mocking nickname of \"tea drinker\" – an image that would be exploited by them when he returned in the Dutch national politics in 2010.\n\nOn 27 January 2006 Cohen announced he would be willing to serve a second term as mayor of Amsterdam. On 12 July 2006 the municipality of Amsterdam almost unanimously (Democrats 66 opposed, being in favour of an elected mayor) supported Cohen to prolong his career as a mayor after 15 January 2007 when his first term ended. \n\nCohen's politics towards ethnic minorities in Amsterdam was characterized by the slogan \"keeping things together\" (\"de boel bij elkaar houden\"). On 2 May 2006 Immigration Minister Rita Verdonk of the centre-right VVD accused Amsterdam of becoming a \"banana republic\" with a lax safety policy; she cited the criminal liquidations and the disturbance caused by young people as examples of this. However, in the yearly crime meter of the Algemeen Dagblad Amsterdam did not perform particularly badly in safety policy and crime fighting. One of the reasons for this was Cohen's targeted approach towards those who commit multiple crimes (\"veelplegers\"). Cohen stated that his policy which combines soft and hard approaches, fighting crime and fighting the causes of crime, was the key to his successful safety policy.\n\nIn 2006 Cohen was the runner-up in the award for World Mayor of 2006, behind Melbourne mayor John So, and ahead of Harrisburg mayor Stephen R. Reed. World Mayor praised Cohen's leadership following the murder of Theo van Gogh in 2004, and his efforts at bringing together the diverse population of Amsterdam.\n\nIn late 2007, Cohen moved to reduce prostitution in Amsterdam, following allegations that Hells Angels and other organized criminals had taken over the prostitution industry. The city council bought 18 buildings in the red light district De Wallen from Charlie Geerts in order to convert them into upscale establishments and revoked the license of the luxury brothel Yab Yum.\n\nOn 12 March 2010, Wouter Bos resigned as leader of the Labour Party. Bos named Cohen as candidate for the position, which he accepted. At the subsequent elections, Cohen was a candidate for Prime Minister. He was expected to be a strong opponent to Geert Wilders and was described in the press as \"authoritarian but enlightened.\" Exit polls showed the Labour Party as the second largest with 30 seats and 19.6% of the total vote. Eventually his opponent Mark Rutte of the VVD became the Prime Minister of the Netherlands.\n\nHe has been chair of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives since 10 June 2010 and a member of the House of Representatives since 17 June 2010.\n\nOn 20 February 2012, he resigned as leader of the Labour Party, he also left the House of Representatives over criticisms that he had been too moderate towards the center-right Dutch government's planned economic austerity measures and the Dutch government's support for the EU Commission's plan to bail out Greece, which had been passed with the support of the Dutch Labour Party. At the time of his resignation, the Dutch Socialist Party, politically to the left of the Dutch Labour Party, had overtaken the Dutch Labour Party in a number of opinion polls.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2101532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101532", "title": "Richard Kline", "text": "Richard Kline\n\nRichard Kline (born April 29, 1944) is an American actor and television director. His roles include Larry Dallas on the sitcom \"Three's Company\".\n\nRichard Kline was born Richard Klein in New York City. He was raised in Queens by parents who practiced Reform Judaism. He attended Queens College and has a Master of Fine Arts degree in theater from Northwestern University. After graduation, he joined the United States Army and served in Vietnam during the Vietnam War as a lieutenant.\n\nKline became involved in theater and made his professional debut in 1971 as part of the Lincoln Center Repertory Company. Regional theater productions during this period included \"Chemin de Fer\" (in Chicago with actor Dennis Franz), \"Death of a Salesman\", and \"Love's Labour's Lost\". A classically trained singer, Kline made his Broadway career debut in \"City of Angels\", a musical (1990).\n\nOn \"Three's Company\", Kline played Larry Dallas, a playboy neighbor, used car salesman, and best friend to John Ritter's Jack Tripper. Kline appeared in 110 episodes of \"Three's Company\" from 1977–1984, also appearing as Larry Dallas in the spin-off shows \"The Ropers\" (1979) and \"Three's a Crowd\" (1985). Larry has the distinction of being the only other character besides Jack Tripper to appear on \"Three's Company\" and both of its spin-offs.\n\nIn addition to his television and big screen appearances, Kline has hosted two game show pilots, \"Jumble\" in 1988 and \"To Tell the Truth\" in 1990. The show's rights were then sold to NBC with Gordon Elliott, then Lynn Swann and Alex Trebek later hosting. Kline's \"TTTT\" pilot did air on the East Coast as a mistake on September 3, 1990, the day the show debuted. He also subbed for Charles Nelson Reilly as a guest panelist on \"Sweethearts\" for a week of shows in December 1988. His game show celebrity appearances included both \"The $25,000 and $100,000 Pyramid\", \"Super Password\", \"All New All-Star Beat the Clock\", and \"Body Language\". Kline also won $10,000 on \"The $10,000 Pyramid\" as a civilian contestant in 1974. Kline told SitcomsOnline.com he would like to compete on \"Jeopardy!\".\n\nIn February 2010, he was cast as the Wizard in the first national tour of \"Wicked\".\n\nKline was seen next in October 2011 in \"It Shoulda Been You\", directed by David Hyde Pierce and starring Tyne Daly. Kline appeared in a movie directed by and starring Mike Birbiglia called \"Don't Think Twice\" (2016).\n\nKline reunited with \"Three's Company\" cast members Joyce DeWitt, Jenilee Harrison and Priscilla Barnes in September 2016 at \"The Hollywood Show\" in Chicago, an autograph and memorabilia event, meeting fans and signing autographs.\nKline recently played Kid Twist in the Paper Mill Playhouse world premiere production of \"The Sting\" starring Harry Connick Jr. which closed April 8, 2018. He is currently on National tour with the musical WAITRESS through August 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101536", "title": "Sam Elliott", "text": "Sam Elliott\n\nSamuel Pack Elliott (born August 9, 1944) is an American actor. His accolades include an Academy Award nomination, two Golden Globe Award nominations, two Primetime Emmy Award nominations, and a National Board of Review Award for Best Supporting Actor.\n\nElliott is known for his distinctive lanky physique, full mustache, and deep, resonant voice. He began his film career with minor appearances in \"The Way West\" (1967) and \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" (1969), and guest-starred on television in the Western \"Gunsmoke\" (1972) and the television films \"Murder in Texas\" (1981) and \"The Shadow Riders\" (1982). His film breakthrough was in the drama \"Lifeguard\" (1976). He then appeared in several Louis L'Amour adaptations such as \"The Quick and the Dead\" (1987) and \"Conagher\" (1991), the latter of which earned him a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actor – Miniseries or Television Film. He received his second Golden Globe and first Primetime Emmy Award nominations for \"Buffalo Girls\" (1995). Other film credits from the early 1990s include as John Buford in the historical drama \"Gettysburg\" (1993) and as Virgil Earp in the Western \"Tombstone\" (also 1993).\n\nIn the 2000s, Elliott appeared in supporting roles in the drama \"We Were Soldiers\" (2002), and the action films \"Hulk\" (2003), and \"Ghost Rider\" (2007). In 2015, he guest-starred on the series \"Justified\", which earned him a Critics' Choice Television Award, and in 2016 began starring in the Netflix series \"The Ranch\". He subsequently had a lead role in the comedy-drama \"The Hero\" (2017). The following year, Elliott was cast in the musical drama \"A Star Is Born\" (2018), for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, a Critics' Choice Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award and won a National Board of Review Award.\n\nSamuel Pack Elliott was born August 9, 1944 in Sacramento, California, the son of Glynn Mamie (née Sparks), a physical training instructor and high school teacher, and Henry Nelson Elliott, who worked as a predator control specialist for the Department of the Interior. His parents were originally from El Paso, Texas, and Elliott has an ancestor who served as a surgeon at the Battle of San Jacinto. He moved from California to Portland, Oregon, with his family when he was 13 years old.\n\nElliott spent his teenage years living in northeast Portland, and graduated from David Douglas High School in 1962. After graduating from high school, Elliott attended college at the University of Oregon as an English and psychology major for two terms before dropping out. He returned to Portland and attended Clark College in nearby Vancouver, Washington, where he completed a two-year program and was cast as Big Jule, one of the leads, in a stage production of \"Guys and Dolls\". The Vancouver \"Columbian\" newspaper suggested that Elliott should be a professional actor. After his graduation from Clark in 1965, Elliott re-enrolled at the University of Oregon and pledged at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. He dropped out again before completing his studies after his father died of a heart attack.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Elliott relocated to Los Angeles to pursue a career in acting, which his father had dissuaded him from doing, instead urging him to obtain a college degree. \"He gave me that proverbial line, ‘You’ve got a snowball’s chance in hell of having a career in (Hollywood),’\" Elliott recalled. \"He was a realist, my dad. He was a hard worker. He had a work ethic that I’ve fashioned mine after, and I thank him for that every day.\" Elliott worked in construction while studying acting and served in the California Air National Guard's 146th Airlift Wing (the Hollywood Guard) at Van Nuys Airport before the unit moved to Channel Islands Air National Guard Station.\n\nElliott began his career as a character actor; his appearance, voice, and bearing were well-suited to Westerns. In 1969, he earned his first television credit as Dan Kenyon in \"Judd for the Defense\" in the episode \"The Crystal Maze\".\n\nThat same year he appeared in the show \"Lancer\" in the episode \"Death Bait\", playing Renslo. He went on to appear in two additional episodes of the series between 1970 and 1971. One of his early film roles was as a card player in \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" (1969). In the 1970–1971 television season, Elliott starred as Doug Robert for several episodes in the hit series \"\". In 1975, Elliott was cast in a lead role as Charles Wood in the television film \"I Will Fight No More Forever\", a dramatization of Chief Joseph's resistance to the U.S. government's forcible removal of his Nez Perce Indian tribe to a reservation in Idaho.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1977, he played the lead character Sam Damon in the miniseries \"Once an Eagle\", an adaptation of the Anton Myrer novel of the same name, opposite Amy Irving, Kim Hunter, Clu Gulager, and Melanie Griffith. He also had a starring role as Rick Carlson in the summer sleeper hit \"Lifeguard\" (1976), which marked his feature film breakthrough. In the film, he portrayed a lifeguard in Southern California who reevaluates his life choices after being invited to a reunion. \"Variety\" deemed the film \"unsatisfying,\" adding: \"Elliott, who has some beefcake value, projects a character who is mostly a passive reactor rather than a person in sure command of his fate.\"\n\nElliott played Tom Keating in the miniseries \"Aspen\" in 1977. He later played an abusive wife-killer in the miniseries \"Murder in Texas\" (1981) opposite Farrah Fawcett and his future wife Katharine Ross, and starred with Cheryl Ladd in \"A Death in California\" (1985). In 1979, he co-starred with Tom Selleck in the popular miniseries adaptation of Louis L'Amour's \"The Sacketts\". Elliot and Selleck teamed again in 1982 in \"The Shadow Riders\", another Louis L'Amour adaption.\n\nElliott had a supporting role in \"Mask\" (1985) opposite Cher, and he played a sympathetic father figure in the Christmas film \"Prancer\" (1989). He has made guest appearances on shows such as \"Felony Squad\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"Lancer\", and \"Hawaii Five-O\", and has been featured in many TV movies, including \"Buffalo Girls\" (1995), in which he played Wild Bill Hickok.\n\nIn 1986, he starred in TV movie \"Gone to Texas\", based on a biography of Sam Houston. The role allowed him to play Houston as both fighter and a man who grew into a skillful political leader; the film depicted his disgrace as governor of Tennessee, his return to his Cherokee Nation friends, and his pivotal role in the liberation of Texas from Mexico in 1836. Elliott played Wade Garrett in \"Road House\" (1989). In 1991, Elliott and his wife Katharine Ross starred in the adaptation of the Louis L'Amour novel \"Conagher\" (1991).\n\nHe portrayed General John Buford in the 1993 historical drama \"Gettysburg\", and the same year played Virgil Earp in the Western \"Tombstone\" (1993). Elliott played The Stranger, a character narrating the story of \"The Big Lebowski\" (1998). He subsequently co-starred in \"We Were Soldiers\" (2002), an adaptation of \"We Were Soldiers Once… And Young\", in which he portrayed Basil L. Plumley. He then played General Thunderbolt Ross in the 2003 action film \"Hulk\".\n\nIn 2005, he appeared in \"Thank You for Smoking\" as a former Marlboro Man advertisement cowboy who has developed lung cancer. In 2006 he provided the voice for the character Ben the Cow in the animated film \"Barnyard\".\n\nIn 2007, Elliott joined the comic book adaptation \"Ghost Rider\". He played the character Carter Slade. The same year, Elliott appeared in \"The Golden Compass\" as the character Lee Scoresby. The film is based on \"Northern Lights\" in Philip Pullman's trilogy \"His Dark Materials\". Also appearing in the film are Nicole Kidman, Christopher Lee and Daniel Craig.\n\nIn 2009, Elliott had a small role in \"Up In The Air\" in which he portrayed the chief pilot of American Airlines. He has appeared three times on \"Parks and Recreation\" as Ron Dunn, the Eagleton equivalent of Ron Swanson; Dunn is a hippie, compared to Swanson's staunch survivalist and Libertarian personality. He then provided the voice of Buster (a.k.a. Chupadogra) in the animated film \"Marmaduke\" (2010). He had a supporting role in the thriller film \"The Company You Keep\" and played a college football coach in 2014's drama film \"Draft Day\".\nIn 2015, Elliott appeared opposite Lily Tomlin as a former love interest of a grandmother (Tomlin) attempting to help her pregnant granddaughter in Paul Weitz's comedy \"Grandma\". The same year, he appeared in the romance \"I'll See You in My Dreams\", and had a role in the independent film \"Digging for Fire\". In 2015, he won the Critics' Choice Television Award for best guest performer in a drama for his role in the FX Network's show \"Justified\".\n\nIn 2015, Elliott began appearing as a series regular in the Netflix series \"The Ranch\", opposite Ashton Kutcher and Elisha Cuthbert. He also had a recurring role as Phil Millstein in the second season of \"Grace and Frankie\". In film, Elliott supplied the voice of Butch in the animated film \"The Good Dinosaur\" (2015).\n\nIn 2017, Elliott starred in \"The Hero\", as Lee Hayden, an aging Western icon with a golden voice, whose best performances are decades behind him. His work in the film received much critical acclaim with Joey Magidson, writing for \"AwardsCircuit\", proclaiming that \"Elliott is perfect here. \"The Hero\" encapsulates everything you love about him into one package.\" Later that year, Elliot starred in \"The Man Who Killed Hitler and Then the Bigfoot\".\n\nThe following year, Elliot costarred in \"A Star Is Born\" (2018), in which he plays Bobby Maine, the elder half-brother of Bradley Cooper's lead character. Elliott received critical acclaim for his performance, winning the National Board of Review Award for Best Supporting Actor. He was also nominated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role, as well as the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, his career-first nomination. Commenting on his Academy Award nomination, Elliot declared \"I think the thing off the top of my head might be, 'It’s about fucking time!'\"\n\nIn 1998, Elliott was named the grand marshal of the Calgary Stampede parade and rode in the procession before an estimated 300,000 spectators.\n\nElliott has performed voice-over narration for various commercials. He has lent his voice to campaigns for Dodge, IBM, Kinney Drugs, Union Pacific, and, most notably, the American Beef Council, succeeding Robert Mitchum in the latter. Since late 2007, Elliott has done voice-overs for Coors beer, bringing his deep, rich voice and \"western\" appeal to the brand brewed in Colorado. In 2010, Ram Trucks hired Elliott to do the voice-over for their Ram Heavy Duty truck commercial; he has been voicing their commercials since. Starting in 2008, he has voiced Smokey Bear, and shares the mascot's birth date (August 9, 1944). He also narrated the Pittsburgh Steelers and Green Bay Packers team introductions to Super Bowl XLV, played at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas at the conclusion of the 2010 NFL season for \"NFL on Fox\".\n\nElliott married actress Katharine Ross in 1984. Ross starred in \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\", in which Elliott had a very small role (though no scenes with Ross) in 1969, but the two did not meet again and begin dating until 1978, when they both starred in \"The Legacy\". They have a daughter, Cleo Rose Elliott (born September 17, 1984), who is now a musician in Malibu, California. Ross and Elliott live on a seaside ranch in Malibu, which they purchased in the 1970s. Elliott also maintains a property in the Willamette Valley in Oregon. Following his mother's death in 2012 at the age of 96, he also took ownership of his childhood home in northeast Portland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101539", "title": "Meier", "text": "Meier\n\nMeier may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101541", "title": "Maier", "text": "Maier\n\nMaier is a surname of German origin. It is a variant spelling of the more usual \"Meyer\", which is cognate with the English word \"mayor\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101547", "title": "Jacques", "text": "Jacques\n\nAncient and noble French family names, Jacq, Jacques, or James are believed to originate from the Middle Ages in the historic northwest Brittany region in France, and have since spread around the world over the centuries. To date, there are over one hundred identified noble families related to the surname by the Nobility & Gentry of Great Britain & Ireland.\n\nThe origin of this surname ultimately originates from the Latin, Jacobus which belongs to an unknown progenitor. Jacobus comes from the Hebrew name, Yaakov, which translates as \"one who follows\" or \"to follow after\".\n\nA French knight returning from the Crusades in the Holy Lands probably adopted the surname from \"Saint Jacques\" (or \"James the Greater\"). James the Greater was one of Jesus' Twelve Apostles, and is believed to be the first martyred apostle. Being endowed with this surname was an honor at the time and it is likely that the Church allowed it because of acts during the Crusades. Indeed, at this time, the use of biblical, Christian, or Hebrew names and surnames became very popular, and entered the European lexicon.\n\nRobert J., a Knight Crusader in 1248, was the first documented use of the surname. Since then, several personalities who have glorified this surname: Guillaume, secretary of the Duke and auditor of the account in 1413; Thomas, the Archdeacon of Penthievre, the Prior of Pirmil, the Bishop of Leon in 1478, transferred to Dol in 1482, the ambassador of the duke to the Pope in 1486, who died in 1503, and is interred in his cathedral; Jean, the Canon of Dol and Prior of Lehon; François, Lord of the Ville-Carré, and the Provost Marshal in 1577; and Captain of Ploërmel, who prospered in Rennes in 1621; Bernard, a Rennes counsellor in 1653. The widespread use of surnames was not evident in Europe until the mid-to-late-16th century, and prior usage was restricted to the noble class.\n\nThe use of surnames reached England during the conquest by an army of Norman, Breton, Flemish, and French soldiers under William the Conqueror. The names became anglicized following the conquest. Over the centuries the spelling of the Jack surname has changed and developed as the French language became increasingly associated with high culture and status. Several European kings have thus adopted the name. Jack appears in the records spelled as Jacques, Jaques, Jack, Jacks, Jackes, Jakes, Jeeks, Jeke, Jeex, Jaquiss, Jaquez and Jaquis, with spelling variations even occurring in documents referring to the same person. There are several explanations for this situation. Latin, as a language used by educated men, and the language of the Anglo-Saxons both had a profound impact on the spelling and pronunciation of Norman names. On the other hand, the Norman language effected the development of English. As the English language developed from its Germanic roots into Middle English (which was influenced by Norman French) we find a period during which spelling was not standardized but roughly followed phonetic pronunciation. During this time names were spelled a variety of ways depending upon local dialects. Thus the surname, as well as the Anglo-Saxon names, were recorded in many different ways.\n\nNorman surnames like Jack are mistakenly considered French, as Normans, derived from \"Northmen\", were of Viking origin. In 911, Vikings settled in their namesake region, Normandy, in current day France, where their language merged with that of locals to create a distinct French dialect. Throughout this period, England also endured Viking invasions, but the Anglo-Saxons successfully repelled them until 994. When the Danes ruled England, the Saxon royal family lived in Normandy and intermarried with the Duke of Normandy's family. William II, Duke of Normandy, could then claim the English throne when his cousin, Edward the Confessor, the restored Saxon king, died without an heir.\n\nAt the Battle of Hastings, William's army defeated their rival, King Harold Godwin, who was killed in the engagement. William could then claim the throne as Harold was elected and not a true member of the royal family. Despite the success of the foreign \"conquest,\" English nobles were permitted to retain their land unless they rebelled. Any resisting English elite had their lands confiscated, and some of them fled into exile as a result. William granted lands to his followers and built commanding military strongpoint castles for defense of his realm. By 1086, more than 92% of English nobles were replaced by William’s followers. One of these followers is believed to be an ancestor of the surname, Jack.\n\nHistorians have studied documents such as the Domesday Book, compiled by William I of England, in search of the first record of the Jack surname, and found it to be of Norman origin, first appearing in Yorkshire where they held a family seat as Lords of the Manor of Nether Silton in the North Riding of the region. At the time of the Doomsday Book in 1086, Nether Silton was recorded as a village with a hall and the tenant-in-chief was the Count of Mortain.\n\nThe first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of William Jagge, from Cambridgeshire dated 1251, in the \"Chartulary of Ramsey Abbey\", during the reign of King Henry III, who was known as \"The Frenchman\", 1216 – 1272, a witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Cambridgeshire in 1260.\n\nKatherine Jeke of Wikington in Stafford married Robert Farnham, Lord of Querndon in 1440. The family later acquired estates at Easby Abbey and Elvington. Of this latter branch, Sir Roger Jaques was Lord Mayor of York in 1639, and knighted by King Charles I. Sir John Jacques was also knighted by King Charles I in 1628. The family branched into Middlesex. Mary, daughter of Thomas Jacques of Leeds, married Robert Gosforth of Northumberland in 1818. The present seat of the family is at Easby Abbey.\n\nBefore the usage of surnames became common, differentiating between generations also led to ‘son of Jack’ becoming Jackson, most notably with President Andrew Jackson of South Carolina. The Jackson family had immigrated from Ireland during the colonial period. Jackson led American forces at the Battle of New Orleans in the War of 1812. Due to favorable weather conditions, and his overall leadership, Britain suffered one of her worst defeats in their overseas colonial history. His fame as a general helped him to become the seventh US President later in his life.\n\n\nJacques (, Quebec French pronunciation : ) is the French equivalent of \"James\", ultimately originating from the name Jacob.\n\n\"Jacques\" is derived from the Late Latin \"Iacobus\", from the Greek (Septuagintal Greek ), from the Hebrew name Jacob . (See \"Jacob\".) \"James\" is derived from \"Iacomus\", a variant of \"Iacobus\".\n\nAs a first name, \"Jacques\" is often phonetically converted to English as \"Jacob\", \"Jake\" (from \"Jacob\"), or \"Jack\".\n\"Jack\", from \"Jankin\", is usually a diminutive of \"John\" but can also be used as a short form for many names derived from \"Jacob\" like \"Jacques\". For example, in French \"Jacky\" is commonly used as a nickname for \"Jacques\", in Dutch \"Jack\" is a pet form of \"Jacob\" or \"Jacobus\" along with the other nicknames \"Sjaak\", \"Sjaakie\" and \"Jaak\". In Swedish, it is \"Jacke\" for \"Jacob\" or \"Jakob\" and in German it is \"Jackel\" or \"Jockel\" for \"Jakob\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101553", "title": "Saline water", "text": "Saline water\n\nSaline water (more commonly known as salt water) is water that contains a high concentration of dissolved salts (mainly sodium chloride). The salt concentration is usually expressed in parts per thousand (permille, ‰) or parts per million (ppm). The United States Geological Survey classifies saline water in three salinity categories. Salt concentration in slightly saline water is around 1,000 to 3,000 ppm (0.1–0.3%), in moderately saline water 3,000 to 10,000 ppm (0.3–1%) and in highly saline water 10,000 to 35,000 ppm (1–3.5%). Seawater has a salinity of roughly 35,000 ppm, equivalent to 35 grams of salt per one liter (or kilogram) of water. The saturation level is dependent on the temperature of the water. At 20 °C one liter of water can dissolve about 357 grams of salt, a concentration of 26.3% w/w.\n\nAt 100 °C (373.15 K, 212 °F), saturated sodium chloride brine is about 28% salt by weight. At 0 °C (273.15 K, 32 °F), brine can only hold about 26% salt. At 20 °C one liter of water can dissolve about 357 grams of salt, a concentration of 26.3%.\n\nThe thermal conductivity of seawater (3.5% dissolved salt by weight) is 0.6 W/mK at 25 °C. The thermal conductivity decreases with increasing salinity and increases with increasing temperature. The graphs and online calculations in this page plot thermal conductivity for varying salinity and temperature:\n\nThe salt content can be determined with a salinometer.\n\nDensity \"ρ\" of brine at various concentrations and temperatures can be approximated with a linear equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere the values of a are:\n\nAbout four percent of hydrogen gas produced worldwide is created by electrolysis. The majority of this hydrogen produced through electrolysis is a side product in the production of chlorine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101556", "title": "Montréal, Aude", "text": "Montréal, Aude\n\nMontréal (Languedocien: \"Montreal\") is a commune just west of Carcassonne in the Aude department, a part of the ancient Languedoc province and the present-day Occitanie region in southern France.\n\nIn 1206 Montréal was the site of debates between Catholics and Cathars, a sect of Christianity whose beliefs ran contrary to the teachings of the Catholic Church. These debates were initiated by Diego of Osma and his canon, the future Saint Dominic, as part of Pope Innocent III's program to convert the Cathars in the area to Catholicism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101557", "title": "LA County Library", "text": "LA County Library\n\nLA County Library is one of the largest public library systems in the United States which serves residents living in 49 of the 88 incorporated cities of Los Angeles County, California. United States and those living in unincorporated areas resulting in a service area extending over . LA County Library serves the surrounding regions to the city of Los Angeles, not be confused with the Los Angeles Public Library (LAPL) which serves areas within the city of Los Angeles.\n\n\"County Free Library Act\" (1912) established and authorized the Los Angeles County Free Library, later to become the Los Angeles County Public Library system of branches.\n\nThe library system, headquartered in Downey, California, is overseen by the Library Commission of 20 appointed members who report on administration, operation, and service to the County Board of Supervisors who operate County Library as a special fund department.\n\nSkye Patrick was appointed County Librarian on February 1, 2016.\n\nLA County Library was a finalist for the IMLS National Medal in 2018 and 2019.\n\nLA County Library won the 2018 Marketer of the Year Award, the 2019 Librarian of the Year Award for Skye Patrick, and the 2019 Library of the Year Award. All three awards were from Library Journal and this was the first time a single organization held all three awards at the same time.\n\nThe library provides many resources, including literacy services and programs for families and children.\n\nThe library system offers consumer health information under CHIPS (Consumer Health Information Program and Services).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101568", "title": "Seán Mac Falls", "text": "Seán Mac Falls\n\nSeán Mac Falls (born 18 November 1957) is an Irish poet.\n\nHe has published five books of poetry and several chapbooks. His first collection of poems, \"20 Poems\" (2001, ), won praise from Oxford University don John Carey, who compared the poet to W. B. Yeats and from Yale critic Harold Bloom. Several of the poems were Pushcart Prize nominations and were reprinted in major UK magazines, including \"Agenda\", The \"London Magazine\" and \"Stand Magazine\".\n\nHe published a second book, entitled \"The Blue Falcon\", in 2005 (). His latest book of verse, composed entirely of love poems, is called \"In the Pool of the Lost Maiden Song\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101570", "title": "Elephant Butte Dam", "text": "Elephant Butte Dam\n\nElephant Butte Dam or Elephant Butte Dike is a concrete gravity dam on the Rio Grande river near Truth or Consequences, New Mexico. The dam impounds Elephant Butte Reservoir, which is used mainly for agriculture, and also provides for recreation, hydroelectricity and flood control. The construction of the dam has reduced the flow of the Rio Grande to a small stream for most of the year, with water released only during the summer irrigation season, or during times of exceptionally heavy snow melt.\n\nThe first to propose a dam for the area were Peter E. Kern, E.V. Berrien, John Campbell, R.M. Loomis and Edward Roberts. They had camped in the area where the dam is now and Kern encouraged the others to consider building a dam there.\n\nThe dam is part of the Rio Grande Project, a project to provide power and irrigation to south-central New Mexico and west Texas. The United States Congress authorized construction of the dam on February 25, 1905 and it began in 1911. It was completed in 1916 but allowed to begin filling in 1915.\n\nAt the time of its construction, the dam was the largest irrigation dam ever built with the exception of the Aswan Dam in Egypt. It was expected that the dam would become the property of the local settlers once a water tax had reimbursed the government for the cost of construction. During construction the government used a system of 3 cables, each having a capacity of 15 tons and a span of .\n\nThe name \"Elephant Butte\" refers to a volcanic core similar to Devils Tower in Wyoming. It is now an island in the lake. The butte was said to have the shape of an elephant.\nThe dam was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 1979. Historic resources from the era of construction of the dam, and from New Deal era development of power generation and recreation facilities in the area, are recognized in the 1997 listing of a area on the National Register as the Elephant Butte Historic District. The historic district listing includes the dam itself and much more.\n\nElephant Butte Dam is 301 feet (91.7 m) high, 1,674 feet (510.2 m) long including the spillway and is made from 618,785 cubic yards (473,095 m³) of concrete. The width at the top of the dam is 18 feet (5.5 m) and 228 feet (69.5 m) at the base.\n\nThe reservoir has a capacity of of water and controls the runoff from 28,900 square miles (74,850 km²). It provides irrigation to 178,000 acres (720 km²) of land. The dam also contains a 27,945-kilowatt hydroelectric powerplant. The current turbine was installed in 1940 and generates 38,449,061 kWh per year (as of 2005). The crest elevation is 4390 ft (1338 m).\n\n"}
{"id": "2101573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101573", "title": "Psalm 89", "text": "Psalm 89\n\nPsalm 89 is the 89th psalm in the biblical Book of Psalms, part of the Hebrew Bible. In the Greek Septuagint version of the bible, and in its Latin translation in the Vulgate, this psalm is \"Psalm 88\" in a slightly different numbering system.\n\nIt is a Psalm and Maschil.\n\nThe superscription of this Psalm claims that it was written by Ethan, the Ezrahite. Ethan the Ezrahite, along with Heman the Ezrahite (the author of the preceding Psalm, Psalm 88), was a wise man from the time of, or prior to Solomon. 1 Kings 4:31 states, concerning King Solomon, \"For he was wiser than all other men, wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol, and his fame was in all the surrounding nations\" (ESV).\n\nIn 2 Samuel 7:12-17, God promised King David that there would always be a king of the Jews. Some scholars claim that this psalm was written after the deportation of the Jews to Babylon., however this is inconsistent with the dating of Ethan during the time of Solomon. More likely is that it was written on behalf of the king (David or Solomon) during a time of trouble.\nIn it, he expresses a belief that despite what he sees, he has faith that the promises described in 2 Samuel 7:12-17, will still be fulfilled.\n\nPsalm 89 begins with words of praise for Yahweh's goodness and covenant faithfulness. It recounts the promises made to King David, and the covenant which God had established with him, for the first 37 verses; from verse 38 to 51, the Psalmist laments what seemed like God's lack of remembrance of his covenant promises. But finally, in the 52nd and closing verse of the Psalm, the Psalmist's tone changes once again, when he proclaims, \"Blessed be the LORD forever! Amen and Amen\" (ESV). With these words, the third book of the Psalter is closed.\n\nIn the Jewish arrangement it closes the third book of the Psalms.\n\nSpurgeon called it a \"Covenant Psalm\" saw it as the \"utterance of a believer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101588", "title": "Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium", "text": "Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium\n\nThe Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium () formerly known as \"Fateh Maidan\" is a football and cricket stadium in Hyderabad, Telangana.\n\nThe stadium was renamed in 1967 in memory of Lal Bahadur Shastri, India's former Prime Minister. As of 19 Aug, 2017 it has hosted 3 Tests and 14 ODIs.\n\nDuring the eight month siege of Golconda in 1687 the Mughal soldiers were camped on a vast open ground. After their victory, this ground was named as Fateh Maidan (Victory Square). During Asif Jahi period, Fateh Maidan was used as Polo Grounds. Gymkhana ground in Secunderabad which was the home of Hyderabad Cricket Association did not have stands to accommodate the large number of spectators that used to watch the cricket matches. The matches were therefore held at Fateh Maidan even though the grounds were not owned by Hyderabad Cricket Association but by Andhra Pradesh Sports Council. The first test match was hosted in November 1955 against New Zealand. The stadium was renamed as Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium in 1967. Floodlights were introduced in 1993 during the Hero Cup match between the West Indies and Zimbabwe. The Stadium was the home ground for the Hyderabad cricket team.\n\nIn 2005, the use of Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium for International cricket was discontinued when Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium built across town hosted an ODI Match between India and South Africa. The stadium is now hosting Indian Cricket League matches and is the home ground for the 2008 Edelweiss 20's Challenge winners Hyderabad Heroes.\n\nLal Bahadur Stadium is situated behind the police control room, between the Nizam College and Public Gardens in Hyderabad. It is the venue for many national and international sporting events, especially for football and cricket. The stadium was previously known as Fateh Maidan.\n\nIt has the capacity to seat around 25,000 people. The swimming pool, shopping complex and the indoor stadium are the important aspects of this stadium. The ground has flood light facility and now is used as the Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS).The games played here are mainly Cricket and Football.\n\nLal Bahadur Shastri Stadium has hosted only three Test matches – all against New Zealand. Polly Umrigar's double century and Subhash Gupte's 7 wickets in NZ's first innings were the most notable performances of the inaugural Test between these two teams and ended in a draw. In 1988/89, local players Arshad Ayub with seven wickets in the match and Mohammad Azharuddin, who top scored with 81 runs led India to a 10 wicket victory and a 2–1 Series victory.\n\nThe first ODI Match was played in the stadium during the 1983/84 season when India hosted Pakistan and won the match by four wickets. The match between India and Pakistan on 20 March 1987 was a thriller which ended with the scores tied at 212 in 44 overs. India were declared the victors because they lost fewer wickets (six to Pakistan's seven).\n\nIn one of the great matches played during the 1987 Cricket World Cup, David Houghton's 142 fell just short of lifting Zimbabwe to an epic victory. Apart from Houghton and Iain Butchart's 54, all other Zimbabwean batsmen scored single figures as New Zealand won by 3 runs. The Hero Cup encounter (1992) between West Indies and Zimbabwe saw the first day/night match in the stadium. The match was easily won by West Indies. In all, the stadium has hosted seven day/night matches. In the 1996 Cricket World Cup, the West Indies overhauled Zimbabwe's 151 in just 29.3 overs on their way to a semi-final appearance in the tournament.\n\nIn the 1999/00 season, the stadium hosted the 2nd match in the 5-match ODI Series between India and New Zealand. Having suffered a defeat in Rajkot, India lost Sourav Ganguly in the second over (run-out) as a straight drive from Sachin richoched off Shayne O'Connor's fingers into the non-striker's stumps. Rahul Dravid and Tendulkar then put on a world-record 331 run partnership off 46.2 overs as India amassed on 376 runs and easily won the match by 174 runs.\n\nIn the final match played at Lal Bahadur Shastri Stadium (2003), India played against New Zealand in the TVS Cup encounter that decided the second finalist (Australia already booked its spot). Tendulkar's century and Virender Sehwag's 130 created a platform for Dravid to equal the second fastest fifty by an Indian – 50 off 22 balls as India scored 353 runs and won the match comfortably by 145 runs.\n\nThe highest scores were made by West Indies, scoring 498-4 in 1959 and 358 all out in 1948. The next highest score was made by New Zealand scoring 326 all out in Test cricket. The most runs scored here was by Polly Umrigar (223 runs), followed by Bert Sutcliffe (154 runs) and John Guy (123 runs). The most wickets taken here was by Erapalli Prasana (8 wickets) by Subhash Gupte (8 wickets)and Dayle Hadlee (7 wickets).\n\nThe highest scores were made by India, scoring 376-2 in ODIs. The next highest scores were also made by India who scored 353-5 and South Africa who scored 261-7.\n\nThe most runs scored here was by Sachin Tendulkar (310 runs), followed by Rahul Dravid (297 runs) and Dave Houghton (164 runs). Anil Kumble (7 wickets), Ajit Agarkar (6 wickets) and Manoj Prabharkar (5 wickets) are the leading wicket-takers on this ground in ODIs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101598", "title": "County Square", "text": "County Square\n\nCounty Square is a shopping centre in Ashford, Kent, England. It is one of three main shopping facilities in the town, others being Park Mall and the Ashford Designer Outlet.\n\nThe centre was originally an open-air shopping area named The Tufton Centre. It was originally home to an International Stores and Tesco Home Store which later became a Littlewoods. The centre was known for its Oast roundel style confectionery and advertising hoardings. It was covered by a large glass roof and a substantial redevelopment in the late 1980s.\n\nOn 20 March 2007, County Square opened its new extended shopping mall to accommodate its new anchor store Debenhams, as well as stores such as New Look, Jane Norman, H&M, Next, River Island and Waterstones. The extension saw the centre double in size, increase its store total to 60 and increase its car parking facilities to 600.\n\nThe extension to the centre was furthered in January 2010 with the introduction of GZ Computers, which was positioned in the older part of the centre prior to the extension. Watch Town, an independent watch store, was also introduced into the centre, as well as SilverLeaf, an independent jeweler. A kiosk selling confectionery, drinks, tobacco and newspapers (managed by the staff who operate Ashford News in the town's Bank Street) has also been introduced into the new extension.\n\nDue to the extension and resultant re-branding of County Square, also known as CSQ, the centre has been separated into 6 areas: North Mall, Main Square, Central Mall, South Square, South Mall and The Oval.\n\nBelow are just a few of the many stores,\nAs of January 2014 ;Debenhams, Clarks, Card Factory, Carphone Warehouse, F. Hinds, JD Sports, Mothercare, Marks & Spencer, Next, Poundland, Superdrug, Specsavers, Waterstones, No1 Currency\n\n"}
{"id": "2101613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101613", "title": "Alagna Valsesia", "text": "Alagna Valsesia\n\nAlagna Valsesia (Walser German: \"Im Land\", Piedmontese: \"Alagna\", Valsesiano: \"Lagna\") is a \"comune\" and small village high in the Valsesia alpine valley in the province of Vercelli, Piedmont, northern Italy, a UNESCO World heritage site since 2013. It is a tourist place for mountaineering and winter sports, and it is internationally renowned for the freeride off-piste skiing. It is also the traditional starting point for the Margherita Hut climb, at above sea level, the highest building in Europe. It was originally settled by Walser at the beginning of the 12th century. It is located at an elevation of just south of the Monte Rosa, elevation (the second tallest peak in the Alps); It is very close to Milan () and to the international Milan–Malpensa Airport ().\n\nSince December 2005 a cable car connects Alagna with Gressoney through the Passo dei Salati.\n\nFounded in the 13th century by a German population (\"Walser\") descending from the north into the Italian valleys around Monte Rosa, it has preserved today its atmosphere with several buildings built around 1500–1600 in a pure \"Walser Style\", still in perfect condition, built using local wood and stones (called 'Piode'). This spontaneous architecture has been totally preserved: the wooden cage around the building was in fact invented for putting the hay to dry out.\n\nThe Church of Saint John the Baptist was built in 1511 and it has preserves many sculptures by Giovanni d'Enrico a famous Italian artist (1559–1644).\n\nAt the entrance of the town, there is the native house of Tanzio da Varallo (1575–1633), brother of Giovanni d'Enrico and one of the most famous Italian artist. His works are in the most prestigious art gallery of the world.\n\nAlagna is one of the Alpine towns which have played a crucial role in the history of the mountaineering. The Guides Association was founded in 1872 and it is the oldest in Italy second only to that of Courmayeur (1868). From the town started all the first expeditions on the close Monte Rosa; the first one was on 23 July 1801 when Pietro Giordani, a native of Alagna, reached the summit of the peak which now is called by his name (Giordani peak, ). In 1819 Zumstein reached the third highest Monte Rosa peak (Zumstein peak, ). Finally between August the 8th and the 9th, the Alagna parish priest, reached, after three attempts, the fourth tallest peak of Monte Rosa and the highest in the Alagna Valley, the today called Gnifetti Peak ().\n\nThe mountaineering tradition is still alive: Silvio Mondinelli, the second Italian climber to reach all the 14 peaks of the world, has done several climbs on the Alagna side of Monte Rosa. In September 2011, Hervè Barmasse and his father opened a new route on the south-east face of the Gnifetti peak , which is at the moment the most difficult route on this side of the massif and one of the most challenging in the entire group (, VI, ED).\nFinally Alagna is the starting point for reaching the Margherita hut, the highest hut in Europe, on the Gnifetti Peak top ().\n\nAlagna is internationally known for being the freeride capital of the Alps. The reason for this great quantity of routes is in the particular morphological shape of the main valley, steep but at the same time with several lateral smaller valleys \"Comb shape\" which permit a huge exploitation of the territory. Plus, thanks of the difference in height form the top of the ridges (Monte Rosa is ) to the bottom of the valley (Alagna itself is only at ), most routes cover a huge slope. The landscape is wild, severe and very impressive. The majority of the itineraries are around the Punta Giordani and the wild area of the Malfatta . Rides include that of Balma, which crosses the entire Bors Valley form Indren () to Pastore Hut , and the alternatives routes starting from Passo dei Salati (): Canale a Y, Canale Rettilineo, Canale Obliquo, Canale Longhez, all around the 45°. There are other itineraries in the Otro Valley (Passo Zube S3+, Passo della Coppa S3+, Canale Jschechette S4+), close to Corno Bianco (). By Eliski itineraries include Il Cavallo (starting point around ), Rizzetti and Il Turlo. Extreme rides are Perazzi Couloir along Punta Parrot (, 55°) and Sesia Couloir (60° and 65° close to the ridge) between Punta Gnifetti () and Punta Parrot.\n\nAlagna Valsesia is part of the huge Monterosa Ski area, a ski-resort at the foots of Monte Rosa which connects three different valleys in Piedmont and in Aosta Valley, with 180 km of runs. Through Passo dei Salati at an elevation of , Alagna is connected with Gressoney-La-Trinité and Champoluc. Since 2017, a new chair lift, brings from Cimalegna at an elevation of just above the Passo dei Salati permitting the direct access to the freerides routes in the Vallone delle Pisse.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101616", "title": "Kevin Young (poet)", "text": "Kevin Young (poet)\n\nKevin Lowell Young is an American poet and teacher of poetry. Author of 11 books and editor of eight others, Young has been a winner of a Guggenheim Fellowship as well as a finalist for the National Book Award for his collection \"Jelly Roll: A Blues\". Young has served as Atticus Haygood Professor of English and Creative Writing at Emory University and curator of Emory's Raymond Danowski Poetry Library, as well as Director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture at the New York Public Library. In March 2017, Young became poetry editor of \"The New Yorker\".\n\nBorn in Lincoln, Nebraska, Young was the only child of two working parents, his father, Dr. Paul E. Young, an ophthalmologist and his mother, Dr. Azzie Young, a chemist. Due to the careers of both of his parents, his family moved frequently throughout his youth. Young lived in six different places before he reached the age of ten, but his family ultimately settled in Topeka, Kansas. He first began to pursue writing when he was thirteen years old, after he attended a summer writing class at Washburn University.\n\nYoung attended Harvard College, where he studied with Seamus Heaney and Lucie Brock-Broido and became friends with writer Colson Whitehead. He graduated in 1992, then held a Stegner Fellowship at Stanford University (1992–94), where he worked with Denise Levertov, and received his Master of Fine Arts from Brown University, where Michael S. Harper served as a significant influence.\n\nWhile in Boston and Providence, he was part of the African-American poetry group the Dark Room Collective. He is heavily influenced by the poets Langston Hughes, John Berryman, and Emily Dickinson and by the artist Jean-Michel Basquiat.\n\nYoung wrote much of his debut collection, \"Most Way Home,\" while still an undergraduate. Published by William Morrow in 1995, \"Most Way Home\" was selected by Lucille Clifton for the National Poetry Series and won \"Ploughshares\"'s John C. Zacharis First Book Award. Writing in \"Ploughshares\", Rob Arnold observes that in that first book Young \"explores his own family's narratives, showing an uncanny awareness of voice and persona.\"\n\nYoung has described his next three books \"To Repel Ghosts\" (named for a Jean-Michel Basquiat painting)\", Jelly Roll\" (a collection of love poems named for Jelly Roll Morton)\",\" and \"Black Maria\" as an \"American trilogy\", calling the series \"Devil's Music.\"\n\nYoung's collection \"The Book of Hours\" (Knopf, 2014) won the 2015 Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize.\n\nYoung is also the author of \"For The Confederate Dead, Dear Darkness\", \"Blues Laws: Selected and Uncollected Poems 1995–2015\" (2016) and editor of \"Giant Steps: The New Generation of African American Writers\" (2000)\", Blues Poems\" (2003)\", Jazz Poems\" (2006), and \"John Berryman's Selected Poems\" (2004).\n\nHis poem \"Black Cat Blues,\" originally published in \"The Virginia Quarterly Review\", was included in \"The Best American Poetry 2005.\" Young's poetry has also appeared in \"The New Yorker\", \"Poetry Magazine\", \"The Paris Review\", \"Ploughshares\", and other literary magazines. In 2007, he served as guest editor for an issue of \"Ploughshares\". He has written on art and artists for museums in Los Angeles and Minneapolis.\n\nHis 2003 book of poems \"Jelly Roll\" was a finalist for the National Book Award. Young was named a Guggenheim Foundation Fellow in 2003, as well as an NEA Literature Fellow in Poetry.\n\nAfter stints at the University of Georgia and Indiana University, Young now teaches writing at Emory University, where he is the Atticus Haygood Professor of English and Creative Writing, as well as the curator of the Raymond Danowski Poetry Library, a large collection of first and rare editions of poetry in English.\n\nIn September 2016, Young became the Director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture at the New York Public Library.\n\nIn March 2017, he was named poetry editor of \"The New Yorker\", to begin in November 2017.\n\nYoung is working on two books, a non-fiction book called \"Bunk\" on the U.S. history of lies and hoaxes and a poetry collection he's described as being \"about African American history and also personal history, growing up in Kansas, which has a long black history including Langston Hughes and others.\"\n\nYoung lives in New York. He is married to Kate Tuttle, book columnist at \"The Boston Globe\"; Tuttle and Young married in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101622", "title": "GURPS Gulliver", "text": "GURPS Gulliver\n\nGURPS Gulliver is a supplement for the role-playing game \"GURPS\".\n\nIt covers the physical aspects of the characters in greater detail than the basic rules.\n\nIn \"T.Bone's\" own words, on the older version for GURPS 3e:\n\n\"GURPS Gulliver\" was published online as an e-book by \"T.Bone\".\n\nIn April 2007, T.Bone released a new version for GURPS 4e, titled GULLIVER Mini. A much smaller work than the old version, Mini covers only basic topics related to building and playing big and small creatures, on a single page of rules (with a second page of notes and examples). Mini is a free PDF download.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101627", "title": "Vidarbha Cricket Association Ground", "text": "Vidarbha Cricket Association Ground\n\nThe Vidarbha Cricket Association Ground is a cricket ground located in the city of Nagpur. \n\nThe ground is known as the VCA Ground and belongs to the Central Zone. The first match was played here in October 1969. As of 19 August 2017, it has hosted nine Tests and 14 ODIs.\n\nIt has been replaced by a new stadium called Vidarbha Cricket Association Stadium as an international cricket stadium. It continues to be used by the Vidarbha and Uttar Pradesh cricket teams.\n\nSunil Gavaskar scored his only one day century here against New Zealand in the 1987 Reliance World Cup.\n\nIn 1995, during the 5th ODI between India and New Zealand, a wall in the East Stand collapsed, killing 9 people and injuring 70 others.\n\nThe tenth Test venue in the country, the Vidarbha Cricket Association-managed ground, probably the only international venue where you can walk straight into the ground from the road, has always made headlines for various reasons. \n\nChetan Sharma takes the first Cricket World Cup hat-trick in history, with the wickets of Ken Rutherford, Ian Smith and Ewen Chatfield in Nagpur. All three were bowled.\n\nSunil Gavaskar got his only one-day, and World Cup, century here when India won by a huge margin against New Zealand in their final league encounter of the 1987 Reliance World Cup. This is the second best ground for Sachin Tendulkar when it comes to centuries. \nSachin Tendulkar has three here after four in Chepauk. \n\nIt was a dark hour when in 1995, during the fifth game of the India-New Zealand ODI series, the brickwall at the East stand collapsed and nine people died.\n\nAs for the pitch, previously, it was just like any other docile pitch, till the BCCI-appointed pitch committee recommended the re-laying of the wicket in 1999. It took a while for the wicket to assume the true shape that it was designed to. \n\nAlso the unique thing about this wicket is the 30-inch deep double-brick layer normally there is a 15-inch brick layer - that facilitates in the extra pace and bounce. Surely, that was the a case when Australia conquered the `final frontier' as they beat India handsomely in the third Test to win the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. \n\nThe local critics were up-in-arms at how the curator ignored the home team's cause and prepared a fast wicket that helped the opposition fast bowlers. But the curator insisted that he had simply followed the instructions of the pitch panel. Today Nagpur is one of the only grounds to assist genuine fast bowlers in pace and movement and several first-class games in the 2004/05 season ended within three days as the medium-pacers reaped rich rewards.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101634", "title": "The New Blood", "text": "The New Blood\n\nThe New Blood was a professional wrestling stable in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 2000.\n\nIn early 2000, WCW decided that Kevin Sullivan's booking style was not as successful as they had hoped. So, they decided to bring back former WCW president Eric Bischoff and former World Wrestling Federation head of creative Vince Russo, putting them together to run WCW.\n\nOn-screen, Bischoff and Russo took over and declared all WCW titles vacant on April 10, 2000. They also declared a new stable with both of them at the helm called The New Blood. It consisted of most of the younger wrestlers in WCW as well as longtime talent that had been largely in the background for years, feuding with \"The Millionaire's Club\", the older stars of WCW, whom they claimed held them all back. The idea was to get the younger talent over and generate more interest among the younger fans that watched the WWF instead of WCW, although it later evolved into a New World Order rehash. While Hulk Hogan feuded with the New Blood, he would occasionally wear a black denim vest, with the initials \"F.U.N.B.\" on the back in white. The initials \"F.U.N.B.\" stood for \"Fuck U New Blood\". During a televised promo, Hogan said \"The N.B. stands for New Blood, and you can guess what the F.U. means, brother!\".\n\nOn April 16, at Spring Stampede in Chicago, Illinois, all of the titles were filled with matches between the New Blood and the Millionaire's Club. The New Blood won all of the vacant WCW titles, with the exception of the WCW Hardcore Championship, which was won by Terry Funk.\n\nThe feuds continued for another month or so before the New Blood disbanded due to WCW management making a hasty decision that it was not working, as the Millionaire's Club got most of the positive fan reaction. \n\nThe true end of the angle occurred on July 9 at Bash at the Beach in Daytona Beach, Florida, after the infamous Russo shoot promo, which caused Hogan and Bischoff to leave the promotion. However, the New Blood theme continued in WCW coinciding with the New Blood Rising pay-per-view in August 2000.\n\nDiamond Dallas Page quit WCW (in storyline), citing his feud with Eric Bischoff and the New Blood cost him his health, the WCW World Championship, his wife Kimberly, half of his possessions via divorce, and his best friend Chris Kanyon.\n\nRic Flair's wrestling career was ended by Vince Russo and David Flair in a handicap match, with Flair's daughter Meghan throwing the towel in; Ric and son Reid had their heads shaved after the loss.\n\nSting suffered major injuries (storyline) after being set on fire and tossed off the TurnerVision scaffolding by Vampiro.\n\nHollywood Hulk Hogan suffered injuries (storyline) after being put through a table by Bill Goldberg. Hogan was later publicly fired from WCW by Vince Russo during an in-ring promo.\n\nJim Duggan suffered internal bleeding (storyline) and was stretchered out of the ring following Bill Goldberg targeting his kidney.\n\nThe New Blood was composed of 3 different \"stables\" within itself: The Filthy Animals, The Natural Born Thrillers, and the other New Blood. The New Blood members were the ones who mostly feuded with the Millionaire's Club, while the other two were more of supporting casts. The Natural Born Thrillers were all rookies (with the exception of Shawn Stasiak), while the rest of the New Blood had already had TV time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101646", "title": "Accent on Youth", "text": "Accent on Youth\n\nAccent on Youth is a Broadway play written by Samson Raphaelson which debuted on Christmas Day, 1934. The plot concerns a lazy, middle-aged playwright who is spurred to write by his new young secretary. The original cast included Nicholas Hannen as playwright Steven Gaye and Constance Cummings as secretary Linda Brown.\n\nThe play has been filmed several times. The 1935 film \"Accent on Youth\" starred Herbert Marshall and Sylvia Sydney. The second film version was a musical and titled \"Mr. Music\" in 1950, starring Bing Crosby and Nancy Olson. The third film version, titled \"But Not For Me\" (1959), starred Clark Gable with Carroll Baker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101647", "title": "I'm Walking Behind You", "text": "I'm Walking Behind You\n\n\"I'm Walking Behind You\" is a popular song written by Billy Reid and published in 1953. The original version was by Dorothy Squires', recorded in the United Kingdom, with the orchestra of Billy Reid, the author of the song.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101648", "title": "M. Chinnaswamy Stadium", "text": "M. Chinnaswamy Stadium\n\nThe M. Chinnaswamy Stadium is a cricket stadium located in Bangalore, Karnataka. Flanked by the picturesque Cubbon Park, Queen's Road, Cubbon and uptown MG Road, this five-decade-old stadium is situated in the heart of the city of Bangalore It has a seating capacity of 35000, and regularly hosts Test cricket, One Day Internationals (ODI) and other First-class cricket matches, as well as musical and cultural events. The stadium is the home ground of the Karnataka state cricket team and the Indian Premier League franchise Royal Challengers Bangalore. It is owned by the Government of Karnataka and has been leased out to the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) for a period of 100 years.\n\nFormerly known as the Karnataka State Cricket Association Stadium, it was later rechristened in tribute to Mr. Mangalam Chinnaswamy, who donated land for stadium and served the KSCA for four decades and was also president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) from 1977–1980.\n\nIt is the first cricket stadium in the world to use solar panels to generate a bulk of the electricity needed to run the stadium. This has been procured as by the \"Go Green\" initiative of the KSCA. As of 13 January 2020 it has hosted 22 Tests, 24 ODIs and 7 T20Is.\n\nWith generous patronage from the Government of Karnataka, the foundation stone of this stadium was laid in 1969 and construction work commenced in 1970. The stadium was first used for First-class cricket matches during the 1972–73 season. It earned Test status during the 1974–75 season when the West Indies toured India.\n\nThe first Test played at this stadium was on 22–29 November 1974. Incidentally, this was the debut Test match for the West Indian batting giants Viv Richards and Gordon Greenidge. The West Indians led by Clive Lloyd crushed M. A. K. Pataudi's Indian team by a massive margin of 256 runs. India registered their first Test win on this ground against the touring English team led by Tony Greig in 1976–77. The first ODI match at this venue was played on 6 September 1982. India defeated Sri Lanka by six wickets in that match.\n\nFloodlights were first installed at this stadium for the 1996 Wills World Cup. The first match played here under lights was the quarter-final clash between arch-rivals India and Pakistan on 9 March 1996 in which India defeated Pakistan by 39 runs. In 2007, 3rd Test Match between India Vs Pakistan, Sourav Ganguly and Yuvraj Singh lead a 300 run partnership fightback from 61/4 breaking several records. India's 365/5 at stumps was the highest first day score in India. The 300 run partnership was the highest partnership at the stadium and the highest left-hander batsmen partnership. Sourav Ganguly's 239 is the highest left-hander score.\n\nAfter the BCCI chose Bangalore as the centre for the National Cricket Academy in 2000, many budding cricketers have passed out of the Academy housed on this ground. This stadium also served as venue for the 1996 Miss World pageant. The KSCA planned to increase the seating capacity to 70,000, as well as considered constructing a newer cricket stadium with seating capacity of 70,000–80,000. However, none of those plans have materialised as of now. Chinnaswamy Stadium is also the home ground of the Bangalore franchise team, the Royal Challengers Bangalore. The stadium was given a facelift for the first season of the IPL. It was painted in red and yellow, the team colours of the Royal Challengers and also the colours of the Kannada flag (cultural flag).\n\nThis stadium has hosted One Day International (ODI) matches for all editions of the World cups, when India was a host/co-host.\n\nQuarter final match\n\nICC World Cup 2011, 15th Match, Group B\n\nICC World Cup 2011, 22nd Match, Group B\n\nICC World Cup 2011, 31st Match, Group A\n\nICC World Cup 2011, 35th Match, Group A\n\nICC World Cup 2011, 11th Match, Group B\n\nOn 14 June 2018, Afghanistan played their first ever test match after being granted 'Test Status' by the ICC in 2017 against India at this venue.\n\nAll records correct .\n\nHighest total: 383–6 – India v Australia 2 November 2013. The second was 347–2 – Australia v India, the third and fourth highest scores were tied at 338 in the India-England in 2011 world cup match.\n\nHighest Run Chase : 329–7 – Ireland scored 329 (in 49.1 overs) against England's 327 runs from 50 overs, 2 March 2011, during world cup match.\nHighest individual score: 209 scored by Rohit Sharma\n\nThe most runs were scored by Sachin Tendulkar (534 runs) followed by Virender Sehwag (328 runs) and Rohit Sharma (318 runs)\n\nThe most wickets were taken by Zaheer Khan (14 wickets) followed by Javagal Srinath (10 wickets) and Venkatesh Prasad & Kapil Dev (8 wickets each)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101649", "title": "David O. Russell", "text": "David O. Russell\n\nDavid Owen Russell (born August 20, 1958) is an American film director, screenwriter, and producer. His early directing career includes the comedy films \"Spanking the Monkey\" (1994), \"Flirting with Disaster\" (1996), \"Three Kings\" (1999), and \"I ♥ Huckabees\" (2004).\n\nThree of Russell's more recent films – the biographical sports drama \"The Fighter\" (2010), the romantic comedy-drama \"Silver Linings Playbook\" (2012), and the comedy-drama crime film \"American Hustle\" (2013) – were commercially successful and acclaimed by critics, having earned Russell three Academy Award nominations for Best Director, as well as a Best Adapted Screenplay nomination for \"Silver Linings Playbook\" and a Best Original Screenplay nomination for \"American Hustle\". Russell received his seventh Golden Globe nomination for the semi-biographical comedy-drama \"Joy\" (2015).\n\nRussell was born in Manhattan, to Maria (née Muzio) and Bernard (Markovski) Russell. His parents worked for Simon & Schuster; his father was the vice president of sales for the company and his mother was a secretary there. His father was from a Russian Jewish family and his mother was Italian American (of Lucanian descent). Russell's maternal grandparents were Frank Muzio, born in Craco, and Philomena Brancata, born in Ferrandina, both in the province of Matera. His paternal grandfather, a butcher from the Upper West Side of Manhattan, lost many of his relatives in concentration camps.\n\nRussell was raised in Larchmont, New York, in an atheist, middle-class household. When he was 13, he made his first film for a school project and used a Super 8 film camera to film people in New York City. He attended Mamaroneck High School, where he was voted \"Class Rebel\". He fell in love with film in his teens (his favorite movies included \"Taxi Driver\", \"Chinatown\", and \"Shampoo\") but aspired to become a writer; Russell started a newspaper in high school and wrote short stories. His parents worked for a publishing company, so he grew up in a household filled with books and novels.\n\nRussell received his A.B. degree from Amherst College, where he majored in English and political science, in 1981. He wrote his senior thesis on the United States intervention in Chile from 1963 to 1973.\n\nAfter graduating from Amherst, Russell traveled to Nicaragua and taught in a Sandinista literacy program. He worked manual labor jobs, including waitering, bartending, and catering. Some of his bartending colleagues included members of the Blue Man Group. He worked for a booksellers' association and later became a community organizer in Maine. He used video equipment to document slums and bad housing conditions, which later became a documentary of Lewiston, Maine. Russell was a political activist and canvassed and raised money in neighborhoods; he also did community work in Boston's South End. In addition to working in several day jobs, he began to write short films.\n\nRussell directed a documentary about Panamanian immigrants in Boston, which led to a job as a production assistant on a PBS series called \"Smithsonian World\".\n\nIn 1987, Russell wrote, produced, and directed \"Bingo Inferno: A Parody on American Obsessions\", a short film about an obsessive bingo-playing mother. Two years later, he made another short titled \"Hairway to the Stars\", which featured Bette Davis and William Hickey. Both shorts were shown at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nAfter Russell made an award-winning short film for a Boston television station, he received grants from the New York State Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts. Instead of the money going towards a feature about a fortune cookie writer, he decided to make \"Spanking the Monkey\", a film about an incestuous mother-son relationship. As a result, Russell had to return the funds to the NEA.\n\n\"Spanking the Monkey\", the 1994 independent dark comedy, was his first directorial effort. The film was produced by Dean Silvers, and starred Jeremy Davies as a troubled young man and Alberta Watson as his lonely mother. Despite the controversial subject matter, the film received critical acclaim and won him Best First Screenplay and Best First Feature from the Independent Spirit Awards, as well as the Audience Award at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nHis next project was the Miramax comedy \"Flirting with Disaster\" (1996), his second collaboration with Dean Silvers, and first with Harvey Weinstein. The film follows a neurotic man (Ben Stiller) who travels with his wife (Patricia Arquette) and a high-strung caseworker (Téa Leoni) to find his biological parents. The film also starred Mary Tyler Moore, George Segal, Alan Alda, Josh Brolin, Richard Jenkins, and Lily Tomlin. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the Cannes Film Festival, and was well received by most critics. Roger Ebert said of the direction, \"Russell finds the strong central line all screwball begins with, the seemingly serious mission or quest, and then throws darts at a map of the United States as he creates his characters.\" Lisa Schwarzbaum of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a 'B' and declared it \"one of the ha-ha funniest comedies currently at a theater near you.\"\n\nThe success of those two films led to the satirical Gulf War black comedy \"Three Kings\", starring George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg, Ice Cube and Spike Jonze. Adapted from an earlier script by former stand-up comic John Ridley, the film follows three American GIs who devise a plan to steal hidden Kuwaiti gold during the 1991 Iraqi uprising against Saddam Hussein. Filmed in the deserts of Arizona, California and Mexico, and featuring actual Iraqi refugees as extras, Russell used several unique cinematic techniques to achieve a feeling of realism. He filmed using handheld cameras and Steadicam, and shot on Ektachrome slide photography stock that was cross processed in colour negative chemicals, to reproduce \"the odd colour of the newspaper images [of the Gulf War].\" He also insisted on filming all of the explosions in one shot, unlike a typical action film.\n\n\"Three Kings\" was released in 1999 and was his biggest critical and financial success. It grossed $60 million in the United States and over $100 million worldwide. It holds a 94% at Rotten Tomatoes, with the consensus \"\"Three Kings\" successfully blends elements of action, drama, and comedy into a thoughtful, exciting movie on the Gulf War.\" It ended up being the first of several collaborations with Mark Wahlberg. During filming, news spread of Russell and George Clooney nearly having a fistfight on the set. In a 2000 interview, Clooney described his confrontation with Russell after tensions on the set had been steadily increasing. According to Clooney, Russell was demeaning the crew verbally and physically. Clooney felt this was out of line and told Russell, \"David, it's a big day. But you can't shove, push or humiliate people who aren't allowed to defend themselves.\" After the confrontation escalated when, according to Sharon Waxman in \"Rebels on the Backlot,\" Russell actually headbutted Clooney and Clooney grabbed Russell by the throat, Clooney said Russell eventually apologized and filming continued, but Clooney described the incident as \"truly, without exception, the worst experience of my life.\" When asked if he would work with Russell again, Clooney responded, \"Life's too short.\" In early 2012, Clooney indicated that he and Russell had mended their relationship, saying \"We made a really, really great film, and we had a really rough time together, but it's a case of both of us getting older. I really do appreciate the work he continues to do, and I think he appreciates what I'm trying to do.\"\n\nRussell's next project was the existential comedy \"I ♥ Huckabees\". Russell had conflicts with Lily Tomlin during its filming, and in March 2007, two videos were leaked onto YouTube portraying on-set arguments between Russell and Tomlin, in which among other things he called her sexist names. These abusive tirades by Russell were first reported in a 2004 \"The New York Times\" article by Sharon Waxman in which she describes him calling Tomlin \"...the crudest word imaginable, in front of the actors and crew.\" Additionally Waxman describes Russell storming off the set and back on again, continually shouting, which is corroborated by the leaked videos. On the set, actors were sometimes driven to their wits' ends after hours of takes. Afterward, Tomlin remarked that she and Russell are \"fine\", saying, \"I'd rather have someone human and available and raw and open. Don't give me someone cold, or cut off, or someone who considers themselves dignified.\" In a 2011 interview with Movieline, Tomlin was asked about the incident and she replied: It happens sometimes—but David is a very mercurial person, and that's part of why he's so brilliant. He almost reflects the movie. I did two movies with him, and \"I Heart Huckabees\" was so crazy, so all over the place, I think he kind of embodies intuitively whatever he's trying to make happen. It was just crazy, crazy stuff. We were always doing something, and then we'd get manic and crazy and I just flipped out on him. Then he flipped out on me. And you know, stuff goes on. But it's nothing. It's like family. If you have a big fight in your family, usually it's treated that way on the set. We don't want to misbehave; believe me, it's embarrassing. It's humiliating, you know? Because you just lose it. You act like a crazy person. [Laughs] But I adore David. I adore him as a talent. A lot of my friends said, \"Well, you won't work with him again.\" I said, \"Of course I would! I adore him, I love him. He's brilliant.\"\n\nDuring the 2012 Gotham Awards, host Mike Birbiglia roasted Russell by reading a transcript of Russell's argument with Lily Tomlin.\n\n\"Nailed\" is a political comedy co-written by Russell and Kristin Gore, and stars Jessica Biel, Jake Gyllenhaal, Tracy Morgan, Catherine Keener, Paul Reubens, James Brolin and Kirstie Alley. Production was delayed or shut down four times in 2008, resulting in IATSE shutting down production because the crew was not getting paid. Actor James Caan left mid-production \"due to creative differences and [the] split was amicable.\"\n\nThe film revolves around the character of Alice Eckle (played by Jessica Biel) who gets accidentally shot in the head with a nail by a clumsy workman, eliciting wild sexual urges. The uninsured Eckle goes on a crusade to Washington to fight for the rights of the bizarrely injured. She meets an immoral congressman (Jake Gyllenhaal) who takes advantage of her sex drive and capitalizes on her crusade as Eckle heads into her own career in politics. Russell ceased working on the film in 2010; it was retitled \"Accidental Love\" and was released on VOD on February 10, 2015 before a limited release on March 20, 2015 \n\nIn 2010, Russell returned with \"The Fighter\", a biographical sports drama produced by and starring Mark Wahlberg. The film focuses on junior welterweight boxer Mickey Ward's rise to claim the WBU Light Welterweight title, as well as his difficult relationship with his mother, Alice Ward (Melissa Leo), and his older half-brother Dickie Eklund (Christian Bale). The film became a major critical and financial success, grossing $125 million, and appearing on several critics' year-end top ten lists. \"The Fighter\" also received seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture and Best Director for Russell, the first of his career, and earned awards for both Bale and Leo, for Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress, respectively.\n\n\"Silver Linings Playbook\" was adapted from the serio-comic novel by Matthew Quick. Bradley Cooper plays Pat and Robert De Niro, who starred with Cooper in \"Limitless\", co-stars as his father. Jennifer Lawrence plays the lead female role of Tiffany. She commented about Russell, \"He’s really my favorite director since I started watching movies.\" The cast also includes Jacki Weaver, Chris Tucker and the veteran Bollywood actor Anupam Kher. The film was released in the United States and Canada on November 16, 2012.\n\nRussell received the Hollywood Director Award at the 16th annual Hollywood Film Awards and an Indie Impact Award at the Palm Springs International Film Festival for his work on the film, as well as two Independent Spirit Awards (Best Director, Best Screenplay), two Satellite Awards (Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay), a BAFTA Film Award (Adapted Screenplay), and the AFI Award for Movie of the Year. \"Silver Linings Playbook\" won the People's Choice Award at the 2012 Toronto International Film Festival and garnered four Golden Globe Award nominations (with one win for Jennifer Lawrence, Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy) and eight Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, Best Director (Russell), Best Adapted Screenplay (Russell), Best Actor in a Leading Role (Bradley Cooper), Best Actress in a Leading Role (winner, Jennifer Lawrence), Best Supporting Actor (Robert De Niro), Best Supporting Actress (Jacki Weaver) and Best Film Editing (Jay Cassidy and Crispin Struthers).\n\n\"Silver Linings Playbook\" is about a former teacher named Pat Solitano (Bradley Cooper), who suffers from bipolar disorder, and moves back in with his family. He is initially obsessive about reuniting with his spouse after having discovered her with a lover and assaulting the man; however, the story explores the development of his relationship with Tiffany Maxwell (Jennifer Lawrence). The film was inspired by Devereaux Glenholme School, a 12-month special education boarding school in Washington, CT. Russell's son is currently a student there, and Russell stated, \"I was so familiar with the issues in the story that I knew how emotional and funny and original it could be. Without this community I would never have made this film.\" \n\nRussell's next project was \"American Hustle\" (2013), a comedy based on the ABSCAM scandal of the 1970s. The film's plot revolved around skilled con artists Irving Rosenfeld (Christian Bale) and Sydney Prosser (Amy Adams) being forced to work for unhinged FBI Agent Richie DiMaso (Bradley Cooper). Their complicated operation eventually involves Mayor Carmine Polito (Jeremy Renner) of Camden, New Jersey, as well as Irving's unpredictable wife Rosalyn (Jennifer Lawrence). The film reunited Russell with Bale and Adams after \"The Fighter\", as well as with Cooper, Lawrence, and De Niro after \"Silver Linings Playbook\". Saïd Taghmaoui, the Iraqi captain from \"Three Kings\", also makes an appearance.\n\nAccording to \"Salon\", in the Sony Pictures Entertainment hack, it was revealed that Russell made \"Amy Adams' life a living hell\" during the production of the film, and Christian Bale intervened. \"Salon\" reported that, in an email to Sony chief Michael Lynton, journalist Jonathan Alter said: \"He grabbed one guy by the collar, cursed out people repeatedly in front of others and so abused Amy Adams that Christian Bale got in his face and told him to stop acting like an asshole.\" Adams told British GQ, \"I was... devastated on set.\" And added, \"Jennifer [Lawrence] doesn't take any of it on. She's Teflon. And I am not Teflon. But I also don't like to see other people treated badly. It's not OK with me.\"\n\nThe film received seven Golden Globe nominations, including Best Motion Picture Comedy & Best Director for Russell, and three wins including Best Motion Picture Comedy, Best Actress for Amy Adams and Best Supporting Actress for Jennifer Lawrence. Additionally, the film received ten Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress, along with a Screen Actors Guild Award win for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture.\n\nIn January 2014, it was announced that Russell would rewrite and direct a comedy-drama film about American inventor and entrepreneur Joy Mangano, a struggling Long Island single mother of three children. Jennifer Lawrence played the lead role in the film. John Davis and John Fox produced the film for Davis Entertainment, along with Ken Mok, while 20th Century Fox holds the distribution rights. Principal photography began on February 17, 2015, and the film, titled \"Joy\", was released on December 25, 2015.\nThe film received mixed to positive reviews, focusing mainly on the strong central performance by actor Jennifer Lawrence, Russell's direction, and the supporting performances by Dianne Ladd, Robert De Niro, and company. Featured music in the film was a driving force behind the narrative, including a reworked a cappella version of Cream's \"I Feel Free\". Strong box office greeted the film's first five days, with a $5900-per-screen average, and 25 million dollars in gross receipts, according to Box Office Mojo; it grossed a worldwide total of over $101 million.\n\nThe film was nominated for 2 Golden Globe Awards, including Best Musical or Comedy, and Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy for Jennifer Lawrence, which she won. Lawrence was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress, the film's only Oscar nomination.\n\nWritten and directed by Russell, Past Forward was a short film collaboration between the director and Prada. A clip of the film premiered in September 2016 at Milan Fashion Week, and premiered November 2016 in Los Angeles. In the short film, Russell uses three actors for the same roles including Kuoth Wiel, Freida Pinto and Allison Williams. The film has been described as a \"surreal dreamscape with an eclectic cast replaying scenes in shifting combinations\".\n\nIn January 2020, it was announced that Russell would be writing and directing an untitled drama film, produced by Regency Enterprises. Russell will be teaming up with Christian Bale for the third time, with Margot Robbie and Michael B. Jordan joining the film.\n\nDavid O. Russell is on the board of Ghetto Film School (GFS), an organization that was founded in 2000 to educate American storytellers. Russell learned about GFS in 2002, from two students who introduced him to Joe Hall, president of Ghetto Film School. Shortly after, Russell joined the board of the organization.\n\nAlong with fellow board members, Russell brought filmmaker friends, industry and movie studio professionals to donate money and lend their time teaching classes to support young black and Latino filmmakers from the South Bronx and Harlem.\n\nOn June 16, 2014, Ghetto Film School opened its new branch in Los Angeles. This was thanks in part to Russell with an assist from 21st Century Fox co-COO James Murdoch.\n\nIn October 2015, Russell and Jim Gianopulos hosted the premiere of Ghetto Film School Los Angeles fellows' thesis film Devil's Gate.\n\nRussell has regularly collaborated with actors, and many of these frequent collaborators appear in the same movies or as ensemble casts.\n\nMark Wahlberg partnered with Russell in \"Three Kings\", \"I ♥ Huckabees\", and \"The Fighter\", while Jennifer Lawrence, Bradley Cooper, and Robert De Niro all appeared in \"Silver Linings Playbook\", \"American Hustle\", and \"Joy\". Christian Bale and Amy Adams both appeared in \"The Fighter\" and \"American Hustle\".\n\nDuring her 2016 Golden Globe acceptance speech for Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Comedy or Musical, Lawrence credited her win, and previous wins to Russell.\n\nRussell has directed multiple Academy Award-winning and nominated performances. He shares the distinction of being the only director to have two films with nominations in all four acting categories.\nEditor Jay Cassidy worked with Russell on \"Silver Linings Playbook\", \"American Hustle\", and \"Joy\", while Crispin Struthers and Alan Baumgarten co-edited the last two with Cassidy. Producers Megan Ellison and Jonathan Gordon have worked with him two and three times, respectively. Linus Sandgren was cinematographer for \"American Hustle\" and \"Joy\".\n\nRussell was married to Janet Grillo, who was a producer at Fine Line Features, from 1992 to 2007. He has been with his partner, Holly Davis, since 2007. Davis is a costume designer. Russell has two children: one with Grillo and an adopted son with Davis. He resides in Santa Monica, California, and is an advocate for mental illness treatment and support, and an active supporter of Autism research. Russell's efforts saw him named the “Essential Puzzle Piece honoree” by the Light Up the Night Gala for Autism.\n\nProducer only\nActing credits\n\n"}
{"id": "2101650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101650", "title": "Alexander Gibson (conductor)", "text": "Alexander Gibson (conductor)\n\nSir Alexander Drummond Gibson (11 February 1926 – 14 January 1995) was a Scottish conductor and opera intendant. He was also well known for his service to the BBC and his achievements during his reign as the longest serving principal conductor of the Royal Scottish National Orchestra in which the orchestra was awarded its Royal Patronage\n\nGibson was born in Motherwell in 1926 and brought up in the village of New Stevenston, the son of James McClure Gibson and his wife Wilhelmina Williams.\n\nHe was educated at Dalziel High School. He excelled at the piano and organ, and at 18 became the organist at Hillhead Congregational Church, Glasgow while studying music at the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama in Glasgow. In 1943 he matriculated at the University of Glasgow to study Music and English. After his first year, however, the war interrupted his studies and he served with the Royal Signals Band until 1948 when he took up a scholarship to the Royal College of Music in London. after which Sir Alexander Gibson studied at the Mozarteum, Salzburg under Igor Markevitch, and under Paul Van Kempen at the Accademia Chigiana, Siena.\n\nHe was Assistant Conductor of the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra 1952–54 and conducted two productions for the amateur Glasgow Grand Opera Society in 1954. At the time of his appointment in 1957 as musical director of Sadler's Wells, he was the youngest ever to have taken that position.\n\nReturning to Glasgow, in 1959 he became the first Scottish principal conductor and artistic director of the Scottish National Orchestra, a post he held until 1984, to date longer than any other conductor. Under his leadership the orchestra built an international reputation through recordings and foreign tours and appeared regularly in the SNO Proms in Glasgow, in Edinburgh International Festival, where he also created the Edinburgh Festival Chorus, and in London at The Proms.\n\nGibson created and launched Scottish Opera in 1962 and was its music director until 1986. Through his artistic achievements the Theatre Royal, Glasgow was bought from Scottish Television and transformed in 1975 to be the first national opera house in Scotland, and the home theatre of Scottish Opera and of Scottish Ballet, and from 1980 the Scottish Theatre Company. In 1987, Gibson was appointed conductor laureate of Scottish Opera and held this title for the remainder of his life. From 1981 to 1983 he was also principal guest conductor of the Houston Symphony Orchestra. He was principal conductor of the Guildford Philharmonic. During his career he made guest appearances with all the major British orchestras and extensively throughout Europe, Australia, the Americas, Hong Kong and Japan.\n\nHis many awards include two Grand Prix International de l’Academie Charles Cros Awards, the Sibelius Medal in 1978, and honorary doctorates from Aberdeen, Glasgow, Newcastle, Stirling, York and the Open universities. He was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1967, was created a Knight Bachelor in 1977 and became president of the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama, where in his memory, the Alexander Gibson School of Opera was opened in 1998. It is the first purpose-built opera school in Great Britain.\n\nGibson had a particular affinity for Scandinavian music, particularly Jean Sibelius, whose work he recorded several times, and Carl Nielsen. He was awarded Finland's Sibelius Medal in recognition of his distinguished service to the composer's music. He was strongly committed to contemporary music and in 1961 he founded a new music festival in Glasgow originally called Musica Viva, later Musica Nova Festival, Glasgow. Among the many important premieres he conducted there was the first British performance of Gruppen by Karlheinz Stockhausen, in 1961. He was also a constant advocate of new music by Scottish composers. In the opera house he was regarded as a particularly fine interpreter of Mozart and Wagner, conducting the complete Ring des Nibelungen with Scottish Opera in 1971. He was equally at home in the Italian repertoire. In 1969 he conducted a memorable Scottish Opera production of Les Troyens by Berlioz – the first ever complete performance of both parts of the opera in one evening.\n\nGibson was the recipient of the 1970 St Mungo Prize, awarded to the individual who has done most in the previous three years to improve and promote the city of Glasgow.\n\nSir Alexander Gibson died in December 1995 from complications following a heart attack. He was 68.\n\nSir Alexander Gibson's mission was to make classical music and opera accessible to all, and throughout his career he devotedly encouraged musicians and singers to rise to the very best of their abilities. His discography is detailed in the biography of him by Conrad Wilson, as are the numerous premieres, concert works and operas he conducted. In the Theatre Royal, Glasgow there is a lofty portrait of him in the orchestra pit perched on a stool, painted by David Donaldson, the Queen's Limner in Scotland, and a bust of him as conductor by the sculptor Archie Forrest. \nA street in his home town of Motherwell, is named \"Alexander Gibson Way\" in his honour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101666", "title": "Anna Smashnova", "text": "Anna Smashnova\n\nAnna Smashnova (, ; born July 16, 1976) is a Belarusian-born Israeli former tennis player. She retired from professional tour after Wimbledon 2007.\n\nSmashnova reached her career-high singles ranking of world No. 15 in 2003. She was in 13 finals, and won 12 of them. In addition, she won a junior Grand Slam title, the 1991 French Open girls' singles championship.\n\nSmashnova was born in Minsk, Belarus SSR, is of Russian-Jewish descent. Her father Sasha is an engineer, and her mother is Zinal. She has a brother, Yura, who is a software analyst. Smashnova graduated from American International High School outside Tel Aviv in 1995. She completed her service in the Israel Defense Forces in 1997.\n\nHer family immigrated to Israel in September 1990, after Freddy Krivine, one of the founders of the Israel Tennis Centers, invited her to immigrate.\n\nSmashnova began playing tennis when she was six. She became the No. 1 junior in the Soviet Union at the age of ten. She was the number one junior in the Soviet Union from age ten until she moved to Israel at age 14. She won the girls' Soviet Union youth championship in 1989 at the age of 14.\n\nAfter immigrating to Israel at age 15, Smashnova trained at the Israel Tennis Centers. In 1991, she won the girls' singles title at the French Open at age 14.\n\nSmashnova was named \"Tennis\" Magazine/Rolex Watch Female Rookie of the Year in 1994. At the 1994 French Open she upset world No. 5 Jana Novotná, 6–4, 6–2. At the US Open in that year, she upset world No. 14 Lori McNeil in straight sets. She reached the fourth round of the French Open in 1995 and 1998.\n\nAt the 1996 Australian Open, she defeated world No. 15 Natasha Zvereva in three sets. She won her first top-level WTA Tour singles title in 1999 at Tashkent. She won her second career title in 2000, winning the Sanex Trophy in Belgium. Smashnova defeated Anna Kournikova in straight sets in her semifinal match, and went on to win the final against top-seed Dominique Van Roost.\n\nShe had a breakthrough in 2002, winning four titles and beating 11 players ranked in the top 20, including Jelena Dokić, Justine Henin, and Kim Clijsters. In January 2002, Smashnova defeated Tatiana Panova in the ASB Classic at Auckland and top-seeded Tamarine Tanasugarn at the Canberra Classic. In March 2002, she upset world No. 13 Meghann Shaughnessy at Indian Wells. In April, she defeated world No. 7 Justine Henin in Miami, and world No. 9 Jelena Dokić in Charleston. In May at the German Open, she upset world No. 3, Kim Clijsters, and world No. 14, Daniela Hantuchová, both in three sets.\n\nOn June 16, 2002, Smashnova defeated defending champion Iroda Tulyaganova at the Wien Energie Grand Prix. In August, she beat world No. 13 Elena Dementieva in San Diego. In September 2002, she beat Anna Kournikova in the finals of the Shanghai Open. According to \"The New York Times\", Smashnova \"was precise and controlled throughout the match, hitting perfect winners in stride... Kournikova didn't score a point until the third game of the first set when Smashnova hit a shot wide. 'She was like a wall today, hitting everything back', Kournikova said.\" In October, she beat world No. 13 Chanda Rubin in Zurich. She played in the 2002 WTA Tour Championships, and lost in the first round to world No. 1 Serena Williams.\n\nOn December 7, 2002, Anna married Claudio Pistolesi, her former coach (whom she later divorced), and played for a period of time as Anna Pistolesi and Anna Smashnova-Pistolesi.\n\nShe won the 2003 Idea Prokom Open in Poland, beating Klára Koukalová in the finals in straight sets. Smashnova eliminated Karolina Šprem in the Nordic Light Open semifinal in Helsinki and defeated Jelena Kostanić in the final. At the Pilot Pen Tennis in New Haven, she posted wins against Anastasia Myskina and Vera Zvonareva. In October 2003, she defeated then world No. 13 Nadia Petrova in Moscow.\n\nShe was on the Israeli Olympic Team in 2004.\n\nAt the 2005 Australian Open, Smashnova defeated María Sánchez Lorenzo in the first round and Tamarine Tanasugarn in the second. She lost to Venus Williams (seeded eighth) in the third round. In July 2006, Smashnova won her 12th tour title at Budapest, maintaining a 100% winning record in WTA Tour finals – a record she held alone for players who had won double-digit titles. This streak ended in August 2006, when she lost in the final of the Forest Hills Tennis Classic women's event to Meghann Shaughnessy.\n\nIn March 2007, Smashnova announced on Israeli radio that she would retire from professional tennis after Wimbledon. As it turned out, she lost in the first round to German Martina Müller by the \"double bagel\" scoreline, 0–6, 0–6.\n\nShe was on the Israeli Fed Cup team from 1992-2005. Smashnova holds the record for most ties played in Fed Cup competition – 61. Her win-loss record is 43–30 in Fed Cup competition for Israel from 1992–2006, including 7–3 on hard courts in singles.\n\nSmashnova's win-loss records against certain players who have been ranked world No. 10 or higher is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101670", "title": "Guy Gabrielson", "text": "Guy Gabrielson\n\nGuy George Gabrielson (May 22, 1891 – May 1, 1976) was a Republican politician from New Jersey. He served as chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1949 to 1952, and was a member of the New Jersey General Assembly from 1925 to 1929, and was its Speaker in 1929.\n\nAn attorney who later became a corporate executive, after leaving elective politics, Gabrielson turned to Republican politics. He rose through the ranks of Republican activists. He became a member of the Republican National Committee in 1944 and its chairman in 1948, leaving both posts in 1952.\n\nGabrielson was controversial at the 1952 Republican National Convention because of his support for presidential hopeful Ohio Senator Robert A. Taft, but was greeted with cheers when he opened the Convention.\n\nAfter dissolving his law firm in 1959, Gabrielson served as a corporate executive, retaining several posts in the years before his 1976 death.\n\nGabrielson was born May 22, 1891 in Sioux Rapids, Iowa, the son of Frank A. Gabrielson and Ida (Janson) Gabrielson. In 1918, Gabrielson had married Cora Speer.\n\nA lawyer in private life, he was also politically active in New Jersey, serving in the state's General Assembly from 1925 to 1929, and as Speaker during the 1929 session. Gabrielson lost his seat as the Depression triggered an increasing Democratic wave.\n\nWith few prospects in elective politics, he turned to Republican politics and became Republican National Committeeman from New Jersey in 1948. He was then elected Chairman of the RNC in 1949.\n\nIn a 1950 article in \"The New York Times\" in the wake of McCarthyism, he said homosexuals working for the American government were \"perhaps as dangerous as actual Communists\".\n\nIn 1951, Gabrielson became embroiled in a loan scandal, and freshman Senator Richard Nixon (R-Calif.) called for his ouster, as well as that of Democratic National Committee chairman William M. Boyle, a close ally of President Harry S. Truman, who had a similar loan involvement. Nixon feared Gabrielson would favor California's senior senator, William F. Knowland for any national office, and desired his ouster to clear his own path to higher office. Boyle resigned, Gabrielson, whose offense was much more that of appearance, did not resign. Because of the enmity between Gabrielson and Nixon, the senator's name was never entered for formal consideration as a keynote speaker at the convention. Gabrielson would also be one of the few Republican politicians not to offer him support after Nixon, by then the Republican Vice-presidential candidate, placed his fate in the hands of the RNC in the Checkers speech, saying that Nixon's speech (which he had not heard) did not \"make sense\" because it would take ten days to assemble the RNC.\n\nGabrielson supported Taft at the 1952 convention, and the Eisenhower forces were afraid he would tilt the close convention for the Ohio senator. However, when the chairman came forward to open the convention, both sides burst into a round of applause for Gabrielson.\n\nThe 1952 convention ended Gabrielson's time as RNC chairman, and he stepped down in favor of Arthur Summerfield. He left his position as committeeman from New Jersey at the end of 1952.\n\nIn 1959, Gabrielson retired from his legal practice, dissolving his firm. In his retirement, he worked for several corporations or served on their boards. He had lived from 1940 to 1975 in Bernardsville, New Jersey; he then moved to the seaside community of Mantoloking.\n\nHe died in Point Pleasant, New Jersey on May 1, 1976, having outlived Cora Gabrielson by three years, and was survived by a son and daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101674", "title": "List of Caribbean companies", "text": "List of Caribbean companies\n\nThis is a list of companies from the countries in the Caribbean Community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101675", "title": "Benedict Fitzgerald", "text": "Benedict Fitzgerald\n\nBenedict Fitzgerald (born 1949) is an American screenwriter who co-wrote the screenplay for 2004 film \"The Passion of the Christ\" with its director, Mel Gibson. His other writing credits include a television screenplay of \"Moby-Dick\" in 1998 (uncredited) and \"Wise Blood\" in 1979.\n\nHis latest project is \"Mary, Mother of the Christ\", which is in pre-production by MGM.\n\nBenedict is the son of Sally and poet/critic Robert Fitzgerald. When he was a child, one of his babysitters was novelist Flannery O'Connor.\n\nOn February 11, 2008, Benedict Fitzgerald filed a lawsuit against Mel Gibson and the production company Icon Productions, alleging the unfair deprivation of compensation and deception on the overall expense of the film production budget after the blockbuster box office success of the film \"The Passion of the Christ\", including, but not limited to, \"fraud, breach of contract & unjust enrichment\" seeking unspecified damages. According to his lawsuit, Fitzgerald says he \"accepted a salary substantially less than what he would have taken had he known the true budget for the film,\" agreeing to an undisclosed \"relatively small salary,\" a $75,000 production bonus, another $75,000 if the movie broke even, and then five percent of revenues. Fitzgerald received a loan of $200,000 from Gibson in December 2003 backed by his share of the film's future profits as collateral.\n\nIn May 2009, Gibson agreed to an undisclosed settlement with Fitzgerald. Details of the settlement, agreed at Los Angeles Superior Court, were not released. Gibson's representatives have not commented on the settlement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101677", "title": "Agriculture and aquaculture in Hong Kong", "text": "Agriculture and aquaculture in Hong Kong\n\nAgriculture and aquaculture in Hong Kong are considered sunset industries. Most agricultural produce is directly imported from the neighbouring mainland China. In 2006 the industry accounts for less than 0.3% of the labour sector. Geographically Hong Kong consists largely of steep, unproductive hillside. The local aquaculture industry is also facing challenges from competition with imported aquatic food products and concern of fish and seafood safety.\n\nIn the Colonial Hong Kong era around the 1850s, agriculture in Hong Kong consisted mostly of revenue farms that focused on opium productions. The industry led to many wealthy Chinese businessmen, who established themselves as the middlemen merchants with international connection. Some of the successful farmers included Yan Wo Hong and Wo Hang Hong from 1858 to 1887. The system was discontinued by colonial authorities, when the economy needed to diversify in other activities. The last opium farm ended in 1913. One of the farms founded in the era was Hong Kong Dairy Farm in 1886. As Hong Kong government favour the transition into a secondary sector, and eventually a tertiary sector, agriculture became a reduced segment.\n\nOrganic Farming was introduced in 1988. An Accredited Farm Scheme for protecting the environment and consumers against residues of agricultural pesticides was introduced in 1994. Accredited farms strictly monitor and supervise the uses of pesticides, and produce are further analysed for chemical remnants before they are sold at accredited retail outlets. In 1994 the agriculture and fisheries industry represented 2.7% of the work force and just a mere 0.2% of the total GDP.\n\nStatistically, Hong Kong can only produce enough for 20% of the local population without depending on mainland imports. In the mid-1990s, 50% of Hong Kong's water resources were still purchased from the mainland. Hong Kong has always depended heavily on imports. The dependency on imports has increased steadily, since the ratio of population growth far exceed agricultural production numbers. In 2007, Hong Kong's population of almost 7 million daily consumed the following.\n\nIn 2012, Hong Kong's population of more than 7.1 million daily consumed:\n\nIn 2006, there were 2,100 farms in the territory, employing directly about 5,300 farmers and workers. By the end of 2005, the land used for vegetable, flower, field crop, and orchard are 330 ha, 190 ha, 30 ha, and 290 ha respectively. A fact sheet published in 2014 estimates that only 7 square kilometres of land in Hong Kong are actively farmed.\n\nHong Kong's fishing activities are conducted mainly in the waters of the adjacent continental shelf in the South and East China Seas. They extend over a 160 kilometre wide section of this shelf between the Gulf of Tonkin and the East China Sea. The majority of the fishing vessels are manned by family members with the assistance of hired crew. Main fishing methods include trawling, long-lining, gill-netting and purse-seining with the majority of the total catch obtained through trawling. The industry now consists of some 4,150 fishing vessels and some 9,200 fishermen working abroad and provides employment in ancillary sectors servicing the fishing industry, such as fish wholesale and retail marketing, fuel and fishing gear supply and ice manufacturing\nThere are 26 designated marine fish culture zones in Hong Kong. Fishermen required to obtain license to operate fish farms inside those zones. The 26 fish culture zones are:\n\n\nSome of the fish rafts had converted to recreation use. They are located in 11 out of 26 fish culture zones listed above.\n\nAgriculture industry produced HK$1,180 million worth of produce in 2005. It comprises HK$264 million of crop production, HK$554 million of livestock production and KH$360 million of poultry production. The average daily production of vegetable, live chicken and live pigs are 67 tonnes, 32,000 birds and 1,030 heads respectively. In 2005, local production accounted for 4% of fresh vegetables, 52% of live poultry and 18% of live pigs consumed in the territory. In 2012, the gross value of local agricultural production totalled $766 million. 1.9 per cent of the vegetables Hong Kong people consumed, together with 60 per cent of the live poultry and 7 per cent of the live pigs, come from local farms.\n\nAquaculture includes marine fish culture, pond fish culture and oyster culture. In 2005 production from the aquaculture sector was 3,725 tonnes valued at HK$120 million which was 2.2 per cent in weight and 6.7 per cent in value of the total fisheries production. Data collected in 2012 shows the total amount of land occupied for Fish ponds total 1,130 hectares and are mainly located in north-western New Territories. About 990 licensees units are engaged in marine fish culture. Common species cultured include green grouper, brown-spotted grouper, Russell's snapper, mangrove snapper, cobia and pompano. Total marine fish culture production in 2012 amounted to 1 299 tonnes, valued at $117 million.\n\nThe value of crop production amounted to $272 million in 2003. Vegetable and flower production account for about 97% of the total value, being $264 million in 2003. Vegetable crops grown all year round include white cabbage, flowering cabbage, lettuce, Chinese kale, radish, leaf mustard, spring onion and chive. Spinach, watercress, and matrimony vine are produced in the cooler months. Yardlong beans, water spinach, amaranth, cucumber, and several species of Chinese gourd are produced in summer. A wide range of temperate vegetables including tomato, sweet pepper, cauliflower, carrot, and celery are grown in winter.\n\nFlower cultivation has gained importance in recent years. Gladiolus, lily, and chrysanthemum are grown in winter; and ginger lily and lotus flower in summer. Peach blossom is grown especially for the Lunar New Year. A wide range of fruit is grown on the lower hill slopes, the main types being lychee, longan, wampei, local lemon, orange, tangerine, guava, papaya and banana.\n\nThere were 281 local pig farms and 205 local poultry farms in 2004. During 2003, local pig production was valued at $527 million and local poultry production, including pigeons and eggs was valued at $250 million. Pigs raised on local farms are crosses derived from Duroc, Landrace and Large White parent stock. The majority of local chickens raised on farms are Shek Ki cross bred chickens. Recently, brand name chickens like Ka Mei chickens and Tai on chickens have been introduced to local market by local investors. There are two dairies in active operation with a total herd population of less than 50 cows.\n\nThe commercially important marine species are bigeye, golden thread, croaker, horse-head and pomfret. The total capture fisheries and marine fish culture production is equivalent to about 31% of seafood consumed in Hong Kong, while pond fish farmers produce about 6% of the freshwater fish eaten. The majority of fish farms in New Territories are engaged in carp polyculture (bighead carp, silver carp, common carp and grass carp) in combination with tilapia or grey mullet as the major species. Other cultured species include seabreams and spotted scat. At present there are 26 fish culture zones designated under the \"\"Marine Fish Culture Ordinance\"\". Common species cultured include green grouper, brownspotted grouper, Russell's snapper, mangrove snapper, cobia and pompano. The voluntary \"Accredited Fish Farm Scheme\" has been launched to assist local fish farmers.\n\nThe Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department (AFCD) and its closely related marketing organisations provide infrastructural support and technical services to the various primary industries. The department's crop specialists undertake studies into practical problems in pest control, crop husbandry and soil management. They also investigate specific production technologies to enhance the efficiency and economic benefits of the industry. This work is carried out in an experimental station in Sheung Shui and results are made available to farmers by the department's advisory service.\n\nAgricultural advisory activities are aimed at assisting farmers to improve productivity through the introduction of new and improved produce varieties and production techniques, backed up by adequate credit facilities and efficient and orderly marketing services. Studies are currently under way to adapt and develop greenhouse and organic production technology for local farms. Examples of well-received new produce varieties are: supersweet maize, heat tolerant lettuce, coloured sweet pepper, spaghetti squash, strawberry and white bitter cucumber.\n\nLoans issued to farmers in 2003 amounted to $19 million and the total value of loans issued up to 31 December 2003 (under three separate loan funds administered by AFCD) was $505 million. These loans are granted to cover farm production and development purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101683", "title": "Gandhi Stadium", "text": "Gandhi Stadium\n\nGandhi Stadium () or Burlton Park or B.S.Bedi Stadium is located in the city of Jalandhar, Punjab and is used for cricket matches. As of 19 Aug 2017 it has hosted 1 Test and 3 ODIs. \n\nThe stadium was built in 1955 and serves as the home ground for two Indian domestic cricket teams: Punjab and North Zone. The stadium hosted a solitary Test Match against Pakistan as well as 3 ODI matches with the host team - India winning both of these matches.\n\nWith the advent of Mohali Cricket Stadium outside Chandigarh, it is unlikely that other stadiums in the state of Punjab will get an opportunity to host international cricket matches.\nThe highest score in Test cricket was made by India who scored 374 against Pakistan. The most runs scored were by Anshuman Gaekwad (201 runs), Wasim Raja (125 runs) and Javed Miandad (66 runs). The most wickets taken were by Wasim Raja and Kapil Dev (4 wickets), along with Ravi Shastri (3 wickets).\nThe highest score in ODI cricket was made by West Indies who scored 226 against Pakistan. The most runs scored were Dilip Vengsarkar (88 runs), Richie Richardson (77 runs) and Aamer Malik (77 runs). The most wickets taken were by Venkatapathy Raju (3 wickets), Graham Gooch (2 wickets) and Kapil Dev (2 wickets).\n\nCurrently, there is a plan to construct a sports complex in Jalandhar City. Reconstruction of this cricket ground and converting it into an international level cricket stadium is also included in the project. All the stands were demolished. However, due to some legal problems, this project was stopped for a while. A few months later some reconstruction was seen. The stadium is not hosting any matches currently because the main pitch is also being reconstructed. Although practice sessions for budding cricketers have not been stopped.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101684", "title": "Gordon Arnaud Winter", "text": "Gordon Arnaud Winter\n\nGordon Arnaud Winter, (October 6, 1912 – August 1, 2003) was the sixth Lieutenant Governor of Newfoundland from 1974 to 1981.\n\nIn 1974, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\nIn 1989, he headed the Winter Commission, the diocesan commission appointed by bishop Alphonsus Liguori Penney to undertake an inquiry about the clerical child sexual abuse scandal at Mount Cashel orphanage.\n"}
{"id": "2101687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101687", "title": "Joan van der Mey", "text": "Joan van der Mey\n\nJoan (Jo) Melchior van der Mey (19 August 1878, Delfshaven – 6 June 1949, Geulle) was a Dutch architect best known for the landmark Scheepvaarthuis (Shipping House) building in Amsterdam located at Prins Hendrikkade, 1912.\n\nVan der Mey was a student of Eduard Cuypers from 1898, won the Dutch Prix de Rome in 1906, and got a job with the city of Amsterdam as an \"Aesthetic Advisor\". In 1905 Amsterdam was the first city in the world to impose a building code, and later they hired van der Mey as their civic building artist. In this capacity he developed the facade for the 1912 Palm House at the Hortus Botanicus among other buildings.\n\nThat same year brought the commission for the Scheepvaarthuis, a large cooperative building for six Dutch shipping companies. Van der Mey sought the assistance of his former colleague-architects Michel de Klerk and Piet Kramer, and the architect \"Adolf Daniël Nicolaas van Gendt\" was responsible for engineering the concrete structure.\n\nVan der Mey's job was to coordinate the extensive symbolic art and sculptural program, inside and outside. Much of the sculpture is the work of Hildo Krop and H. A. van den Eijnde, but a large group of well-known artists contributed.\n\nThe Scheepvaarthuis is regarded as a highlight of the Amsterdam School of building. Michel de Klerk went on to become its most important representative. Van der Mey also designed bridges and housing complexes in south Amsterdam and around the city's Mercatorplein.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101688", "title": "The Beat (TV series)", "text": "The Beat (TV series)\n\nThe Beat is an American drama television series which was produced by Viacom Productions and premiered on UPN on March 21, 2000 and ended after only six episodes a month later on April 25. Seven additional episodes were produced although they have never aired.\n\nThe series focuses on the day-to-day experiences of two uniformed police officers, Mike Dorrigan (Derek Cecil) and Zane Marinelli (Mark Ruffalo), of the NYPD and their attempts to deal with day-to-day life and work in New York City.\n\nThe series was produced by many people who worked on \"\" including Barry Levinson, Tom Fontana, Anya Epstein, Eric Overmyer, Irene Burns and Jim Finnerty. Many of the producers also collaborated on \"Oz\" including Barry Levinson, Tom Fontana, Irene Burns and Jim Finnerty.\n\nThe series is also notable as being one of the many series in which the character Det. John Munch, played by Richard Belzer, has appeared. The others include: \"Homicide: Life on the Street\", \"Law & Order\", \"The X-Files\", \"\", \"\", \"Arrested Development\", and \"The Wire\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2101689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101689", "title": "Mime artist", "text": "Mime artist\n\nA mime artist or just mime (from Greek μῖμος, \"mimos\", \"imitator, actor\") is a person who uses mime as a theatrical medium or as a performance art. Miming involves acting out a story through body motions, without the use of speech. In earlier times, in English, such a performer would typically be referred to as a mummer. Miming is distinguished from silent comedy, in which the artist is a character in a film or skit without sound.\n\nJacques Copeau, strongly influenced by Commedia dell'arte and Japanese Noh theatre, used masks in the training of his actors. His pupil Étienne Decroux was highly influenced by this, started exploring and developing the possibilities of mime, and developed corporeal mime into a highly sculptural form, taking it outside the realms of naturalism. Jacques Lecoq contributed significantly to the development of mime and physical theatre with his training methods. As a result of this, the practice of mime has been included in the since 2017.\n\nThe performance of mime originates at its earliest in Ancient Greece; the name is taken from a single masked dancer called \"Pantomimus\", although performances were not necessarily silent. In Medieval Europe, early forms of mime such as mummer plays and later dumbshows evolved. In early nineteenth-century Paris, Jean-Gaspard Deburau solidified the many attributes that have come to be known in modern times—the silent figure in whiteface.\n\nThe first recorded mime was Telestēs in the play \"Seven Against Thebes\" by Aeschylus. Tragic mime was developed by Puladēs of Kilikia; comic mime was developed by Bathullos of Alexandria.\nMime (Mimius) was an aspect of Roman theatre from its earliest times, paralleling the Atellan farce in its improvisation (if without the latter’s stock characters). It gradually began to replace the Atellanae as interludes [embolium] or postscripts [exodium] on the main theatre stages; became the sole dramatic event at the Floralia in the second century BC; and in the following century received technical advances at the hands of Publius Syrus and Decimus Laberius.\n\nUnder the Empire mime became the predominant Roman drama, if with mixed fortunes under different emperors. Trajan banished mime artists; Caligula favored them; Marcus Aurelius made them priests of Apollo. Nero himself acted as a mime.\n\nThe mime was distinguished from other dramas by its absence of masks, and by the presence of female as well as male performers. Stock characters included the lead (or archimimus[a]), the stooge or stupidus, and the gigolo, or cultus adulter.\n\nWhile most of this article has treated mime as a constellation of related and historically linked Western theatre genres and performance techniques, analogous performances are evident in the theatrical traditions of other civilizations.\n\nClassical Indian musical theatre, although often erroneously labeled a \"dance,\" is a group of theatrical forms in which the performer presents a narrative via stylized gesture, an array of hand positions, and mime illusions to play different characters, actions, and landscapes. Recitation, music, and even percussive footwork sometimes accompany the performance. The Natya Shastra, an ancient treatise on theatre by Bharata Muni, mentions silent performance, or \"mukabhinaya\".\n\nIn Kathakali, stories from Indian epics are told with facial expressions, hand signals and body motions. Performances are accompanied by songs narrating the story while the actors act out the scene, followed by actor detailing without background support of narrative song.\n\nThe Japanese Noh tradition has greatly influenced many contemporary mime and theatre practitioners including Jacques Copeau and Jacques Lecoq because of its use of mask work and highly physical performance style.\n\nButoh, though often referred to as a dance form, has been adopted by various theatre practitioners as well.\n\nPrior to the work of Étienne Decroux there was no major treatise on the art of mime, and so any recreation of mime as performed prior to the twentieth century is largely conjecture, based on interpretation of diverse sources. However, the twentieth century also brought a new medium into widespread usage: the motion picture.\n\nThe restrictions of early motion picture technology meant that stories had to be told with minimal dialogue, which was largely restricted to intertitles. This often demanded a highly stylized form of physical acting largely derived from the stage. Thus, mime played an important role in films prior to advent of talkies (films with sound or speech). The mimetic style of film acting was used to great effect in German Expressionist film. \n\nSilent film comedians like Charlie Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, and Buster Keaton learned the craft of mime in the theatre, but through film, they would have a profound influence on mimes working in live theatre decades after their deaths. Indeed, Chaplin may be the best-documented mime in history.\n\nThe famous French comedian, writer, and director Jacques Tati achieved his initial popularity working as a mime, and indeed his later films had only minimal dialogue, relying instead on many subtle expertly choreographed visual gags. Tati, like Chaplin before him, would mime out the movements of every single character in his films and ask his actors to repeat them.\n\nMime has been performed on stage, with Marcel Marceau and his character \"Bip\" being the most famous. Mime is also a popular art form in street theatre and busking. Traditionally, these sorts of performances involve the actor/actress wearing tight black and white clothing with white facial makeup. However, contemporary mimes often perform without whiteface. Similarly, while traditional mimes have been completely silent, contemporary mimes, while refraining from speaking, sometimes employ vocal sounds when they perform. Mime acts are often comical, but some can be very serious.\n\nCanadian author Michael Jacot's first novel, \"The Last Butterfly\", tells the story of a mime artist in Nazi-occupied Europe who is forced by his oppressors to perform for a team of Red Cross observers. Nobel laureate Heinrich Böll's \"The Clown\" relates the downfall of a mime artist, Hans Schneir, who has descended into poverty and drunkenness after being abandoned by his beloved. Jacob Appel's Pushcart short-listed story, \"Coulrophobia\", depicts the tragedy of a landlord whose marriage slowly collapses after he rents a spare apartment to an intrusive mime artist. The hard boiled \"gorilla noir\" comic Gorilla my Dreams tells the story of a talking gorilla who teams up with a super powered Telestēs mime to investigate a murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101694", "title": "Pash", "text": "Pash\n\nPash (9 September 1950 – 23 March 1988) was the pen name of Avtar Singh Sandhu, one of the major poets of the Naxalite movement in the Punjabi literature of the 1970s. He was killed by Khalistani extremists on 23 March 1988. His strongly left-wing views were reflected in his poetry.\n\nPash was born as Avtar Singh Sandhu in 1950 in a small village called \"Talwandi Salem\" in Jalandhar district of Punjab, in a middle class farmers family. His father Sohan Singh Sandhu was a soldier in the Indian army who also composed poetry as a hobby. Pash grew up in the midst of the Naxalite movement, a revolutionary movement waged in Punjab against the landlords, industrialists, traders, etc. who control the means of production. This was in the midst of the Green revolution which had addressed India's problem of famine using high yield crops, but had also unconsciously led to other forms of inequities in Punjab.\n\nIn 1970, he published his first book of revolutionary poems, \"Loh-Katha\" (\"Iron Tale\"), at the age of 18. His militant and provocative tone raised the ire of the establishment and a murder charge was brought against him. He spent nearly two years in jail, before being finally acquitted.\nIn 1972, the 22 year old started a \nOn acquittal, he became involved in Punjab's Maoist front, editing a literary magazine, \"Siarh\" (\"The Plow Line\"). He became a popular political figure on the left during this period, and was awarded a fellowship at the Punjabi Academy of Letters in 1985. He toured the United Kingdom and the United States the following year; while in the U.S., he became involved with the Anti-47 Front, opposing Sikh extremist violence. His words had a great influence on the minds of the people.\n\nIn the beginning of 1988 Pash was in Punjab for the renewal of his visa from the United States. A day before leaving for Delhi, however, he was gunned down by Khalistani Militants along with his friend Hans Raj on the well in his village on 23 March 1988. Pash was assassinated by the Khalistanis.\n\n\n\"Khilre Hoey Varkey\" was posthumously published in 1989 after his death, followed by his journals and letters. A selection of his poems in Punjabi, \"Inkar\", was published in Lahore in 1997. His poems have been translated in many languages including other Indian languages, Nepali and English. Poems written by Paarsh are popular in India, especially in Punjab and North India. Recitations of his poems are often carried out, especially on the weekends close to his death anniversary.\n\nOne of Pash's most popular and often cited poems is titled ਸਬ ਤੋਂ ਖ਼ਤਰਨਾਕ ਹੁੰਦਾ ਹੈ ਸੁਪਨਿਆਂ ਦਾ ਮਰ ਜਾਣਾ। सबसे ख़तरनाक होता है हमारे सपनों का मर जाना (Sabse Khatarnak hota hai hamare sapnon ka mar jaana - meaning: \"The most dangerous thing is the demise of our dreams\").\n\nIn 2005, this poem was included in NCERT's Hindi book for 11th standard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101695", "title": "Bicester Village", "text": "Bicester Village\n\nBicester Village is an outlet shopping centre on the outskirts of Bicester, a town in Oxfordshire, England. It is owned by Value Retail plc. The centre opened in 1995. Most of its stores are in the luxury goods and designer clothing sector. \n\nThe centre is the second most visited location in the United Kingdom by Chinese tourists, after Buckingham Palace.\n\nOn 17 April 2015 Cherwell District Council approved plans to demolish the nearby Tesco store and to construct a further 28 retail units and an extra 519 parking spaces. A new Park & Ride and major road improvements, funded by the centre's owners, were also announced. It is hoped that this expansion will create around 3,500 new jobs in Bicester Village.\n\nThe new stores opened on 19 October 2017. \nThe centre is served by Bicester Village railway station, which has a regular direct connection to London Marylebone and , provided by Chiltern Railways. This station was formerly known as Bicester Town. This service is planned to be extended to and by 2024.\n\nThe centre is also served by the X5 express coach service between Oxford and Cambridge via Milton Keynes and Bedford.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101696", "title": "Leonard Huxley", "text": "Leonard Huxley\n\nLeonard Huxley may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2101705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101705", "title": "Sardar Patel Stadium", "text": "Sardar Patel Stadium\n\nThe Motera Stadium (officially known as Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium), is a cricket stadium in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India. As of 2020, it is the largest cricket stadium in the world and the second-largest stadium overall, with a seating capacity of 110,000 spectators. It is owned by the Gujarat Cricket Association and is a venue for Test, ODI, and T20I cricket matches.\n\nThe stadium was constructed in 1983 and was first renovated in 2006. It became the regular venue for international matches in the city. In 2015 the stadium was closed and demolished before being completely rebuilt by February 2020, with an estimated cost of and an increase in capacity to 110,000. \n\nApart from cricket, the stadium has hosted several programs arranged by the Government of Gujarat. It has hosted matches during the 1987, 1996, and 2011 Cricket World Cups. The pitch used to favour bowlers previously but has recently hosted competitive games. As of 2020, the stadium has hosted 12 Tests, 23 ODIs, and 1 T20Is matches.\n\nThe stadium hosted the opening of \"Namaste Trump\", the inaugural visit of US President Donald Trump on 24 February 2020.\n\nFormerly known as the Gujarat Stadium, the ground was renamed in tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India's first Home Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Before the Sardar Patel Stadium, international cricket matches in the city were played at the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation's stadium of the same name (Sardar Patel Stadium) in the Navrangpura area. In 1982, the Government of Gujarat donated a stretch of land on the banks of the Sabarmati River to build a new stadium. The construction of the Sardar Patel Stadium was completed in nine months. Since then, all International cricket fixtures for the city are hosted here. In the 1984-85 Australia-India series, Sardar Patel Stadium hosted its first ODI, in which Australia defeated India.\n\nSunil Gavaskar was the first cricketer to score 10,000 runs in Test cricket against Pakistan in the stadium in 1987. In 1983, Kapil Dev took a nine-wicket haul against the West Indies in 1983, and claimed his 432nd Test wicket at the stadium to become the highest wicket-taker in the world in 1995, which broke Sir Richard Hadlee's previous record. In 1996, the ground hosted a low-scoring Test match against South Africa, where the visitors lost 105-170. Javagal Srinath took six wickets in the fourth inning of the match. South Africa won in a rematch game when they bowled India out for 76 runs in the first session of the Test match in 2008 and won the game by an inning and 90 runs.\n\nThe stadium became a focal venue of ICC Champions Trophy in 2006 and hosted five of the 15 games played. In order to host the tournament, the stadium was renovated to add three new pitches and a new outfield. Floodlights and covered stands were introduced at the stadium as a part of the renovation program.\n\nThe Sardar Patel Stadium has hosted games whenever India has hosted the Cricket World Cup, including the first match of the 1996 World Cup between England and New Zealand. However, while the stadium hosted only one game each in 1987 and 1996 , it hosted three games in the 2011 World Cup, including the quarter-finals between Australia and India. Sachin Tendulkar became the first cricketer to score 18,000 runs in a One Day International cricket match. As of 19 August 2017, Sardar Patel has hosted 12 Tests, 23 ODIs and 1 T20I.\n\nIn October 2015, the stadium was demolished for reconstruction, Though some media referred to it as a renovation. The total cost of reconstruction was estimated to be ₹700 crores. However, the final cost was reported at ₹800 crores. The redevelopment, originally planned to be completed in 2019, finished in February 2020.\n\nThe idea to build the new stadium was allegedly proposed by Narendra Modi, the president of the Gujarat Cricket Association and the Chief Minister of Gujarat at the time. Shortly before Modi moved to Delhi after becoming the Prime Minister of India, there were discussions about minor upgrades to the stadium and development of the structure at the pavilion end. Modi asked the officials to build a new larger stadium instead of minor renovation work when he learned about the Melbourne Cricket Ground.\n\nAfter starting demolition work at the end of 2015, the Gujarat Cricket Association issued a request for tender on January 1, 2016 in The Times of India and The Indian Express. Nine bidders showed interest and purchased the tender documents, out of which three submitted Technical and Financial bids on time; they were the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, Nagarjuna Construction Company, and Larsen & Toubro. A Tender Commercial Committee (TCC) of nine experts was formed to evaluate tenders. Additionally, STUP Consultants was appointed as the Project Management Consultant to evaluate proposals and technical details of each bid working with the TCC.\n\nEach of the three bidders presented their designs, models, and technical details of their concepts & designs. Because of the sheer size and complexity of the project, the bidders were evaluated on multiple parameters like efficiency, resources, the time frame of completion, ease of implementation, etc. The bidders were ranked and weighted on all of the parameters.\nIn the end, L&T was finalized as the Principal Contractor to build and design the stadium.\n\nL&T took over the construction work of the stadium in December 2016. On 16 January 2017, the Gujarat Cricket Association oversaw the project, which formally began on the same day. The stadium was planned to be finished in 2 years and the reconstruction project was estimated to cost around ₹ 7 billion. Finishing touches were given to the stadium in February 2020 and it is expected to host an England-India day-night test match by 2021.\n\nMumbai-based Commercial Kitchen Consultants \"Span Asia\" were hired to work with Populous and L&T on all the F&B Related areas such as the Concession Counters, Main Stadium Kitchens, Player Kitchens, VIP/VVIP Boxes, Corporate Boxes, Press & Media Boxes, Pantries, GCA Club and Related areas.\n\nThe redesigned stadium occupies 63 acres of land, with three entry points compared to one in the old stadium, with a metro line at one of the entry points. It contains 76 corporate boxes that can hold 25 persons each, a 55-room clubhouse, an Olympic sized swimming pool, and four dressing rooms. A unique feature of the stadium is the LED lights on the roof instead of the usual floodlights at cricket grounds. The LED lights are installed on an anti-bacterial, fireproof canopy with PTFE membrane that covers 30 out of 55 metres width of sitting area. The roof was done by the company Walter P Moore and was specifically designed to be lightweight and separate from the seating bowls in order to make it fairly earthquake resistant. The structure eliminates the need for pillars and gives spectators an unobstructed view of the entire field from any place in the Stadium.\nOutside of the main ground, the stadium is able to accommodate several other features, including an Olympic-sized swimming pool, an indoor cricket academy, badminton and tennis courts, a squash arena, a table tennis area, a 3D projector theater, and a clubhouse with three practice grounds and 50 rooms. The parking lot can accommodate 3,000 cars and 10,000 two-wheelers. Sardar Patel Stadium also has a huge ramp designed to facilitate the movement of around 60,000 people simultaneously. The stadium has been designed such that patrons fill the lower levels of the ground for smaller events to maintain the crowd atmosphere when not at capacity.\n\nIt has also been planned that the stadium will be connected to the metro station by a skywalk to decrease road congestion. The skywalk is planned to be completed after September 2020, and is a part of the Motera Metro Station project rather than the stadium's.\n\nThe stadium was the venue of the \"Namaste Trump\" event and hosted US President Donald Trump and Indian Prime minister Narendra Modi on 24 February 2020. The event mirrored the \"Howdy Modi\" event held in Houston, Texas.\n\n\n\nSardar Patel Stadium was where some notable events occurred:\n\nSardar Patel Stadium has hosted One Day Internationals (ODIs) for all the Cricket World Cup held in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101706", "title": "Mair", "text": "Mair\n\nMair may refer to: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101713", "title": "Pantomime", "text": "Pantomime\n\nPantomime (; informally panto) is a type of musical comedy stage production designed for family entertainment. It was developed in England and is performed throughout the United Kingdom, Ireland and (to a lesser extent) in other English-speaking countries, especially during the Christmas and New Year season. Modern pantomime includes songs, gags, slapstick comedy and dancing. It employs gender-crossing actors and combines topical humour with a story more or less based on a well-known fairy tale, fable or folk tale. Pantomime is a participatory form of theatre, in which the audience is expected to sing along with certain parts of the music and shout out phrases to the performers.\n\nPantomime has a long theatrical history in Western culture dating back to classical theatre. It developed partly from the 16th century commedia dell'arte tradition of Italy and other European and British stage traditions, such as 17th-century masques and music hall. An important part of the pantomime, until the late 19th century, was the harlequinade.\n\nOutside Britain, the word \"pantomime\" is often understood to mean miming, rather than the theatrical form discussed here.\n\nThe word pantomime was adopted from the Latin word \"pantomimus\", which in turn derives from the Greek word \"παντόμιμος\" (\"pantomimos\"), consisting of \"παντο-\" (\"panto-\") meaning \"all\", and \"μῖμος\" (\"mimos\"), meaning a dancer who acted all the roles or all the story. The Roman pantomime drew upon the Greek tragedy and other Greek genres from its inception, although the art was instituted in Rome and little is known of it in pre-Roman Greece. The English word came to be applied to the performance itself. According to a lost oration by Aelius Aristides, the pantomime was known for its erotic content and the effeminacy of its dancing; Aristides's work was responded to by Libanius, in his oration \"On Behalf of the Dancers\", written probably around 361 AD.\n\nRoman pantomime was a production, usually based upon myth or legend, for a solo male dancer—clad in a long silk tunic and a short mantle (\"pallium\") that was often used as a \"prop\"—accompanied by a sung \"libretto\" (called the \"fabula saltica\" or \"dance-story\") rendered by a singer or chorus (though Lucian states that originally the pantomime himself was the singer). Music was supplied by flute and the pulse of an iron-shod shoe called a scabellum. Performances might be in a private household, with minimal personnel, or else lavish theatrical productions involving a large orchestra and chorus and sometimes an ancillary actor. The dancer danced all the roles, relying on masks, stock poses and gestures and a hand-language (cheironomy) so complex and expressive that the pantomime's hands were commonly compared to an eloquent mouth. Pantomime differed from mime by its more artistic nature and relative lack of farce and coarse humour, though these were not absent from some productions.\n\nRoman pantomime was immensely popular from the end of the first century BC until the end of the sixth century AD, a form of entertainment that spread throughout the empire where, because of its wordless nature, it did more than any other art to foster knowledge of the myths and Roman legends that formed its subject-matter – tales such as those of the love of Venus and Mars and of Dido and Aeneas – while in Italy its chief exponents were celebrities, often the protegés of influential citizens, whose followers wore badges proclaiming their allegiance and engaged in street-fights with rival groups, while its accompanying songs became widely known. Yet, because of the limits imposed upon Roman citizens' dance, the populism of its song-texts and other factors, the art was as much despised as adored, and its practitioners were usually slaves or freedmen.\n\nBecause of the low status and the disappearance of its \"libretti\", the Roman pantomime received little modern scholarly attention until the late 20th century, despite its great influence upon Roman culture as perceived in Roman art, in statues of famous dancers, graffiti, objects and literature. After the renaissance of classical culture, Roman pantomime was a decisive influence upon modern European concert dance, helping to transform ballet from a mere entertainment, a display of technical virtuosity, into the dramatic ballet d'action. It became an antecedent which, through writers and ballet-masters of the 17th and 18th centuries such as Claude-François Ménestrier (1631–1705), John Weaver (1673–1760), Jean-Georges Noverre (1727–1810) and Gasparo Angiolini (1731–1803), earned it respectability and attested to the capability of dance to render complex stories and express human emotion.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the Mummers Play was a traditional English folk play, based loosely on the Saint George and the Dragon legend, usually performed during Christmas gatherings, which contained the origin of many of the archetypal elements of the pantomime, such as stage fights, coarse humour and fantastic creatures, gender role reversal, and good defeating evil. Precursors of pantomime also included the masque, which grew in pomp and spectacle from the 15th to the 17th centuries.\n\nThe development of English pantomime was also strongly influenced by the continental \"commedia dell'arte\", a form of popular theatre that arose in Italy in the Early Modern Period. This was a \"comedy of professional artists\" travelling from province to province in Italy and then France, who improvised and told comic stories that held lessons for the crowd, changing the main character depending on where they were performing. Each \"scenario\" used some of the same stock characters. These included the \"innamorati\" (young lovers); the \"vecchi\" (old men) such as Pantalone; and \"zanni\" (servants) such as Arlecchino, Colombina, Scaramouche and Pierrot. Italian masque performances in the 17th century sometimes included the Harlequin character.\n\nIn the 17th century, adaptations of the commedia characters became familiar in English entertainments. From these, the standard English harlequinade developed, depicting the eloping lovers Harlequin and Columbine, pursued by the girl's father Pantaloon and his comic servants Clown and Pierrot. In English versions, by the 18th century, Harlequin became the central figure and romantic lead. The basic plot of the harlequinade remained essentially the same for more than 150 years, except that a bumbling policeman was added to the chase.\n\nIn the first two decades of the 18th century, two rival London theatres, Lincoln's Inn Fields Theatre and the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane (the patent theatres) presented productions that began seriously with classical stories that contained elements of opera and ballet and ended with a comic \"night scene\". \"Tavern Bilkers\", by John Weaver, the dancing master at Drury Lane, is cited as the first pantomime produced on the English stage. This production was not a success, and Weaver waited until 1716 to produce his next pantomimes, including \"The Loves of Mars and Venus – a new Entertainment in Dancing after the manner of the Antient Pantomimes\". The same year he produced a pantomime on the subject of \"Perseus and Andromeda\". After this, pantomime was regular feature at Drury Lane. In 1717 at Lincoln's Inn, actor and manager John Rich introduced Harlequin into the theatres' pantomimes under the name of \"Lun\" (for \"lunatic\"). He gained great popularity for his pantomimes, especially beginning with his 1724 production of \"The Necromancer; or, History of Dr. Faustus\".\n\nThese early pantomimes were silent, or \"dumb show\", performances consisting of only dancing and gestures. Spoken drama was allowed in London only in the two (later three) patent theatres until Parliament changed this restriction in 1843. A large number of French performers played in London following the suppression of unlicensed theatres in Paris. Although this constraint was only temporary, English pantomimes remained primarily visual for some decades before dialogue was introduced. An 18th-century author wrote of David Garrick: \"He formed a kind of harlequinade, very different from that which is seen at the Opéra-Comique in Paris, where harlequin and all the characters speak.\" The majority of these early pantomimes were re-tellings of a story from ancient Greek or Roman literature, with a break between the two acts during which the harlequinade's zany comic business was performed. The theatre historian David Mayer explains the use of the \"batte\" or slapstick and the transformation scene that led to the harlequinade:\n\nPantomime gradually became more topical and comic, often involving spectacular and elaborate theatrical effects as far as possible. Colley Cibber, David Garrick and others competed with Rich and produced their own pantomimes, and pantomime continued to grow in popularity.\n\nBy the early 1800s, the pantomime's classical stories were often supplanted by stories adapted from European fairy tales, fables, folk tales, classic English literature or nursery rhymes. Also, the harlequinade grew in importance until it often was the longest and most important part of the entertainment. Pantomimes usually had dual titles that gave an often humorous idea of both the pantomime story and the harlequinade. \"Harlequin and ________\", or \"Harlequin _______; or, the ________\". In the second case, harlequin was used as an adjective, followed by words that described the pantomime \"opening\", for example: \"Harlequin Cock Robin and Jenny Wren; or, Fortunatus and the Water of Life, the Three Bears, the Three Gifts, the Three Wishes, and the Little Man who Woo'd the Little Maid\". Harlequin was the first word (or the first word after the \"or\") because Harlequin was initially the most important character. The titles continued to include the word Harlequin even after the first decade of the 1800s, when Joseph Grimaldi came to dominate London pantomime and made the character, Clown, a colourful agent of chaos, as important in the entertainment as Harlequin. At the same time, Harlequin began to be portrayed in a more romantic and stylised way.\n\nGrimaldi's performances elevated the role by \"acute observation upon the foibles and absurdities of society, and his happy talent of holding them up to ridicule. He is the finest practical satyrist that ever existed. ... He was so extravagantly natural, that the most saturnine looker-on acknowledged his sway; and neither the wise, the proud, or the fair, the young nor the old, were ashamed to laugh till tears coursed down their cheeks at Joe and his comicalities.\" Grimaldi's performances were important in expanding the importance of the harlequinade until it dominated the pantomime entertainment.\n\nBy the 1800s, therefore, children went to the theatre around the Christmas and New Year holiday (and often at Easter or other times) primarily to witness the craziness of the harlequinade chase scene. It was the most exciting part of the \"panto\", because it was fast-paced and included spectacular scenic magic as well as slapstick comedy, dancing and acrobatics. The presence of slapstick in this part of the show evolved from the characters found in Italian commedia dell'arte. The plot of the harlequinade was relatively simple; the star-crossed lovers, Harlequin and Columbine, run away from Columbine's foolish father, Pantaloon, who is being slowed down in his pursuit of them by his servant, Clown, and by a bumbling policeman. After the time of Grimaldi, Clown became the principal schemer trying to thwart the lovers, and Pantaloon was merely his assistant.\n\nThe opening \"fairy story\" was often blended with a story about a love triangle: a \"cross-grained\" old father who owns a business and whose pretty daughter is pursued by two suitors. The one she loves is poor but worthy, while the father prefers the other, a wealthy fop. Another character is a servant in the father's establishment. Just as the daughter is to be forcibly wed to the fop, or just as she was about to elope with her lover, the good fairy arrives. This was followed by what was often the most spectacular part of the production, the magical transformation scene. In early pantomimes, Harlequin possessed magical powers that he used to help himself and his love interest escape. He would tap his wooden sword (a derivative of the Commedia dell'arte slapstick or \"batte\") on the floor or scenery to make a grand transition of the world around him take place. The scene would switch from being inside some house or castle to, generally speaking, the streets of the town with storefronts as the backdrop. The transformation sequence was presided over by a Fairy Queen or Fairy Godmother character. The good fairy magically transformed the leads from the opening fairy story into their new identities as the harlequinade characters. Following is an example of the speech that the fairy would give during this transformation:\n\n<poem>Lovers stand forth. With you we shall begin.\nYou will be fair Columbineyou Harlequin.\nKing Jamie there, the bonnie Scottish loon,\nWill be a famous cheild for Pantaloon.\nThough Guy Fawkes now is saved from rocks and axe,\nI think he should pay the powder-tax.\nHis guyish plots blown upnay, do not frown;\nYou've always been a guynow be a Clown.</poem>\nThis passage is from a pantomime adaptation of the Guy Fawkes story. The fairy creates the characters of the harlequinade in the most typical fashion of simply telling the characters what they will change into. The principal male and female characters from the beginning plotline, often both played by young women, became the lovers Columbine and Harlequin, the mother or father of Columbine became Pantaloon, and the servant or other comic character became Clown. They would transition into the new characters as the scenery around them changed and would proceed in the \"zany fun\" section of the performance. From the time of Grimaldi, Clown would see the transformed setting and cry: \"Here We Are Again!\" The harlequinade began with various chase scenes, in which Harlequin and Columbine manage to escape from the clutches of Clown and Pantaloon, despite the acrobatic leaps of the former through windows, atop ladders, often because of well-meaning but misguided actions of the policeman. Eventually, there was a \"dark scene\", such as a cave or forest, in which the lovers were caught, and Harlequin's magic wand was seized from his grasp by Clown, who would flourish it in triumph. The good fairy would then reappear, and once the father agreed to the marriage of the young lovers, she would transport the whole company to a grand final scene.\n\nDespite its visible decline by 1836, the pantomime still fought to stay alive. After 1843, when theatres other than the original patent theatres were permitted to perform spoken dialogue, the importance of the silent harlequinade began to decrease, while the importance of the fairy-tale part of the pantomime increased. Two writers who helped to elevate the importance and popularity of the fairy-tale portion of the pantomime were James Planché and Henry James Byron. They emphasized puns and humorous word play, a tradition that continues in pantomime today. As manager of Drury Lane in the 1870s, Augustus Harris wrote a series of extraordinarily popular pantomimes, focusing on the spectacle of the productions, that pushed this transition by emphasizing comic business in the pantomime opening and grand processionals. By the end of the 19th century, the harlequinade had become merely a brief epilogue to the pantomime, dwindling into a brief display of dancing and acrobatics. It lingered for a few decades longer but finally disappeared, although a few of its comic elements had been incorporated into the pantomime stories. The last harlequinade was played at the Lyceum Theatre in 1939.\n\nTraditionally performed at Christmas and afterwards, with family audiences, British pantomime continues as a popular form of theatre, incorporating song, dance, buffoonery, slapstick, cross-dressing, in-jokes, topical references, audience participation, and mild sexual innuendo.\n\nPantomime story lines and scripts usually make no direct reference to Christmas, and are almost always based on traditional children's stories, particularly the fairy tales of Charles Perrault, Joseph Jacobs, Hans Christian Andersen and the Grimm Brothers. Some of the most popular pantomime stories include \"Cinderella\", \"Aladdin\", \"Dick Whittington and His Cat\" and \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", as well as \"Jack and the Beanstalk\", \"Peter Pan\", \"Puss in Boots\" and \"Sleeping Beauty\". Other traditional stories include \"Mother Goose\", \"Beauty and the Beast\", \"Robinson Crusoe\", \"The Wizard of Oz\", \"Babes in the Wood\" (combined with elements of \"Robin Hood\"), \"Little Red Riding Hood\", \"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\", \"Sinbad\", \"St. George and the Dragon\", \"Bluebeard\", \"The Little Mermaid\" and \"Thumbelina\". Prior to about 1870, many other stories were made into pantomimes.\n\nWhile the familiarity of the audience with the original children's story is generally assumed, plot lines are almost always adapted for comic or satirical effect, and characters and situations from other stories are often interpolated into the plot. For instance \"panto\" versions of \"Aladdin\" may include elements from \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\" or other \"Arabian Nights\" tales; while \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" might include references to nursery rhymes and other children's stories involving characters called \"Jack\", such as \"Jack and Jill\". Certain familiar scenes tend to recur, regardless of plot relevance, and highly unlikely resolution of the plot is common. Straight retellings of the original stories are rare.\n\nThe form has a number of conventions, some of which have changed or weakened a little over the years, and by no means all of which are obligatory. Some of these conventions were once common to other genres of popular theatre such as melodrama.\n\nAnother contemporary pantomime tradition is the celebrity guest star, a practice that dates back to the late 19th century, when Augustus Harris, proprietor of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, hired well-known variety artists for his pantomimes.\n\nMany modern pantomimes use popular artists to promote the pantomime, and the play is often adapted to allow the star to showcase their well-known act, even when such a spot has little relation to the plot. As critic Michael Billington has explained, if the star enters into the spirit of the entertainment, he or she can add to its overall effect, while if it becomes a \"showcase for a star\" who \"stands outside the action\", the celebrity's presence can detract, notwithstanding the marketing advantage that the star brings to the piece. Billington said that Ian McKellen in a 2004 \"Aladdin\" \"lets down his hair and lifts up his skirt to reveal a nifty pair of legs and an appetite for \"double entendre\": when told by decorators that 'your front porch could do with a good lick', McKellen adopts a suitable look of mock-outrage. ... At least we can tell our grandchildren that we saw McKellen's Twankey and it was huge.\"\n\nThe main roles within pantomime are usually as follows:\n\nPantomime is performed in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Switzerland, Bermuda, Australasia, Canada, Zimbabwe, Jamaica, South Africa, India, Gibraltar, Malta, and Andorra. It is performed mostly during the Christmas and New Year season.\n\nMany theatres in cities and towns throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland continue to have an annual professional pantomime. Pantomime is also very popular with amateur dramatics societies throughout the UK and Ireland, and the pantomime season (roughly speaking, late November to February) will see pantomime productions in many village halls and similar venues across the country.\n\nIt was first produced annually in Andorra by the English-speaking Mums’ group, from the British ex-patriate community, in the Teatre de les Fontetes in the parish of La Massana. Now it is produced by English and English-speaking international volunteers as part of the Advent celebrations supported by the Comú de La Massana, the local businesses the Club International d'Andorra and Vallnord ski station to raise money, most recently, for the less privileged children of Andorra.\n\nPantomimes in Australia at Christmas were once very popular, but the genre has declined greatly since the middle of the 20th century. Several later professional productions did not recover their costs.\n\nChristmas pantomimes are performed yearly at the Hudson Village Theatre in Quebec. Since 1996, Ross Petty Productions has staged pantomimes at Toronto's Elgin Theatre each Christmas season. Pantomimes imported from England were produced at the Royal Alexandra Theatre in the 1980s. The White Rock Players Club in White Rock, BC have presented an annual pantomime in the Christmas season since 1954. The Royal Canadian Theatre Company produces pantomimes in British Columbia, written by Ellie King.\n\nPantomime was imported for a British expatriate audience and later adapted by Maltese producers for Maltese audiences. While in many former territories of the British empire, pantomime declined in popularity after independence, as it was seen as a symbol of colonial rule, studies have shown that this genre remains strong in Malta.\n\nThe National Pantomime of Jamaica was started in 1941 by educators Henry Fowler and Greta Fowler, pioneers of the Little Theatre Movement in Jamaica. Among the first players was Louise Bennett-Coverley. Other notable players have included Oliver Samuels, Charles Hyatt, Willard White, Rita Marley and Dawn Penn. The annual pantomime opens on Boxing Day at the Little Theatre in Kingston and is strongly influenced by aspects of Jamaican culture, folklore and history.\n\nPantomime was brought to Switzerland by British immigrants and is performed regularly in Basel, where the first British-style pantomime was performed in 1994 in a hangar at Basel Airport. In 2009 the Basel English Panto Group was formed, which performs at the Scala Basel each December.\n\nPantomime has seldom been performed in the United States, although a few productions have been mounted in recent years. As a consequence, Americans commonly understand the word \"pantomime\" to refer to the art of mime as it was practised, for example, by Marcel Marceau and Nola Rae. However, certain shows that came from the pantomime traditions, especially \"Peter Pan\", are performed quite often, and a few American theatre companies produce traditional British-style pantomime as well as American adaptations of the form.\n\nAccording to Professor Russell A. Peck of the University of Rochester, the earliest pantomime productions in the US were \"Cinderella\" pantomime productions in New York in March 1808, New York again in August 1808, Philadelphia in 1824, and Baltimore in 1839. A production at Olympic Theatre in New York of \"Humpty Dumpty\" ran for at least 943 performances between 1868 and 1873, (one source says 1,200 performances), becoming the longest-running pantomime in history.\n\nIn 1993 there was a production of \"Cinderella\" at the UCLA Freud Theatre, starring Zsa Zsa Gabor. Stages Repertory Theatre in Houston, Texas, has been performing original pantomime-style musicals during the Christmas holidays since 2008. Lythgoe Family Productions has produced pantomimes each winter since 2010 in California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101716", "title": "Mayr", "text": "Mayr\n\nMayr is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101721", "title": "Gilbert Joyce", "text": "Gilbert Joyce\n\nGilbert Cunningham Joyce (7 April 1866 – 22 July 1942) was a university educator and Bishop of Monmouth.\n\nHe was educated at Harrow School, and Brasenose College, Oxford. He took his BA in 1888, MA in 1892, BD in 1904, and DD in 1909.\n\nAfter studying briefly in Germany he was ordained deacon in 1892 by Bishop Lewis of Llandaff, and was sub-warden of St Michael's College, Aberdare, from 1892 to 1896, receiving priest's orders in 1893. From 1897 to 1916 he was Warden of St Deiniol's Library, Hawarden, and in 1916, he was made principal of St David's College, now the University of Wales, Lampeter. The college at Lampeter was founded in 1822 as a theological college, but had, by 1916, liberalised its admissions policy and curriculum. Joyce, due to his own background in the clergy, wanted the college to return to its theological roots. He advocated an abandonment of the college charter which allowed it to award Bachelor of Arts degrees, but the college board voted down the proposals. As a result, Joyce resigned from his post as principal.\n\nAfter his departure from Lampeter in 1923, Joyce became in 1927 Archdeacon of St David's, and then succeeded Charles Green as Bishop of Monmouth on 30 November 1928.\n\nJoyce took a leading part in the life of the Church in Wales, and his counsel was also eagerly sought in educational movements. He was Pro-Chancellor of the University of Wales (which conferred on him the honorary degree of LL.D. in 1937) from 1934 to 1941, and President of the Welsh National School of Medicine from 1931 to 1937.\n"}
{"id": "2101727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101727", "title": "The Shillong Times", "text": "The Shillong Times\n\nThe Shillong Times is an Indian newspaper. It is North-East India's oldest English-language daily newspaper, which started as a tabloid-sized weekly on 10 August 1945, on a treadle machine in Shillong.\n\n\"The Shillong Times\" switched to a modern computer typesetting and offset printing technique on 15 August 1991, and the first issue in broadsheet format came into being.\n\nA second edition from the town of Tura in the Garo Hills of Meghalaya was launched on 9 November 1992.\n\nBesides the Tura edition, Shillong Times Private Limited also publishes the only Garo language daily \"Salantini Janera\".\n\nThe publication is headed by Patricia Mukhim as its editor, who succeeded Manas Chaudhuri in 2008. Chaudhuri had been editor of the paper since 1978. \n\n"}
{"id": "2101730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101730", "title": "Curtiss XP-62", "text": "Curtiss XP-62\n\nThe Curtiss XP-62 was a prototype heavily armed, high-performance, single-engine fighter aircraft built for the United States Army Air Corps by the Curtiss-Wright Corporation.\n\nThe terms of the contract, in accordance with a proposal of 29 April 1941, called for the first flight within fifteen months of the award.\n\nThe maximum level flight speed at 27,000 ft (8,230 m) had to be at least 468 mph (753 km/h).\n\nThe aircraft was to feature an air-conditioned pressurized cockpit.\n\nProposed armament was either eight 20 mm (.79 in) cannons or twelve 0.50 in (12.7 mm) machine guns, mounted in the wings.\n\nTwo prototypes were ordered; the first designated XP-62 and the second designated XP-62A.\n\nOn 2 August 1941, the specifications were submitted for the XP-62 reducing the maximum speed to 448 mph (721 km/h) with eight 20 mm (.79 in) cannon armament and increasing the loaded weight by 1,537 lb (697 kg).\n\nDuring a project review of 1 January 1942, the contract specification was again revised: the loaded weight would be reduced by eliminating four cannon and removing the propeller de-icing equipment.\n\nOn 25 May 1942 a contract for 100 P-62 fighters was awarded.\n\nBefore construction could begin, the contract was terminated on 27 July 1942, as it would affect deliveries of urgently needed Curtiss-built P-47 Thunderbolts.\n\nDelays in delivery of the unique pressure-cabin supercharger and engine modifications delayed the first flight of the XP-62 until 21 July 1943. The XP-62A was canceled on 21 September 1943 and only a limited amount of flight testing was conducted with the XP-62. Owing to its low priority, work progressed slowly and in the autumn of 1944 the XP-62 was scrapped. Because of insufficient flight testing, full performance characteristics were never obtained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101732", "title": "The Impact Players", "text": "The Impact Players\n\nThe Impact Players were a professional wrestling stable in Extreme Championship Wrestling that was composed of Lance Storm and Justin Credible.\n\nThe Impact Players formed when Lance Storm and Justin Credible started teaming in ECW in February 1999. They were brought together when Shane Douglas announced his retirement on February 20, 1999 and was prepared to announce who the new \"Franchise\" was to be. Both Storm and Credible came to the ring and both said they were to be the next Franchise. Douglas then said neither of them were qualified and that the next one was to be Tommy Dreamer. Storm brought along his valet, Dawn Marie, and Credible brought along his manager, Jason. Together, they formed one of the most dominant units in ECW history.\n\nThey first feuded with Jerry Lynn and Sabu in singles matches and by late 1999, they had begun a violent feud with Tommy Dreamer and The Sandman. The team brutalized many singles stars during this period as well.\n\nThey won the ECW World Tag Team Championship at Guilty As Charged when they defeated Dreamer and his unwilling partner, Raven. They dominated the tag team scene for the next four months before splitting when Storm left for WCW and Credible won the ECW World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nAt Guilty as Charged 2001, Credible was joined by Steve Corino in the New Impact Players. This version of the group did not last long, as ECW filed for bankruptcy and went out of business two months later.\n\nDuring the Invasion storyline, both Storm and Credible were a part of The Alliance, and teamed together frequently throughout the storyline, mainly on Sunday Night Heat, where they had a series of matches with the Hardy Boys, who represented the WWF in the storyline.\n\nThey reunited at One Night Stand on June 12, 2005, when Credible helped Storm defeat Chris Jericho at the PPV, and they both interfered later in the night at the beginning of the main event of the PPV featuring Tommy Dreamer & The Sandman against The Dudley Boyz. They reunited again later the same year on Hardcore Homecoming: November Reign when Storm helped Credible in his cage match against Jerry Lynn.\n\nStorm and Credible were scheduled as part of British promotion 1PW's Tag Title Tournament, to reform the Impact Players, but Credible missed his flight in order to be a part of WWE's ECW brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101741", "title": "Delta Corvi", "text": "Delta Corvi\n\nDelta Corvi (δ Corvi, abbreviated Delta Crv, δ Crv), also named Algorab , is a third magnitude star at a distance of from the Sun in the southern constellation of Corvus.\n\n\"δ Corvi\" (Latinised to \"Delta Corvi\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Algorab\" derived from Arabic \"الغراب\" \"al-ghuraab\", meaning 'the crow'). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Algorab\" for this star.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Chariot (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of Delta Corvi, Gamma Corvi, Epsilon Corvi and Beta Corvi. Consequently, Delta Corvi itself is known as (, .).\n\nDelta Corvi has more than 2.7 times the mass of the Sun, which is causing it to radiate a much higher energy output—roughly 69 times the Sun's luminosity. The effective temperature of the outer atmosphere is , giving it the white hue of an A-type star. The spectrum matches a stellar classification of . However it is more luminous—65-70 times that of the Sun—than it would be if it were on the main sequence. Hence it is either a subgiant star around 260 million years old that has nearly exhausted the supply of hydrogen at its core and is in the process of evolving away from the main sequence of stars like the Sun, or a pre main sequence star around 3.2 million years old that has not completely condensed and settled on the main sequence.\n\nIn 1823, Delta Corvi was found to be a wide double star by British astronomers James South and John Herschel. Since that time, the position of the two stars with respect to each other has not changed. The magnitude 9.3 companion, HR 4757 B, with a classification of K2Ve, is at an angular separation of 24.2 arcseconds along a position angle of 214°. Although the two stars share a common proper motion, the significant differences in their estimated ages suggests that they may not be physically connected.\n\nA 2006 study found that Delta Corvi displayed no excess infrared emission that would otherwise suggest the presence of circumstellar matter, however warm interstellar dust was detected in a 2014 study.\n\nUSS Algorab (AKA-8) is a United States navy ship named after the star.\n"}
{"id": "2101743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101743", "title": "South China tiger", "text": "South China tiger\n\nThe South China tiger is a \"Panthera tigris tigris\" population in southern China. This population occurred in Fujian, Guangdong, Hunan and Jiangxi provinces. It has been listed as Critically Endangered on the IUCN Red List since 1996, and is possibly extinct in the wild since no wild individual has been recorded since the early 1970s. Already in the late 1990s, continued survival was considered unlikely due to low prey density, widespread habitat degradation and fragmentation, and other human pressures.\n\nIn the fur trade, it used to be called Amoy tiger. It is also known as South Chinese, Chinese and Xiamen tiger.\n\nAnalysis of South China tiger skulls showed that they differ in shape from tiger skulls of other regions. Because of this phenomenon the South China tiger is considered a relict population of the \"stem\" tiger. Results of a phylogeographic study indicate that southern China or northern Indochina was likely the center of Pleistocene tiger radiation.\n\nIn 2017, the Cat Classification Taskforce of the Cat Specialist Group subsumed all mainland Asian tiger populations to \"P. t. tigris\". However, a genetic study published in 2018 supported six monophyletic clades, with the South Chinese tiger being distinct from other mainland Asian populations, thus supporting the traditional concept of six subspecies.\n\nIn 1905, the German zoologist Max Hilzheimer first described the South China tiger as similar in height to the Bengal tiger, but differing in skull and coat characteristics. Their carnassials and molars are shorter than in his Bengal tiger samples; the cranial region is shorter with orbits set closer together, postorbital processes are larger. Their coat is lighter and more yellowish and the paws, face, and stomach appear more white; the stripes are narrower, more numerous and more sharp-edged.\n\nThe South China tiger is the smallest tiger subspecies from mainland Asia, but bigger than the subspecies known from the Sunda islands such as the Sumatran tiger. Males measure from , and weigh . Females are smaller and measure , and weigh . The length of the tail does not usually exceed one half of the head-and-body length. Hair length varies geographically. Greatest documented length of skull in males is , and in females .\n\nA sighting in around 1910 of an unusual blue-coloured or \"maltese\" tiger outside Fuzhou in the Fujian Province of China was reported by Harry Caldwell and Roy Chapman Andrews.\n\nThe skulls described by Hilzheimer originated in Hankou.\nThe historical range of the South China tiger stretched over a vast landscape of from east to west and from north to south in China. From the east it ranged from Jiangxi and Zhejiang Provinces at about 120°E westward through Guizhou and Sichuan Provinces at about 100°E. The most northerly extension was in the Qinling Mountain and Yellow River area at approximately 35°N to its southern extension in Guangdong, Guangxi and Yunnan Provinces at 21°N.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the South China tiger population was reported to number more than 4,000 individuals in the wild when it became the target of large-scale government ‘anti-pest’ campaigns promulgated by Mao Zedong’s ‘Great Leap Forward’. The effects of uncontrolled hunting were compounded by extensive deforestation and probable reduction in available prey, large-scale relocations of urban populations to rural locations leading to fragmentation of tiger populations and increased vulnerability to local extinction from stochastic events. By 1982, only an estimated 150–200 South China tigers remained in the wild.\nBy 1987, the remnant South China tiger population was estimated at 30–40 individuals in the wild, so that danger of extinction was imminent. During a survey in 1990, South China tiger signs were found in 11 reserves in the mountains of Sichuan, Guangdong, Hunan, Jiangxi and Fujian Provinces, but these data were insufficient to estimate population size. No tigers were directly observed; evidence was limited to sightings of tracks, scrapings and reported sightings by local people.\n\nIn 2001, field studies were carried out in eight protected areas encompassing in five provinces of south-central China using camera traps, GPS technology and extensive sign surveys. But no evidence of tigers was found. No scats observed by the field team could be positively verified as being from tigers. Evidence for possible tiger prey species was found in five locations.\nAt the turn of the 21st century, there may still have been some South China tigers in the wild. Local people had reported tracks and sightings in Qizimei Mountains Nature Reserve in Hubei Province and in Yihuang county of Jiangxi Province. In May 2007, the Government of China reported to the CITES Secretariat that there is no confirmed presence, and declared the goal to reintroduce South China tigers to the wild. In September 2007, a body of an Asiatic black bear was found in Zhenping County that had possibly been killed and eaten by a South China tiger. In October 2007, a supposed South China tiger attacked a cow in the same county.\n\nThe tiger is an obligate carnivore. It prefers hunting large ungulates, frequently kills wild boar, and occasionally hog deer, muntjac and gray langur. Small prey species such as porcupines, hares and peafowl form a very small part in its diet. Due to the encroachment of humans into tiger habitat, it also preys on domestic livestock.\n\nIn the former range of the South China tiger possible tiger prey species include muntjac, wild pig, serow, tufted deer and sambar.\n\nIn most cases, tigers approach prey from the side or behind from as close a distance as possible and grasp the prey's throat to kill it. Then they drag the carcass into cover, occasionally over several hundred meters, to consume it. The nature of the tiger's hunting method and prey availability results in a \"feast or famine\" feeding style: they often consume of meat at one time.\n\nTigers mate at any time of the year but breeding is most common from the end of November to the first half of April. Males are ready to begin mating at the age of 5 years and females at the age of 4 years. Offspring is born 103 days after mating. Three to 6 young are born in a den. They are born blind and weigh between each. They are suckled at least for the first 8 weeks. The mother teaches them to hunt when they are 6 months old. At the age of 1 1/2 to 2 years the cubs separate from their mother.\n\nMan-eating tiger attacks on humans in South China increased dramatically in the Ming and Qing Dynasties due to the vast human population growth and the consequent encroachment into tiger habitats. About 500 attacks took place during this period, with the average frequency being nearly once a year. According to historical records, all these attacks resulted in deaths numbering from several to over 1000.\nIn 1957, a tiger allegedly attacked and killed 32 people in Hunan Province.\n\nIn 1973, the South China tiger was classified as \"protected by controlled hunting\". In 1977, it was classified as \"protected\", and hunting was prohibited.\n\nAll tiger subspecies are included on CITES Appendix I, banning international trade. All tiger range states and countries with consumer markets have banned domestic trade as well.\n\nThe non-governmental organisation \"Save China's Tigers\", with support of China’s \"State Forestry Administration\" has developed a plan to reintroduce captive-born South China tigers into large enclosures in southern China. The main concerns regarding the reintroduction are the availability of suitable habitat and adequate prey, and the fitness of the captive population. Landscape-level conservation of wilderness habitat and recovery of wild herbivore populations as prey base for the tiger will be required. A suggested eventual goal was to establish at least three populations, with each population consisting of a minimum of about 15–20 tigers living in a minimum of of natural habitat. Cooperative field surveys and workshops have been carried out to identify suitable recovery areas.\n\nAt the 14th Conference of the Parties to CITES in 2007, an end to tiger farming and stopping domestic trade in farmed tiger products in China were called for.\n\nAs of March 1986, 17 Chinese zoos kept 40 pure-bred South China tigers in their collections, including 23 males and 14 females, none of which were wild-born. All were third or fourth generation descendants of one wild tigress from Fujian and five tigers from Guizhou. Notable problems included uneven sex ratio and improper pairing.\n\nIn 2005, the captive population of South China tigers consisted of 57 individuals that showed signs of inbreeding, including reduced genetic diversity and a low rate of successful breeding. In 2007, the global captive population consisted of 72 individuals; there are few captive South China tigers outside China. Few seem to be \"pure\" South China tigers as there is genetic evidence of cross-breeding with other subspecies.\n\nOne cub was born in a private reserve known as Laohu Valley Reserve in South Africa in November 2007, the first to be born outside China. Since then, a number of cubs have been produced. , the Laohu Valley Reserve had 19 individuals.\n\nChina's captive South China tigers have been entered onto a centrally registered studbook. Before the studbook was established it was thought that this captive population was too small and lacking in genetic diversity for any re-population program to be successful, but since the start of the central register more and more South China tigers have been identified in zoos across China.\n\nSince 2001, Save China’s Tigers South African team has been working with the Chinese State Forestry Administration to identify locations for the reintroduction of the rewilded South China tigers. Nine sites from four provinces were surveyed using 36 ecological parameters. Two candidate sites were selected in Jiangxi and Hunan province in early 2005. The State Forestry Administration approved the sites by end 2005. Owing to the remarkable progress of Save China’s Tigers Rewilding project subsequently in South Africa, the Chinese authorities were further encouraged and decided to look for sites within the nature reserves where there would be fewer human population relocation issues in order to quicken the return of the South China tigers. In early 2010, a government scientific team identified an interim test site and three final sites, which are now awaiting approval from the relevant central government department. Save China's Tigers'’ scientific team is working with the Chinese authorities on the preparations in terms of fencing technology, re-stocking prey, and building tiger and wildlife management expertise. \n\nThe word \"rewilding\" was coined by conservationist and ex-carnivore manager of Pilanesberg National Park, Gus Van Dyk in 2003. Gus Van Dyk, who in an effort to find the most appropriate translation of the Chinese term \"Yě-huà\" (), chose to adopt the term \"rewilding\" to describe \"Save China's Tigers\" rewilding project of the South China tiger. Since then, the term \"rewilding\" has been widely used by wildlife organisations worldwide.\n\nThe organisation Save China's Tigers, working with the Wildlife Research Center of the State Forestry Administration of China and the Chinese Tigers South Africa Trust, secured an agreement on the reintroduction of Chinese tigers into the wild. The agreement, which was signed in Beijing on 26 November 2002, calls for the establishment of a Chinese tiger conservation model through the creation of a pilot reserve in China where indigenous wildlife, including the South China tiger, will be reintroduced. Save China's Tigers aims to rewild the critically endangered South China tiger by bringing a few captive-bred individuals to a private reserve in the Free State province of South Africa for rehabilitation training for them to regain their hunting instincts. At the same time, a pilot reserve in China is being set up and the tigers will be relocated and release back in China when the reserve in China is ready. The offspring of the trained tigers will be released into the pilot reserves in China, while the original animals will stay in South Africa to continue breeding.\n\nThe reason South Africa was chosen is because it is able to provide expertise and resources, land and game for the South China tigers. The South China tigers of the project have since been successfully rewilded and are fully capable of hunting and surviving on their own. This project has also been very successful in the breeding of these rewilded South China tigers and 14 cubs have been born in the project of which 11 survived. These 2nd generation cubs would be able to learn their survival skills from their successfully rewilded mothers directly.\n\nIt was hoped that in 2012 the first second-generation tigers born at Laohu Valley Reserve could be released into the wild.\n\nMainstream conservationists have expressed reservations about the project. The WWF says that the money is being spent in the wrong place, and that the Siberian tiger has a better chance of survival.\n\nScientists confirmed the role of rewilding captive populations to save the South China tiger. A workshop was conducted in October 2010 in Laohu Valley Reserve in South Africa to assess the progress of the rewilding and reintroduction program of \"Save China's Tigers\". The experts present included Dr. Peter Crawshaw of \"Centro Nacional de Pesquisa e Conservacão de Mamiferos Carnivoros, Cenap/ICMBIO\", Dr. Gary Koehler, Dr. Laurie Marker of the \"Cheetah Conservation Fund\", Dr. Jim Sanderson of \"Small Wild Cat Conservation Foundation\", Dr. Nobuyuki Yamaguchi of Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences of Qatar University, and Dr. David Smith of Minnesota University, Chinese government scientists as well as representatives of \"Save China's Tigers\".\n\nThe tigers in question were born in captive conditions, in concrete cages, and their parents are all captive animals who are unable to sustain themselves naturally in the wild. The cubs were sent to South Africa as part of the \"Save China's Tigers\" project for rewilding and to ensure that they would regain the necessary skills needed for a predator to survive in the wild.\n\nResults of the workshop confirmed the important role of the \"South China Tiger Rewilding Project\" in tiger conservation. \"Having seen the tigers hunting in an open environment at Laohu Valley Reserve, I believe that these rewilded tigers have the skill to hunt in any environment,\" Dr. David Smith remarked. Furthermore, \"Save China's Tigers\" recovered natural habitat both in China and in South Africa during their attempt to reintroduce South China tigers into the wild.\n\nThe goal of preparing captive born tigers for introduction into wild habitat in the former range seems to be possible in the near future.\n\nIn 2007, a villager from China's Shaanxi Province claimed to have risked his life by taking more than 30 digital photographs of a tiger. The Shaanxi Provincial Forestry Bureau backed up this claim in a press conference.\nThe photographs aroused suspicion, with many expressing doubts about their authenticity. In November 2007, the Shaanxi Province Forestry Bureau still \"firmly believed\" that wild South China tigers exist in the province. Yet in February 2008, the Shaanxi Province Forestry Bureau released an apology, qualifying their earlier statements but without repudiating the pictures' authenticity, writing \"We curtly released the discovery of the South China tiger without substantial proof, which reflects our blundering manner and lax discipline.\"\nIn June 2008, the authorities announced that all pictures published were proven to be forged, related officers have been punished and the alleged photographer has been arrested for suspicion of fraud. This officially ended the scandal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101745", "title": "K. D. Singh Babu Stadium, Lucknow", "text": "K. D. Singh Babu Stadium, Lucknow\n\nThe KD Singh Babu Stadium, formerly known as the Central Sports Stadium, is a multi-purpose stadium named after the famous hockey player K. D. Singh.\n\nThe stadium was established in 1957 and it is located near the busy Hazratganj area of downtown Lucknow, in the heart of the city. it has a seating capacity of 25,000 and does not support floodlights for day night matches. The stadium is also the home ground for UP Cricket Team. The stadium hosts domestic competitions regularly. Several International and national field hockey matches have been played here, now stadium is also used for domestic and few international cricket matches. The stadium is also sometimes used for association football games, like the District Football League matches of Lucknow. In 2012, the tournament was won by Sahara FC after defeating White Eagle Club. UP Police and Sunrise Club made it to the semi-finals that year, at the Dilkusha Grounds.\n\nK. D. Singh Babu Stadium is the main sports hub of Lucknow, it has following facilities:\n\nK.D. Singh Babu Stadium has hosted following international matches:\n\nIn Women's cricket, England's opening batters Caroline Atkins and Arran Brindle (aka Arran Thompson) have broken the world record for an opening partnership for England by putting 150 on the board without loss at the end of the first day of the first Test against India in this stadium.\n\nIn Test cricket the highest score was made by India, scoring 511 all out followed by Sri Lanka 218 all out. The next highest score was also made by Sri Lanka scoring 174 all out. The most runs scored here was by Sachin Tendulkar (142 runs), followed by Navjot Sidhu (124 runs) and Roshan Mahanama (118 runs). The most wickets taken here was by Anil Kumble (11 wickets), followed by Muttiah Muralitharan (5 wickets) and Venkatapathy Raju (3 wickets).\n\nThe highest scores were made by Pakistan, scoring 219-6 in ODIs. The next highest scores were made by Sri Lanka who scored 213 all out. The most runs scored here was by Imran Khan (84 runs), followed by Aravinda de Silva (83 runs) and Hashan Tillakaratne (71 runs). Wasim Akram, Abdul Qadir and Akram Reza have taken 2 wickets on this ground in ODIs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101748", "title": "Belcaire", "text": "Belcaire\n\nBelcaire is a commune in the Aude department, part of the ancient Languedoc province and the present-day Occitanie region in southern France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101749", "title": "Steel (1997 film)", "text": "Steel (1997 film)\n\nSteel is a 1997 American superhero film based on the DC Comics character of the same name. The film stars Shaquille O'Neal as John Henry Irons and his alter-ego Steel, Annabeth Gish as his wheelchair-using partner Susan Sparks, and Judd Nelson as their rival Nathaniel Burke. The plot centers on an accident caused by Burke which leaves Sparks paralyzed. The accident results in Irons quitting his job. Burke begins mass-producing weapons and selling them to criminals. In order to stop Burke, Irons and Sparks create a suit of armor that leads Irons to become the superhero Steel.\n\nWritten and directed by Kenneth Johnson, the film separates itself from the comic book series (and John Henry Irons' status as a supporting character of Superman) by using original protagonists and antagonists. On its initial release, \"Steel\" was a box office bomb and was panned by critics, who complained about the film's \"cheesiness\" and bad acting.\n\nJohn Henry Irons (Shaquille O'Neal) is a weapons designer who invents high-tech laser guns, protective armor, and sonic sound cannons for the United States military. One soldier, Nathaniel Burke (Judd Nelson), decides to show just what Irons' weapons can do and sets one of Irons' sonic cannons at the highest power setting, firing the device at an abandoned building. However, the weapon backfires and destroys the building the team is situated in. Irons' partner, Susan \"Sparky\" Sparks (Annabeth Gish), is crushed by a large slab of concrete in the ensuing chaos. In court, Irons reveals Burke's role in the incident and Burke is dismissed from the military. Because his weapons resulted in Sparks becoming a paraplegic, Irons resigns in disgust. Meanwhile, Burke hatches a plot to sell Irons' weapons to criminal gangs, recruiting a video arcade manager to help him carry out this deed.\n\nIrons witnesses a bank robbery organized by gang members wielding Burke's modified guns; they escape before he can interrogate them on where they obtained the weapons. The gang does not tell Irons anything when confronted directly in their hideout. Irons visits Sparks in a veteran's hospital and takes her to his own assembled laboratory, where he hopes he and Sparks can create weapons needed to combat the criminals. With the help of Uncle Joe (Richard Roundtree), they forge a suit of armor and the weaponry necessary for Irons to carry out his war on crime and become the vigilante \"Steel\". However, during his crusade against crime, Irons is pursued by the cops and is forced to return to his lair. The next night, the robbers arrange to rob another bank. Irons, as Steel, tries to stop them, but is hindered by the robbers' weapons. When Irons returns to his grandmother's (Irma P. Hall) house, he is arrested.\n\nMeanwhile, Burke prepares to auction off all his modified weapons to every criminal organization in the world over the Internet. When Irons is released from jail, Sparky is captured by Burke's thugs. Irons, as Steel, attempts to infiltrate Burke's headquarters, but is captured himself in the process. When Burke continues with the auction, he is tricked by Steel, which allows him and Sparks to rebel and destroy Burke's lair. Burke himself is killed when a laser he fires towards Steel reflects back towards him due to Steel's suit. After this, Steel, Sparky, Joe, and Martin (Ray J) escape Burke's lair.\n\nThe following day, Col. David (Charles Napier) talks to actor Arnold Schwarzenegger (actually Irons via voice changer) about Steel and the events on what happened the day before and offers him to help before realising it is actually Irons who he is talking to and after that, Irons declines David's offer.\n\nIn the grand opening of her restaurant, Irons' grandmother tells him about Steel and then tells Joe that everyone would be proud of his heroism. After Sparky shows the new modifications of her wheelchair that allows her to walk, Irons smiles and hugs her.\n\n\nProduction of the film \"Steel\" started with music producer Quincy Jones and his partner David Salzman. Both Jones and Salzman were fans of the Steel character, especially Jones, who found personal reasons to support the project. Jones stated that he found children's \"perspective on the future has changed for the worse, and I hate seeing young people who don't believe in the future. Steel—and I don't want to use that word 'superhero,' because he doesn't fly or anything like that—represents a role model. Let's just call him a 'super human being.'\"\n\nKenneth Johnson was the screenwriter and director of \"Steel\". Johnson was originally uninterested in doing a superhero film, having previously turned down offers to film adaptations of \"The Bionic Woman\", \"Alien Nation\", and \"The Incredible Hulk\". Film producer Joel Simon described Steel as being different, stating that he was \"a knight in shining armor in a contemporary setting\". Johnson removed Steel's cape from his costume to reflect this.\n\nJohnson described Steel's persona as a \"blue-collar Batman\" and removed Steel from his comic book storyline and replaced it with protagonists and antagonists of his own invention. To aid with the urban aspects of the dialog Johnson took a copy of the script to South Central Los Angeles and spent a day with a group of kids to ensure that the language of some of the characters was more believable. Throughout the film and script, Johnson created several allusions to his previous television series \"Alien Nation\".\n\nThe filming schedule consisted of fifty-one days with thirty-two full nights of shooting in downtown Los Angeles. The shooting schedule presented difficulties for the director due to the schedule of the star Shaquille O'Neal. O'Neal was already committed for playing in the 1996 Summer Olympics, and training at the Los Angeles Lakers' camp in Hawaii. This left Johnson with five weeks to complete filming all scenes with O'Neal. O'Neal had one read-through of the script before the Olympics and then worked with acting coach Ben Martin in between games to work on his character. When O'Neal returned to act with the rest of the cast, he had all his lines memorized.\n\nAs well as acting in the film, Shaquille O'Neal contributed to the soundtrack for the film. The single \"Men of Steel\" has him featured alongside rappers KRS-One, Ice Cube, B-Real, and Peter Gunz. The soundtrack was released on Quincy Jones' record label Qwest Records and included songs featured in the film and songs inspired by it. The album charted in the United States on the \"Billboard\" 200 at number 185 and on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums at number 26.\n\n\"Steel\" was released in the United States on August 15, 1997. \"Steel\" was considered a large box office bomb on its release with an estimated budget of $16 million, the film grossed just over $1.7 million at the box office.\n\n\"Steel\" was critically panned upon its original release. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 12%, based on 26 reviews, with an average rating of 3.04/10. The site's consensus reads, \"\"Steel\" is a badly-acted movie that indulges not only in superhero clichés, but also the sappy TV-movie-of-the-week ones.\" Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nLeonard Kladly of \"Variety\" wrote that the film is \"too broad and episodic to attract anything other than the most undemanding crowd.\" Peter Stack of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" described it as a \"tolerable stinker of a film\" that \"plays like a Saturday morning cartoon.\" Lawrence Van Gelder of \"The New York Times\" stated that the film is \"slow to gather momentum and generates little excitement or tension.\" Shaquille O'Neal earned a Razzie Award nomination as Worst Actor for his performance in the film, but lost against Kevin Costner for \"The Postman\".\n\nDespite negative reception of the film, critics praised Annabeth Gish in the role of the wheelchair-using Susan Sparks. \"The New York Times\" called Gish's role a \"strong performance.\" The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" noted that she \"becomes the first woman-in-wheelchair action hero in a Hollywood movie, too. Gotta give \"Steel\" some credit for that.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2101750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101750", "title": "Abu Ghosh", "text": "Abu Ghosh\n\nAbu Ghosh (; ) is an Arab-Israeli local council in Israel, located west of Jerusalem on the Tel Aviv–Jerusalem highway. It is situated 610–720 meters above sea level. It takes its current name from the dominant clan inhabiting the town, while the older Arabic name used to be Qaryat al-'Inab (\"Grape Village\").\n\nAbu Ghosh is located in one of the earliest areas of human habitation in Israel. Archaeological excavations have revealed three Neolithic settlement phases, the middle phase is dated to the 7th millennium BCE.\n\nThe old Arabic name of Abu Ghosh, Qaryat al-'Inab (\"Village of the Grapes\"), has led to its identification with the biblical site of Kiryat Ye'arim (Hebrew meaning: \"Village of Woods\"), the town to which the Ark of the Covenant was taken after it had left Beth-shemesh (). \nEdward Robinson was the first modern scholar to suggest that Qaryat al-'Inab was the biblical Kiriath-jearim. The team excavating the hilltop site of Deir al-'Azar, around Our Lady of the Covenant, lists a wide range of arguments in favour of identifying the site with Kiriath-jearim.C. R. Conder of the Palestine Exploration Fund thought that the old site of Kiriath-jearim should be identified with Kh. 'Erma, a ruin south of Kasla, from Beit Shemesh.\n\nIn the 19th century, Conder and Kitchener associated Abu Ghosh with Anathoth, the birthplace of the prophet Jeremiah.\n\nLegio X Fretensis of the Roman army had a station house in Abu Ghosh until the end of the 3rd century CE.\n\nIn 1047 Nasir Khusraw passed by it when he traveled from Ramla to Jerusalem. He noted: \"By the wayside I noticed, in quantities, plants of rue (\"Sadab\"), which grows here of its own accord on these hills, and in the desert places. In the village of Kariat-al-'Anab there is a fine spring of sweet water gushing out from under a stone, and they have placed all around troughs, with small buildings contiguous (for the shelter of travellers).\"\n\nThe Crusaders, who called the village Fontenoid, believed it was the site of Emmaus mentioned in the Gospel of Luke and built a church there.\n\nIn the early Ottoman census of 16th century, it was noted as \"Inab\", a village located in the \"nahiya\" of Quds.\n\nThere are several versions on the origins of the Abu Gosh clan: According to one version, Abu Ghosh is the name of an Arab family who settled at the location in the early 16th century. According to the Abu Gosh family tradition, they were of Chechen descent, and their founder fought with Selim I. In the 18th century, they lived in a village near Bayt Nuba, from which they ruled the surrounding region. However, according to the tradition, the Banu 'Amir tribesmen and the villagers of Beit Liqya rose against them and slaughtered the entire Abu Ghosh clan except for one woman and her baby, who continued the Abu Ghosh name. Some, however, assert that the Abu Gosh are indeed of North Caucasian traditional descent is correct, but the family is of Ingush origin and that \"Abu Gosh\" is in fact a corruption of \"Abu Ingush\".\n\nThe Abu Gosh family controlled the pilgrimage route from Jaffa to Jerusalem, and imposed tolls on all pilgrims passing through. They were given this privilege during the sultanate of Suleiman the Magnificent (1494–1566). The churches in Jerusalem also paid a tax to the Abu Ghosh clan. In 1834, during Egyptian period in Palestine, the Egyptian governor Ibrahim Pasha abolished the Abu Ghosh's right to exact tolls from the pilgrimage route and imprisoned the clan's chief, Ibrahim Abu Ghosh, leading to the clan's temporary participation in the countrywide Peasants' Revolt. As a result, Abu Ghosh was attacked by Egyptian military forces.\n\nIn 1838, it was noted as a Muslim village, named \"Kuryet el'-Enab\", located in the \"Beni Malik\" district.\n\nIt was attacked again in 1853 during a civil war between feudal families under Ahmad Abu Ghosh who ordered his nephew Mustafa to go to battle. A third attack on Abu Ghosh, carried out by the Ottoman military forces, helped and executed by British forces, took place during the military expedition against the feudal families in the 1860s. The Abu Ghoshes were among the well-known feudal families in Palestine. They governed 22 villages. The sheikh of Abu Ghosh lived in an impressive house described by pilgrims and tourists as a \"true palace ... a castle ... a protective fortress ...\"\n\nAn Ottoman village list of about 1870 showed that \"Abu Ghosh\" had 148 houses and a population of 579, though the population count included men, only.\n\nIn the 19th century, the village was also referred to as \"Kuryet el' Enab\".\n\nIn 1896 the population of Abu Ghosh was estimated to be about 1,200 persons.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century Qariat el-'Inab functioned as a 'throne village', or local seat of power.\n\nKiryat Anavim, the first kibbutz in the Judean Hills, was founded near Abu Ghosh in 1914, on land purchased from the Abu Ghosh family.\n\nIn the 1922 census of Palestine conducted by the British Mandate authorities, \"Enab\" had a population 475, 450 Muslims and 25 Christians, increasing in the 1931 census to 601; 576 Muslims and 25 Christians, in 138 houses.\n\nWhen Chaim Weizmann, later the first president of the State of Israel, visited Palestine in the spring of 1920, he was hosted by the residents of Abu Ghosh. From the early 20th century, the leaders of Abu Ghosh worked together and were on friendly terms with the Zionist leaders, and local Jews.\n\nIn the 1945 Village Statistics the population of \"Qaryat el 'Inab\" (Abu Ghosh) was 860; 820 Muslims and 40 Christians, with a total of 7,590 dunams of land according to an official land and population survey. Of this, a total of 1,517 dunams were plantations and irrigable land, 3,274 for cereals, while 21 dunams were built-up (urban) land.\n\nIn 1947–1948, the road to Jerusalem was blocked, as passage through the hills surrounding Jerusalem was crucial for getting supplies to the Jewish parts of the besieged city. Of the 36 Arab Muslim villages in these hills, Abu Ghosh was the only Muslim one that remained neutral, and in many cases helped to keep the road open for Jewish convoys. \"From here it is possible to open and close the gates to Jerusalem,\" said former President Yitzhak Navon. Many in Abu Ghosh helped Israel with supplies.\n\nDuring Operation Nachshon the Haganah reconsidered an attack on Abu Ghosh due to opposition of the Lehi, whose local commanders were on good terms with the mukhtar (village chief).\n\nDuring the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the Har'el Brigade headquarters were located in Abu-Ghosh. Many of the villagers left Abu Ghosh during the heavy fighting in 1948, but most returned home in the following months.\n\nThe Israeli government, subsequently on peaceful terms with the village, invested in improving the infrastructure of the village.\n\nAbu Ghosh mayor Salim Jaber attributed in 2007 the good relations with Israel to the great importance attached to being hospitable: \"We welcome anybody, regardless of religion or race.\" According to a village elder interviewed by \"The Globe and Mail\": \"Perhaps because of the history of feuding with the Arabs around us we allied ourselves with the Jews ... against the British. We did not join the Arabs from the other villages bombarding Jewish vehicles in 1947. The Palmach fought many villages around us. But there was an order to leave us alone. The other Arabs never thought there would be a Jewish government here. ... During the first truce of the War of Independence, I was on my way to Ramallah to see my father and uncles, and I was captured by Jordanian soldiers. They accused me of being a traitor and tortured me for six days.\"\n\nDuring the early years of the State of Israel the village was subjected to repeated searches by the army and anyone who had not registered as resident in November 1948 could be expelled. One case attracted a lot of public criticism. In June 1950, the IDF and police deported 105 men and women believed to be \"infiltrators\" to Jordan. In an open letter to the Knesset, the inhabitants of Abu Ghosh claimed that the army had \"surrounded our village, and taken our women, children and old folk, and thrown them over the border and into the Negev Desert, and many of them died in consequence, when they were shot [trying to make their way back across] the borders.\" The letter further stated that they woke up to \"shouts blaring over the loudspeaker announcing that the village was surrounded and anyone trying to get out would be shot. ... The police and military forces then began to enter the houses and conduct meticulous searches, but no contraband was found. In the end, using force and blows, they gathered up our women, and old folk and children, the sick and the blind and pregnant women. These shouted for help but there was no saviour. And we looked on and were powerless to do anything save beg for mercy. Alas, our pleas were of no avail. ... They then took the prisoners, who were weeping and screaming, to an unknown place, and we still do not know what befell them.\"\n\nKnesset member Moshe Erem accused the army of excessive force, a charge that Prime Minister Ben-Gurion denied. He also defended the policy of expulsions. Foreign Minister Moshe Sharett, concerned about international reaction, argued that there should be more searches with fewer people being deported at one time and then only adult males. One of the issues causing concern in this case was that some of those expelled had been resident in Abu Ghosh for over a year. In the wake of public pressure, the vast majority of villagers were allowed to return. In July 1952, MK Beba Idelson objected to the deportation of an Abu Ghosh woman, who was said to have cancer, and her four children. The police minister Bechor-Shalom Sheetrit rejected the claim that the woman had cancer. The village remained under martial law until 1966.\n\nIn 2017, Abu Ghosh was described as a \"model of coexistence.\"\n\nIn 2017 an archaeological dig began at Deir el-ʿAzar, the site of the convent, led by Israel Finkelstein of Tel Aviv University and Christophe Nicolle and Thomas Römer of the College de France. The first season brought to light a huge, 110 by 150 metres stone platform or podium at the top of the hill, with retaining walls 3 m thick, 6 to 7 metres high and perfectly aligned north–south and east–west, which were dated to the first half of the eighth century BCE during the Iron IIB period (900–700 BCE). Finkelstein attributed the ancient structure to King Jeroboam II of the northern Kingdom of Israel, seeing in it a sign of its dominance over the southern Kingdom of Judah and its capital, Jerusalem. He speculated that the platform might have housed an administration compound that included a temple of the Ark, with the aim of enforcing the domination of Israel over Judah.\n\nThe hilltop shows signs of intensive settlement activity during the Iron IIC period (700–586 BCE), when the rectangular podium at the summit was reconstructed. Renewed reconstruction of the podium took place in the late Hellenistic period, possibly as part of the fortification works undertaken by the Seleucid general Bacchides. In the first century CE it seems that the flat hilltop was used as a Roman camp by the Xth Roman legion, Fretensis, for which reason the Romans extended the platform to create a perfectly square, 150 by 150 metres base for their fortified camp. From the Byzantine period remains of a basilica were discovered, possibly dating to the 5th century. The Arabic name \"Deir el-ʿAzar\", lit. \"Monastery of el-ʿAzar\" may be a corruption of Eleazar, leading to the theory that it was named after the high priest who was charge of the Ark while it was at Kiriath-jearim (). This monastery seems to have functioned to the end of the Byzantine and maybe into the beginning of the Early Islamic period, since very few pottery sherds were found from a later period.\n\nAbu Ghosh is governed by a local council, and is part of the Jerusalem District. The current mayor of Abu Ghosh is Salim Jaber. According to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), Abu Ghosh had a population of in .\n\nThe Crusader church at the historical entrance to the village, now at the centre of the Benedictine Monastery, is one of the best preserved Crusader remains in the country. The Hospitallers had built this late Romanesque/earlyGothic church in 1140 and it was partially destroyed in 1187. It was acquired by the French government in 1899 and placed under guardianship of the French Benedictine Fathers. Since 1956, it has been run by the Lazarist Fathers. Today a double community of nuns and brothers continue the worship in the church and offer hospitality, reflecting the ancient story of the couple on the Jerusalem–Emmaus road. Edward Robinson (1838) described it as \"obviously from the time of the crusades, and [...] more perfectly preserved than any other ancient church in Palestine.\" Excavations carried out in 1944 confirm that the Crusaders identified the site as the biblical Emmaus. The church is now known as both Church of the Resurrection and Emmaus of the Crusaders.\n\nThe Church of Notre Dame de l'Arche d'Alliance (Our Lady of the Ark of the Covenant Church), built in 1924, is said to occupy the site of the house of Abinadab, where the Ark of the Covenant rested for twenty years until King David took it to Jerusalem. It is built on the site of a fifth-century Byzantine church. It is recognizable by the roof-top statue of Mary carrying the infant Jesus in her arms.\n\nAbu Ghosh's historic mosque is in the town center. The new Akhmad Kadyrov Mosque, completed in 2014, is the largest mosque in Israel and was built with money donated by the Chechen government.\n\nThe is held twice a year, in the fall and late spring, with musical ensembles and choirs from Israel and abroad performing in and around the churches in Abu Ghosh.\n\nAbu Ghosh is popular among Palestinians and Israelis for its Middle Eastern restaurants and hummus.\n\nIn 2007, Abu Ghosh was described as the \"hummus capital of Israel.\" In January 2010, Abu Ghosh secured the Guinness World Record for preparing the largest dish of hummus in the world. Jawdat Ibrahim, owner of Abu Ghosh hummus restaurant, organized the event, which brought together 50 Jewish and Israeli-Arab chefs. The winning dish weighed 4,087.5 kilograms (8992.5 pounds), about twice as much as the previous record set by Lebanon in October 2009. In May 2010, Lebanon regained the Guinness World Record, more than doubling Abu Ghosh's January 2010 total.\n\nSince 1997, Jaaber Hussein, a Muslim Arab-Israeli hotel food manager from Abu Ghosh, has signed an agreement with Israel's Chief Rabbis to purchase all of the state's chametz, the leavened products not kosher for the Jewish holiday of Passover. This contractually binding deal allows the state to respect religious edicts without wastefully destroying massive quantities of food. In 2009, Hussein put down a cash deposit of $4,800 (about 20,000 shekels) for $150 million worth of chametz, acquired from state companies, the prison service and the national stock of emergency supplies. At the end of Passover each year, the deposit is returned to Hussein and the State of Israel buys back all the food products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101754", "title": "Extension by new constant and function names", "text": "Extension by new constant and function names\n\nIn mathematical logic, a theory can be extended with\nnew constants or function names under certain conditions with assurance that the extension will introduce\nno contradiction. Extension by definitions is perhaps the best-known approach, but it requires\nunique existence of an object with the desired property. Addition of new names can also be done\nsafely without uniqueness.\n\nSuppose that a \"closed\" formula \n\nis a theorem of a first-order theory formula_2. Let formula_3 be a theory obtained from formula_2 by extending its language with new constants \n\nand adding a new axiom \n\nThen formula_3 is a conservative extension of formula_2, which means that the theory formula_3 has the same set of theorems in the original language (i.e., without constants formula_10) as the theory formula_2.\n\nSuch a theory can also be conservatively extended by introducing a new functional symbol:\nSuppose that a \"closed\" formula formula_12 is a theorem of a first-order theory formula_2, where we denote formula_14. Let formula_3 be a theory obtained from formula_2 by extending its language with a new functional symbol formula_17 (of arity formula_18) and adding a new axiom formula_19. Then formula_3 is a conservative extension of formula_2, i.e. the theories formula_2 and formula_3 prove the same theorems not involving the functional symbol formula_17).\n\nShoenfield states the theorem in the form for a new function name, and constants are the same as functions\nof zero arguments. In formal systems that admit ordered tuples, extension by multiple constants as shown here \ncan be accomplished by addition of a new constant tuple and the new constant names \nhaving the values of elements of the tuple.\n"}
{"id": "2101767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101767", "title": "Barabati Stadium", "text": "Barabati Stadium\n\nThe Barabati Stadium is an Indian sports stadium used mostly for cricket and association football, and also sometimes for concerts and field hockey, located in Cuttack, Odisha. It is a regular venue for international cricket and is the home ground of Odisha cricket team. The stadium is owned and operated by the Odisha Cricket Association. It is also used for Association Football. It hosts Santosh Trophy national football tournament and the state's Odisha First Division League football matches. The Barabati Stadium is one of the oldest grounds in India, having hosted several touring sides – including the MCC, the West Indies team and the Australians - before it hosted its first international match.\n\nThe cricket and football venue is equipped with floodlights for day-and-night games and is a regular venue for ODI matches. The Barabati Stadium is also an alternate venue for home matches of the Kolkata Knight Riders IPL team. It was an adopted home venue for former Indian Premier League franchise Deccan Chargers. Barabati Stadium is the venue for both Indian Premier League and Odisha Premier League. It was hosted senior women's T20 challenger trophy 2020 from 4-11 January 2020.\n\nAs of 22 Dec, 2019 it has hosted 2 Tests, 19 ODIs and 2 T20Is.\n\nThe Barabati Stadium in Cuttack hosted only the third One Day International in this country, in January 1982, when India beat England by five wickets to lift the series 2-1. In the first Test match here, five seasons later, the Sri Lankans were greeted with an underprepared wicket affording vastly unpredictable bounce. Dilip Vengsarkar, then at the most dizzying heights of his career, made his highest Test score of 166, his fourth century in eight Tests, when no other batsman on either side crossed 60. The Lankans were rolled over twice as India seized an innings and 67-run victory. Kapil Dev bagged his 300th Test victim, bowling Rumesh Ratnayake with a ball that failed to sit up.\n\nThe only other Test match here, against New Zealand in 1995-96, was badly affected by rain, affording less than 180 overs of playing time. Narendra Hirwani, on a comeback trail, took 6 for 59 in New Zealand's only innings, the best bowling figures here.\n\nThough it isn’t one of the regular Test venues anymore, it continues to enjoy the status of international venue and hosts One-Day Internationals regularly. India have won one of the two Test matches played here, and have an 11-4 win-loss record in ODIs.\n\nIn 2012, OCA named the indoor cricket hall at Barabati Stadium after Sachin Tendulkar.\n\n\nThe following table summarises the Test centuries scored at the Barabati Stadium.\n\nThe following table summarises the One Day centuries scored at the Barabati Stadium.\n\nMatch Information:\n\nTest Match Statistics:\n\nODI Match Statistics:\n\n\nBarabati Stadium has hosted One Day International (ODI) matches when India hosted the 1987 Cricket World Cup and 1996 Cricket World Cup. Barabati Stadium also hosted the 2013 Women's Cricket World Cup.\n\nThis stadium was the main venue of the 2012 Santosh Trophy football tournament which was won by Services.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101769", "title": "George Zukerman", "text": "George Zukerman\n\nGeorge Benedict Zukerman, (born February 22, 1927) is a Canadian bassoonist and impresario. He is the younger brother of musicologist Joseph Kerman. He now lives with his partner, violinist and teacher Erika Bennedik, in South Surrey, B.C.\n\nIn 1992, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 1995 he received the Award for Distinguished Contribution to Touring from the Canadian National Arts Centre. In 1996, he was awarded the Order of British Columbia. He is also the recipient of both the Golden Jubilee Medal and the Diamond Jubilee Medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101770", "title": "Alpha Piscium", "text": "Alpha Piscium\n\nAlpha Piscium (α Piscium) is a binary star system in the equatorial constellation of Pisces. Based upon parallax measurements made by the Hipparcos spacecraft, it is located approximately 311 light-years from the Sun.\n\nThe two components are designated Alpha Piscium A (officially named Alrescha, the traditional name of the system) and B.\n\n\"α Piscium\" (Latinised to \"Alpha Piscium\") is the star's Bayer designation. The designations of the two components as \"Alpha Piscium A\" and \"B\" derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nThe system bore the traditional name \"Alrescha\" (alternatively \"Al Rescha\", \"Alrischa\", \"Alrisha\") derived from the Arabic الرشآء \"al-rishā’\" \"the cord\" and less commonly \"Kaitain\" and \"Okda\", the latter from the Arabic عقدة \"ʽuqdah\" \"knot\" (see Ukdah. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Alrescha\" for the component Alpha Piscium A on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Outer Fence\", refers to an asterism consisting of Alpha Piscium, Delta Piscium, Epsilon Piscium, Zeta Piscium, Mu Piscium, Nu Piscium and Xi Piscium. Consequently, the Chinese name for Alpha Piscium itself is (, ).\n\nAlpha Piscium comprises a close binary with angular separation of presently 1.8\" between the components. The main star or primary (Alpha Piscium A) is of magnitude +4.33 and spectral type A0p, while the companion or secondary (Alpha Piscium B) is magnitude 5.23 and belongs to spectral class A3m. The two stars take more than 700 years to orbit one another and they will make their closest approach to each other around 2060. One or both of the stars may be a spectroscopic binary as well. The stars have masses of 2.3 and 1.8 solar masses respectively and shine with a total luminosity of 31 and 12 times that of the Sun.\n"}
{"id": "2101775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101775", "title": "Kusa", "text": "Kusa\n\nKusa or KUSA may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2101780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101780", "title": "Sawai Mansingh Stadium", "text": "Sawai Mansingh Stadium\n\nThe Sawai Mansingh Stadium is a cricket stadium in Jaipur, Rajasthan, India. It was named after Sawai Man Singh II, the erstwhile ruler of the princely state of Jaipur. It is situated at one corner of the PKMB. The stadium seats 30,000. As of July 2013, the stadium and grounds could be toured using Google Street View. As of 19 Aug, 2017 it has hosted 1 Test and 19 ODIs.\n\nThe Sawai Mansingh Stadium has hosted a solitary Test match, between India and Pakistan, starting in February 1987, when Pakistan President General Zia-ul-Haq crossed the border to watch the second day's play as part of his \"Cricket for Peace\" initiative.\n\nThe Test was notable for Younis Ahmed's return to the Test fray after an absence of over 17 years and also for Sunil Gavaskar's dismissal to the first ball of the Test match, for the third time in an otherwise illustrious career.to collect\nThe game sputtered to a draw after the third day's play was abandoned following heavy rain and a controversy over the alleged deposition of sawdust on the wicket which Pakistan objected to.\n\nThe stadium's ODI debut had kicked off with a contest between the same two sides on 2 October 1983. Fresh from their World Cup triumph, the Indians comfortably won by four wickets, sporting the same XI that won the World Cup final.\n\nThe ground has also hosted two World Cup matches in 1987 and 1996 respectively, the West Indians losing to England in the former and beating Australia in the latter. The last ODI played on the ground is between India and Australia on October 2013 which they won comfortably by just losing one wicket chasing 362 in just 43.3 overs although it was a disgustingly flat wicket which provided nothing for the bowlers in the slightest.\n\nThe highest individual score by any batsman on this ground in ODIs is 183 (not out) by Mahendra Singh Dhoni.\n\nThis is also the venue in which Virat Kohli made the fastest 100 for India in ODIs as India chase total of 359 against Australia which was second highest successful chase in ODIs, after the Johannesburg epic between Australia and South Africa.\n\nIn 2006, the stadium underwent a major renovation at a cost of Rs 400 crore. A world-class cricket academy was built for Rs 7 crore, which has 28 appointed rooms, a gym, a restaurant, 2 conference halls and a swimming pool.\n\nNew facilities:\n\n\nThe first ODI, played at Sawai Mansingh stadium, kicked off with a contest between India and Pakistan in 1983, in which, India won by four wickets. The 1987 Test between India and Pakistan proved to be an instrument of peace, when Pakistan President General Zia-ul-Haq came over to witness the second day's play as part of his \"Cricket for Peace\" initiative.\n\nThe game, which saw Sunil Gavaskar being dismissed to the first ball of a Test match for the third time in his career, ended in a draw amid a controversy over the alleged deposition of sawdust on the wicket that Pakistan objected.\n\nSawai Mansingh Stadium has hosted IPL matches for Rajasthan Royals its local team and who won first season.\n\nRoyals have been deprived of their home advantage because of the inability of the Rajasthan Cricket Association to acquire requisite state government clearances.\n\n\nAfter announcement of shifting of some Indian Premier League matches in Maharashtra due to a severe drought situation in 2016, the IPL franchise Mumbai Indians opted for this stadium as its home ground as a substitution for Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101783", "title": "Beta Eridani", "text": "Beta Eridani\n\nBeta Eridani (β Eridani, abbreviated Beta Eri, β Eri), formally named Cursa , is the second-brightest star in the constellation of Eridanus, located in the northeast end of this constellation near the shared border with Orion. The apparent visual magnitude of this star is 2.796, so it can be viewed with the naked eye in dark skies. Parallax measurements yield an estimated distance of about from the Earth.\n\n\"Beta Eridani\" is the star's Bayer designation. It has the traditional name \"Cursa\" derived from \"\", \"the Chair (or \"Footstool\") of the Central One\". This is the name of the star association consisting of this star along with Lambda Eridani, Psi Eridani and Tau Orionis.\nAccording to a NASA catalogue of stars, ' was the title of three stars: β Eri is \"Cursa\", Psi Eridani ', and Lambda Eridani \"\" (excluding Tau Orionis).\nIn 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Cursa\" for this star.\n\nIn Chinese, (), \"the Jade Well\", refers to an asterism consisting of β Eridani, λ Eridani, ψ Eridani and τ Orionis. Consequently, the Chinese name for β Eridani itself is \"the third star of Jade Well\" ( \"\").\nIn older texts, ' was also spelt '.\n\nβ Eridani has a spectral type of A3 III, with the luminosity class III indicating that this is a giant star which has consumed the hydrogen at its core and evolved away from the main sequence. The effective temperature of the outer envelope is about 8,104 K, which gives the star a white hue typical of A-type stars. The projected rotational velocity is a rapid , compared to along the Sun's equator. The star is known to vary in apparent visual magnitude, ranging between 2.72 and 2.80. A particularly strong flare up was reported in 1985.\n\nThe location and trajectory of this star suggest that it is a member of the Ursa Major supergroup, an association of stars that share a common origin and motion through space. However, its photometric properties indicate that it may instead be an interloper. Beta Eridani has an optical companion star with an apparent magnitude 10.90 at an angular separation of 120 arcseconds and a position angle of 148°. It has the catalogue identifier CCDM J05079-0506B.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101787", "title": "Natural Born Thrillers", "text": "Natural Born Thrillers\n\nThe Natural Born Thrillers were a professional wrestling stable in World Championship Wrestling from 2000 to 2001. The name is a play on the 1994 film \"Natural Born Killers\".\n\nThe Natural Born Thrillers were made up of seven young wrestlers, all graduates of the WCW Power Plant. They were trained by Paul Orndorff and WCW management decided to push them immediately.\n\nThe Thrillers were Mike Sanders who was the leader of the group, Chuck Palumbo, Sean O'Haire, Shawn Stasiak, Reno, Mark Jindrak and Johnny the Bull. They became the enforcer group for Vince Russo and Eric Bischoff, replacing The Filthy Animals, who they quickly began feuding with. Tension between the two teams quickly grew as the Thrillers attacked their former trainer, Orndoff, and the Animals saved him. At Fall Brawl, the Thrillers and the Animals had an elimination match. After the Thrillers eliminated all but two members of the Animals, the match ended in a no-contest after Orndoff legitimately injured himself attempting a piledriver. The next night on \"Nitro\", the Thrillers faced off against the two survivors, Rey Misterio Jr. and Tygress, and lost.\n\nThe following week, Jindrak and O'Haire won a battle royal to win the WCW World Tag Team Championship. Sanders became the new WCW commissioner by defeating Ernest Miller, and he declared the WCW Hardcore Championship vacant. He set up a tournament to crown the new champion, which was won by Sgt. AWOL. Sanders, however, reversed the decision and the title was awarded to Reno. In October, Jindrak and O'Haire lost the tag titles to Lt. Loco and Cpl. Cajun, but won them back the same night, when Sanders made an immediate rematch.\n\nThey were later \"coached\" by Kevin Nash, who helped Sanders win the WCW Cruiserweight Championship in a Powerbomb match, after he powerbombed Elix Skipper. The Thrillers later turned on Nash, however, and a handicap match with O'Haire, Palumbo, and Stasiak, against Nash went to a no-contest. Jindrak and O'Haire lost the Tag Team Championship to Boogie Knights on the November 20 edition of \"WCW Monday Nitro\", but the following week, Stasiak and Palumbo, as The Perfect Event, won the tag team titles from the Boogie Knights. The Perfect Event feuded with Nash and his new partner, Diamond Dallas Page, who called themselves The Insiders. At Mayhem, The Insiders won the Tag team Championships, but Sanders later stripped them of the titles.\n\nSanders lost the Cruiserweight Championship to Chavo Guerrero, Jr. on the December 6 edition of \"WCW Thunder\". The following week, Sanders set up a handicap match between Guerrero and the Perfect Event, which the Perfect Event won. Sanders also set up a three-way dance between the Insiders, O'Haire and Jindrak, and the Perfect Event, which the Perfect Event won. At Starrcade, the Insiders beat the Perfect Event for the tag team Championships, despite O'Haire and Jindrak's interference.\n\nSanders then announced a tag team Battle Royal for the number one contendership to the tag team Championships. The final two teams in the battle royal were O'Haire and Jindrak, and the Perfect Event. Sanders declared both teams the winner, and announced that one member from each team would compete for the titles. Palumbo and O'Haire later won them in early January 2001, at Sin. Sanders permanently lost the Commissioner position back to Miller.\n\nBy February 2001, the Thrillers had broken up as tensions grew between Stasiak and Jindrak, and Palumbo and O'Haire. Stasiak and Jindrak demanded a tag title shot, and got it at SuperBrawl Revenge, but O'Haire and Palumbo retained. At WCW Greed on March 18, Palumbo and O'Haire pinned Buff Bagwell and Lex Luger in a 54-second squash, and on the final episode of \"Nitro\" on March 26, retained the belts over Lance Storm and Mike Awesome to finish as the last tag team champions in WCW history. They moved on to the WWE after it had bought out WCW, while Stasiak and Jindrak moved into singles competition and Johnny the Bull reunited with Big Vito to reform The Mamalukes, but neither Jindrak nor Reno rose to much prominence after the Thrillers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101788", "title": "Krasner", "text": "Krasner\n\nKrasner is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101794", "title": "Theta Eridani", "text": "Theta Eridani\n\nTheta Eridani (θ Eridani, abbreviated Theta Eri, θ Eri) is a binary system in the constellation of Eridanus. Its two components are designated θ¹ Eridani, formally named Acamar (the traditional name of the system), and θ² Eridani. The system's distance from the Sun as measured by the Hipparcos astrometry satellite is approximately 120 light-years.\n\n\"Theta Eridani\" is the system's Bayer designation; \"θ¹\" and \"θ² Eridani\" those of its two components.\n\nThe system bore the traditional name \"Acamar\", derived from the Arabic آخِر النَّهْر \"Ākhir an-nahr\" which means \"the end of the river\", via a Roman-alphabet handwriting misread \"rn\" to \"m\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Acamar\" for \"θ¹ Eridani\" on 20 July 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nThe term \"Ākhir an-nahr\" or \"Achr al Nahr\" appeared in the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium of Al Achsasi Al Mouakket\", which was translated into Latin as \"Postrema Fluminis\".\n\nHistorically, Acamar represented the end of the constellation Eridanus. Now that distinction is held by the star Achernar, which shares the same Arabic etymology. Achernar is not visible from the Greek isles (latitudes > 33° North), hence the choice of Acamar as the river's end during the time of Hipparchus and later Ptolemy.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Celestial Orchard\", refers to an asterism consisting of Theta Eridani, Chi Eridani, Phi Eridani, Kappa Eridani, HD 16754, HD 23319, HD 24072, HD 24160, Upsilon Eridani, Upsilon Eridani, Upsilon Eridani and Upsilon Eridani. Consequently, the Chinese name for Theta Eridani itself is (, .)\n\nTheta Eridani is a binary system with some evidence suggesting it is part of a multiple star system. The main star, θ¹ Eridani, is of spectral class A4 with a +3.2 apparent magnitude. Its companion star, θ² Eridani, is of spectral class A1 with an apparent magnitude of +4.3. The angular separation of the two stars is equal to 8.3 arcseconds.\n\nPtolemy described Theta Eridani as a first-magnitude star, which some have taken to be in fact Achernar, which today appears just above the horizon in Alexandria where Ptolemy lived. Achernar, however, was not visible to Ptolemy (it is from Alexandria today due to precession); its declination in 100CE was -67, making it invisible even at Aswan. Ptolemy's Eridanus thus without doubt ended at Theta Eridani, which rose about 10 degrees above the horizon from Alexandria. This fact besides positively identifying Theta Eridani as the original \"end of the river\", also strengthens the case for it having been first magnitude in ancient times.\n\nJim Kaler's Stars: Acamar\n"}
{"id": "2101796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101796", "title": "Lombers", "text": "Lombers\n\nLombers is a commune in the Tarn department in southern France.\n\nLombers was the significant centre of Catharism in the late 12th and early 13th centuries. It was the location of a Catholic-Cathar debate, perhaps in the 1180s, between Guillaume Peyre de Brens, Catholic bishop of Albi, and Sicard le Cellerier, Cathar bishop of Albi; Sicard lived at Lombers.\n\nThe commune is traversed by the river Assou.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101797", "title": "Simon Bonney", "text": "Simon Bonney\n\nSimon Philip Bonney (born 1961) is an Australian country rock musician. He formed Crime & the City Solution in late 1977 as a post punk group and an outlet for his song writing. The band has had different line-ups throughout their history, with Bonney as the only mainstay. Bronwyn Adams joined in 1986 on violin and backing vocals – the pair later married. Incarnations of Crime & the City Solution have existed in Sydney, Melbourne, London, Berlin and Detroit. When Crime & the City Solution split up in the early 1990s Bonney and Adams relocated to the United States where he released two solo albums, \"Forever\" (1992) and \"Everyman\" (1996). Crime & the City Solution reformed in 2012.\n\nSimon Philip Bonney was born in 1961. In 1977 he supplied lead vocals for Sydney-based group, the Particles alongside Don McLennan, Mick Smith, Peter Williams and Steve Williams. Later that year he formed a post punk band, Crime & the City Solution, with Mclennan on drums, Phil Kitchener on bass guitar, Dave MacKinnon on saxophone and Harry Zanteni on guitar. The group relocated to Melbourne, London and then Berlin with varied line-ups centred on Bonney. Late in 1986 Bronwyn Adams joined on violin and backing vocals; Bonney and Adams became domestic partners and later married. By 1991 the group had issued four studio albums, \"Room of Lights\" (1986), \"Shine\" (1988), \"The Bride Ship\" (1989) and \"Paradise Discotheque\" (1990).\n\nBy the early 1990s Bonney and Adams relocated to Los Angeles, by that time, according to Richie Unterberger of AllMusic, his sound was \"much rootsier, less gothic angst-infused\" compared with Crime & the City Solution. Bonney's solo albums were influenced by Americana with his debut album, \"Forever\", released in 1992. AllMusic's Ned Raggett felt Bonney \"creates a mystic, almost mythic atmosphere\" on the album, which \"conjures up the feeling of a West that never was, where hoe-downs and wild dances are replaced by contemplation, lyrically and musically.\"\n\nBonney's second album \"Everyman\" (1995) continued his experimentations with country music and was partly recorded in Austin. Unterberger found it was \"a subdued affair that sounds much more American than Australian, with its reflection of rural Americana. The careful, acoustic-oriented arrangements.\" A proposed third solo album was recorded in Detroit, Michigan, in the late 1990s, but remains unreleased. One track \"Eyes of Blue\" was placed on YouTube in February 2009. Bonney released three of the tracks on his Myspace account: \"Annabelle-Lee\", \"Eyes of Blue\" and \"Can't Believe Anymore\" in February 2010. Two other unreleased tracks, \"Lonely Stars\" and \"The Water's Edge\", were also posted on that account. The latter tracks were used on the soundtrack of the 1996 feature film, \"Underworld\". Several tracks from \"Eyes of Blue\" were included on the 2018 compilation \"Past, Present, Future\". Bonney largely retired from the music in the mid-90s, working in various jobs and eventually attending University. He currently manages aid programs for non-profits and lives in Thailand.\n\nBonney plays with various Detroit musicians, from bands such as the Lonely Stars, Outrageous Cherry, and The Volebeats. Crime & the City Solution re-formed in 2012 in Detroit and released a new album, \"American Twilight\" (March 2013).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101799", "title": "Sector 16 Stadium", "text": "Sector 16 Stadium\n\nThe Sector 16 Stadium is a cricket stadium in Chandigarh, Punjab, India.\n\nIt hosted its first ODI match in January 1985 and its only Test match in 1990.\n\nIt has hosted only four matches. The likes of Kapil Dev, Chetan Sharma and Yograj Singh started playing cricket at the Sector 16 Stadium. It fell out of favour to the nearby Punjab Cricket Association Stadium, (Mohali) cricket ground.\n\nAfter the stadium in Mohali was built, there was no first-class cricket at the Sector 16 Stadium for 10 years before Haryana ended the barren spell by playing the Ranji Trophy Plate League semi-final in 2004/05. But after 14 years, India and Australia played a match in October 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101805", "title": "Motera", "text": "Motera\n\nMotera is a neighbourhood in the northwestern part of the metropolis of Ahmedabad in Gujarat, India. It lies west of the Sabarmati River. It falls under the West Zone of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and under the Gandhinagar South constituency of Gujarat Legislative Assembly (Vidhan Sabha) and under the Gandhinagar constituency of the Lok Sabha. The chief attraction in Motera is the Sardar Patel Stadium. This stadium is the venue for the international cricket matches held in Ahmedabad. Recently stadium is demolished and a new stadium is under construction.\n\nIt was earlier a part of the Gandhinagar district. January 2008 onwards, it is in the limits of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in the Daskroi Taluka. It is included in the West Zone as per AMC, though it is the northern most and the closest to the twin city and the capital of the Gujarat state, Gandhinagar. Motera is on the opposite bank of Sabarmati River.\n\n India census, Motera had a population of 21,150. Males constitute 55% of the population and females 45%. Motera has an average literacy rate of 74%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 81%, and female literacy is 67%. In Motera, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nApart from main Ahmedabad Railway Station (ADI) located in Kalupur area, one can use Sabarmati railway station (SBI, Northern India trains) located in Sabarmati area adjacent to Motera, and Sabarmati railway station (SBT, Central India trains) located in Ranip area, a little far from Motera, but closer than the main station.\n\nThe state-owned bus facility, Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation, connecting various cities, towns and villages of Gujarat, runs buses to Gandhinagar from Ahmedabad and vice versa. These buses have official stops at \"Sabarmati Tollnaka\" on Visat — RTO Road and \"Vishwakarma Govt Engg College\" on Visat — Gandhinagar Highway.\n\nThe oldest city bus service by Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS), serves Motera through stops of \"Motera Gaam\", \"Sahjanand Park\", \"Indiranagar\", \"Gandhivaas \"on the Motera Stadium Road and \"Vishwakarma Mandir\", \"Visat\", etc. on the Visat — Gandhinagar Highway.\n\nThe brand new and fast city bus service is the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) by Ahmedabad Janmarg Limited (AJL). It hasn't yet penetrated inside Motera, but the stations of \"Visat Gandhinagar Junction\", \"Motera Cross Roads\", \"Sabarmati Police Station\", \"Sabarmati Municipal Swimming Pool\", \"Rathi Apartment\" (ALL are on the main Visat — RTO Road i.e., separating Sabarmati and Motera) and Vishwakarma Govt Engg College station (on Visat — Gandhinagar Highway) belong to Line 8 towards Maninagar with RTO Circle and Bhavsar Hostel (only few stations ahead) as the junction for transfer to other lines.\n\nPrivate and sharing-based 'shuttle' auto rickshaws are always available, but they are less comfortable.\n\nThe Metro-Link Express for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad is yet in planning stage and the construction of Phase-I will be over by late 2019. But it is notable that Motera will be a metro rail interchange hub. 'Motera Stadium' station will be the northern-end terminus on the North-South line of Phase-I which will consist of important stations like Sabarmati railway station, AEC, Vadaj, Income Tax, Paldi, Vasna, etc. This line will intersect the West-East line of Phase-I itself consisting of stations like Thaltej, Doordarshan Kendra, Gujarat University, Navrangpura Stadium, Relief Road, Kalupur Railway Station (Ahmedabad Central), Vastral, etc. The extension of Phase-I will see connecting 'Motera Stadium' to 'SVP Airport' via 'Koteshwar' or 'Hansol' over the Sabarmati River. Also, Phase-II will see extending MEGA services to the twin city of Ahmedabad and the capital of the Gujarat state i.e. Gandhinagar.\n"}
{"id": "2101806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101806", "title": "Aby Warburg", "text": "Aby Warburg\n\nAby Moritz Warburg (June 13, 1866 – October 26, 1929), was a German art historian and cultural theorist who founded a private Library for Cultural Studies, the Kulturwissenschaftliche Bibliothek Warburg, which was later moved to the Warburg Institute, London. At the heart of his research was the legacy of the Classical World, and the transmission of classical representation, in the most varied areas of western culture through to the Renaissance.\n\nWarburg described himself as: \"Amburghese di cuore, ebreo di sangue, d'anima Fiorentino\" (\"Hamburger at heart, Jew by blood, Florentine in spirit\").\n\nAby Warburg was born in Hamburg into the wealthy Warburg family of German Jewish bankers. His ancestors had come to Germany from Italy in the 17th century and settled in the town of Warburg in Westphalia, taking on the town's name as their family name. In the 18th century the Warburgs moved to Altona near Hamburg.\n\nTwo brothers Warburg founded the banking firm M. M. Warburg & Co in Hamburg, which today again has an office there. Aby Warburg was the first of seven children born to Moritz Warburg, director of the Hamburg bank, and his wife Charlotte, née Oppenheim. Aby Warburg showed an early interest in literature and history and the second eldest son, Max Warburg went into the Hamburg bank, younger brothers Paul and Felix also entered banking. Max Warburg established the Warburg family bank as a \"global player\".\n\nWarburg grew up in a conservative Jewish home environment. Early on he demonstrated an unstable, unpredictable and volatile temperament. Warburg as a child reacted against the religious rituals which were punctiliously observed in his family, and rejected all career plans envisaged for him. He did not want to be a rabbi, as his grandmother wished, nor a doctor or lawyer.\n\nAgainst the resistance Aby Warburg met with from his relatives, he forced through his plans to study art history. Aby famously made a deal with his brother Max to forfeit his right, as the eldest son, to take over the family firm, in return for an undertaking on Max's part to provide him with all the books he ever needed.\n\nIn 1886 Warburg began his study of art history, history and archaeology in Bonn and attended the lectures on the history of religion by Hermann Usener, those on cultural history by Karl Lamprecht and on art history by Carl Justi. He continued his studies in Munich and with Hubert Janitschek in Strasbourg, completing under him his dissertation on Botticelli's paintings \"The Birth of Venus\" and \"Primavera\".\n\nFrom 1888 to 1889 he studied the sources of these pictures at the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florence. He was now interested in applying the methods of natural science to the human sciences. The dissertation was completed in 1892 and printed in 1893. Warburg's study introduced into art history a new method, that of iconography or iconology, later developed by Erwin Panofsky. After receiving his doctorate Warburg studied for two semesters at the Medical Faculty of the University of Berlin, where he attended lectures on psychology. During this period he undertook a further trip to Florence.\n\nPaul Warburg married Nina Loeb, daughter of Solomon Loeb in New York late in 1895, and Aby Warburg used the occasion to travel. His long American journey took him to Colorado in winter, to New Mexico and then to Pasadena and Mount Lowe. He met the San Francisco boheme \"Les Jeunes\" around Gelett Burgess and then went back to the Pueblos in spring, to the Hopi and Zuni. Before going west, he had met veteran anthropologists James Mooney and Frank Hamilton Cushing at the Smithsonian Institution. Cushing had lived for years with the Zuni in New Mexico and fascinated Warburg wanted to see the Pueblos for himself.\n\nFirst stop in the west was Mesa Verde to see the Ancestral Pueblo cliff dwellings. Then he went from Pueblo town to Spanish town, to Cochiti and the Palace Hotel in Santa Fe, to Albuquerque and Acoma, Laguna, and San Ildefonso, where he photographed an Antelope dance. In Cochiti Warburg spoke to a priest and his son and received a cosmological drawing with a snake at its center. The Hopi of Arizona were already famous for their snake dance and although April was too early in the year to see this tourist attraction, the time he spent with the Hopi was a most important part of his long journey. Warburg was fascinated with their still secluded culture, their architecture, ritual, their masks and their ages-old abstract painting on pottery Nampeyo had recently revived. Mennonite missionary Heinrich R. Voth shared his knowledge of Hopi religion. Voth and Warburg saw a Hemis Kachina dance complete with obscene clowning. Thanks to Voth he could also observe the preparations for this end-of-winter ceremony. The most famous photo of the trip shows Warburg holding a half naked dancer resting. Another snapshot is of Warburg wearing a Kachina dancer' s mask. In New York the social life of the Schiffs and Loebs seemed empty and futile, and Warburg was very impressed with the dead seriousness of Hopi ritual. Writing up his field notes for a now famous lecture at the Kreuzlingen sanatorium Warburg stressed the kinship of religious thinking in Athens and Oraibi.\n\nIn 1897 Warburg married, against his father's will, the painter and sculptor Mary Hertz, daughter of Adolph Ferdinand Hertz, a Hamburg senator and member of the Synod of the Evangelical-Lutheran Church in Hamburg, and Maria Gossler, both members of the traditional Hanseatic elite of Hamburg. The couple had three children: Marietta (1899–1973), Max Adolph (1902–1974) and Frede C. Warburg (1904–2004). In 1898 Warburg and his wife took up residence in Florence. While Warburg was repeatedly plagued by depression, the couple enjoyed a lively social life. Among their Florentine circle could be counted the sculptor Adolf von Hildebrand, the writer Isolde Kurz, the English architect and antiquary Herbert Horne, the Dutch Germanist André Jolles and his wife Mathilde Wolff-Mönckeberg, and the Belgian art historian Jacques Mesnil. The most famous Renaissance specialist of the time, the American Bernard Berenson, was likewise in Florence at this period. Warburg, for his part, renounced all sentimental aestheticism, and in his writings criticised a vulgarised idealisation of an individualism that had been imputed to the Renaissance in the work of Jacob Burckhardt.\n\nDuring his years in Florence Warburg investigated the living conditions and business transactions of Renaissance artists and their patrons as well as, more specifically, the economic situation in the Florence of the early Renaissance and the problems of the transition from the Middle Ages to the early Renaissance. A further product of his Florentine period was his series of lectures on Leonardo da Vinci, held in 1899 at the Kunsthalle in Hamburg. In his lectures he discussed Leonardo's study of medieval bestiaries as well as his engagement with the classical theory of proportion of Vitruvius. He also occupied himself with Botticelli's engagement with the Ancients evident in the representation of the clothing of figures. Feminine clothing takes on a symbolic meaning in Warburg's famous essay, inspired by discussions with Jolles, on the nymphs and the figure of the Virgin in Domenico Ghirlandaio’s fresco in Santa Maria Novella in Florence. The contrast evident in the painting between the constricting dress of the matrons and the lightly dressed, quick-footed figure on the far right serves as an illustration of the virulent discussion around 1900 concerning the liberation of female clothing from the standards of propriety imposed by a reactionary bourgeoisie.\n\nIn 1902 the family returned to Hamburg, and Warburg presented the findings of his Florentine research in a series of lectures, but at first did not take on a professorship or any other academic position. He rejected a call to a professorship at the University of Halle in 1912. He became a member of the board of the Völkerkundemuseum, with his brother Max sponsored the foundation of the \"Hamburger wissenschatflichen Stiftung\" (1907) and the foundation of a university in Hamburg, which succeeded in 1919, and at which he took up a professorship. At this period signs of a mental illness were present which affected his activities as a researcher and teacher.\n\nHe suffered from manic depression and symptoms of schizophrenia, and was hospitalized in Ludwig Binswanger's neurological clinic in Kreuzlingen, Switzerland in 1921. There he was visited by Emil Kraepelin who did not confirm the diagnosis of schizophrenia and suggested Warburg was in a mixed manic-depressive state, a diagnosis with a more positive prognosis. Indeed, his mental conditions improved also thanks to the support of the philosopher Ernst Cassirer, who visited him in the clinic: “Warburg was highly relieved that Cassirer fully understood his plans to restart his research, that Cassirer highlighted the importance of Warburg’s ongoing scientific efforts, and felt he could contribute substantively to the art history discourse” After his release from Binswanger's clinic in 1924, Warburg held occasional lectures and seminars between 1925 and 1929, which took place in a private circle or in his library.\n\nWarburg died in Hamburg of a heart attack on 26 October 1929.\n\nIn December 1927, Warburg started to compose a work in the form of a picture atlas named \"Mnemosyne\". It consisted of 40 wooden panels covered with black cloth, on which were pinned nearly 1,000 pictures from books, magazines, newspaper and other daily life sources. These pictures were arranged according to different themes:\n\n\nThere were no captions and only a few texts in the atlas. \"Warburg certainly hoped that the beholder would respond with the same intensity to the images of passion or of suffering, of mental confusion or of serenity, as he had done in his work.\" Mnemosyne Atlas was left unfinished when Warburg died in 1929.\n\n\n\nBibliographies\n\nBiographies\n\nMonographs\n\nEssays\n\n"}
{"id": "2101809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101809", "title": "Gamma Eridani", "text": "Gamma Eridani\n\nGamma Eridani (γ Eridani, abbreviated Gamma Eri, γ Eri), formally named Zaurak , is a variable star in the constellation of Eridanus. It is visible to the naked eye with an apparent visual magnitude that varies around 2.9, and lies at a distance of about 203 light years from the Sun, as determined by the Hipparcos astrometry satellite. This is an evolved red giant star that is currently on the asymptotic giant branch of the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram.\n\n\"Gamma Eridani\" is the star's Bayer designation. It has the traditional name \"Zaurak\", alternatively spelled Zaurac, which is Arabic for 'boat'. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Zaurak\" for this star.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Celestial Meadows\", refers to an asterism consisting of γ Eridani, δ Eridani, π Eridani, ε Eridani, ζ Eridani, η Eridani, π Ceti, τ Eridani, τ Eridani, τ Eridani, τ Eridani, τ Eridani, τ Eridani, τ Eridani, τ Eridani and τ Eridani. Consequently, the Chinese name for γ Eridani itself is (, .)\n\nUSS Zaurak (AK-117) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star.\n"}
{"id": "2101818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101818", "title": "Clarence Berry", "text": "Clarence Berry\n\nClarence Jesse Berry (1867–1930), known as C.J., was a businessman and successful gold miner in the Klondike Gold Rush. He and his wife, Ethel Bush Berry, made a further fortune in Ester, Alaska, in 1902, and founded several oil companies over the years, which eventually became Berry Petroleum Company.\n\nIn Ester, Berry pioneered the use of the cold water point and the steam point, used to thaw frozen soil and permafrost in a safer manner for drift mining than boring shafts using hot rocks or underground fires, which rendered the excavations and tunnels far more susceptible to collapse. The Berrys operated No. 8 Below Discovery Claim.\n\nBerry Park in Selma, California, is named for Berry, who was a struggling fruit farmer in that San Joaquin Valley town before he traveled to the Klondike. Clarence went to Alaska in 1894 in search of gold after his fruit farming venture failed in California. During his first year in Alaska, CJ learned from local natives on how to survive in the hostile environment. It was a very difficult year for CJ during the winter of 1894/95, as he got trapped deep into the Forty Mile Creek area and had only beans to eat for two months. The multitude of hardships working a mining operation solo were extensive. After a long day of hard labor, his cabin would have to be heated with chopped wood and water melted for drinking and cooking.\n\nCJ returned to Selma in 1895 and married his childhood sweetheart Ethel Bush in 1896. The newlyweds and CJ's brother Fred returned to Alaska for the honeymoon. Ethel Berry was one of the earliest white women to cross the Chilkoot Pass, although the distinction of the first female crossing is thought to belong to Dutch Kate, in 1888. The honeymooners settled in at the Forty Mile Creek outpost on the Yukon River, and CJ got a job as the local bartender.\n\nIn the summer of 1896, George Carmack walked into the Forty Mile Creek Saloon and paid for his drink with gold nuggets. CJ felt Carmack's story was credible and left immediately with his brother Fred to stake claims. CJ and Fred, staying very close to shore in their small boat, pushed themselves upriver with \"poles\" slowly but surely against the mighty Yukon River current. It was hard work, but the Berry brothers made the journey upstream to the claims within a few days.\n\nThey both staked claims on Rabbit Creek, which quickly became known as Bonanza Creek. They each explored their claims, digging to approximately deep through the permafrost with some luck. These claims were sold, as they found no significant amount of gold. (A hundred years later, these stakes are still being mined, with the payzone being deep.)\n\nCJ traded half of his claim on Bonanza Creek for a half claim on Little Rabbit Creek, which later became known as El Dorado Creek. They built a small cabin. Ethyl took care of heating the cabin and cleaning and cooking for the men. CJ and Fred gathered firewood and built large fires to melt the permafrost, allowing them to dig deeper each day. Fred and Clarence would chop a tree down uphill and \"ride\" it into camp. Clarence dug his own pit on the upper left side and Fred had a hole on the upper right of their half claim. (A claim was long, measured with a rope and later resurveyed.) Shoring the holes was not necessary, as the frozen ground was structurally sound. The gold became more abundant the deeper they went. When they got down, they were astounded. They had reached a payzone several feet thick of black sand containing gold, with every shovel full being worth hundreds of dollars (gold at $16.00 an ounce) Champion pans paid more than $500.00 per pan.\n\nCJ and Fred were savvy businessmen; they managed to acquire two adjacent claims on the El Dorado before word got out about the riches beneath. CJ left a bucket of gold nuggets and a bottle of whiskey outside his cabin with a note saying \"help yourself\". Immediately, CJ sent for his former fruit farm workers. About a dozen of his workers arrived from Selma in 1897. They were trusted workers and well compensated at an ounce of gold daily. Clarence called his workers \"Selmanites\".\n\nOn July 17, 1897, CJ and Ethyl Berry and other successful miners arrived in Seattle aboard the SS \"Portland\", the first ship to put into the port with tangible proof of the riches of the Klondike. One newspaperman from the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" (with more interest in grabbing his readers' attention than fact finding) reported the \"Portland\" carried a \"ton of gold\"; as it turned out, it was \"two\" tons. CJ's story and picture was on the front page of the Seattle and San Francisco newspapers. A worldwide gold rush ensued. In later years, CJ and his three brothers (Fred, Henry and Frank) worked as a team, alternating six month shifts at the northern mining camps.\n\nCJ went on to acquiring prolific mining claims in Ester, Alaska, near Fairbanks, and a mine in the Circle District called \"Berry Camp\".\n\nIn 1909, CJ purchased several sections of land in Maricopa near Taft, California, which became known as Berry Holding Company. In 1926, CJ's oil producing properties in Mexico were expropriated and Algur H. Meadows, Henry W. Peters and Ralph G. Trippett took over. Berry Petroleum was formed, and eventually went public on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BRY in 1985. Berry produced its 100 millionth barrel of oil in 1996.\nClarence's brother Henry later owned two professional baseball teams in the Pacific Coast League, including the San Francisco Seals, for many years.\n\nIn 1996, CJ Berry was inducted into the Mining Hall of Fame located in Leadville, Colorado.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101819", "title": "Warriors of the Deep", "text": "Warriors of the Deep\n\nWarriors of the Deep is the first serial of the 21st season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was broadcast in four twice-weekly parts on BBC1 from 5 to 13 January 1984.\n\nIn the serial, two human power blocs, along with members of the Silurians and Sea Devils, the original rulers of the Earth, battle for control over the nuclear missiles on an undersea military colony on Earth in 2084.\n\nIn 2084, Earth is divided into two opposing super power blocs. One of the blocs has created a secret underwater base, Sea Base 4, which is strategically positioned and has nuclear weapons aimed at the opposing bloc. As a security measure, the Seabase nuclear weapons cannot be activated unless a trained human operator can \"sync\" their mind with the computer and authorise their deployment.\n\nThe base's crew is led by Commander Vorshak and his senior officers, Nilson, Bulic, Security Chief Preston, and Lt. Michaels, the base's sync operator. Lt. Michaels is mysteriously killed before the start of the story, and as a result, his inexperienced apprentice, Ensign Maddox, is forced to assume Michaels' official responsibilities. The story begins on the bridge of Sea Base 4. Vorshak and Bulic noticed something strange on their long range sensors, but dismiss it as being a trivial glitch. In reality, the glitch is a Silurian battlecruiser led by Icthar, the sole survivor of the Silurian Triad and his subordinates, Tarpok and Scibus, who are monitoring Sea Base 4.\n\nInside the TARDIS, Turlough has changed his mind about going home, and the Fifth Doctor plans to show Tegan something of Earth's future. As the TARDIS materialises in space, it is attacked by Sentinel Six, a robot weapons system. In a blink of an eye, the Doctor manages to save the TARDIS by materialising on to Sea Base 4.\n\nSea Base 4 undergoes a practice missile run, but Maddox, the temporary sync operator, is uncertain of his skill at the job. When Maddox faints after the practice run, Vorshak begins to realise that the function of the base will continue to be compromised until either Maddox lives up to his duties or a replacement is assigned. Nilson and the Base's chief medical officer, Doctor Solow, who are enemy agents for the opposing bloc, plan to program Maddox to destroy the computer circuitry. To do this, they ask Vorshak to release Maddox's duplicate program disk under the pretext of helping the sync operator cope with his job. Vorshak does so, and Maddox is programmed in the Base's psycho-surgery unit.\n\nThe Doctor's presence on the Sea Base is detected when Turlough summons a lift. The Doctor programs the base's reactor to overload in an attempt to avoid capture. This fails, however, and the time travellers are all taken prisoner. Preston also finds the TARDIS.\n\nThe Silurians revive the Sea Devil warriors of Elite Group One and their brilliant commander, Sauvix. The Silurians and Sea Devils launch an attack on the base and the Doctor, recognising their ship on the monitor screen, tries to warn Vorshak not to fire on them. Vorshak ignores him, and, as a result, the Base's defences are neutralised by the Silurians' deflection beam. The Silurians then dispatch the Myrka, a large marine monster, who attacks Airlock 1, and the Sea Devils, who assault Airlock 5 of the sea base.\n\nDuring the attacks, Solow and Nilson activate Maddox, who tampers with the equipment. When Ensign Karina becomes suspicious, Nilson makes Maddox kill her.\n\nThe Myrka forces its way into the base, temporarily trapping the Doctor and Tegan until Turlough gets the inner airlock door opened to save them. The creature starts making its way towards the bridge, killing people by electrocution. Doctor Solow becomes one of the Myrka's victims. The Doctor eventually destroys the Myrka by using an ultra-violet light generator.\n\nThe Silurians prime a device called the manipulator and prepare to arrive on the base. The Sea Devils break through Airlock 5 and start the push for the bridge, killing all that stand in their way. Solow's accomplice, Nilson, is revealed as a traitor and he attempts to escape by taking Tegan hostage. The Doctor blinds him with the ultra-violet device, and a group of Sea Devils appear and kill him. The Doctor and Tegan are taken as prisoners to the bridge, which is now under the control of the Silurians.\n\nThe Doctor recognises Icthar and confronts him about the massacre of the crew of Sea Base 4. Icthar reveals his group intends to get mankind to destroy itself by triggering a global war. They undo the damage caused by Maddox's sabotage and connect the manipulator to the systems.\n\nThe Doctor escapes from the bridge and tries to find something to use against the reptiles. He discovers some cylinders of hexachromite gas, which is lethal to all reptile life. A Sea Devil discovers the Doctor's presence and attempts to shoot him. He misses the Doctor and hits one of the gas containers which sprays all over the warrior. As a result, the warrior begins to dissolve.\n\nPreston urges the Doctor to use the gas on all of the Silurians and Sea Devils. The Doctor adamantly refuses and accuses Preston of advocating genocide. The Doctor changes his mind when Turlough reminds him of what the Silurians intend to do if they launch the missiles. When he is unable to find anything else less lethal, he begins to connect the gas containers to a central air pump. The Doctor is discovered by Sauvix before he can turn the pump on. Preston grabs a gun, but is killed by Sauvix before he is sprayed with gas and killed by Bulic. As the Silurians prepare to fire the missiles, the Doctor feeds the gas into the ventilation system. Bulic stays in the chemical store to ensure that the gas keeps flowing, while the Doctor and his companions leave for the bridge to try to stop the Silurians.\n\nThe warriors begin to collapse from the gas and the Doctor tells Tegan and Turlough to give the Silurians oxygen to keep them alive. The Doctor, who is aided by Vorshak, tries to stop the missiles by linking himself into the equipment as the sync operator. The Doctor succeeds, but Vorshak is killed by Icthar. Then Icthar himself is killed by Turlough and it is all over. The Doctor, his companions and Bulic are the only survivors. The Doctor is left in despair and he simply says, \"There should have been another way.\"\n\nEarly in the production of the story, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher announced a Parliamentary election. This created a sudden demand for BBC studio space, and as a result, the production schedule for the story unexpectedly lost two weeks. Production was completed, but many signs of hurried production are evident. Many scenes had little or no rehearsal, and many scenes received only one take. Perhaps the biggest problem came with the Myrka costume. It was completed only an hour or so before it was scheduled to be used, so that the two puppeteers inside could not be fitted and had no time to rehearse in it. The costume smelled strongly of paint and adhesive, which one puppeteer said made him feel like he was sniffing glue. The paint on the costume had not dried by the time filming started, and tended to rub off on the sets and other costumes, as can be spotted in several scenes.\n\nMany in the cast and production crew have expressed a sense of disappointment with the quality of the finished show; the DVD commentary by visual effects designer Mat Irvine, script editor Eric Saward, Peter Davison and Janet Fielding contained many criticisms of Pennant Roberts' direction of the story and John Nathan-Turner's production of the programme, as well as comments on the special effects, sets and other production problems (the Myrka specifically caused a great deal of amusement). The scenes with the Myrka in Episode Three were also later used by former BBC One controller Michael Grade during his appearance on \"Room 101\" as an example of why he found \"Doctor Who\" pathetic and took it off the air. Scriptwriter Johnny Byrne was unhappy with numerous alterations and edits that Eric Saward made to his script, notably the deaths of the human characters of Preston and Commander Vorshak, who were originally intended to survive. However, in an interview for the DVD's extra features, Byrne said that he thought that the basic story was quite solid and effective.\n\nThis story was Byrne's final televised \"Doctor Who\" story. Byrne later submitted a pitch entitled \"The Guardians Of Prophecy\", which was a sequel to \"The Keeper of Traken\" (1981), featuring the Sixth Doctor battling an evil immortal with an army of Melkurs who were threatening the remainder of the Traken Union. However, Byrne did not develop this submission any further. \"The Guardians of Prophecy\" was later 'recreated' as part of the Big Finish series of \"Lost Stories\". \"Warriors of the Deep\" was shot on 1-inch Type C videotape, the first \"Doctor Who\" story to do so. Type C videotape replaced 2-inch Quadruplex videotape on \"Doctor Who\" and many other shows.\n\nIt was during production of this story that Peter Davison and Janet Fielding announced their departures from the series. Producer John Nathan-Turner had offered Davison a fourth season in his role but, reportedly advised by Patrick Troughton, Davison chose to limit his time in the role to three seasons to avoid typecasting (the unwritten \"Troughton Rule\").\n\nStuntman Gareth Milne, who had played George Cranleigh in \"Black Orchid\", doubled for Peter Davison when the Doctor fell in the tank at the climax of episode one. Ingrid Pitt, who played Dr. Solow, had previously played Queen Galleia in \"The Time Monster\" (1972) alongside Jon Pertwee.\n\nThis story, originally written by Johnny Byrne, was novelised by former \"Doctor Who\" script editor Terrance Dicks and published by Target Books in 1984. Dicks gives a long recap of the Doctor's past with the Silurians and confirms Icthar is indeed the survivor of their first encounter. Dicks also specifies that the two opposing human superpowers are the East and West blocs, something that is left ambiguous in the televised story. The book was re-released in 1992 with new cover art by Alister Pearson.\n\nIn 1995 the novel was also issued by BBC Audio as an audio book, read by Peter Davison.\n\n\"Warriors of the Deep\" was released on VHS in September 1995. The story's original soundtrack was released on CD along with \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" (1970) and \"The Sea Devils\" (1972) as part of the 'Monsters on Earth' tin set in October 2006 and linking narration was provided by Janet Fielding. The CD was re-issued individually in January 2008. The serial was released on DVD as part of a boxed set called Beneath the Surface with \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" and \"The Sea Devils\" on 14 January 2008. This serial was also released as part of the Doctor Who DVD Files in Issue 83 on 7 March 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101820", "title": "Glume", "text": "Glume\n\nIn botany, a glume is a bract (leaf-like structure) below a spikelet in the inflorescence (flower cluster) of grasses (Poaceae) or the flowers of sedges (Cyperaceae). There are two other types of bracts in the spikelets of grasses: the lemma and palea.\n\nIn grasses, two bracts known as \"glumes\" form the lowermost organs of a spikelet (there are usually 2 but 1 is sometimes reduced; or rarely, both are absent). Glumes may be similar in form to the lemmas, the bracts at the base of each floret. \n\nIn sedges, by contrast, a glume is a scale at the base of each flower in a spikelet.\n"}
{"id": "2101827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101827", "title": "90's My Life", "text": "90's My Life\n\n90's My Life is an EP released by The Pillows on October 25, 1990. It was re-released on March 8, 2004 as \"90's My Life Returns\" with five additional tracks. The original EP, like its predecessor \"Pantomime\", has since gone out of print.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101829", "title": "Shirley McClellan", "text": "Shirley McClellan\n\nShirley McClellan was born in Hanna, Alberta, Canada, on January 22, 1942.\n\nMcClellan was first elected to the Alberta Legislature in a by-election held on November 23, 1987.\n\nIn 1989, she was re-elected to a second term, and appointed Associate Minister of Agriculture. On February 24, 1992, she was appointed Minister Responsible for Rural Development (gaining the style “the Honourable” for the duration of her membership in the Executive Council of Alberta). On December 15, 1992, McClellan was appointed Minister of Health for the province.\n\nShirley McClellan was re-elected to a third term on June 15, 1993. On June 30, 1993, she was re-appointed Minister of Health as well as Minister Responsible for the Wild Rose Foundation. On December 15, 1993, she was appointed Minister Responsible for the Alberta Alcohol and Drug Abuse Commission. On October 21, 1994, she was appointed Minister Responsible for the Seniors Advisory Council for Alberta. On May 31, 1996, McClellan was appointed Minister of Community Development.\n\nOn March 11, 1997, McClellan was re-elected to a fourth term and re-appointed Minister of Community Development on March 26, 1997. On May 26, 1999, McClellan was appointed Minister of International and Intergovernmental Relations. She was also appointed as a member of Agenda and Priorities and the Standing Policy Committee on Finance and Intergovernmental Relations.\n\nOn March 12, 2001, McClellan was elected for a fifth term and on March 19, 2001, was appointed Deputy Premier and Minister of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. She was also the Vice-Chair of the Agenda and Priorities Committee and a member of the Standing Policy Committee on Agriculture and Municipal Affairs.\n\nOn November 22, 2004, McClellan was elected to her sixth, and final, term as Member of the Legislative Assembly representing the constituency of Drumheller-Stettler. In addition to Deputy Premier and Minister of Finance, she served the Assembly as Chair of the Treasury Board and Vice-Chair of Agenda and Priorities Committee.\n\nMcClellan was actively involved in bringing further education to rural areas, serving as a member of the board of directors for the Alberta Association of Continuing Education (AACE) and the Canadian Association for Continuing Education (CACE). She was co-ordinator of the Big Country Further Education Council for 12 years, a representative of the Ministers Advisory Committee on Further Education for five years, and sat on the Ministers Advisory Committee on College Affairs for two years.\n\nShe resigned her seat in the legislature on January 15, 2007, the same day that former premier Ralph Klein resigned his.\n\nOn February 5, 2011, McClellan was selected to be the 12th Chancellor of the University of Lethbridge by the Senate of that institution. Her term commenced March 15, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2101846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101846", "title": "Epsilon Tauri", "text": "Epsilon Tauri\n\nEpsilon Tauri (ε Tauri, abbreviated Epsilon Tau, ε Tau), formally named Ain , is an orange giant star located approximately 45 parsecs (147 light-years) from the Sun in the constellation of Taurus. An extrasolar planet (designated Epsilon Tauri b, later named Amateru) is believed to be orbiting the star.\n\nIt is a member of the Hyades open cluster. As such its age is well constrained at 625 million years. It is claimed to be the heaviest among planet-harboring stars with reliable initial masses although the star HD 13189 is potentially more massive. Given its large mass, this star, though presently of spectral type K0 III, was formerly of spectral type A that has now evolved off the main sequence into the giant phase. It is regarded as a red clump giant; that is, a core-helium burning star.\n\nSince Epsilon Tauri lies near the plane of the ecliptic, it is sometimes occulted by the Moon and (very rarely) by planets.\n\nIt has an 11th magnitude companion 182 arcseconds from the primary.\n\n\"ε Tauri\" (Latinised to \"Epsilon Tauri\") is the star's Bayer designation; it also bears the Flamsteed designation of 74 Tauri. On discovery, the planet was designated Epsilon Tauri b (or Ain b).\n\nThe star bore the traditional name \"Ain\" (Arabic \"عين\" for \"eye\") and was given the name \"Oculus Boreus\" (Latin for \"Northern eye\") by John Flamsteed. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Ain\" for this star.\n\nIn July 2014, the International Astronomical Union launched a process for giving proper names to certain exoplanets. The process involved public nomination and voting for the new names. In December 2015, the IAU announced the winning name was \"Amateru\" for this planet.\n\nThe winning name was based on that submitted by the Kamagari Astronomical Observatory of Kure, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan: namely 'Amaterasu', the Shinto goddess of the Sun, born from the left eye of the god Izanagi. The IAU substituted 'Amateru' – which is a common Japanese appellation for shrines when they enshrine Amaterasu – because 'Amaterasu' is already used for an asteroid ().\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Net\", refers to an asterism consisting ε Tauri, δ Tauri, δ Tauri, γ Tauri, Aldebaran, θ Tauri, 71 Tauri and λ Tauri. Consequently, the Chinese name for ε Tauri itself is (), \"the First Star of Net\".\n\nIn 2007, a massive extrasolar planet was reported orbiting the star with a period of 1.6 years in a somewhat eccentric orbit. Its discoverers claimed it was the first planet ever discovered in an open cluster.\n\nEpsilon Tauri is a major feature of the book Starsong Chronicles:Exodus, by American author JJ Clayborn. In the book, the star is referenced by the name Ain, but the characters rename the star Coronis.\n\nIn Fred Saberhagen's Berserker series in the short story \"Patron of the Arts\" (first appeared in Worlds of If, Aug 1965), a human artist and a Berserker machine discuss the value of art and of this specific painting on a starship in the future after a space battle near the Sol system. In this short story, the Earth-Descended peoples place all of humanity's important artworks on an evacuation starship to preserve the works by sending them to Tau Epsilon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101860", "title": "Badd Company", "text": "Badd Company\n\nBadd Company was a professional wrestling tag team in the American Wrestling Association in the late 1980s, which later went by the name the Orient Express. They used the song \"Bad Company\", by the band of the same name as their theme song.\n\nBoth Pat Tanaka and Paul Diamond had competed in the Championship Wrestling Association during 1986, Tanaka had teamed with Jeff Jarrett to win the AWA Southern Tag Team Championship while Paul Diamond had held the CWA/AWA International Tag Team Championship also with Jeff Jarrett. In late 1986 the two tag-team specialists Tanaka and Diamond were teamed up to form “Badd Company\", where they held the federation's tag-team titles four times., a move that paid off pretty soon as the two won the CWA/AWA International Tag Team Championship, beating Tarzan Goto and Akio Sato on December 15, 1986. The first reign was short lived as The Sheepherders (Luke Williams and Butch Miller) defeated the young duo on January 10, 1987. Badd Company quickly regained the titles only to lose them to Tarzan Goto and Akio Sato on February 5, 1987. The Third run with the tag-team titles came on May 9, 1987 when the team beat Mark Starr in a handicap match, but lost them back to Mark Starr and his new tag team partner Billy Joe Travis. Badd Company had one last run with the International tag team titles as they won the vacant titles on May 25, 1987 and held them until July 6, 1987 where they lost the titles to Bill Dundee and Rocky Johnson (who were the last International tag team champions).\n\nWhile in Memphis Badd Company also won the CWA’s main tag team titles, the AWA Southern Tag Team Championship defeating Jeff Jarrett and Billy Joe Travis for the gold on August 8, 1987. Tanaka and Diamond soon lost them as the Nasty Boys took the gold from them just over a month later.\n\nAfter working as a team for almost a year Badd Company moved on from the CWA to the American Wrestling Association. In the AWA they were given identical ring gear, and were accompanied by flamboyant manager Diamond Dallas Page, who always had a number of valets, known as the Diamond Dolls, with him.\n\nThe team's first feud was against The Midnight Rockers, whom they defeated for the AWA World Tag Team Championship on March 19, 1988. They held the titles for a year, and feuded heavily with Chavo and Mando Guerrero before losing their titles on March 25, 1989 to “the Olympians\" (Brad Rheingans and Ken Patera). Shortly after losing their titles they split from Page, and had a short feud against each other before wrestling in singles competition until early 1990.\n\nPat Tanaka, who is Hawaiian of Japanese descent, later signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), where he formed another tag team called The Orient Express with Akio Sato, managed by Mr. Fuji and billed from Japan. Paul Diamond was soon signed with the WWF as well, as a singles competitor.\n\nWhen Sato decided leave the American wrestling scene, Diamond donned a mask and wrestled as \"Kato\" with Tanaka throughout 1991 and early 1992. During this time the team had a very well received match with their old enemies the Rockers at the 1991 Royal Rumble and another match against the New Foundation at the 1992 Royal Rumble, which were the only two PPV appearances for the New Orient Express.\n\nSato briefly rejoined the team in 1991 to team with Tanaka and “Kato\" for a series of 6-man tag-team matches on various WWF house show but Sato left the WWF after only a handful of matches together. Tanaka would leave the WWF in February 1992. Diamond went on to wrestle as a singles competitor in the WWF first as Kato then later on he was chosen to take over the Max Moon costume after Konnan left the WWF, neither gimmick meeting with very much success.\n\nAfter Paul Diamond also left the WWF the two reunited as “Badd Company\" to work for Eastern Championship Wrestling (the forerunner to Extreme Championship Wrestling) in 1993. The team made their debut at \"NWA Bloodfest: Part 1\" on October 1, 1993 where they beat The Bad Breed (Ian and Axl Rotten). Later in the night Tanaka and Diamond got a shot at the ECW Tag Team Champions Tony Stetson and Johnny Hotbody, Badd Company lost.\n\nThe next night at \"NWA Bloodfest: Part 2\" Badd Company came up against one of ECW’s new creations Public Enemy (Rocco Rock and Johnny Grunge) in one of their very early matches. Later in the show Badd Company and the Public Enemy would clash again, this time in a Three way, Steel cage match that also included “Bad Breed\", this time Public Enemy were victorious. At ECW’s next big show \"Terror at Tabor\" on November 12, 1993 Badd Company beat the makeshift team of Don E. Allen and Mr. Hughes. After the match Badd Company called out Public Enemy resulting in an impromptu match between Paul Diamond and Rocco Rock which Diamond won. Public Enemy quickly got a very brutal revenge on Badd Company as they defeated the duo in a “South Philly hood\" match the very next day at November to Remember. At \"Holiday Hell 1993\" on December 26, 1993 Pat Tanaka defeated Rocco Rock in a \"Body Count\" match.\n\nAs 1993 turned to 1994 Badd Company set their sights on ECW Tag Team Champions Kevin Sullivan and The Tasmaniac, defeating them twice in non-title matches. At \"The Night the Line was Crossed\" on February 5, 1994 Tanaka and his one night only partner The Sheik defeated Sullivan and Tasmaniac, unfortunately the team had been stripped of the titles the night before. When Tanaka was rejoined by Diamond the team lost to the (once again) tag-Team champions when the gold was finally on the line. On March 27, 1994 Badd Company wrestled its last match for ECW, a house show victory over Rockin' Rebel and Pittbull #1.\n\nBy the time Badd Company wrestled its last match for ECW, Tanaka and Diamond had already signed with World Championship Wrestling. Tanaka then made his on-screen debut as \"Tanaka-San\". Paul Diamond showed up with the Kato mask on using the name \"Haito\" only days after their last ECW match. The duo reprised their \"Orient Express\" gimmick but could not use the name since the WWF owned the trademark to it. The two men wrestled a couple of matches together but they never achieved any notoriety in WCW. By the end of 1994, the team split.\n\nThey reunited as the Orient Express on March 25, 2006 for Blue Water Championship Wrestling in Port Huron, Michigan as they lost to Kevin Baker and Michael Barnes. They wreslted on the independent circuit for the next couple of years. Their last match together was on April 18, 2008 defeating Joshua Masters and Kennedy Kendrick for All Star Wrestling Florida in Port Richey, Florida. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101865", "title": "Austin Champ", "text": "Austin Champ\n\nThe Austin Champ is the civilian version of a British Army vehicle made by the Austin Motor Company. The army version was officially known as \"Truck, 1/4 ton, CT, 4×4, Cargo & FFW, Austin Mk.1\" however the civilian name \"Champ\" was universally, if unofficially, applied to it.\n\nA British Army specification for a light truck was issued in the late 1940s, inspired by the Jeep but able to perform in all theatres of operation of the British Army. It was considered important that a British-made vehicle was produced in order to reduce the reliance on US vehicles and the foreign expenditure that entailed.\n\nA project to design a \"Car 4×4 5 cwt FV1800-Series\" was launched in 1947, and the Nuffield Organisation built three prototype designs known as the \"Nuffield Gutty\". Testing revealed serious shortcomings and the design was improved by a team at the government Fighting Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (FVRDE) under the leadership of Charles William \"Rex\" Sewell. The suspension system was designed by Alec Issigonis, who went on to design the Morris Minor and the Mini.\n\nAbout 30 prototypes of the improved vehicle were built by Wolseley Motors Limited under the name \"Wolseley Mudlark\", and after further refinement the design was formalised as FV1801(a). The Austin Motor Company was awarded the contract to produce 15,000 vehicles and a former aircraft factory at Cofton Hackett, on the edge of Austin's Longbridge complex in Birmingham, was fitted out for the work. The first production vehicle was completed on 1 September 1951. The formal title: \"Truck, 1/4 Ton, 4×4, CT, Austin Mk.1\" was assigned (CT being a contraction of CombaT, both a designation of function and also the title of a planned family of vehicles designed by FVRDE). The Rolls-Royce-designed B40 four-cylinder engine of 2838 cc was fitted, the smallest of the standardised B-Range engines. This military version was designated model WN1 by Austin. Approximately half of the contract were to be basic vehicles known as Cargo trucks and the remainder were to be fitted with high-output generators and additional batteries in order to power radio equipment. These were known as \"Fitted For Wireless\" (FFW) vehicles. Rolls-Royce Ltd built engines for the early production vehicles, but later ones were fitted with a virtually identical engine built under licence by Austin itself.\nIn order to obtain some commercial benefit from the contract, Austin was given permission to use the design for a simplified civilian version to be sold as the Austin Champ. This version, designated model WN3, was mostly fitted with a modified Austin A90 Atlantic 4 cyl engine as a cheaper option than the more complex B40 but the vehicle attracted few customers and only about 500 were built, the great majority of these being exported.\n\nIn military service, the vehicles were given the official designation FV1801A and were generally referred to as Trucks, 1/4 ton, Austin. A few were fitted with additional equipment for use as field ambulances, telephone line-laying vehicles or equipped with armour and a .303in Vickers medium machine gun or .303 Bren light machine gun utilising the built-in pintle mount forward of the windscreen, but the majority served as cargo/personnel carriers or were fitted with radios. A version armed with a single, dashboard-mounted Browning .30 cal machine-gun was in limited use as late as 1967.\n\nAs the Champ entered service it became apparent that although it had an outstanding cross-country performance, it was too expensive (£1200 at 1951 prices), too complex and had limited use outside of the narrow field combat role for which it had been designed. Consequently, the contract with Austin was amended and finally prematurely terminated some 4,000 vehicles short of the 15,000 originally contracted.\n\nThe Land Rover, which had actually entered army service before the Champ (as early as 1949), was half the price, simpler to maintain and could do 80% of the tasks the Champ could do. Ultimately it replaced the Champ in all roles. The Champ served with the British Army in the UK, Africa, Germany, Cyprus, Libya and the Suez Campaign, and early vehicles were sent for troop trials at the end of the Korean War.\n\nThe Champ cost far more than the Land Rover, and was never as popular with troops, probably because the Land Rover with its enclosed cab offered better protection from the elements and greater flexibility in use. With the reduction in size of the post-war army, many Champs were consigned to bulk vehicle storage and those employed in the Regular Army had relatively short careers before being redeployed to the Territorial Army. In the mid-1960s a decision was taken to withdraw the type from service completely, with all military Champs being sold off by 1968 although there is a record of one being sold by government auction as late as 1973. These mass sales made them cheap to buy (£150 being typical in 1966) and with fuel at low 1960s prices, many were bought as \"fun\" vehicles and used with little regard to the routine maintenance that the complex design required. Consequently, the Champ was regarded with contempt by the emerging military vehicle preservation fraternity and it took some 30 years for the type to earn historic value in its eyes.\n\nThe only other forces to use the Champ were the Royal Marines who had 30 and the Australian Army who bought 400 new and about the same number of ex-British Army ones. One or two examples were also used by a mercenary unit in the Congo in the mid 1960s.\n\nThe engine was a four-cylinder in-line petrol unit of 2838 cc capacity ( pistons × stroke) designed by Rolls Royce and was the smallest of the standardised B-Range military engines. These engines had their origin in a 1936 design produced at Derby, with the concept and dimensions first developed for the Rolls-Royce 20 HP of 1922, but with the demands of the war, development was not proceeded with until the late 1940s. The engine was designed with absolute reliability as a prime criterion with fuel economy a secondary consideration, and using British Standard Fine (BSF) thread standards. A feature of this engine was the use of a cast aluminium cylinder head with screwed-in hardened steel valve seats.\n\nWith the adoption in 1949 of Unified thread standards, the engine was re-designed and simplified to ease manufacture; a cast-iron cylinder head was used in this version which can be most easily identified by the letters \"UNF\" cast or pressed into the rocker cover.\n\nRolls-Royce produced engines at Crewe early in the contract but did not have the capacity for volume production at the rate required, therefore Austin was lent tooling and licensed to build a virtually identical engine, and Austin-made engines were fitted in the great majority of Champs built. Cylinder blocks for both manufacturers were supplied by Leyland Motors.\n\nThe gearbox had five ratios with synchromesh on all gears. A conventional Borg & Beck clutch with mechanical linkage was used and drive from the gearbox was by shaft to the rear combined transfer box and differential assembly which incorporated reverse gear, thereby allowing five reverse gears also, and then by a long shaft to the front differential which incorporated a simple dog clutch to enable four-wheel drive when required. A conventional separate transfer case was not possible due to the cruciform layout of the vehicle chassis which placed the junction of the cruciform where the transfer box would reside on a conventional ladder-type chassis. Bendix \"Tracta\" type constant velocity joints were fitted at all wheel stations. All transmission assemblies were sealed against the ingress of water.\n\nThe suspension system was based on longitudinal torsion bars for primary springing and featured fully independent suspension at all four wheels using double wishbones. Each wheel station was also fitted with a rubber cone and cup system to buffer extreme upward suspension travel with energy control exercised by double-acting telescopic hydraulic dampers. This system gave an exceptional cross-country performance. Front and rear axles were constructed into a cradle sub-assembly, which could be rapidly exchanged in the field.\n\nThe braking system was supplied by Girling and employed drums and a simple single-line hydraulic layout without power assistance.\nThe engine, fuel system and all electrical items were waterproofed so the vehicle could wade to a depth of with minimal preparation; a snorkel attached to the air cleaner and normally carried horizontally on the right wing (US = fender) could be raised during wading operations. Maintaining this level of capability was found to be expensive and of limited value, and the policy of CT vehicles was abandoned in 1956 and the CT family were downgraded to General Service (GS) status.\n\nElectrical equipment fitted on military Champs was a 24-volt system in accordance with agreements reached in 1948 with the US and Canadian armies and comprised standardised military pattern equipment used on many British post-war vehicles, supplied by Lucas, CAV, Delco-Remy and Simms. Instrumentation was a system common to many other military vehicles of the period and supplied by Smiths Instruments of London.\n\nThe body was a utilitarian open four-seater tub of welded pressed steel panels, supplied by the Pressed Steel Company, and similar in style to the war-time Jeep layout although unlike the Jeep, the Champ body is designed to carry part of the vehicle stresses and chassis flexing. A simple hood (top) made from PVC coated cloth (trade name Rexine) was provided and a set of weather screens with hinged doors on a simple frame were available for issue in intemperate climates. The inner windscreen opened forwards for ventilation or the whole frame and glass assembly could be folded down onto the bonnet (hood). Military items such as a shovel, pickaxe and a carrier for a standard 20-litre jerrycan (for the carriage of water not fuel) were normally fitted. A 20-gallon (91 litre) fuel tank was located at the rear of the vehicle, giving an operational range of approximately 300 miles.\n\nVarious bolt-on kits were produced to convert basic vehicles for specialist roles, for example tactical radio carrier, telephone line laying, field ambulance with two stretchers, and an appliqué armour kit. Strangely, the armour components were listed in the Austin civilian parts catalogue but not in the army one. A standard radio fitting kit for 1/4-ton vehicles comprising a 50-inch table running on sliding runners, battery mountings and appropriate fittings was introduced in 1956. When this kit was fitted, the vehicle was re-designated as Fitted For Radio (FFR) to differentiate it from the basic FFW version.\n\nSome prototype vehicles with a Land Rover-style rear body with tailgate rear access were constructed in an attempt to improve the versatility of the basic design but were not put into production.\n\nChamps made for the civilian market (model WN3) could be specified with the Rolls Royce engine or, as was much more usual, a modified version of Austin's 2660 cc A90 engine. Military body fittings such as rifle clips were omitted and the windscreen was a fixed assembly. Commercial 12-volt electrical components by Lucas were provided and facilities for power take-off, driven from the transfer box, were available.\n\nAround 500 of the civilian version are thought to have been made, including at least one left-hand-drive version. They were priced at £750 in November 1952, and at £1000 in November 1954. Many went to Australia, where some can still be found. Two are known to have survived in the UK. Some of the design features of the Champ were carried over to the Austin Gipsy, of which some 21,000 were made from 1958 to 1967.\n\nThe civilian WN3 was adapted as a small fire engine by Fire Armour Ltd of London for use in commercial premises and for locations where large vehicle access was difficult. This version was known as the Firefly and carried a 60-gallon water tank, pump and ladders. One still exists today in preservation. Specialist chemical incident and a light rescue version were offered by the company.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101873", "title": "Epsilon Aurigae", "text": "Epsilon Aurigae\n\nEpsilon Aurigae (ε Aurigae, abbreviated Epsilon Aur, ε Aur) is a multiple star system in the northern constellation of Auriga. It is an unusual eclipsing binary system comprising an F0 supergiant (officially named Almaaz , the traditional name for the system) and a companion which is generally accepted to be a huge dark disk orbiting an unknown object, possibly a binary system of two small B-type stars. The distance to the system is still a subject of debate, but data from the Gaia spacecraft puts its distance at around light years from Earth.\n\nEpsilon Aurigae was first suspected to be a variable star when German astronomer Johann Heinrich Fritsch observed it in 1821. Later observations by Eduard Heis and Friedrich Wilhelm Argelander reinforced Fritsch's initial suspicions and attracted attention to the star. Hans Ludendorff, however, was the first to study it in great detail. His work revealed that the system was an eclipsing binary variable, a star that dims when its partner obscures its light.\n\nAbout every 27 years, Epsilon Aurigae's brightness drops from an apparent visual magnitude of +2.92 to +3.83. This dimming lasts 640–730 days. In addition to this eclipse, the system also has a low amplitude pulsation with a non-consistent period of around 66 days.\n\nEpsilon Aurigae's eclipsing companion has been subject to much debate since the object does not emit as much light as is expected for an object its size. As of 2008, the most popularly accepted model for this companion object is a binary star system surrounded by a massive, opaque disk of dust; theories speculating that the object is a large, semitransparent star or a black hole have since been discarded.\n\n\"ε Aurigae\" (Latinised to \"Epsilon Aurigae\") is the system's Bayer designation. It also bears the Flamsteed designation \"7 Aurigae\". It is listed in several multiple star catalogues as ADS 3605 A, CCDM J05020+4350A, and WDS J05020+4349A.\n\nRichard Hinckley Allen reported that Oxford scholar Thomas Hyde recorded the traditional name \"Almaaz\" in his 1665 translation of the catalogue of Ulugh Beg, which he identified with the Arabic \"Al Maʽaz\" \"the billy goat\", corresponding to the name of the star Capella (Latin for \"nanny goat\"). Allen's spelling corresponds to the plural المعز \"al-maʽaz\" \"goats\". Allen also reported that medieval Persian astronomer Zakariya al-Qazwini knew it as \"Al Anz\". \n\nIn 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. For such names relating to members of multiple star systems, and where a component letter (from e.g. Washington Double Star Catalog) is not explicitly listed, the WGSN says that the name should be understood to be attributed to the brightest component by visual brightness. The WGSN approved the name \"Almaaz\" for the brightest component of this system on February 1, 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Pillars\", refers to an asterism consisting of Epsilon Aurigae, Zeta Aurigae, Eta Aurigae, Upsilon Aurigae, Nu Aurigae, Tau Aurigae, Chi Aurigae and 26 Aurigae. Consequently, the Chinese name for Epsilon Aurigae itself is (, \"First Star of Pillars\").\n\nAlthough the star is easily visible to the naked eye, Johann Fritsch's 1821 observations suggest he was the first to notice that the system was a variable. Eventually, from 1842 to 1848, German mathematician Eduard Heis and Prussian astronomer Friedrich Wilhelm Argelander began observing it once every few years. Both Heis' and Argelander's data revealed that the star had become significantly dimmer by 1847, attracting the full attention of both men at that point. Epsilon Aurigae had brightened significantly, and had returned to \"normal\" by the following September. As it attracted more attention, more and more data was compiled. The observational data revealed that Epsilon Aurigae did not just vary over a long period, but also experienced short-term variations in brightness as well. Later eclipses took place between 1874 and 1875 and, nearly thirty years later, between 1901 and 1902.\n\nHans Ludendorff, who had also been observing Epsilon Aurigae, was the first to conduct a detailed study of the star. In 1904, he published in \"Astronomische Nachrichten\" an article titled \"Untersuchungen über den Lichtwechsel von ε Aurigae\" (Investigations of the Light Changes of Epsilon Aurigae), where he suggested the star was an Algol variable and an eclipsing binary.\n\nThe first hypothesis, set forth in 1937 by astronomers Gerard Kuiper, Otto Struve, and Bengt Strömgren, suggested that Epsilon Aurigae was a binary star system containing an F2 supergiant and an extremely cool \"semitransparent\" star that would completely eclipse its companion. However, the eclipsing star would scatter light emitted by its eclipsed companion resulting in the observed decrease in magnitude. The scattered light would be detected on Earth as a star visible to the naked eye, although this light would be significantly dimmed.\n\nIn 1961, Italian astrophysicist Margherita Hack proposed the secondary was a hot star surrounded by a shell of material, which was responsible for the eclipse, after observing it though the 1955-57 eclipse.\n\nAstronomer Su-Shu Huang published a paper in 1965 that outlined the defects of the Kuiper-Struve-Strömgren model, and proposed that the companion is a large disk system, edge-on from the perspective of Earth. Robert Wilson, in 1971, proposed that a \"central opening\" lay in the disk, a possible reason for the system's sudden brightening midway through the eclipse. In 2005, the system was observed in the ultraviolet by the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE); as the star system was not emitting energy at rates characteristic of objects such as the neutron star binary system Circinus X-1 or black hole binary system Cygnus X-1, the object occupying the center of the disk is not expected to be anything of the sort; in contrast, a new hypothesis has suggested that the central object is actually a B5-type star.\n\nAnother hypothesis by astronomers Alastair G. W. Cameron and Richard Stothers states that the companion of Epsilon Aurigae A is a black hole, consuming solid particles from the dusk cloud that bypass its event horizon which sends out the infrared light detected from Earth. This hypothesis has since been regarded obsolete and discarded.\n\nEpsilon Aurigae was targeted for observation by International Year of Astronomy observers from 2009 to 2011, the three years that overlapped its most recent eclipse.\n\nThe nature of the Epsilon Aurigae system is unclear. It has long been known to consist of at least two components which undergo periodic eclipses with an unusual flat-bottomed dimming every 27 years. Early explanations with exceptionally large diffuse stars, black holes, and odd doughnut-shaped discs are no longer accepted. There are now two main explanations that can account for the known observed characteristics: a high mass model where the primary is a yellow supergiant of around ; and a low mass model where the primary is about and a less luminous evolved star.\n\nVariations on the high mass model have always been popular, since the primary star is to all appearances a large supergiant star. Spectroscopically it is early F or late A with luminosity class Ia or Iab. Distance estimates consistently lead to luminosities expected for a bright supergiant, although there is a huge variation in published values for the distance. The Hipparcos parallax measurement has a margin of error as large as the value itself and so the derived distance is likely to be anything from 355 to 4,167 parsecs. The Gaia Data Release 2 parallax is somewhat more precise, leading to a distance of , towards the low end of estimates by other methods. The main problem with the high mass model is the nature of the secondary, which is required by the known mass function to have a mass comparable to the primary, at odds with observations where it appears as a B-type main-sequence star. The secondary may be a close binary involving two lower-mass main sequence stars, or a more complex system.\n\nThe low mass model, recently popularised by the Citizen Sky project, proposes that the primary is an evolved asymptotic giant branch star of . This relies on distance and luminosity estimates lower than most observations. The star would be an unusually large and bright giant star for the given mass, possibly as the result of very high mass loss. To match the observed eclipse and orbital data, the secondary is a fairly normal B main sequence star of about embedded in a thick disc seen nearly edge on.\n\nThe orbit itself is now fairly well determined, inclined at over 87 degrees to Earth. The primary and secondary are around 35 AU apart (in the high mass model), which is further than the planet Neptune from the Sun. In the low mass model, the separation is only 18 AU.\n\nThe visible component, Epsilon Aurigae A, is a semiregular pulsating post-asymptotic giant branch star belonging to the spectral class F0. This F-type star has around 143 to 358 times the diameter of the Sun, and is 37,875 times as luminous. (Reliable sources vary considerably in their estimates of both quantities.) If the star were in the position of the Sun, it would envelop Mercury and possibly Venus. F-type stars like Epsilon Aurigae tend to glow white and display strong ionized calcium absorption lines and weak hydrogen absorption lines; being a class above the Sun (which is a G-type star), F-type stars are typically hotter than sunlike stars. Other F-type stars include Procyon's primary star, the brightest star in the constellation Canis Minor.\n\nThe supergiant pulsates, showing small variations in its brightness and spectral lines. The pulsations have been given periods of 67 and 123 days, with an amplitude of about 0.05 magnitudes. The profiles of many spectral lines show variations that would be expected from a pulsating spergiant, but it isn't clear if they have the same period as the brightness variations. There may be a small variation in the effective temperature of the photosphere as the star pulsates.\n\nThe eclipsing component emits a comparatively insignificant amount of light, and is not visible to the naked eye. A heated region, however, has been discovered in the center of the object. It is widely thought to be a dusty disc surrounding a class B main sequence star. Modelling the spectral energy distribution for ε Aurigae as a whole produces the best fit with a B5V star at the centre of the disc. Such a star would have a mass around . The observed orbit, assuming a fairly normal F-type supergiant for the primary star, requires a secondary with a mass over . The low mass model accepts the secondary and so also requires a low-mass primary. The high-mass model accepts a normal mass supergiant primary and argues for a pair of B-type stars, or an unusual single higher-mass star.\n\nThe disc around the secondary star is 3.8 AU wide, 0.475 AU thick, and blocks about 70% of the light passing through it, allowing some light from the primary star to be seen even during the eclipses. It radiates like a 550 K black body.\n\nThe star is easily found because of its brightness and apparent proximity to the star Capella. It is the apex of the isosceles triangle forming the 'nose' of the constellation Auriga. The star is bright enough to be seen from most urban locations with moderate amounts of light pollution.\n\nVisual variable star observers make an estimate of its brightness by comparing its brightness with nearby stars with a known brightness value. This can be done by interpolating the brightness of the variable between two comparison stars, or by individually estimating the magnitude difference between the variable and several different comparisons. Repeating the observation on different nights allows a light curve to be produced showing the variation in brightness of the star. In practice, visual variable star estimates from many observers are statistically combined to produce more accurate results.\n\nThe National Science Foundation has awarded the AAVSO a three-year grant to fund a citizen science project built around the 2009-2011 eclipse. The project, called Citizen Sky, is organizing and training participants to observe the eclipse and report their data to a central database. In addition, participants will help validate and analyze the data while testing their own theories and publishing original research articles in a peer-reviewed astronomical journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101880", "title": "Pantomime (EP)", "text": "Pantomime (EP)\n\n\"Pantomime\" was re-released (TECN-15397) in 1998 as part of the 'Captain Records 10th Anniversary' campaign, where popular releases from artists on the label in the late 1980s were re-released.\n\nWhen \"Pantomime\" was first released in 1990, the rights to the EP were held under the ‘Bang-a-GONG’ sub-label (hence GONG-6021) of Captain Records (キャプテンレコード). Captain Records served the distribution at the time and was a subsidiary of the JICC Publication Administration (JICC 出版局), its parent company.\n\nBetween 1992–1998, the copyrights to Pantomime transferred ownership, and currently reside with ‘Ultra-Vybe Inc.’, a record company still trading today. In 1998, a selection of the original Captain Records collection (including Pantomime) was manufactured and distributed by Teichiku Records (TECN), a subsidiary of JVC Kenwood Holdings Corporation.\n\nUpon its re-release (1998.09.23) under Teichiku Records, there was no contract or agreement with Sawao Yamanaka or the pillows, who were well into their extended relationship with King Records at the time. During one of the live performances for the ‘Penalty Life’ tour (Kyoto Muse Hall, January 19, 2004) Sawao mentioned that the first time he had heard about the re-release of Pantomime (TECN-15397) was from a fan-letter well after the release date, and that he had still not been paid any royalties as a result of Teichiku Records sales.\n\nThe songs ‘Stand Up And Go’, ‘Razorlike Blue’ and ‘Pantomime’ were previously performed by Sawao Yamanaka in the late 1980s while the band toured under their original formation ‘The Coinlocker Babies’ (コインロッカーベイビーズ). The group put together a demo tape that included early recordings of ‘Stand Up And Go’ and ‘Pantomime’. \n\n\nOn 24 October, 2012 an omnibus CD titled ‘\"Miku\" ★ \"Punk Mid · Eighties · On Captain Records\"’ was released under SOLID records, a subsidiary of Ultra-Vybe Inc. A cover of ‘Razorlike Blue’ was recorded for the CD by the artist ‘Megurine Luka (巡音ルカ \"Megurine Ruka\")’. Megurine Ruka is a humanoid persona voiced by a singing synthesizer application developed by Crypton Future Media, headquartered in Sapporo, Japan. She uses Yamaha Corporation's Vocaloid 2 and Vocaloid 4 singing synthesizing technology. \n\n\nAll songs were written by the pillows. Tracks 1,3,4 and 5 written by Sawao Yamanaka. Track 2 was composed by Kenji Ueda, with lyrics by Sawao Yamanaka.\n\nAll pricing as at release date(s).\n\nAll credits taken from album liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101882", "title": "Thomas B. Catron", "text": "Thomas B. Catron\n\nThomas Benton Catron (October 6, 1840May 15, 1921) was an American politician and lawyer who was influential in the establishment of the U.S. state of New Mexico, and served as one of its first United States Senators.\n\nCatron was a native of Missouri and a graduate of the University of Missouri. He was a Confederate States Army veteran of the American Civil War. After the war, he moved to New Mexico Territory, where he learned Spanish, studied law, and attained admission to the bar. A Republican even though most Southerners were Democrats, Catron soon made his mark in both law and politics, including serving as a district attorney, territorial attorney general (1869-1872), and United States Attorney for New Mexico (1872-1878). He later served on the New Mexico Territorial Council (1884, 1888, 1889), as the Territorial Delegate to Congress (1895-1897), President of the New Mexico Bar Association (1895), and Mayor of Santa Fe (1906-1908).\n\nIn addition to practicing law, Catron used his knowledge of New Mexico's old Spanish land grants to acquire title to more than 3 million acres, making him the largest landholder in the state. When New Mexico achieved statehood, the legislature elected Catron one of the state's first U.S. Senators. He served from 1912 to 1916, and was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1916. He died in Santa Fe, and was buried in Santa Fe's Fairview Cemetery.\n\nCatron was born near Lexington, Missouri on October 6, 1840, and was named after Missouri Senator Thomas Hart Benton. He was educated in Lexington's public schools and at Masonic College in Lexington. He graduated from the University of Missouri in 1860.\n\nDuring the American Civil War Catron joined the Confederate States Army, serving in Hiram M. Bledsoe's Battery, a unit of Sterling Price's command. Catron took part in the battles of Carthage, Wilson's Creek, Second Lexington, and Pea Ridge. By the end of the war Catron was a first lieutenant in command of the 3rd Missouri Battery. In the latter stages of the war he served during combat in Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi, before surrendering in Mississippi at the end of the war as part of Richard Taylor's command.\n\nCatron returned to Missouri after the war and began to study law. In 1866 he moved to the Territory of New Mexico, living in Las Cruces before settling in Mesilla. He traveled to New Mexico with two wagon loads of flour, which he sold to finance his legal studies, and a Spanish grammar book, which he used to begin to learn the language. (He soon became fluent by living in Spanish speaking communities and speaking only Spanish.) Catron completed his legal studies and was admitted to the bar in 1867.\n\nUnlike most Southerners who had supported the Confederacy, Catron was a Republican. Almost as soon as he began to practice Catron was appointed District Attorney for the Third Judicial District (present day Doña Ana County), and served until 1868.\n\nIn 1869 he was appointed Attorney General of the New Mexico Territory. In 1872 he was appointed United States Attorney for the District of New Mexico, an office previously held by his law partner, Civil War colleague and fellow Republican Stephen Benton Elkins, who had been elected to Congress. Catron served as U.S. Attorney until 1878.\n\nWhile holding office as U.S. Attorney Catron moved to Santa Fe. In 1884 Catron was elected to the New Mexico Territorial Council, and he served again in 1888 and 1890. In 1892 Catron ran unsuccessfully for Delegate to Congress. He ran again in 1894 and won, serving one term March 4, 1895 to March 3, 1897. From 1895 to 1896 Catron was President of the New Mexico Bar Association. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection to Congress in 1896, and served on the Territorial Council again in 1899 and 1905.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1908 Catron served as Mayor of Santa Fe.\n\nAs a lawyer familiar with the intricacies of old Mexican land grants, Catron gained an interest in or clear title to 34 grants totaling . As a member of the group of land speculators known as 'The Santa Fe Ring,' he was the largest single landowner in New Mexico, and one of the largest landowners in the United States.\n\nCatron was an early advocate for New Mexico statehood, and in the early 1900s marshaled the territorial Republican Party to lobby Republicans at the national level for New Mexico's admission to the Union.\n\nWhen New Mexico was admitted as the 47th state in 1912, The New Mexico State Legislature elected Catron as one of the state's first U.S. Senators. Catron won the \"long term\" (four years), while Albert B. Fall won the \"short term\" (one year). Catron took office on March 27, 1912.\n\nTo win election to the Senate, Catron made a personal alliance with Fall (later to be involved in the Teapot Dome scandal), ensuring that each of them would be elected. This alliance antagonized New Mexicans of Spanish heritage, who had hoped that one of their own would become a Senator.\n\nAt the start of his Senate career Catron served as Chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Interior Department. In 1916 he was a candidate for reelection, but lost the Republican nomination to Frank A. Hubbell. Hubbell went on to lose the general election to Andrieus A. Jones.\n\nAfter leaving the Senate Catron returned to Santa Fe, where he resumed his law practice and business interests, and served in local offices including President of the Board of Education.\n\nCatron was mentioned as a Senate candidate in 1918 if Fall did not run for reelection, but Fall decided to run, received the Republican nomination, and won another term.\n\nAfter leaving the Senate, Catron attempted unsuccessfully to receive an appointment as Ambassador to Chile. In retirement Catron continued to reside in Santa Fe. He died in Santa Fe on May 15, 1921 and was interred in a mausoleum at Fairview Cemetery.\n\nIn 1878 Catron married Julia Anna Walz (March 28, 1857November 8, 1909), a native of Ohio. She had lived in Mankato, Minnesota, was a graduate of Oberlin College, and was teaching school when she met Catron. They had five children, four of whom lived to adulthood: John W.; Charles Christopher; Thomas Benton, Jr.; and Fletcher A.\n\nCatron received an honorary Master of Arts degree from the University of Missouri in 1868, and in 1920 the University of Missouri awarded him an honorary LL.D.\n\nCatron County, New Mexico is named in his honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101889", "title": "Zeta Aurigae", "text": "Zeta Aurigae\n\nZeta Aurigae (ζ Aurigae, abbreviated Zeta Aur, ζ Aur), traditionally known as Sadatoni (among other names), is a binary star in the northern constellation of Auriga. Based upon parallax measurements made during the Hipparcos mission, this system is approximately distant from the sun. It has a combined apparent visual magnitude of 3.75, which is bright enough to be seen with the naked eye.\n\nThe two components are designated Zeta Aurigae A (officially named Saclateni , an old misspelling of \"Sadatoni\") and B.\n\n\"ζ Aurigae\" (Latinised to \"Zeta Aurigae\") is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the two components as \"ζ Aurigae A\" and \"B\" derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nThe system bore the traditional names \"Haedus I\" (also \"Hoedus\") and \"Sadatoni\" (rarely \"Saclateni\"). It was one of the two \"haedi\" (Latin: 'kids') of the she-goat Capella, the other being Haedus II, Eta Aurigae. The name Sadatoni is from the Arabic الساعد الثاني \"as-sāid aθ-θānī\" \"the second arm (of the charioteer)\". The rare traditional name \"Azaleh\" is shared (in the form \"Hassaleh\") with Iota Aurigae. In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the names \"Saclateni\" for the component Zeta Aurigae A and \"Haedus\" for Eta Aurigae on 30 June 2017 and they are both now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Pillars\", refers to an asterism consisting of Zeta Aurigae, Epsilon Aurigae, Eta Aurigae, Upsilon Aurigae, Nu Aurigae, Tau Aurigae, Chi Aurigae and 26 Aurigae. Consequently, the Chinese name for Zeta Aurigae itself is (, .)\n\nZeta Aurigae was first recognized as a spectroscopic binary by William Hammond Wright while analyzing photographic plates taken at Lick Observatory between 1898 and 1908. This star is among those earlier described by Antonia Maury as having a composite spectrum. The first orbit was determined in 1924 by William Edmund Harper using measurements taken at Dominion Observatory, his orbital elements are very similar to the most recent determinations. Harper also noticed that the composite nature of the spectrum had disappeared on the one plate when the K type primary was nearest the sun indicating a possible eclipse. In 1932 the eclipsing binary nature of the system was confirmed by Paul Guthnick, Heribert Schneller and independently Josef Hopmann.\n\nZeta Aurigae is an eclipsing binary with the orbital plane being oriented close to the line of sight from the Earth; the inclination of this system is estimated as 87.0°. As a result, an eclipse of one star by the other occurs during each orbit, causing the magnitude to decrease to +3.99. The pair have an orbital period of 972 days (2.66 years) and an eccentricity of 0.4. The primary component, Zeta Aurigae A, has been categorized as a K-type bright giant or supergiant star. Its companion, Zeta Aurigae B, is a B-type main sequence star of stellar classification B5 V or B7 V.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101897", "title": "Myerson", "text": "Myerson\n\nMyerson is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101908", "title": "Rho Persei", "text": "Rho Persei\n\nRho Persei (Rho Per, ρ Persei, ρ Per) is a star in the northern constellation of Perseus. It has the traditional name Gorgonea Tertia , being the third member of the quartet called the Gorgonea in reference to the Gorgons from the legend of Perseus. An apparent visual magnitude of +3.39 makes it visible to the naked eye, but a challenge to view from a well-lit urban environment. Based upon parallax measurements, it is located at a distance of roughly from Earth.\n\nRho Persei is a semiregular variable star, whose apparent magnitude varies between 3.3 and 4.0 with periods of 50, 120 and 250 days. The star has reached the asymptotic giant branch of its evolution. It is a bright giant star with a stellar classification of M4 II. The outer envelope has an effective temperature of 4,111 K, giving it the red-orange hue of an M-type star.\n\nThis star has a mass five times the mass of the Sun, while its radius has expanded to 150 times solar. It is radiating some 2,290 times the Sun's luminosity. Rho Persei is losing mass at the rate of solar masses per year, or the equivalent of the Sun's mass every 83 million years. It is about 440 million years in age.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Mausoleum\", refers to an asterism consisting of ρ Persei, 9 Persei, τ Persei, ι Persei, κ Persei, β Persei, 16 Persei and 12 Persei. Consequently, the Chinese name for ρ Persei itself is (, .).\n\n"}
{"id": "2101911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101911", "title": "Meyerson", "text": "Meyerson\n\nMeyerson is a surname.\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101913", "title": "To Dance with the White Dog", "text": "To Dance with the White Dog\n\nTo Dance with the White Dog is a 1990 novel by Georgia author Terry Kay, based on the experiences of his father.\n\nSam Peek happily resides in Hart County, Georgia as a pecan farmer and local celebrity featured in many gardening/horticultural magazines. He and his wife Cora are both in their 80s, and have just celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary. Cora dies of a heart attack. Sam and his family are deeply grieved over this, and his daughters begin to obsess over his safety and his life.\n\nNot long after Cora's death, a mysterious white dog that only Sam can see appears near the house. He thinks it is just a stray, but daughters Kate, Carrie and his other children don't see it and think he's going crazy. Sam goes on a car trip in his weathered truck to a school reunion, keeping it a secret from the children. After a series of events, the family and other people begin to see the white dog, but never hear her bark. Shortly before Sam's death, the dog disappears and it is thought the dog was Cora in another form.\n\nThe novel was turned in to a Hallmark Hall of Fame television movie, starring Hume Cronyn as Sam Peek and Jessica Tandy as Cora. It was filmed on location in Georgia. The movie premiered December 5, 1993 on CBS, and was nominated for many awards. Hume Cronyn won an Emmy award for his performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101915", "title": "Moon Gold", "text": "Moon Gold\n\nMoon Gold is an album released by the Pillows on June 21, 1991. It is the band's first full-length record.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101917", "title": "List of banks and credit unions in Canada", "text": "List of banks and credit unions in Canada\n\nThis is a list of banks in Canada, including chartered banks, credit unions, trusts, and other financial services companies that offer banking services and may be popularly referred to as \"banks\".\n\nCanada's \"big five\" banks, and a few statistics (2013):\n\nThe term \"Big Six\" is frequently used as well and includes the National Bank of Canada (2013 market cap of $8.9B), though its operations are primarily focused in the provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick.\n\nBanks in Canada are classified by their ownership as domestic banks, subsidiaries of foreign banks, or branches of foreign banks. For a greater explanation of the classifications, see \"Banking in Canada\" and \"Canada Bank Act\".\n\nUnder the Canada Bank Act, Schedule I are banks that are not a subsidiary of a foreign bank, i.e., domestic banks, even if they have foreign shareholders. There are 30 domestic banks as of September 2016.\nOn 10 November 2014, Home Capital Group announced that it has applied to charter \"Home Trust Bank\" under Schedule I.\n\nSchedule II banks are banks allowed to accept deposits and which are subsidiaries of a foreign bank. As of October 2015, there were 24 of these banks in Canada, including three in liquidation.\n\nThe following banks are not authorized to accept deposits in Canada of less than $150,000. As of August 2016, there were 28 such banks in Canada.\nThe following banks are prohibited from accepting deposits or borrowing money except from financial institutions. There were four such banks in Canada as of August 2016.\n\n\nCanada has a strong co-operative financial services sector, which consists of credit unions (caisses populaires in Quebec and other French speaking regions). At the end of 2001 Canada's credit union sector consisted of 681 credit unions and 914 \"caisses populaires\", with more than 3,600 locations and 4,100 automated teller machines. By 2019, consolidation reduced this number to 252 credits unions and caisses populaires outside Quebec, according to the Canadian Credit Union Association (CCUA). Canada has the world's highest per capita membership in the credit union movement, with over 10 million members, or about one-third of the Canadian population. While the sector is active in all parts of the country, it is strongest in the western provinces and in Quebec. In Quebec 70 per cent of the population belongs to a caisse populaire, while in Saskatchewan close to 60 per cent belongs to a credit union.\n\nAs of second quarter 2018, the 265 credit unions and caisses populaires outside Quebec reported combined assets of $233.47 billion:\n\nMost caisses populaires in Quebec (and some outside the province) are part of a network which operates as the Desjardins Group. Desjardins Group owns and operates a range of subsidiaries, including a securities brokerage, a venture capital firm, and a bank based in Florida.\n\nAs of 31 December 2015, Desjardins Group's consolidated assets totalled $248.1 billion CAD.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101920", "title": "Alariaceae", "text": "Alariaceae\n\nAlariaceae are a family of brown algae in the order Laminariales.\n\n\nThe distribution of Alariaceae includes the northeastern Pacific Ocean, South Africa, southern Australia, and New Zealand coasts.\n"}
{"id": "2101924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101924", "title": "Dalleth", "text": "Dalleth\n\nDalleth (\"beginning\") was a support organisation for parents and families bringing up children to speak Cornish. It organised camps and other children's activities, mostly during Cornish Language related events. It also assisted in the production of books and learning materials in Cornish, including translations from other Celtic languages.\n\nAt its peak there were perhaps a dozen families involved, but as these were spread over the whole length of Cornwall regular events such as playgroups could not be effectively organised. The organisation was weakened following the introduction of Kernewek Kemmyn, as some of its more active members opted to continue with Unified Cornish. Eventually Dalleth was merged back into Kowethas an Yeth Kernewek and no longer exists as a separate organisation.\n"}
{"id": "2101927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101927", "title": "John Mauceri", "text": "John Mauceri\n\nJohn Francis Mauceri (born September 12, 1945) is an American conductor, producer, educator and writer. Since making his professional conducting debut almost half a century ago, Mauceri has appeared with most of the world's great orchestras, guest conducted at the premiere opera houses, produced and musically supervised Tony and Olivier Award-winning Broadway musicals, and served as university faculty and administrator. Through his varied career, he has taken the lead in the preservation and performance of many genres of music and has supervised/conducted important premieres by composers as diverse as Debussy, Stockhausen, Korngold, Hindemith, Bernstein, Sibelius, Ives, Elfman, and Shore. He is also a leading performer of music banned by the Third Reich and especially music of Hollywood's émigré composers.\n\nBorn in New York City, Mauceri studied Music Theory and Composition at Yale University earning a BA in 1967 and a Master of Philosophy in Music Theory in 1972. His teachers included William G. Waite, Claude Palisca, Beekman Cannon, Leon Plantinga, and Robert Bailey in musicology; Mel Powell, Donald Martino, Allen Forte and Peter Sculthorpe in theory and composition; Donald Currier in piano; and Gustav Meier in conducting. In addition he studied 20th-century architecture with Vincent Scully, French literature with Henri Peyre, religion (Pelikan and Kuttner) and psychology (Logan and Childe).\n\nIn his senior year he made his conducting debut (December 4, 1966, Branford College), composed the music for a production of Brecht's \"A Man Is a Man\", guest conducted the Yale Symphony Orchestra (YSO), and produced and music directed Benjamin Britten's \"Curlew River\" at Yale's St. Thomas More Chapel (March 11 and 12, 1967) and then brought the production to New York City for its New York premiere, which took place at the Catholic Chapel of the United Nations (Holy Family church) on May 13 and 14, 1967. He graduated cum laude, won the Wrexham Prize \"for highest musical achievement,\" the Francis Vernan Prize for composition, and the Branford Arts Prize for his \"devotion to the advancement of the arts.\"\n\nAccepted with a full scholarship into Yale's Graduate School in music theory, he was soon appointed to the faculty as music director of the Yale Symphony Orchestra (1968–1974) and continued on for a total of fifteen years as both a guest conductor and music director of Yale's opera school. Mauceri is credited for building the Yale Symphony Orchestra into one of the most respected student orchestras in the world. During his tenure with the YSO he brought the orchestra to Paris (Théâtre des Champs-Élysées) for Paris premieres of Ives's Symphony No. 4, Debussy's \"Khamma\" and Scriabin's \"\". He produced and conducted the YSO for the European premiere of Leonard Bernstein's \"Mass\" in Vienna (broadcast worldwide on PBS, BBC and the ORF), the world premiere of Charles Ives's \"Three Places in New England\" in its original, large orchestra version, as well as the world premiere of the critical edition of Ives's Orchestral Set No. 2. His programs drew capacity audiences for seven years and included the American premiere of Debussy's 1913 ballet \"Khamma\", the American premiere of Strauss's silent film (1926) of \"Der Rosenkavalier\", the world premiere of a completely staged pageant-version of Karlheinz Stockhausen's \"Hymnen\" involving 1000 performers on Yale's Cross Campus, the American premiere of Hindemith's orchestrated songs \"Das Marienleben\" and rare performances of Scriabin's \"Prometheus: The Poem of Fire\" (with coordinated lasers), John Cage's \"Atlas Eclipticalis\", Wagner's \"Das Rheingold\", Schoenberg's \"Gurre-Lieder\", Messiaen's \"\" and Stravinsky's \"Agon\".\n\nIn 1973, Mauceri made both his professional orchestral debut with the Los Angeles Philharmonic and his operatic debut conducting Menotti's \"The Saint of Bleecker Street\" at the Wolf Trap Festival.\n\nCommitted to preserving two American art forms, the Broadway musical, and Hollywood film scores, he has edited and performed many restorations and first performances, including a full restoration of the original 1943 production of Rodgers & Hammerstein's \"Oklahoma!\", performing editions of Gershwin's \"Porgy and Bess\", \"Girl Crazy\" and \"Strike up the Band\", Bernstein's \"Candide\" and \"A Quiet Place\", and film scores by Miklós Rózsa, Franz Waxman, Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Max Steiner, Elmer Bernstein, Jerry Goldsmith, Danny Elfman and Howard Shore. As one of two conductors in Decca Records' award-winning series \"Entartete Musik\", Mauceri made a number of historic first recordings of music banned by the Nazis as degenerate music. The intersection of the \"degenerate composers\" of Europe and the refugee composers of Hollywood is the subject of much of his research and his writings. In addition, Mauceri has conducted significant premieres of works by Verdi, Debussy, Hindemith, Ives, Stockhausen, and Weill.\n\nJohn Mauceri made his Broadway debut on March 10, 1974, as music director of Hal Prince's production of Leonard Bernstein's \"Candide\" which had begun as a limited run at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This version of the show was given a Special Tony Award for \"The Advancement of the American Musical Theatre.\" He subsequently served as music director for the \"Opera House\" version of \"Candide\" (providing additional orchestrations and supervising the placement of the music within the text of Hugh Wheeler's book) that premiered at the New York City Opera in 1982. Its 1986 recording won Mauceri a Grammy for \"Best Opera Recording.\" In 1988, as Music Director of Scottish Opera, Mauceri initiated a third version based on a reading of Voltaire adapted by John Wells and directed by Jonathan Miller. Mauceri was able to make use of virtually all the music Bernstein had composed for various versions of \"Candide\" between 1956 and 1971. This final version had its world premiere at the Theatre Royal, Glasgow, with Bernstein in attendance, and broadcast on BBC television. It was transferred to the Sadler's Wells Theatre in London where it won the 1988 Olivier Award as \"Musical of the Year.\" Bernstein subsequently recorded this version in London, and it won him a posthumous Grammy for \"Best Classical Album\" of 1990.\n\nMauceri took a leadership role in reevaluating the American musical theater in his historically informed performances and recordings of classic American musicals, such as the Gershwins' 1930 score to \"Girl Crazy\" (Elektra Nonesuch 9 79250-2) in 1990 (winner of the Edison Klassiek Award), both the 1927 and 1930 versions of the Gershwins' \"Strike Up the Band\" (1991 – Elektra Nonesuch 79273-2 and PS Classics PS-1100 respectively) and most importantly \"On Your Toes\" (1936) by Rodgers and Hart which he initiated and co-produced in 1983. Mauceri, representing the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, hired George Abbott (then 96 years old), George Balanchine (his last assignment) and found the original orchestrator, Hans Spialek, to restore the score. \"On Your Toes\" ran 505 performances on Broadway and marked the first time a musical from the 1930s was seen and heard on Broadway with its original musical elements intact in over a generation. Its cast album, conducted by Mauceri, is the first fully digital Broadway cast album (TER Limited: CDTER 1063). The show was nominated for five Antoinette Perry (\"Tony\") Awards and won two: for Best Revival of a Musical and Best Actress in a Musical (Natalia Makarova). In addition, \"On Your Toes\" won four Drama Desk Awards (Outstanding Revival; Outstanding Actress in a Musical; Outstanding Director of a Musical; Outstanding Orchestrations). As a result of its success, the received wisdom of rewriting old musicals and adding new orchestrations and hit songs from other shows was challenged and has led to a proliferation of organizations that present classic American musicals with their original scores restored as written, though these performances are generally in a semi-staged format.\n\nAndrew Lloyd Webber attended a performance of \"La bohème\" at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in the winter of 1984 that was conducted by Mauceri and as a result invited him to be the musical supervisor of the Broadway production of his \"Song and Dance\", which opened on September 18, 1985, and received eight Tony Award nominations, and one win for Bernadette Peters. In October 1995, after the first recording session for the soundtrack to \"Evita\" failed, \"Andrew ... suggested we bring in the celebrated American conductor John Mauceri. [...] By the end of the week, the maestro Mauceri had performed his magic with a brilliant catchment of the finest orchestral players in London and all thoughts of Black Monday were forgotten.\" As gratitude for his work on the film, Mauceri was given something unheard of in film—a full screen credit, even though he had no contract for any billing whatsoever.\n\nMauceri led the charge in reassessing the American works of Kurt Weill, which had been generally viewed as inferior to his German works. In 1978, he conducted Weill's 1947 opera, \"Street Scene\" at the New York City Opera, which was so successful, it was broadcast in the subsequent season on PBS' \"Live from Lincoln Center\". Beginning with Weill's \"Lady in the Dark\" at the Edinburgh Festival in 1988, and followed by the first professional production of \"Street Scene\" in the UK, Mauceri argued that the American works were equal to and continued directly out of the German works. His recording of \"Street Scene\" (Decca 433 371–2) released in 1991, is the first complete recording of any American theater work of Kurt Weill. Mauceri brought \"Street Scene\" for its country premieres in Portugal (Lisbon Opera), and Italy (Teatro Regio, Turin). In addition, he brought Weill's music back to Berlin, where it had been mostly forgotten. Two recordings with Ute Lemper (\"Ute Lemper Sings Kurt Weill\" Volumes 1 and 2) represented Weill's music with texts in German, French and English, demonstrating the composer's continuity of style and ideas. In addition, his Berlin recordings include Weill's \"The Seven Deadly Sins\" (') with Lemper, the \"Little Mahagonny\" (\"Mahagonny-Songspiel\") and the first German language recording of \"The Threepenny Opera\" (') made in over forty years (Decca 430 075-2 LH) released in 1989. In 2000, he led a series of performances of Kurt Weill's 1933 bible play, \"The Eternal Road\" (\"\") in which he and musicologist Ed Harsh restored the complete score which had never been heard with its complete fourth act and never in Europe. These performances were co-productions of the New Israeli Opera, the Chemnitz Opera in Germany and the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The work was performed in its original German text by fellow refugee Franz Werfel and televised in Europe from its Chemnitz performances. In 2001, Mauceri led the world premiere recording of Weill's early operatic success, \"Der Protagonist\" from 1926 (Capriccio 60 086) which was also broadcast on German radio in a concert performance in the Berliner Philharmonie.\n\nAfter making his operatic debut at the Wolf Trap Festival in 1973, Mauceri continued to build his operatic repertoire conducting at the Metropolitan Opera, La Scala, the Royal Opera House, the Deutsche Oper Berlin, and numerous others around the world. At San Francisco Opera he conducted the premiere of Andrew Imbrie's \"Angle of Repose\" in 1976. At Washington Opera and La Scala, Mauceri had the privilege of conducting the American and European premieres of Leonard Bernstein's \"A Quiet Place\" in 1984. In 1972 Mauceri was invited to be Bernstein's assistant for a new production of \"Carmen\" at the Met. This began an association between the two that would span the next eighteen years. During this time Mauceri edited, supervised and conducted numerous Bernstein works throughout the world, including many premieres, at the composers request. In addition to his guest appearances at the world's great opera houses, Mauceri also served as music director of the Washington Opera at the Kennedy Center as well as Pittsburgh Opera, and was \"direttore stabile\" of the Teatro Regio in Turin, Italy, for three years. His time in Italy was preceded by the seven years where he served as music director of Scottish Opera where he helmed 22 productions and three recordings. Mauceri is the first American ever to have held the post of music director of an opera house in either Great Britain or Italy. Through his sedulously researched renditions of the nineteenth century's pre-eminent operas, Mauceri solidified his reputation \"as a musicologist and theorist\" as he was \"the first to demonstrate, in print and in performance, that the use of metronomic tempos were a structural element in the operas of Giuseppe Verdi.\" He has spoken about and written numerous articles expounding his fidelity to the composer's intent and the necessity of fully understanding it in performance.\n\nAfter forty years of dormancy the Hollywood Bowl Orchestra was re-created for John Mauceri by the Los Angeles Philharmonic Association in 1991. \"During his sixteen-season tenure, Mauceri and the Hollywood Bowl Orchestra toured Japan four times and, in November 1996, performed two public concerts in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, Brazil, representing the first time an American orchestra was invited to Brazil specifically to perform the great music of the American cinema.\" Breaking all records at the Bowl, he conducted over 300 concerts at the 18,000-seat amphitheater with a total audience of four million people. In addition to being inducted into the Hollywood Bowl Hall of Fame alongside Plácido Domingo in 2007, Mauceri received a Treasure of Los Angeles Award, a Young Musicians Foundation Award, and even his own day, \"John Mauceri Day\", by the state of California.\n\nMauceri was appointed chancellor of the University of North Carolina School of the Arts by President Erskine Bowles on May 2, 2006. During his seven-year tenure he lobbied and secured to have \"University\" added to the school's name to distinguish it from the growing number of arts magnet high schools and to affirm the school's relationship with the UNC system. He implemented a two-semester calendar and conceived and implemented the school's first full summer school. Under his leadership the school's retention within the system ranked second only to UNC Chapel Hill. Mauceri increased UNCSA's endowment by 60% and successfully lobbied the NC General Assembly to grant recurring millions of dollars of appropriations to the school and secured significant private funds during the economic downturn that threatened the very existence of the school. At the time of his retirement from the post the school had $55 million worth of capital projects in the works, including a new library, and a film school animation building. For the first time in the school's history, the faculty agreed to having a ranking system, Kiplinger's ranked the school for the first time in its history as one of the \"100 top Values in Public Education,\" and Mauceri raised the monies to support a television series of student performances which he also produced. These included \"The Nutcracker\", a complete restoration of the original 1943 production of Rodgers & Hammerstein's \"Oklahoma!\" (winner of a National Educational Television Award), and the American premiere of Erich Wolfgang Korngold's score in a fully staged production of Shakespeare's \"Much Ado About Nothing\" (regional Emmy for Best Arts Program, 2013). As chancellor, Mauceri brought his students to perform, assist, and observe productions at the Hollywood Bowl, the Vienna Konzerthaus, the Danish National Orchestra (Copenhagen), the National Symphony at the Kennedy Center, the opera of Bilbao, Spain, the Aspen Music Festival, the 50th Anniversary Grammy Award Ceremony, the Ravinia Festival, the Washington National Opera, as well as the opening of the North Carolina Museum of Art and the 2013 Rite at 100 Festival at Chapel Hill's Memorial Hall.\n\nPrior to his time at UNCSA, Mauceri served on the faculty of his alma mater, Yale University for 15 years where he \"taught orchestration, conducting, gave guest lectures in the German and Italian Departments and, with the Yale Symphony, developed the concept of thematic programming built on his studies of information theory, linguistics, and psychoacoustics.\" Mauceri left the faculty of Yale in 1982 as Associate Professor, and in 1985 was awarded Yale's first Arts Alumni Award for Outstanding Achievement. He returned to his alma mater in 2001 to teach a course in 20th century aesthetic history and the effects of World War II on current perceptions of classical music. In addition, he conducted both the Yale Symphony and Yale Philharmonia in a concert celebrating the 300th anniversary of the founding of Yale College on April 19, 2001.\n\nMauceri is one of the world's most accomplished recording artists, having released over 75 audio CDs and is the recipient of Grammy, Tony, Olivier, Drama Desk, Edison Klassiek, 3 Emmy Awards, 2 Diapasons d'Or, Cannes Classique, ECHO Klassik, Billboard, and four Deutsche Schallplatten awards. In 1999, Mr. Mauceri was chosen as a \"Standard-bearer of the Twentieth Century\" for WQXR, the America's most-listened-to classical radio station. According to WQXR, \"These are a select number of musical artists who have already established themselves as forces to be reckoned with and who will be the Standard Bearers of the 21st Century's music scene.\" The recipients were chosen for \"their visionary talent and technical virtuosity.\" In addition, CNN and CNN International chose Mr. Mauceri as a \"Voice of the Millennium\".\n\nIn other media, Mauceri had a small role as the character Claude Maginot in 2002's \"\". He appeared briefly as himself in the second episode of the \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\" TV series, conducting the fictional \"West Coast Philharmonic.\"\n\nMauceri lives in New York City with his wife, Betty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101936", "title": "Upsilon Scorpii", "text": "Upsilon Scorpii\n\nUpsilon Scorpii (υ Scorpii, abbreviated Upsilon Sco, υ Sco), formally named Lesath , is a star located in the \"stinger\" of the southern zodiac constellation of Scorpius, the scorpion. Based on parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is approximately 580 light-years from the Sun. On the night sky it lies near the 1.6 magnitude star Lambda Scorpii, and the two form an optical pair that is sometimes called the \"Cat's Eyes\".\n\n\"υ Scorpii\" (Latinised to \"Upsilon Scorpii\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Lesath\" (alternatively spelled \"Leschath\", \"Lesuth\"), from the Arabic \"las'a\" \"pass (or bite) of a poisonous animal\"; but this is a miscorrection by Scaliger (a European astronomer who knew Arabic) for earlier \"Alascha\", which came from Arabic \"al laţkha\" \"the foggy patch\", referring to the nearby open cluster M7. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Lesath\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nTogether with Lambda Scorpii (Shaula), Lesath is listed in the Babylonian compendium MUL.APIN as Sharur u Shargaz, meaning \"Sharur and Shargaz\". In Coptic, they were called \"Minamref\" The indigenous Boorong people of northwestern Victoria named it as \"Karik Karik\" (together with Lambda Scorpii), \"the Falcons\"\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Tail\", refers to an asterism consisting of Upsilon, Mu, Epsilon, Zeta, Zeta, Eta, Theta, Iota, Iota, Kappa, and Lambda Scorpii. Consequently, the Chinese name for Upsilon Scorpii itself is (), \"the Ninth Star of Tail\".\n\nUSS Lesuth (AK-125) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star.\n\nThis star has apparent magnitude +2.7 and belongs to spectral class B2 IV, with the luminosity class of 'IV' indicating it is a subgiant star. The star's luminosity is 12,300 times that of the Sun, while its surface temperature is 22,831 kelvins. The star has a radius of 6.1 times solar and 11 times the mass of the Sun.\n"}
{"id": "2101938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101938", "title": "Rich Hill (pitcher)", "text": "Rich Hill (pitcher)\n\nRichard Joseph Hill (born March 11, 1980) is an American professional baseball pitcher for the Minnesota Twins of Major League Baseball (MLB). He played college baseball for the Michigan Wolverines. Hill was drafted three times in the Major League Baseball draft (1999, 2001 and 2002) before signing in 2002. He has also played in MLB for the Chicago Cubs, Baltimore Orioles, Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians, Los Angeles Angels, New York Yankees, Oakland Athletics and Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nHill has earned both American League and National League Pitcher of the Month honors. He is the only pitcher in Major League history to have had a perfect game broken up by a 9th inning fielding error, and the only pitcher in Major League history to have a no-hitter broken up in extra innings by a walk-off home run.\n\nHill was born and raised in Milton, Massachusetts, and played for Milton High School's varsity baseball team when he was a freshman. He is one of four to do so in the school's history. He was drafted by the Cincinnati Reds in the 36th round of the 1999 Major League Baseball (MLB) Draft; but opted to play college baseball for the Michigan Wolverines. \n\nAs a freshman, he struggled with a 9.23 earned run average (ERA) in 13 games, but he became a full-time member of the rotation as a sophomore, posting a record of 3–5 with a 3.84 ERA in 15 games, including one complete game shutout. In 2000 and 2001, he played collegiate summer baseball for the Chatham A's of the Cape Cod Baseball League.\n\nHe was drafted again in the seventh round of the 2001 MLB Draft by the Anaheim Angels but decided to return to the Wolverines. In his junior season at Michigan in 2002, he was 3–7 with a 3.55 ERA in 15 games, including eight complete games and two shutouts, and striking out 104 while walking only 38.\n\nHill is a natural right-handed thrower, but was converted to lefty by his brother.\n\nHill was selected in the fourth round of the 2002 Major League Baseball draft by the Chicago Cubs and signed on July 10, 2002. He had been rated as having one of the best curveballs in the draft but mechanical and control issues kept him out of the early rounds. He began his professional career with the Boise Hawks of the Northwest League, where he was 0–2 with an 8.36 ERA in six games. In 2003 with Boise he was 1–6 with a 4.35 ERA in 14 starts and led the Northwest League in strikeouts with 99. He was promoted to the Lansing Lugnuts of the Midwest League, where he was 0–1 with a 2.76 ERA in 15 games (4 starts).\n\nIn 2004, he was assigned to the Daytona Cubs of the Florida State League. He was 7–6 with a 4.03 ERA in 28 games (19 starts) and 136 strikeouts. He was also selected by Baseball America as having the best curveball in the Cubs organization.\n\nHill began the 2005 season with the West Tenn Diamond Jaxx of the Southern League. He made 10 starts for them, with a 4–3 record and 3.28 ERA while leading the league in strikeouts with 90. He earned a May promotion to the Triple-A Iowa Cubs of the Pacific Coast League. In 11 games for Iowa, he was 6–1 with a 3.60 ERA and 92 strikeouts. He earned Milb.com distinctions as breakthrough performer of the year.\n\nHill made his major league debut on June 15, 2005 against the Florida Marlins. He pitched one inning of relief, giving up two runs on three hits, and did not factor into the decision. He struck out Carlos Delgado for his first major league strikeout.\n\nHill's first start was on July 25, 2005, subbing for the oft-injured Kerry Wood against the San Francisco Giants. Once again he gave up two earned runs, but lasted five innings. The game was memorable due to Hill tripping over third-base on his way to the plate after a Todd Walker drive down the right-field line. With just one out and the Cubs down by one, Walker was forced to stop at first base, and Jerry Hairston, Jr. (who was behind Hill) at second. Hill did not score, and returned to third base unhurt. He did not factor into the decision. He finished the season with an 0–2 record in 10 games (23 innings) while making four starts. His ERA was 9.13 and he struck out 21 while walking 17.\n\nIn 2006, he started the season in Triple-A with the Iowa Cubs, but was called up on May 4 for a start against the Arizona Diamondbacks. He gained attention in Chicago later in the month during the cross-town classic with the Chicago White Sox. On May 20, Hill lost to the White Sox 7–0, and was the starter in the game that saw A. J. Pierzynski run over Cubs catcher Michael Barrett at the plate in a huge collision. Hill was sent back to Triple-A Iowa the next day. He made 15 starts for Iowa and was 7–1 with a 1.98 ERA and 135 strikeouts. He was selected to the mid-season Pacific Coast League all-star game, where he was the top star, and he was later selected as a post-season all-star and a Baseball America Triple-A All-Star.\n\nHill returned to the majors on July 27 with a start against the St. Louis Cardinals. He lasted only 3 innings, giving up four runs on six hits – walking three. On August 1, he defeated the Arizona Diamondbacks for his first major league victory, and on August 6, he got his second win and his first win streak. On September 6, Hill fanned a career high 11 batters in a Cubs victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. Hill's first complete game and shutout came versus the Cincinnati Reds in a game in which he fanned 10 and allowed just two hits, on September 16. Hill's two complete games were the only CG's by the Cubs' pitching staff in the 2006 season, and he was one of the solid contributors in the rotation after being called back up, posting a 6–3 record with a 2.93 ERA.\n\nHill joined the starting rotation of the Cubs after spring training, and was the #4 starter in the rotation behind Carlos Zambrano, Ted Lilly, and Jason Marquis. He pitched against the Milwaukee Brewers for his first start of the 2007 season, throwing a perfect game through the first five innings, and finishing with allowing just one hit, and one run over 7 innings pitched. He continued to excel during April, leading some to speculate that he was taking over as the ace in the Cubs rotation while he assembled a streak of 18 consecutive innings without an earned run.\n\nCubs catcher Michael Barrett described Hill’s signature pitch as follows.\n\nHill suffered a setback in Philadelphia, where he took his second loss of the season giving up five runs and left before getting any outs in the sixth inning. His next start in New York City produced similar results posting his third loss, and Lou Piniella pointed to control problems. The troubles continued in San Diego during his next start, where he picked up his third consecutive loss 5–1 to the Padres and gave up four home runs. Piniella extended his analysis of Hill's throwing: \"Not the same pitcher that left spring training. He was missing his spots. Some of those pitches that were hit out of the park, the catcher was sitting on the outside corner and the balls are inside, but they might have been outside. He's got to keep working. He's not throwing as hard, either, for whatever reason.\"\n\nHill rebounded in his next three starts, going twenty-one innings and giving up only two earned runs. Hill matched his career-high with eleven strikeouts against the Braves on June 7, 2007. For the season he was 11–8 with a 3.92 ERA in 32 starts with 183 strikeouts.\n\nHill started game 3 of the 2007 National League Division Series against the Arizona Diamondbacks but Chris Young homered off his first pitch of the game and he only lasted three innings, allowing six hits and three runs as the Cubs were swept in the series.\n\nHill reworked his delivery during spring training in 2008 after some initial issues with his command but retained his spot in the rotation as the season began. He struggled to start the season, making five starts, and was 1–0 with a 4.12 ERA, striking out 15 but also walking 18. In his final start, against the St. Louis Cardinals on May 2, he walked four of the first six batters he faced and was removed in the first inning. On May 3, he was optioned back to Triple-A Iowa in order to get his control figured out.\n\nHill continued to have control problems in the minors and was shut down with a stiff back on May 17. He suffered from various muscle strains the rest of the season, making only 13 starts in the minors for Iowa, Daytona and the Arizona League Cubs, and was 4–7 with a 5.85 ERA and 44 walks. He played for the Tigres de Aragua of the Venezuelan Winter League after the season and was 1–2 with a 6.86 ERA in nine games (six starts), walking 23 while striking out 16.\n\nOn February 2, 2009, Hill was traded to the Baltimore Orioles for a player to be named later.\n\nHill suffered an elbow injury in spring training and began the season on the disabled list. He did not make his Orioles debut until May 16, 2009 going 5 with six strikeouts and was the winning pitcher. He started 13 games for Baltimore with a 3-3 record, a 7.80 ERA, and 46 strikeouts in 57 innings. On July 29, it was revealed that Hill had a torn labrum in his left shoulder, and had been pitching through it all season. He was placed on the disabled list for the rest of the season and underwent surgery to repair the labrum on August 8. Hill was outrighted off the 40 man roster on October 30 and elected free agency on November 3.\n\nOn January 26, 2010, Hill signed a minor league contract with the St. Louis Cardinals with an invite to spring training. General Manager John Mozeliak said that Hill was recovered from his surgery and was expected to compete for the fifth starter job. Hill struggled in spring training, which was frustrating for him and he was beaten out by Jaime García in the battle for the fifth starter spot.\n\nHill was assigned to the Triple-A Memphis Redbirds where he had a 4–3 record in 23 games (46 IP) plus a 4.30 ERA and 47 strikeouts. He only made four starts and was primarily used out of the bullpen for the first time in his career. In June of that year, he opted out of his contract with St. Louis.\n\nOn June 30, 2010, Hill signed a minor league contract with the Boston Red Sox. He was assigned to the Triple-A Pawtucket Red Sox. He appeared in 19 games for them, six of which were starts, and had a 3–1 record and 3.74 ERA. Hill was called up to the Red Sox major league roster on September 13 and made his debut with them as a reliever against the Seattle Mariners the following day, retiring the one batter he faced and recording the win. He appeared in six games the rest of the season, working four innings out of the bullpen, striking out three, walking one and allowing no runs to score. At the end of the season, he was outrighted to the minors and became a free agent on November 6.\n\nThe Red Sox re-signed Hill to a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training on December 16, 2010. Hill transitioned to a \"sidewinder\" pitcher during spring training and out performed other relievers trying to make the roster but was optioned back to Pawtucket to start the season. He appeared in 10 games in the minors, pitching 16 innings and had a 1.12 ERA with one save. His contract was purchased by the Red Sox and he was called up to the majors on May 5.\n\nOn May 29, Hill injured his left throwing elbow and on June 9, he underwent Tommy John surgery to repair a torn Ulnar collateral ligament. In nine games with the Red Sox in 2011, Hill pitched eight innings, striking out 12, walking three and giving up no earned runs. On December 12, Hill was non-tendered, and became a free agent.\nOn December 30, 2011, the Red Sox again re-signed Hill to a minor-league contract that included an invitation to spring training. His recovery progressed ahead of schedule and he made his first rehab appearance in the minors, with the Greenville Drive, on April 7, 2012. He made 16 minor league rehab appearances, across five different levels, and had a 2.20 ERA with 27 strikeouts and five walks. He rejoined the Red Sox roster on April 27. He experienced renewed soreness in his elbow on June 10 and was placed back on the disabled list. He was diagnosed with a strained flexor muscle and he didn't rejoin the roster until September 1. Overall, he appeared in 25 games for the Red Sox in 2012, with a 1.83 ERA in 19 innings and 21 strikeouts. He was non-tendered on November 30 and became a free agent.\n\nOn February 7, 2013, Hill signed a minor league deal with an invite to big league spring training with the Cleveland Indians. Terry Francona, who had been Hill's manager during his time with the Red Sox, was now the manager in Cleveland and was impressed with his stuff and his comeback from the injury. On March 11, the Indians purchased his contract and added him to the 40-man roster. He made the opening day roster as a relief pitcher.\n\nOver the 2013 MLB season, he appeared in a career high 63 games, working 38 innings and was 1–2 with a 6.28 ERA. He also struck out 51 batters while walking 29. His average inherited runners stranded rate was 11.88. He was among the leaders in inherited runners stranded with 51. He became a free agent at the conclusion of the season.\n\nHill signed a minor league deal to return to the Red Sox on February 9, 2014. The deal included an invitation to spring training. Hill reported late to camp after a family emergency, which caused him to fall behind the other relievers in camp and he did not make the opening day roster. He was assigned to Pawtucket where he had a 3.23 ERA in 25 games.\n\nHill was traded to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim for cash considerations on July 1, 2014. He appeared in just two games for the Angels, both parts of a doubleheader that was played that day. In the first game, he allowed a single and walked two batters and in the second game, he walked the one batter he faced and threw a wild pitch. He was designated for assignment a few days later, without appearing in another game, and then released on July 11.\n\nOn July 17, 2014, Hill signed a minor league deal with the New York Yankees and was assigned to the Triple A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre RailRiders. With the RailRiders, he appeared in four games and did not allow a run. The Yankees promoted him to the major leagues on August 5. He was designated for assignment on August 29, but was re-added to the roster on September 2. Overall, he appeared in 14 games, working a total of 5 innings with a 1.69 ERA.\n\nOn February 27, 2015, Hill signed a minor league deal with the Washington Nationals that included an invitation to spring training. Even though he was signed late after camp had started, manager Matt Williams said they intended to have him compete for a bullpen spot on the team. Despite pitching well in exhibition games, Hill did not make the opening day roster and was reassigned to the Triple-A Syracuse Chiefs on April 4. He expressed his disappointment with the decision. He appeared in 25 games for the Chiefs, working 21 innings for a 2–2 record and 2.91 ERA. He was released by the Nationals on June 24 after exercising the opt out clause in his contract.\n\nOn July 28, 2015, after not receiving any other offers, Hill signed with the Long Island Ducks of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball. He made two starts with the Ducks. On August 9, he struck out 14 batters in six innings against the Camden Riversharks, tying the franchise record. He pitched 11 innings for the Ducks over those two starts, with 21 strikeouts, only three walks and two hits and no runs allowed.\n\nHill signed a minor league deal with the Red Sox on August 14, 2015. He made five starts for Pawtucket and was 3–2 with a 2.78 ERA. Hill was brought up from Pawtucket on September 8 and made his first major league start since 2009 on September 13, giving up one hit over seven innings, while striking out 10 batters and walking one. On September 25, Hill pitched a complete game two-hitter while striking out 10 batters for the third consecutive start. In four starts for the Red Sox, he was 2–1 with a 1.55 ERA and 36 strikeouts.\n\nOn November 17, 2015, Hill agreed to a one-year deal with the Oakland Athletics for $6 million. After spring training, Hill was named the fifth starter, but ended up starting on Opening Day after planned starter Sonny Gray was hospitalized with a case of food poisoning. With the Athletics, Hill had a 2.25 ERA and a record of 9-3 in 14 starts. Hill was named American League Pitcher of the Month for May 2016 after posting a 5–1 record with a 2.13 ERA and 37 strikeouts in six starts.\n\nOn August 1, 2016, the Athletics traded Hill and Josh Reddick to the Los Angeles Dodgers for Grant Holmes, Jharel Cotton, and Frankie Montas. He made his debut as a Dodger on August 24, pitching six scoreless innings and earning the win in a 1-0 game against the San Francisco Giants. On September 10 against the Miami Marlins, Hill pitched seven perfect innings before he was replaced by a relief pitcher. It was the first time in major league history that a manager had pulled a pitcher that late in the game with a perfect game in reach. In six starts for the Dodgers, he was 3–2 with a 1.83 ERA.\n\nHill started the second game of the 2016 National League Division Series against the Washington Nationals, pitching well for three innings before allowing a three-run home run to Jose Lobaton in the fourth inning of what became a 5–2 loss. He came back to pitch on short rest in the deciding game five, pitching 2 innings in a game the Dodgers eventually won 4–3. In game three of the 2016 National League Championship Series, Hill allowed only two hits in six innings in the Dodgers victory over the Chicago Cubs. However, the Cubs came back and beat the Dodgers in six games to win the series.\n\nOn December 5, 2016, the Dodgers re-signed Hill to a three-year, $48 million, contract. Hill came down with a blister on his left middle finger, an issue that had bothered him throughout the previous season.\n\nMaking his first start of the season against the San Diego Padres on April 5, 2017, Hill pitched five innings, but left the game with the lingering blister on his finger. Two days later, on April 7, Hill was placed on the 10-day disabled list. On April 17, Hill was again placed on the 10-day disabled list due to the same finger blister lingering, marking the second time in almost 11 days that Hill went on the disabled list. He returned to the lineup to earn National League Pitcher of the Month honors in July with a 4–0 record, 1.45 ERA and 40 strikeouts against only 5 walks in 5 starts.\n\nOn August 23, 2017, against the Pittsburgh Pirates, Hill was pitching a perfect game through eight innings until a fielding error by Logan Forsythe in the ninth. He remained in the game for the tenth inning but his no-hitter was ended by a walk-off home run by Josh Harrison, which was the first extra-innings walk-off home run to break up a no hitter (and second walk-off hit, following Harvey Haddix in 1959). This was the first perfect game broken up by a ninth-inning error in MLB history, and Hill became the first pitcher since Lefty Leifield of the 1906 Pittsburgh Pirates to lose a decision despite throwing at least nine innings with one or fewer hits and no walks allowed. For the 2017 season, he was 12–8 with a 3.32 ERA in 25 starts. Hill pitched in one game in the 2017 NLDS, allowing two runs in four innings and in one start in the 2017 NLCS, he limited the Cubs to one run on three hits in five innings, while striking out eight. In two starts in the 2017 World Series, he allowed a total of two runs on seven hits in 8 innings with 12 strikeouts.\n\nThrough the first two months of the 2018 season, Hill landed twice on the disabled list due to recurring blister issues in his pitching hand. He was 11–5 with a 3.66 ERA in 25 appearances (24 starts).\n\nHill started in game 4 of the 2018 World Series for the Dodgers and pitched through 6 innings against the Boston Red Sox having given up only one hit and thrown 91 pitches. He was then controversially pulled from the game by manager Dave Roberts after striking out Eduardo Nunez. The Red Sox scored 9 runs after Hill's departure from the game in an eventual 9-6 loss by the Dodgers who later lost the World Series 4 games to 1.\n\nAfter beginning the season in the Dodgers rotation, Hill suffered a left forearm strain in a game on June 19 and was placed on the disabled list. He rejoined the team in September and finished the season 4–1 with a 2.45 ERA in 13 starts. He was awarded the Tony Conigliaro Award for having overcome his arm troubles.\n\nOn December 31, 2019, Hill signed a one-year contract with the Minnesota Twins.\n\nDuring the inaugural MLB Players Weekend in 2017, Rich Hill wore the name \"BRICE\" on his jersey to honor his son. Hill wore the name \"D. Mountain\" on his jersey during the 2018 MLB Players Weekend. The name originated when Hill played for the Boston Red Sox in 2015. Teammate Brock Holt thought it would be funny to call him \"Dick\" for \"Richard\" and \"Mountain\" for \"Hill\", creating the moniker \"Dick Mountain.\"\n\nHill married Caitlin McClellan, a nurse, on November 11, 2007. The couple had two sons, Brice and Brooks. Brooks died in February 2014, aged two months, of lissencephaly and congenital nephrotic syndrome, which Hill wrote about in 2019.\n\nHill was arrested on December 21, 2019, for disorderly conduct and resisting arrest while attending a New England Patriots game at Gillette Stadium when he allegedly tried to stop police from putting his wife under arrest after the couple attempted to enter the stadium multiple times with an oversized bag in violation of the NFL's stringent bag rules. The criminal charges were all later dropped and the couple paid a total of $1,000 in civil fines.\n"}
{"id": "2101944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101944", "title": "The Time Wanderers", "text": "The Time Wanderers\n\nThe Time Wanderers (also known as The Waves Extinguish the Wind; ) is a 1985 science fiction novel by Soviet writers Boris and Arkady Strugatsky, set in the Noon Universe. The book is narrated by Maxim Kammerer, and tells the story of \"The Great Revelation\".\n\nThe principal characters are Maxim Kammerer and Toivo Glumov, both working for an organization which investigates \"Unexplained Events\" (UEs). Their investigation of a series of events leads them to believe that they are witnesses to a new action by the Wanderers.\n\nAfter much investigation, the UEs are discovered to be the work of a secret society called the Ludens. They claim to have chosen this name for themselves as a derivative of the Russian word \"lyudi\" \"humans\", \"people\" with several semi-jocular allusions such as the popular Latin phrase \"Homo Ludens\" \"the Playing Man\" and an anagram of the Russian word \"nelyudi\" \"inhuman people\" (as they believe they are regarded by some \"ordinary\" humans). The Ludens are born human, but possess latent mental powers far beyond those of normal humans. They view themselves as a distinct species, and claim to have \"different interests\" from humanity at large, in some instances claiming to be above traditional human morality. The Ludens routinely conduct experiments on humans and alter their minds in order to further their own means.\n\nKammerer and Glumov's investigation unmasks the Ludens, and they are made public in what would later become known as \"The Great Revelation\". It turns out that Glumov possesses this capacity, and must now decide whether or not to become a Luden himself. He at first states that to join the Ludens would be a betrayal of his family, friends, and human civilization. But he decides to try it out, if only to serve as Humanity's \"ambassador\" with them. Soon all contacts with Glumov are lost, Kammerer hypothesizing that he \"just forgot about us now\". Indeed, the story is told as Maxim's memoir, his sole intent in writing it being to clear up the story of Glumov: another source (in the fictional setting) had implied that Glumov was in the Luden group all along.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101956", "title": "White Incarnation", "text": "White Incarnation\n\nWhite Incarnation is an album released by the Pillows on May 21, 1992. Recorded in Britain, it is the band's final record to feature the original lineup, as bassist Kenji Ueda left shortly after.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101963", "title": "Jerome Williams (baseball)", "text": "Jerome Williams (baseball)\n\nJerome Lee Williams (born December 4, 1981) is a former American professional baseball pitcher.\n\nHe played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Francisco Giants, Chicago Cubs, Washington Nationals, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Houston Astros, Texas Rangers, Philadelphia Phillies and St. Louis Cardinals, and in the Chinese Professional Baseball League (CPBL) for the Uni-President Lions.\n\nWilliams was the San Francisco Giants first-round draft pick in the 1999 Major League Baseball Draft, the 39th overall selection. He spent 4 and a half years in the minors, compiling a record of 27–26 before being called up in 2003. He was a regular starter in the Giants rotation in 2003–2004, going 7–5 with a 3.30 ERA in 2003.\n\nIn 2004, Williams started 22 games for the Giants, recording 10 wins with a 4.24 ERA.\n\nIn 2005, Williams started 3 games for the Giants before being traded to the Cubs.\n\nHe was acquired by the Chicago Cubs along with David Aardsma for LaTroy Hawkins during the 2005 season. In Williams' Cubs debut, he pitched 7 innings, giving up 2 runs and striking out six Milwaukee Brewers players, and ended up going 6–8 for the Cubs. Williams, however, played most of 2006 with the Cubs' Triple-A affiliate, the Iowa Cubs, appearing only in 5 games for the Cubs.\n\nOn January 12, 2007, Williams was signed by the Washington Nationals organization and in spring training earned a slot in the Nationals starting rotation.\n\nWilliams had a rough April for the Nationals, his ERA ballooning to 7.77 before he pitched a brilliant game at the end of the month, pitching six innings of one-hit shut-out ball against the New York Mets. But he sprained his left ankle sliding into second base, and landed on the 15-day disabled list. He came back on May 15, lasting only two innings, allowing five runs on seven hits, and leaving with a rotator-cuff injury. His rehabilitation in the minors did not go well, and after 14 appearances with Double-A Harrisburg, in which he compiled a 9.08 ERA, on August 5, he was released.\n\nOn August 8, 2007, he signed a minor league contract with the Minnesota Twins.\n\nWilliams, however, struggled mightily with Rochester and in 8 games had an ERA of 9.00 and was let go after the season.\n\nIn April , he signed a contract with the Long Beach Armada of the Golden Baseball League.\n\nOn June 24, 2008, the Los Angeles Dodgers purchased his contract and he played in their minor league system through the end of the season.\n\nAt the end of the minor league season, September 5, 2008, Williams was waived by the Dodgers and then claimed by the Oakland Athletics. Williams did not play for Oakland and was not tendered a contract after the season, making him a free agent. He subsequently re-signed with Oakland and spent 2009 with their top farm club, the Sacramento River Cats of the Pacific Coast League.\n\nWilliams played winter baseball for the Indios de Mayaguez in Puerto Rico in 2008–09. He played for the Uni-President Lions of CPBL in Taiwan during 2010.\n\nOn June 16, 2011, Williams signed a minor league contract with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He was assigned to the Triple-A Salt Lake Bees. Williams had his contract purchased on August 16, after recording a 3.91 ERA in 11 games and innings in Triple-A.\n\nOn August 21, 2011, Williams acquired his first major league win since 2005 in his first major league start since 2007. He finished the season with a 4–0 record in 10 games.\n\nIn June 2012, Williams had breathing problems and later collapsed in the clubhouse, forcing the Angels to place him on the disabled list. For the first time since his rookie year, Williams spent the whole season in the big leagues. He was a key asset for Anaheim out of the bullpen, being their long man/spot starter. Williams appeared in 32 games, and made 15 starts for the Angels. He compiled a 6–8 record with a 4.58 ERA.\n\nIn 2013, Williams made 25 starts for the Angels, appearing in 37 games overall. After recording a 9–10 record with a 4.57 ERA in 2013, Williams was non-tendered by the Angels, making him a free agent.\n\nOn February 6, 2014, Williams signed a one-year contract with the Houston Astros. He was designated for assignment on July 1, 2014. He was released on July 8.\n\nOn July 11, 2014, Williams inked a minor league deal with the Texas Rangers. He was designated for assignment on August 8.\n\nOn August 10, 2014, the Philadelphia Phillies claimed Williams off waivers. On September 20, Williams became the first pitcher in MLB history to defeat the same club with three different teams in the same season, defeating the Athletics with the Astros, Rangers, and Phillies. He signed a one-year contract to stay with the Phillies on October 21, 2014.\n\nOn June 3, 2016, the St. Louis Cardinals signed Williams to Minor League contract. He was immediately added to the rotation of the Memphis Redbirds, their AAA team.\n\nOn May 12, 2017, Williams signed with the Somerset Patriots of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball. On November 1, 2017, he became a free agent.\n\nOn May 4, 2018, Williams signed with the Acereros de Monclova of the Mexican Baseball League.\n\nWilliams' retirement from baseball was confirmed on December 10, 2018.\n\nHe throws a sinker at 89–93 mph, a four-seam fastball at 90-94 mph, a cut fastball at 87–91 mph, a changeup from 83-86 mph, a slider at 78-83 mph, and a curveball at 70–75 mph.\n\nWilliams grew up in Waipahu, Hawaii and is a 1999 graduate of Waipahu High School.\n\nHe was well known for wearing a puka shell necklace at all times on the playing field, in honor of his mother Deborah, who died of breast cancer in 2001 while he was still a minor league pitcher. He stopped wearing it after a bad start in 2005, but resumed wearing it by spring training of 2007. He also sported a pink glove whenever he pitched, a symbol for the efforts of finding the cure for breast cancer.\n"}
{"id": "2101973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101973", "title": "Ken Amato", "text": "Ken Amato\n\nKenneth Carlos Amato (born May 18, 1977) is a former American football long snapper and current defensive assistant coach for the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League (NFL). Prior to his coaching career, he spent nine seasons as a long snapper for the Tennessee Titans. He played college football at Montana State.\n\nKen Amato attended Braddock High School in Miami, Florida. He was a Dade County All-Star Team member in football, and also participated in volleyball and in track and field as a high jumper. Amato learned to long snap in his last year playing Pop Warner football, but he did not do it again until college.\n\nAmato attended Moorpark Junior College for two years, then transferred to Montana State University. He served as the long snapper all four years. As a sophomore, he won All-Conference honors. As a junior, he played defensive end and linebacker, and posted 48 tackles and 2.5 sacks. As a senior, he had three sacks, one fumble recovery, and 41 tackles.\n\nAfter his college eligibility expired at the end of the 1998 season Amato spent the next two years finishing his degree while also assisting Montana State's coaching staff with video work, as well as other tasks.\n\nAfter graduation, he then spent two years working as a full-time juvenile service specialist in Miami, Florida. He then joined the Carolina Panthers 2002 and 2003. However, he was released during training camp each season. After being released by the Panthers for the second time, he signed with the Tennessee Titans on August 12, 2003. He played as long snapper in every regular season game for Tennessee that season, as well as on special teams. He also played linebacker in extra linebacker situations, and made seven career tackles in that position.\n\nAfter retiring from professional football in 2011, Amato became the outside linebackers coach at Brentwood High School in Brentwood, Tennessee in 2013. After three seasons in that position, he became the special teams coordinator at Limestone College in 2016.\n\nIn 2017, he joined the Dallas Cowboys as a special teams assistant. In February 2018, he was named a defensive assistant on the coaching staff of head coach Jason Garrett.\n\nAmato’s father, Paul, is Italian-Irish and his mother, Isora Gotay, is from Puerto Rico. Amato married his wife Sandi in July 2004. The couple resides in Brentwood, Tennessee. They have a daughter named Jazlyn (born May 6, 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "2101975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101975", "title": "The Awakening (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Awakening (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Awakening is the second serial of the 21st season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was originally broadcast on BBC1 on 19 and 20 January 1984.\n\nThe serial is set in the fictional English village of Little Hodcombe in 1984. In the serial, a psychic alien creature called the Malus takes control of Sir George Hutchinson (Denis Lill) to feed and awaken it with the help of deadly re-enactments of the English Civil War.\n\nOn 13 July 1643, two forces came to the village of Little Hodcombe during the English Civil War and destroyed each other. As the story begins, a group of Roundheads are riding horses in the village of Little Hodcombe, with little regard to the villagers around them. Only it is not 1643, it is 1984.\n\nA schoolteacher, Jane Hampden, is convinced that her fellow villagers, led by the town’s leader, Sir George Hutchinson, have taken their re-enactment of a series of war games too far. Hutchinson attempts to assure her that the games are a harmless event, which are merely to celebrate the English Civil War. When Hampden asks him to stop the games, Hutchinson ignores her.\n\nInside the TARDIS, the Fifth Doctor promises to take his companion, Tegan, to 1984 so she could spend some time with her grandfather, Andrew Verney. The Doctor sets the coordinates to Little Hodcombe, where Verney resides. However, the TARDIS experiences some turbulence and arrives in what appears to be a structurally unstable church. The Doctor, Tegan and Turlough, while watching on the scanner, see a man in 17th century clothing, fleeing from the church and the Doctor dashes out to help him. However, the man has now vanished. Tegan is convinced that they have landed in the wrong time zone. However, Turlough tells her that he had checked the TARDIS coordinates and they were in 1984. As the Time Lord and his companions continue to pursue the man, smoke starts to billow from a crack in the wall.\n\nEventually, the three travellers are captured by Captain Joseph Willow and taken to Sir George Hutchinson. The Doctor and his companions are first brought before Hampden and Colonel Ben Woolsey, who apologises for the poor treatment that they received. Hutchinson arrives and explains to the Doctor that the town is celebrating the anniversary of the Battle of Little Hodcombe and then he urges him to join the celebration. Tegan then explains that they have come to this village to see her grandfather, Andrew Verney. She is informed that her grandfather is missing, and runs out of the room, upset. The Doctor follows but loses her. Tegan is still crying, when someone steals her purse. She tries to get it back and runs into a barn where she sees the ghost of an old man.\n\nThe Doctor returns to the church and meets a 17th-century peasant, Will Chandler, who emerges from a wall. He has been hidden in a priest hole and believes the year to be 1643. Turlough eventually rescues Tegan from the barn and they return to the TARDIS, where they see a sparkly projection made of illuminated white squares on one of the walls. Meanwhile, the Doctor and Will investigate the church. Tegan and Turlough leave the TARDIS and they are re-captured. Turlough is locked in a building with Verney. Willow forces Tegan to change into a 17th-century costume. He informs her that she is to become the Queen of the May.\n\nThe Doctor and Will continue to investigate. Eventually they find a secret passage back to Ben Woolsey’s living room under a slab marked with a picture of a creature that Will identifies as the Malus. Coming the other way through the passage, the Doctor and Will meet up with Hampden, who found the passage’s other end by accident after being locked in Colonel Wolsey's office. They avoid Hutchinson, who has followed Jane down the passage, and the Doctor finds a small ball of metal. The Doctor identifies the metal as “tinclavic,” a metal “mined by the Terileptils on the planet Raaga for the almost exclusive use of the people of Hakol,” a planet in the “star system Rifta,” where “psychic energy is a force to be harnessed.”\n\nReturning to the church, the Doctor and Hampden are astonished when a massive alien face pushes its way through the crack on the wall, roaring and spewing smoke. They manage to escape from the psychic projection of a cavalier, and head back to the house via the tunnel. The Doctor realises that the Malus in the church was discovered by Verney and Hutchinson. The latter tried to exploit the creature, but instead, the creature began to use him by organising the war games. He deduces that the psychic energy released by the war games has fed the Malus. The Doctor and Jane again try to persuade Hutchinson to stop the games, as the final battle will be for real. He refuses and orders Woolsey to kill the Doctor. However, once Hutchinson leaves, Woolsey joins forces with the Doctor.\n\nThe Queen of the May is taken in a horse-drawn cart towards the village green, where she is to be burned. When the cart arrives, Hutchinson suddenly noticed that the Queen is not Tegan, but a straw dummy that has been put in her place by Woolsey. Hutchinson becomes angry and he orders his men to kill Woolsey and the others. Will appears in the nick of time and uses a flame torch to cause a distraction, which allows the Doctor, Hampden, Woolsey and Tegan to escape and get back to the TARDIS. The Doctor locks the signal conversion unit on the frequency of the psychic energy feeding the Malus, hoping to be able to direct it. Willow and a trooper try in vain to break their way into the TARDIS, and Turlough and Verney knock them unconscious with lumps of masonry. The Doctor succeeds in blocking the energy, and the projection of the Malus in the TARDIS dies. The real Malus, in an act of desperation, attempts to drain as much psychic energy from the villagers as possible. He creates a corporeal projection of three roundheads who try to kill the Doctor, Woolsey, Tegan, Turlough, Hampden, Verney and Will. However, the dazed and confused trooper stumbles from the TARDIS and into the main church area, becomes surrounded by the roundheads, and they decapitate him then vanish.\n\nHutchinson arrives and holds them all at gunpoint. When the Doctor tries to talk Hutchinson out of the thrall of the Malus, Willow attacks the group. In the scuffle, Will pushes Hutchinson into the mouth of the Malus, destroying the Malus's medium. Realising it has failed, the Malus prepares to destroy itself and everything around it. Subsequently, the church begins to collapse and the Doctor leads the others, including Willow, into the safety of the TARDIS.\n\nInside the TARDIS, the Doctor's companions are surprised to see Will still among them. The Doctor explains that he must have been wrong in his assumption that Will was a psychic projection. He then says that the Malus must have created a temporal rift, which allowed Will to slip into the future. The Doctor then says that he will take Will back to 1643. Tegan objects and ask the Doctor to allow her some time to visit her grandfather. The Doctor is initially disgruntled, but he is persuaded to stay in Little Hodcombe for a while for a rest.\n\nThe two episodes were combined into a single omnibus edition broadcast on 20 July 1984, reaching 4.4 million viewers.\n\nThe working titles of this story were \"War Game\" and \"Poltergeist\". Pringle had submitted this story in the mid-1970s to then-script editor Robert Holmes as a four-part story entitled \"War Game\". In the 1980s he resubmitted his story (as well as a different four-parter, \"The Darkness\", possibly featuring the Daleks) to script editor Eric Saward. Realizing the story did not have enough impact for four episodes, it was later pared down to two, renamed \"Poltergeist\" and then finally \"The Awakening\". John Nathan-Turner liked the character of Will Chandler a great deal and seriously considered keeping him on as a companion. However, it was eventually concluded that Chandler's childlike character would quickly wear thin and lacked any clear path of development, so Nathan-Turner dropped the idea.\n\nThe story featured extensive location shooting and studio work. Two villages are used to portray Little Hodcombe: Shapwick in Dorset and Martin in Hampshire. Saward wanted to add a TARDIS sequence with Tegan and Kamelion, utilising the robot prop and played in chameleonic form by Peter Davison and Mark Strickson. However, this scene was cut from the transmitted episode for timing reasons. The recovery of an early edit of episode one on video (in the personal archive of late producer John Nathan-Turner) means that this element, previously thought lost, was included on the DVD release of the serial. A small part of the scene has appeared in the documentary \"Kamelion: Metal Man\" which featured on the DVD release of \"The King's Demons\".\n\nThe master tape for Part One was found to have some scratch damage when the 1984 compilation version was being mastered; no protection copy was made at that time so the original tx master continued to deteriorate. The tape was checked in the early 1990s and the scratch damage found to be far more intrusive than it had been in 1984; fortunately, the original film sequences were kept and using these, the compilation copy and the reprise from part 2, in 1997 the Doctor Who Restoration Team were able to make a repaired master copy. This was used for the VHS release.\n\nThis was officially the final story of the series to consist of two 25-minute episodes. All two-parters since then have been 45 minutes long per episode, including most of season 22 and several stories of the revived series. \"The Ultimate Foe\", the concluding segment of \"The Trial of a Time Lord\", is numbered on screen as Parts Thirteen and Fourteen of the latter title; furthermore, they share the same BBC production code, 7C, with the preceding four-part story arc, \"Terror of the Vervoids\", even though they have their own separate novelisation and feature compilation.\n\nThe production designer for this story, Barry Newbery, had worked on \"Doctor Who\" intermittently ever since its very first story. After completing \"Awakening\", Newbery took early retirement from the BBC, making this story his last professional effort.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Eric Pringle, was published by Target Books in February 1985.\n\n\"The Awakening\" was released on a double VHS set with \"Frontios\" in September 1997. The DVD was released in a box set named Earth Story along with \"The Gunfighters\" on 20 June 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101992", "title": "Kool Spice", "text": "Kool Spice\n\nKool Spice is an album released by the Pillows on July 2, 1994. It is the band's first record to be released through King Records. Original bassist Kenji Ueda was replaced for this album by guest bassist Tatsuya Kashima.\n\n"}
{"id": "2101995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101995", "title": "Hrólfs saga Gautrekssonar", "text": "Hrólfs saga Gautrekssonar\n\nHrólfs saga Gautrekssonar is a Scandinavian legendary saga which was put to text in Iceland in the 13th century. It has a prequel in \"Gautreks saga\".\n\nGautrekr was a Geatish king who descended from Odin himself. He lost his wife Alfhild and went somewhat out of his mind, ignored all matters of state, and spent all his time on Alfhild's burial mound, flying his hawk.\n\nHe had two sons Ketill and Hrólfr Gautreksson, and Ketill became a great Viking who inherited his father's kingdom.\n\nIn Uppsala ruled Erik, the king of Sweden, who had only had one child, Þornbjörg, born a daughter. He was a transmasculine king who would rather fight and partake in masculine activities then participate in traditionally feminine undertakings. He also preferred to be called Thorberg, a male name, and insisted on using male pronouns. He was called \"Þórbergr konungr\", king Thorberg. Thorberg's father gave him the royal estate of Ulleråker, where he kept a retinue of housecarls.\n\nKetill suggested that Hrólfr make a try to woo the king and after much hesitation, Hrólfr agreed. His brother said that \"it would be the most noble marriage in the Northlands to have the daughter of the king at Uppsala for wife\" and \"many have little courage in a big body and it is a shame that you who are a man durst not speak to womenfolk\".\n\nHrólfr summoned his courage and went to Ulleråker with his fosterbrother Ingjald of Denmark and sixty well-armed warriors to woo Thorberg.\n\nÞórbergr was sitting on the throne, dressed in armor. When Hrólfr proposed, he rushed up, grabbed his weapons and ordered his men to \"fetch and bind the fool who offended king Þórbergr\". Hrólfr put on his helmet and asked his housecarls to leave and then he manfully slew no less than twelve of Þórbergr's champions before he had to flee the overwhelming foe. Everybody in his company returned to Geatland alive.\n\nAfter a Viking campaign in the West to both Scotland and Brittany, Hrólfr steered his fleet of six ships and a selected crew northwards and did not stop until he reached Uppsala. When the new peace agreement between Hrólfr and king Erik had been established, Hrólf went to Ulleråker to propose once more to the Þórbergr.\n\nÞórbergr screamed that he'd become a shepherd in Geatland before he had any power over him. After a hard fight Þórbergr was captured and not long afterwards he married Hrólfr.\n\nAfter some time Hrólfr succeeded his brother Ketill as the king of the Geats, but that story was not recorded.\n\nAccording to a Swedish tradition, he is buried in Bälinge near Alingsås on \"Rolfsborg\" on \"Rolf's hill\". .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102005", "title": "Batman: No Man's Land", "text": "Batman: No Man's Land\n\nBatman: No Man’s Land is an American comic book crossover storyline that ran for almost all of 1999 through the \"Batman\" comic book titles published by DC Comics. The story architecture for \"No Man's Land\" and the outline of all the Batman continuity titles for 1999 were written by cartoonist Jordan B. Gorfinkel.\n\nThe lead-up story began with the \"\" story arc, which described a major earthquake hitting Gotham City. This was followed by the storylines \"Aftershock\" and then \"Road to No Man's Land\", which resulted in the U.S. government officially evacuating Gotham and then abandoning and isolating those who chose to remain in the city. \"No Man’s Land\" covered, in detail, a period in the lives of the residents of the city, explaining all events from the time of isolation, until its time of re-opening and the beginning of rebuilding.\n\nThe main storyline ran through the monthly Batman titles \"Detective Comics\", \"Batman\", \"\", and \"\" with other spin-offs serving as tie-ins. In all, \"No Man's Land\" encompassed 80 regular monthly issues, four specials, and the \"Batman: Harley Quinn\" graphic novel.\n\nThe storyline is divided into several arcs. A part of the story would continue from one Batman title and then to the next Batman title that would come the following week, much like the same format that was being used in the \"Superman\" comics at that time. Unlike the \"Superman\" comics, where a creative team is maintained for one monthly title, the same creative team is maintained for the duration of the story arc.\n\nThe core storyline was originally collected as trade paperbacks in five volumes. However, because of the large number of issues that were devoted to \"No Man's Land\", only 40 of them made it into the original collections. DC has since released a new collection of \"No Man's Land\" volumes that includes issues previously uncollected.\n\nA novelization of the story line was also written by Greg Rucka and released as hardcover in January 2000.\n\nGotham City suffers the results of a magnitude 7.6 earthquake in the \"\" storyline. In response, the US government evacuates most of the civilian population, then declares Gotham a \"no man's land\", destroys all bridges leading to the island, and sets up a military blockade to prevent people from entering or exiting. Gangs and various supervillains Batman had battled over the years swiftly carve up the city. The city's police's commissioner, James Gordon, and several members of his department, who dub their gang the Blue Boys stay behind to protect civilians. Oracle and Huntress also end up on the inside. Bruce Wayne leaves the city to lobby the government to continue aid to Gotham, but fails. Gordon and his men wait for Batman's return, but he disappears for months, leading the police to believe that he has abandoned Gotham. A bitterly disappointed Gordon denounces Batman and refuses even to speak his name. Huntress attempts to keep order, fashioning a Batgirl costume. She soon discovers that criminals fear her more as Batgirl than they do as Huntress and succeeds in holding territory of her own.\n\nAs Penguin continues his trading operation, Joker takes control of an area of Gotham City and dubs it \"Jokerville.\" Commission Gordon and three police officers enter the Street Demonz territory to deface their logo with the Lo Boyz logo only to be caught leaving by three Street Demonz members.\n\nBefore the Street Demonz can kill Commissioner Gordon and the police officers with him, they are saved by SWAT Lieutenant William \"Billy\" Pettit. On Day 98, Oracle chronicles the gang war between the Street Demonz and the Lo Boyz. Batman returns and rescues Alfred Pennyworth from some thugs. One of them falls into the river and sets off some mines. On Day 102, the Blue Boys managed to take over the Street Demonz' territory. Batman finds Huntress operating as Batgirl and allows her to continue to use the costume.\n\nBatman and Alfred make a makeshift Batcave to serve as part of their territory. Then he takes over Ventriloquist's territory and drives him and Scarface away after briefly holding him captive. Then he tells Rhino and the rest of Ventriloquist's gang that they work for him now..\n\nWhen Huntress fails to hold off Two-Face and his army of men and loses Batman's territory, she abandons the Batgirl costume.\n\nBatman and the police work separately to reclaim Gotham, piece by piece, by battling and subduing the gang leaders and then marking the reclaimed territory with graffiti. However, a schism erupts between Gordon and Lt. Pettit, whose militaristic, take-no-prisoners methods shock and outrage Gordon; the Blue Boys subsequently break into two separate factions, with most of Pettit's officers siding with him to form the Strong Men.\n\nPoison Ivy takes up residence in Robinson Park, and Batman — after helping her defeat Clayface's attempts to control the park and thus Gotham's fresh fruit supply — allows her to remain there as long as she cares for various orphans who had retreated to the park, as well as distributing food to the rest of the city. Victor Zsasz claimed a territory in Gotham City as he contends with Leslie Thompkins. Mr. Freeze did the same thing where he even competed against Gearhead whose armless and legless body was being carried around by the thuggish Tommy Mangles. Superman briefly visits the city to restore some degree of order, but quickly realizes that the city's current state of anarchy and 'might-makes-right' requires a greater effort than the 'quick-fix' he had been expecting and departs. He later returns as Clark Kent to visit Batman and advise locals on how to improve their burgeoning agriculture.\n\nA simultaneous story in \"JLA\" reveals that the Justice League keeps an eye on Gotham during this time by preventing various villains from claiming the territory for themselves. Robin's father, Jack, discovers that his son is in Gotham, and believing Tim entered the city for some sort of dare, petitions the government for a search and rescue for Tim which inadvertently attracts media attention and further public support for the city's revival.\n\nGordon briefly allies himself with Two-Face to reclaim vital territory, but Two-Face betrays the alliance to claim a greater amount of land for himself. Two-Face also hires David Cain to kill Gordon, but his mute daughter Cassandra, who has become one of Oracle’s agents, thwarts Cain. Cassandra later becomes the second Batgirl to help clean up No Man's Land. Later, Two-Face kidnaps Gordon and puts him on trial for breaking the alliance. Police officer Renee Montoya reaches out to Two-Face's Harvey Dent persona, whose defense leads to Gordon's acquittal. While cross-examining himself, Dent concludes that Two-Face had essentially blackmailed Gordon into the alliance; hence, any agreement between them is null and void.\n\nThrough the efforts of Lucius Fox, Batman succeeds in getting the attention of Lex Luthor, who arrives in Gotham with plans to completely rebuild the city. Attempts by the Joker to disrupt construction are thwarted by Bane, who has been hired by Luthor in exchange for his own private country. Bane, who has been causing trouble in No Man's Land before, is looking to get revenge on Batman, who convinces him to leave and claim his payment before Luthor reneges on their deal.\n\nBowing to intense pressure from the people and the media, the government reverses the No Man's Land order and allows Gotham to rejoin the United States. Gordon and his surviving officers are promoted. On Christmas Day, Joker attacks Pettit's compound. Pettit is killed and the Huntress barely survives a battle with the Joker's men.\n\nThe Joker later kidnaps all of Gotham's babies, hiding them in the police station. When Sarah Essen Gordon stumbles upon the scene, the Joker shoots her in the head as she scrambles to catch a baby he dropped. Incredibly, the Joker finds no humor in Sarah's death and stoically surrenders to the police. Batman convinces a grief-stricken Gordon to refrain from killing the Joker, in order to prove that their city can still maintain its morale. When the Joker, who in the course of the Post-\"Crisis\" narrative has harmed Gordon's entire family, mockingly asks Gordon if he has a son, Gordon shoots the Joker through the kneecap instead; the Joker laments that he may never walk again, but then laughs hysterically upon realizing that . Gordon then breaks down as Batman comforts him.\n\nLuthor's philanthropy is revealed to be a cover for his true intentions: to destroy the deeds to much of the property in Gotham and claim it for himself under false names. Lucius Fox, acting on a tip, discovers copies of the original documents and notifies Luthor. Luthor, feigning ignorance, attempts to kill Fox, but Batman intervenes and reveals that he is the one who anonymously tipped the Wayne Enterprises' CEO. He tells Luthor that Gotham is not for sale and warns him to leave while he still can.\n\nGordon, in mourning, is tending to the garden at his apartment when Batman comes to visit. Gordon vents about the many frustrations of working with Batman, who had at first disappeared and left Gordon to fight alone. To regain his trust, Batman removes his cowl, only to find Gordon has turned away, insisting that he put the mask back on.\n\nThe story ends with the citizens of Gotham ringing in the New Year and fireworks exploded, while Gordon says his last goodbyes to his wife. Batman, placing roses at his parents' grave, prepares to spend another year as Gotham City's protector.\n\nThe story ran through the following issues:\nTwo of the storylines immediately following \"No Man's Land\" were collected as trade paperbacks with the subtitles \"New Gotham 1\" and \"New Gotham 2\", respectively, playing up the fact that they were set in the rebuilt Gotham City following \"No Man's Land\". These were \"Batman: Evolution\" from \"Detective Comics\" #743-750 and \"Batman: Officer Down\", collecting the story from \"Batman\" #587, \"Robin\" #86, \"Birds of Prey\" #27, \"Catwoman\" #90, \"Nightwing\" #53, \"Detective Comics\" #754, and \"Gotham Knights\" #13.\n\nOf the 80 issues under the \"No Man's Land\" banner, 40 were collected into trade paperbacks:\n\n\nIn December 2011, DC started re-issuing the storyline in \"complete\" editions that will collect all of the comics involved.\n\n\nIn 2000, DC Comics published a novelization of \"No Man's Land\" written by Greg Rucka. The story features many of the same characters as the comic book arc. It also describes other members of the GCPD. The book omits the characters of Azrael and Superman, who were present throughout in the comics.\n\nThere is also a shorter junior novel written by Alan Grant.\n\nGraphicAudio produced an audiobook of the novelization which spans two volumes and features a full cast, music and sound effects. The first part was released in October and the second part in November 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2102008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102008", "title": "Uptown Girl", "text": "Uptown Girl\n\n\"Uptown Girl\" is a song written and performed by American musician Billy Joel. The lyrics describe a working-class \"downtown man\" attempting to woo a wealthy \"uptown girl\". It was released on September 29, 1983, on his ninth studio album \"An Innocent Man\" (1983).\n\nThe 12\" EP featured the tracks \"My Life\", \"Just the Way You Are\" and \"It's Still Rock and Roll to Me\" (catalogue number TA3775), whereas some 7\" single versions featured \"Careless Talk\" as a B-side.\n\nAccording to an interview with Howard Stern, Joel had originally titled the song \"Uptown Girls\" and it was conceived on an occasion when he was surrounded by Christie Brinkley, Whitney Houston and his then-girlfriend Elle Macpherson. According to numerous interviews with Joel, the song was initially written about his relationship with Macpherson, but it ended up also becoming about his soon-to-be wife, Brinkley, both women being two of the most famous supermodels of the 1980s. Joel also has said that the song was inspired by the music of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons.\nThe video depicts Joel and his backup singers working as auto mechanics. Brinkley arrives in a chauffeured vehicle as Joel and the mechanics dance with her. A poster of Brinkley can be seen in the garage as well as on a billboard above the garage advertising \"Uptown cosmetics\". At the end of the video Joel and Brinkley ride off on a motorcycle.\n\n\"Uptown Girl\" peaked at number three on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for five consecutive weeks from November 12 to December 10, 1983. It also reached number one in the United Kingdom, staying at that position for five weeks as his only number-one hit in the country. It was the second biggest-selling single of 1983 in the United Kingdom behind only Culture Club's \"Karma Chameleon\", which Joel had knocked off the number-one position on November 1, 1983. The song was the 19th biggest-selling single of the 1980s in the United Kingdom, selling 975,000 copies. It has sold over 1.06 million copies as of 2017.\n\n\"Uptown Girl\" (rereleased as double A-side with \"Angels Wings\" in 2002) was recorded by Irish boy band Westlife for their third studio album, \"World of Our Own\". It was released on March 6, 2001 as the first single from the album. It was also the 2001 \"Comic Relief\" charity single. The song was also released as the fifth single for the European Special Edition and Asian Deluxe Edition Bonus Disc of the group's second album, \"Coast to Coast\" (2000). The Westlife version is slightly shorter than the Billy Joel version because one of the verses was not repeated. The music video was a parody of the Billy Joel one, with the members of Westlife playing workers in a burger bar, and Claudia Schiffer in the Christie Brinkley role.\n\nOn May 12, 2018, the song was performed on South Korean music programme 'Immortal Songs 2' by Baek Hyeong-hun & Ki Se-jung. Band member Shane Filan was the featured 'Legend' and judged the participants. He also performed the song on his solo tours.\n\n\"Uptown Girl\" reached number one in Ireland, Mexico and the United Kingdom. It became the biggest selling single of 2001 and the tenth best-selling single of all-time in Ireland. In the United Kingdom, it was the sixth best selling single of 2001 and the 24th best-selling single of the decade in the UK charts, with sales of 756,215 copies. It became the band's biggest selling single (paid-for and combined sales categories) in the UK and also achieved the highest first week sales (292,318 copies) of any of their singles. It has since been certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry for shipments of 600,000 copies. In Mexico the song was the 4th best selling single of 2001. As of March 2017, the song has sold almost 800,000 copies in the country from physical and digital copies which make up 81% of the total units. As of January 2019, it has 920,000 total sales. It is also their second most streamed song in the United Kingdom of all-time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102014", "title": "The Golden Child", "text": "The Golden Child\n\nThe Golden Child is a 1986 American fantasy comedy film directed by Michael Ritchie and starring Eddie Murphy as Chandler Jarrell, who is informed that he is \"The Chosen One\" and is destined to save \"The Golden Child\", the savior of all humankind.\n\nThe film was produced and distributed by Paramount Pictures and received a total gross of $79,817,937 at the United States (US) box office.\n\nIn a remote temple in Tibet, a young boy with mystical powers – the Golden Child – receives badges of station and demonstrates his power to the monks of the temple by reviving a dead eastern rosella, which becomes a constant companion and familiar. A mysterious man, Sardo Numspa, has his men break into the temple, slaughter the monks and abduct the boy.\n\nA young woman, Kee Nang, watches a Los Angeles TV show in which social worker Chandler Jarrell talks about his latest case, a missing girl named Cheryll Mosley. Kee seeks him out and informs him of the kidnapping of the Golden Child and that he is the \"chosen one\" who would save the Child. Chandler does not take this seriously, even after the bird begins following him and seeing an astral projection of the Child. The next day, Cheryll Mosley is found dead near an abandoned house smeared with Tibetan graffiti and a pot full of blood-soaked oatmeal. Kee reveals to Chandler that this house was a holding place for the Child and introduces him to Doctor Hong, a mystic expert, and Kala (a creature half dragon, half woman, who remains hidden behind a screen).\n\nChandler and Kee track down a motorcycle gang, the Yellow Dragons, which Cheryll had joined, and Chinese restaurant owner Tommy Tong, a henchman of Numspa, to whom Cheryll had been \"sold\" for her blood, a way to make the Child vulnerable to earthly harm. However, Tong is killed by Numspa as a potential traitor. Still not taking the case too seriously, Chandler is drawn by Numspa into a controlled dream, where he receives a burn mark on his arm. Numspa presents his demands: the Ajanti Dagger (a mystic weapon capable of killing the Child) in exchange for the boy. Chandler finally agrees to help, and he and Kee spend the night together.\n\nChandler and Kee travel to Tibet, where Chandler is swindled by an old amulet seller, later revealed as the High Priest of the temple where the dagger is kept hidden (and, subsequently, Kee's father). In order to obtain the knife, Chandler has to pass a test: an obstacle course in a bottomless cavern whilst carrying a glass of water without spilling a drop. With luck and wits, Chandler recovers the blade and even manages to bring it past customs into the United States.\n\nThat night, Numspa and his henchmen attack Chandler and Kee. The Ajanti Dagger is lost to the villains, and Kee takes a crossbow bolt meant for Chandler, dying in his arms while confessing her love for him. Doctor Hong and Kala offer him hope: as long as the sun shines upon Kee, the Child might be able to save her. With the help of the Child's familiar, Chandler locates Numspa's hideout, retrieves the dagger with the help of Til, one of Numspa's men converted to good by the Child, and frees the boy. When Chandler confronts Numspa, he reveals himself as a demon. Chandler and the Child escape, only to be trapped inside a warehouse. Chandler loses the dagger when the warehouse collapses, with Numspa buried under falling masonry.\n\nChandler and the Child head to Doctor Hong's shop, where Kee is being kept. As the two approach Kee's body, a badly injured but berserk Numspa attacks Chandler, but the amulet the Old Man sold Chandler blasts the dagger from Numspa's hand. The Child uses his magic to place the dagger back into Chandler's hands, and Chandler stabs Numspa through the heart, destroying him. The Child then uses the last rays of sunlight and his powers to bring Kee back from the dead. The three later take a walk discussing the Child's return to Tibet.\n\nDennis Feldman, a professional photographer whose only writing credit was \"Just One of the Guys\", wrote a script called \"The Rose of Tibet\", which he planned as \"a Raymond Chandler movie with supernatural elements.\" It attracted Hollywood's attention and after a bidding war Paramount Pictures purchased the script for $300,000.\n\nAs for the “Golden Child” itself, J.L. Reate, who played the male titular character, is actually female. Her full name is Jasmine Lauren Reate, and she was 7 when filming began. This was her one and only theatrical performance, as she then retired from acting.\n\nAlan Silvestri (\"Back to the Future\") was originally set to provide the film score but turned the project down. Paramount then turned to John Barry, who had just come off his award-winning score for \"Out of Africa\". However, during post-production, Barry also left the project when both differences with the producers and test screening feedback presented considerable challenges for the composer. The test audience reaction had led the producers to consider replacing Barry's score with new music by Michel Colombier that, in contrast to Barry's work, was mostly \"synthpop\" (although there were some brief orchestral passages throughout). However, whilst Barry was ultimately superseded, some of his musical cues remain in the final cut of the film and one track, \"Wisdom of the Ages\", appeared on the first soundtrack release issued by Capitol Records.\n\nIn 2011, La-La Land Records released a limited edition 3-CD soundtrack set containing the entirety of both Barry's mostly unused score (on disc one), and Colombier's final theatrical score (on disc two), in addition to an exclusive Barry-composed song, sung by emerging composer Randy Edelman. The songs that had been released on Capitol's first soundtrack in 1986 were also featured in the set.\n\nThe following pieces of music appear in the film alongside Colombier's score:\n\n\nReleased in December 1986, \"The Golden Child\" was a box office success. It earned USD$79,817,937 in the United States alone, making it the eighth biggest film of the year. \"My pictures make their money back,\" Murphy remarked in 1989. \"No matter how I feel, for instance, about \"The Golden Child\" – which was a piece of shit – the movie made more than $100 million. So who am I to say it sucks?\" After Golden Child, Murphy would participate in the writing of many of his films.\n\nDespite its commercial success, the film did not meet Paramount’s expectations when compared to Murphy's previous film, \"Beverly Hills Cop\" (1984), which earnered USD$234,760,478 at the US box office.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 26% based on reviews from 19 critics. On Metacritic the film has a score of 37 out of 100, based on reviews from 12 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade B on scale of A to F.\n\nRoger Ebert of \"The Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film a 3 out of 4 stars and stated \"\"The Golden Child\" may not be the Eddie Murphy movie we were waiting for, but it will do. It is funnier, more assured and more tailored to Murphy than \"Beverly Hills Cop\" and it shows a side of his comic persona that I don't think has been much appreciated: his essential underlying sweetness. Murphy's comedy is not based on hurt and aggression, but on affection and an understanding that comes from seeing right through the other characters.\" Leonard Maltin's publication \"TV Movies\" gives the film a BOMB rating, stating, \"It was a box-office hit, but have you ever met anyone who actually liked it?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2102023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102023", "title": "Living Field", "text": "Living Field\n\nLiving Field is an album released by the Pillows on March 24, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102028", "title": "Leaning Tower of Nevyansk", "text": "Leaning Tower of Nevyansk\n\nThe Leaning Tower of Nevyansk () is a tower in the town of Nevyansk in Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russia, built in the 18th century. Its construction was funded by Peter the Great’s associate Akinfiy Demidov, a famous Russian manufacturer and son of industrialist Nikita Demidov.\n\nThe height of the tower is from the ground and the base is square. The deviation of the top part of the tower from a right angle is about 3 degrees. The exact date of construction is unknown, but Russian historians believe that it was built between 1721 and 1745. There is no information about the architect of this unusual edifice.\n\n\nHistorians still debate the exact purpose of the Nevyansk Tower. Some say that Demidov used it as a \"bank safe\", others believe it was either a watchtower, or a belltower, or a prison, or even a laboratory for conducting chemical experiments and producing counterfeit money. Some historians think that the tower was supposed to embody the might of the Demidov family and serve as an architectural symbol of their dynasty.\nDuring restoration work, archaeologists were able to determine the purpose of some of the rooms. It appears that the first floor of the tower was used for conducting some sort of secret work with the help of shackled serfs. According to documents that were discovered, the second floor may have been Demidov’s office, where he kept his archives and other papers. The third floor housed a kind of laboratory, equipped with a furnace. A soot sample taken from the flue showed traces of silver and gold in it, but scientists say that the story about Demidov minting coins is probably a myth. Most likely, the tower was used for smelting the top layers of ore-bearing deposits, which often contain silver or gold. Floors four to six have stairwells only. The seventh and the eight floors house a clock that plays music on a carillon made by English master Richard Phelps in 1730. The story has it that Demidov bought the clock for 5,000 rubles, which was an astronomical amount for that time (for comparison, the construction of the Nevyansk Tower itself cost 4,207 rubles). The clock has three dials, ten music bells weighing about four tons, and one alarm bell. The ninth floor was probably used as an observation post.\n\nThere is one mysterious room in the tower, the purpose of which is still debated. Archaeologists dubbed it the \"acoustic room.\" It measures and is located between the fourth and the fifth floors. A person standing in one corner of this room can whisper words to another person in the opposite corner and they will be readily audible. Researchers do not know whether the room was built like this on purpose or not. It could be that Demidov used this acoustic room for gathering intelligence on his high-ranking guests.\n\nOne of the legends has it that the inclination of the tower was the idea of a talented architect. They say that the tower was purposely inclined to face southwest in the direction of Demidov’s birthplace in Tula. Supposedly, this is how Akinfiy wanted to demonstrate his affection for his former home. Another legend claims that right after the end of the construction of the edifice Akinfiy Demidov and the architect went on top of the tower. There, Demidov asked him whether he could build anything better than the Nevyansk Tower. The architect answered \"yes\", and Demidov ordered him thrown from the top of the building (a rather similar legend is attached to the construction of the Prague Astronomical Clock). The next morning the locals supposedly noticed that the tower had leaned forward a bit and water had started trickling down the walls as if the tower were \"crying\". One can see water constantly dripping down the southwest wall of the tower to this day (albeit as a result of a natural phenomenon).\n\nThe restorers say that there is no evidence to even assume that the Nevyansk Tower was purposely built inclined. The current surveying data shows that the defect had to be obvious during the construction. It appears that drifting grounds were to blame for the inclination of the tower from the very beginning. Scientists believe that an uneven subsidence took place when the tower had already been partially built. Most likely, the construction workers stopped building the tower on seeing the defect, but later on they decided to go on with their work. This is supported by the color of mortar between the bricks, the composition of which changed as the architects worked their way up. It is also visible how the workers started using specially trimmed bricks, with which they tried to even out the tower. It appears that the architects finally succeeded in straightening it out. Current measurements indicate that there is a 3-degree deviation of the base part from the axis, the middle part is already straightened, and the inclination of the tower equals only one degree. The top part of the tower is standing vertically. Local meteorologists say that one can make sure that the top of the tower is absolutely vertical without even using a theodolite by looking at the weather vane on the steeple. It shows the direction of the wind even when the wind is minimal. If the top of the tower were not vertical, the two-meter weathervane weighing 25 kg would always stand still in calm weather in the same position, and this never happens. This explanation ignores the possibility that the weather vane was mounted off-axis from the top of the tower, allowing the weather vane to be straight while the top of the tower is still inclined.\n\nAfter having studied the tower, the scientists found out that its architects used some of the most advanced technologies available at that time. The tower's tented roof was the first cast iron cupola in the world, with a metal carcass and metal outer shell. The second time this technique was applied, around 100 years later, was during the reconstruction of the Mainz Cathedral in Germany in 1826, and the third time it was used in the dome of Saint Isaac's Cathedral in St. Petersburg, built in the 1840s. The very top of the tower is crowned with a metallic lightning rod in the shape of a gilded sphere with spikes. These were built somewhere between 1721 and 1745 and have recently been interpreted as lightning rods (existing 28 years before Benjamin Franklin's scientific explanation of such devices). Also, the archaeologists found that in order to fasten the structural parts of the tower, the workers used the principle of reinforced concrete for the first time in the world, or some 130 years before its first recorded use by a Parisian gardener in 1860. The Nevyansk Tower is pierced with deeply grounded metal bars (rebars). Another astonishing thing about the tower is that the metal parts used during the construction do not have a slightest trace of corrosion. Scientists say that the iron composition of these parts is 99.6%. Although commonplace today, the process of manufacture of such high-grade material in the 18th century still remains a mystery.\n\nFollowing the restoration, the Nevyansk Tower was opened to the public. Guided tours are provided by a local museum and tourist guides from Yekaterinburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102046", "title": "United States v. Progressive, Inc.", "text": "United States v. Progressive, Inc.\n\nUnited States of America v. Progressive, Inc., Erwin Knoll, Samuel Day, Jr., and Howard Morland, 467 F. Supp. 990 (W.D. Wis. 1979), was a lawsuit brought against \"The Progressive\" magazine by the United States Department of Energy (DOE) in 1979. A temporary injunction was granted against \"The Progressive\" to prevent the publication of an article written by activist Howard Morland that purported to reveal the \"secret\" of the hydrogen bomb. Though the information had been compiled from publicly available sources, the DOE claimed that it fell under the \"born secret\" clause of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.\n\nAlthough the case was filed in the Western District of Wisconsin, the judge there recused himself as a friend of the magazine. The case was therefore brought before Judge Robert W. Warren, a judge in the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Because of the sensitive nature of information at stake in the trial, two separate hearings were conducted, one in public, and the other \"in camera\". The defendants, Morland and the editors of \"The Progressive\", would not accept security clearances, which would put restraints on their free speech, and so were not present at the \"in camera\" hearings. Their lawyers did obtain clearances so that they could participate, but were forbidden from conveying anything they heard there to their clients.\n\nThe article was eventually published after the government lawyers dropped their case during the appeals process, calling it moot after other information was independently published. Despite its indecisive conclusion, law students still study the case, which \"could have been a law school hypothetical designed to test the limits of the presumption of unconstitutionality attached to prior restraints\".\n\nThe first atomic bombs were developed by the wartime Manhattan Project. This was carried out in secret, lest its discovery induce the Axis powers, particularly Germany, to accelerate their own nuclear projects, or undertake covert operations against the project. The military and scientific leaders of the Manhattan Project anticipated a need to release details of their wartime accomplishments, principally as a form of recognition for the participants who had labored in secrecy. Press releases were prepared in advance of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and an official account, known as the Smyth Report after its author, the physicist Henry DeWolf Smyth, was commissioned in April 1944 to provide a history of the project for public release. The Director of the Manhattan Project, Major General Leslie Groves, his scientific adviser, Richard Tolman, and Smyth agreed that information could be publicly released if it was essential for an understanding of the project, or was already generally known or deducible, or had no significance to the production of atomic bombs. The first copies went on sale on August 12, 1945.\n\nIn its October 8, 1945, issue, \"The New Republic\" took the position, emphasized with italics, that \"\": the knowledge of how to build an atomic bomb had been \"the common property of scientists throughout the world for the last five years\". President Harry S. Truman took a similar line in his first speech to Congress on nuclear matters that month, proclaiming that \"the essential theoretical knowledge upon which the discovery is based is already widely known.\" In November 1945, Groves instructed Tolman to draw up a policy for the declassification of the Manhattan Project's documents. Tolman assembled a committee, which took a list of the Manhattan Project's activities and assigned each a classification. Four reviewers assessed the documents and declassified about 500 of them by the end of the year.\n\nIf there was no secret, then there was no reason for security. The scientists, in particular, chafed under the wartime controls, which were not lifted with the surrender of Japan. On September 1, 1945, Samuel K. Allison used the occasion of the announcement of the founding of the Institute for Nuclear Studies to call for freedom to research and develop atomic energy. He told the press that if controls were not removed, nuclear scientists might turn to the study of the color of butterfly wings. Enrico Fermi warned that \"unless research is free and outside of control, the United States will lose its superiority in scientific pursuit\".\n\nThe War Department envisaged that the Manhattan Project would be superseded by a statutory authority. Legislation to create it was drafted by two War Department lawyers, Kenneth C. Royall and William L. Marbury. Their draft bill ran into strong opposition, particularly from the influential Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg. On December 20, 1945, Senator Brien McMahon introduced an alternative bill on atomic energy, which quickly became known as the McMahon bill. This was initially a very liberal bill towards the control of scientific research, and was broadly supported by scientists. McMahon framed the controversy as a question of military versus civilian control of atomic energy, although the May-Johnson bill also provided for civilian control. Section 10 assigned the patent for any invention related to atomic energy to the commission.\n\nWhile the bill was being debated, the news broke on February 16, 1946, of the defection of Igor Gouzenko in Canada, and the subsequent arrest of 22 people. The members of Congress debating the bill feared that \"atomic secrets\" were being systematically stolen by Soviet atomic spies. McMahon convened an executive session at which Federal Bureau of Investigation Director J. Edgar Hoover, Secretary of State James F. Byrnes and Groves were called to appear. Groves revealed that the British physicist Alan Nunn May had passed information about the Manhattan Project to Soviet agents. The more conservative elements in Congress now moved to toughen the act. Section 10, which was formerly titled \"Dissemination of Information\", now became \"Control of Information\". Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas, who sponsored the McMahon bill in the House, vigorously defended the section against counterarguments. She dismissed objections that it would \"give away the secret of the bomb\", asserting that America's advantage in nuclear weapons could only be temporary, whereas the bill could perpetuate the U.S. lead in scientific research. Truman signed the compromise bill into law as the Atomic Energy Act of 1946. It established the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) as the controlling body for atomic energy.\n\nThe Manhattan Project had been a crash program to produce a nuclear weapon. Along the way, promising ideas had been set aside. Norris Bradbury, who replaced J. Robert Oppenheimer as director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory in late 1945, revived such projects in order to entice scientists to remain at, or return to, Los Alamos. One of these projects was the \"Super\", a nuclear weapon using nuclear fusion, which Edward Teller's F-1 group had worked on under Fermi's direction. The technical problem was figuring out a way to get a fusion reaction to initiate and propagate, which required temperatures attainable only with a fission bomb. The hydrodynamic calculations involved were daunting, and ENIAC was used to run a computer simulation of the Super in December 1945 and January 1946.\n\nThe Polish mathematician Stanislaw Ulam, his wife Francoise Ulam, who performed the calculations, and their collaborator, Cornelius Everett, worked on the Super design through 1949. There was no push from the military for the weapon, because the AEC regarded it as too secret to inform either its own Military Liaison Committee or the Armed Forces Special Weapons Project about it. In September 1949, the Soviet Union detonated a nuclear device. It fell to Oppenheimer, as chairman of the AEC General Advisory Committee (GAC), to decide whether the United States should develop the Super in response. The Super design used large quantities of tritium, which could only be manufactured in a reactor, and therefore at the expense of plutonium production for smaller weapons, so the GAC advised against it. Nonetheless, Truman approved the Super on January 31, 1950. Because of the secrecy surrounding the decision, accounts published in the 1950s incorrectly portrayed Oppenheimer as obstructing its development on political grounds, and this was a factor in the Oppenheimer security hearing in 1954.\n\nUlam still only gave the design a \"50–50 chance\" of success in February 1950. At the end of March, he reported that it would not work at all. Scientists like Hans Bethe and George Gamow felt that Teller had committed the nation to an expensive crash program on the basis of a model that he knew was flawed. However, in February 1951, Ulam had a new idea, in which the shock wave from an atomic bomb \"primary\" stage, through an arrangement he called \"hydrodynamic lensing\", would compress a \"secondary\" stage of deuterium fusion fuel wrapped around a plutonium rod or \"spark plug\". On being informed, Teller immediately grasped the potential for using the X-rays produced by the primary explosion for hydrodynamic lensing. This arrangement, which made thermonuclear weapons possible, is now known as the Teller–Ulam design. Although it was not what Truman had approved, the design did work, and was capable of producing multi-megaton explosions. \"Rarely in the history of technology\", wrote Howard Morland, \"has such a seemingly daunting problem turned out to have such a nifty solution.\"\n\nIn 1950, the Atomic Energy Commission asked \"Scientific American\" not to publish an article by Bethe that it claimed revealed classified information about the hydrogen bomb. \"Scientific American\" reluctantly agreed to stop the presses and make changes in the article, and to recall and burn the 3,000 copies that had already been printed. The 1951 arrest of Klaus Fuchs, Harry Gold, David Greenglass, Morton Sobell and Julius and Ethel Rosenberg who, according to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, \"stole the basic secrets of nuclear fission\", caused great concern. President Dwight D. Eisenhower denied the Rosenbergs clemency on the grounds that their actions \"could well result in the deaths of many, many thousands of innocent citizens\", and they were executed. After the Soviet Union detonated Joe 4 in August 1953, newspapers proclaimed that the Soviets had tested a hydrogen bomb. In fact it was only a boosted fission device, but the veil of secrecy covering the thermonuclear program prevented scientists from informing the public.\n\nPrior restraint has generally been regarded by U.S. courts, particularly the U.S. Supreme Court, as being \"the most serious and least tolerable\" of restrictions on the First Amendment. The Blackstone Commentaries defined freedom of the press as \"laying no restraints upon publication, and not in freedom from censure for criminal matter when published.\" The Supreme Court had however never held that prior restraint was unconstitutional. On the contrary, in \"Near v. Minnesota\" 283 U.S. 697 (1931), Chief Justice Charles E. Hughes remarked that in wartime, \"no one would question but that a government might prevent actual obstruction to its recruiting service or the publication of the sailing dates of transports or the number and location of troops.\" He further suggested that obscenity or incitement to insurrection would be similar grounds for prior restraint. The court subsequently upheld free speech exceptions such as restrictions on demonstrations in \"Cox v. New Hampshire\", 312 U.S. 569 (1941), and censorship of motion pictures in \"Times Film Corp. v. City of Chicago\", 365 U.S. 43 (1961).\n\nIn \"New York Times Co. v. United States\" 403 U.S. 713 (1971)—better known as the Pentagon Papers case—the government had sought to prevent the publication of classified material by \"The New York Times\". In this case, the Supreme Court ruled 6–3 that the government had not reached the standard required by \"Near\" to justify prior restraint, but the concurring justices gave differing opinions about where the line should be drawn. In his opinion, Justice Potter Stewart wrote that while publication of \"The Pentagon Papers\" would likely harm the national interest, it would not result in \"direct, immediate or irreparable harm to our Nation or its people\". Failure to provide a clear line inevitably meant that the court had to deal with prior restraint on a case-by-case basis. In \"Nebraska Press Association v. Stuart\", 427 U.S. 539 (1976), the court was called upon to decide whether news reportage of a lurid mass murder case in a small town in Nebraska would justify prior restraint in order to protect the defendant's right to a fair trial. In this case, the court ruled unanimously that it would not. Most of the justices viewed \"Near\" as providing the only grounds for prior restraint, and declined to expand its scope any further.\n\n\"The Progressive\" was a left-wing American monthly magazine of politics, culture and opinion with a circulation of around 40,000. In 1978, its managing editor, Sam Day Jr., a former editor of the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", and its editor, Erwin Knoll, commissioned freelance journalist Howard Morland to write an article on the secrecy surrounding nuclear weapons production in America. In October 1978, Morland got Representative Ronald V. Dellums to submit a series of questions about plutonium production to the Department of Energy (DOE), the successor to the AEC. The DOE responded by classifying the questions. In September and October 1978, the House Armed Services Committee held hearings on the proposed Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. There was widespread public ignorance of issues surrounding nuclear weapons, and associated environmental concerns. Day and Morland hoped that by demystifying nuclear weapons, they would promote more critical public debate, and improve the prospects for nuclear disarmament. Morland claimed that \"I am precisely the type of person the First Amendment was intended to protect: a political advocate whose ideas are unpopular with the general public and threatening to the government.\"\n\nOver a period of six months, Morland systematically pieced together a design for a hydrogen bomb. He visited a number of nuclear weapons facilities and interviewed government employees, with the permission of the DOE, usually identifying himself and his purpose. He did not have a security clearance, and had never had any access to classified nuclear weapons documents, although it is possible that some classified information or ideas were accidentally or deliberately leaked to him. His scientific background was minimal; he had taken five undergraduate courses in physics and chemistry as part of his Bachelor of Arts degree in economics at Emory University. Morland identified the features of the Teller–Ulam design as staging, with a fission primary and a fusion secondary inside opposite ends of a hollow container, and the use of radiation from the exploding primary to compress, or implode, the secondary. \"The notion that X-rays could move solid objects with the force of thousands of tons of dynamite,\" noted Morland, \"was beyond the grasp of the science fiction writers of the time.\"\n\nDay sent draft copies of Morland's article out to reviewers in late 1978 and early 1979, including Ron Siegel, a graduate student at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Siegel gave his draft copy to George Rathjens, a professor of political science there in February 1979. For many years, Rathjens had issued a challenge to his graduate students to produce a workable design for a hydrogen bomb, but no one had ever succeeded. Rathjens phoned \"The Progressive\" and urged that the article not be published. When the editors dismissed his suggestion, he sent the draft to the DOE. \"Apparently,\" wrote Morland, \"I had earned a passing grade on the Rathjens challenge\".\n\nIn March 1979, the editors sent a final draft to the DOE for comment. DOE officials, first in phone calls and then in person, attempted to dissuade \"The Progressive\" from publishing the article on the grounds that it contained \"secret restricted data\" as defined by the Atomic Energy Act. \"The Progressive\" editors were not persuaded, and told the officials that they intended to proceed with publishing Morland's article. The DOE filed a motion to suppress the article with the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin in Madison on March 8, 1979. There was only one judge in the Western District of Wisconsin at the time, Judge James Edward Doyle, but he recused himself as a friend of the magazine. The case was therefore brought before Judge Robert W. Warren, a judge in the Eastern District of Wisconsin, and heard by Warren in Milwaukee.\nLawyers for \"The Progressive\" voluntarily underwent security reviews and were granted Q clearances that allowed them to access restricted nuclear information. Morland and \"The Progressive\" editors declined to obtain clearances, as they would have had to sign non-disclosure agreements that would have prevented them from publishing the article. This resulted in the lawyers being restricted in their communications with their clients.\n\nIn seeking a temporary restraining order, government lawyers argued that \"The Progressive\" was about to break the law, causing irreparable harm. The data in the article was born classified, so it did not matter that it was an original work of the author. They noted that prior restraint had been upheld by the courts before in matters of national security, and argued that the \"Pentagon Papers\" decision did not apply as the Atomic Energy Act specifically allowed for injunctive relief. Moreover, the Pentagon Papers were historical, whereas the hydrogen bomb was a current military weapon. Finally, they pointed out that the government had obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty not to assist non-nuclear states in acquiring nuclear weapons. In granting the temporary restraining order on March 9, Warren said that he would have \"to think long and hard before I gave the hydrogen bomb to Idi Amin.\"\n\nJames R. Schlesinger, the Secretary of Energy, telephoned leading newspapers and warned them not to support \"The Progressive\". This was probably unnecessary, for the media were supportive of the government's case. Fred Graham, the \"New York Times\" legal correspondent, predicted that the government would win the case. In an editorial on March 11, 1979, \"The Washington Post\" wrote that \"The Progressive\" case, \"as a press-versus-government First Amendment contest, is John Mitchell's dream case—the one the Nixon Administration was never lucky enough to get: a real First Amendment loser.\" The newspaper called on \"The Progressive\" to \"forget about publishing it\". In the \"Pentagon Papers\" case, Professor Alexander Bickel, an expert on the United States Constitution, when asked hypothetically if prior restraint could ever be justified, had told the court that he would draw the line at the hydrogen bomb. Daniel Ellsberg, who had leaked the Pentagon Papers, told Morland that he believed that nuclear weapon designs should be kept secret. Because of the horrific nature of thermonuclear weapons, and the expectation that \"The Progressive\" would probably lose the case, mainstream media organizations feared that the result would be an erosion of freedom of the press.\n\nHowever, the court's role was to rule on whether publication was legal, not whether it was wise. In keeping with the usual practice of keeping a temporary restraining order in effect for as short a time as possible, Warren ordered that hearings be held on a preliminary injunction one week after the March 9 temporary restraining order. On March 16, the Progressive's attorneys filed an affidavit from Theodore Postol, an employee of the Department of Energy's Argonne National Laboratory, stating that the information contained in the Morland article could be derived by any competent physicist from Teller's article on the hydrogen bomb in the \"Encyclopedia Americana\". At the request of both parties, the hearing was postponed to March 26 so they would have more time to file their briefs and affidavits. The parties were therefore back in court again on March 26 for a hearing on the government's request for a preliminary injunction. Warren decided not to hold an evidentiary hearing at which the opposing teams of experts could be cross examined. He also declined a suggestion by the Federation of American Scientists in its \"amicus curiae\" brief that a panel of experts be charged with examining the issue. The case relied on written affidavits and briefs, and the opposing counsels' oral arguments.\n\nTestimony was introduced entirely in the form of sworn affidavits, the most important of which were deemed classified and presented to the court \"in camera\". The government affiants included classification officers, weapon lab scientists, the Secretaries of Energy, State, and Defense, and Nobel physics laureate Hans Bethe, whom Judge Warren cited as the star witness for the plaintiff. The defense side had no experts with direct knowledge of nuclear weapon design, until the unexpected appearance of Ray Kidder, a nuclear weapon designer at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. One of Kidder's jobs in 1962 had been to evaluate designs of the 29 thermonuclear devices tested in Operation Dominic. Kidder was able to credibly dispute government arguments in the battle of affidavits, leveling the technical playing field. Because of the importance of radiation implosion in civilian fusion research, Kidder had been quietly waging a campaign to declassify it for some years prior to the Progressive case.\n\n\"The Progressive\"s legal team argued that the government had not established a case sufficient \"to overcome the First Amendment's presumption against prior restraint\". The article was based upon information in the public domain, and was therefore neither a threat to national security nor covered by the Atomic Energy Act, which in any case did not authorize prior restraint, or was unconstitutional if it did. In this, counsel relied on the \"United States v. Heine\" decision, in which Judge Learned Hand ruled that information in the public domain could not be covered by the Espionage Act of 1917. The government's lawyers argued, on the contrary, that there was sensitive information in the article, which was not in the public domain, and which, if published, would harm arms control efforts.\n\nIn attempting to apply the \"Near\" and \"Pentagon Papers\" standards, the court was concerned about the prospect of publication causing the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and potentially a global nuclear holocaust. The government did not go so far as to claim that publication might pose an immediate or inevitable danger, only that it \"would substantially increase the risk that thermonuclear weapons would become available or available at an earlier date to those who do not now have them. If this should occur, it would undermine our nonproliferation policy, irreparably impair the national security of the United States, and pose a threat to the peace and security of the world.\" However, the court still found that \"a mistake in ruling against the United States could pave the way for thermonuclear annihilation for us all. In that event, our right to life is extinguished and the right to publish becomes moot\", and that publication could indeed cause \"grave, direct, immediate and irreparable harm to the United States\", thereby meeting the test the Supreme Court had enunciated in the \"Pentagon Papers\" case. The preliminary injunction was therefore granted.\n\nLawyers for \"The Progressive\" filed a motion to vacate the decision on the grounds that the information contained in Morland's article was already in the public domain. The basis for this claim was two reports from the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory UCRL-4725, \"Weapons Development During June 1956\", and UCRL-5280, \"Weapons Development During June 1958\", which contained detailed information on thermonuclear weapon design. One of them, UCRL-4725, gave details about \"Bassoon\", a three-stage thermonuclear device tested during Operation Redwing in 1956. It was found on the shelves of the Los Alamos library by Dmitri Rotow, a researcher for the American Civil Liberties Union. According to the government, the reports had been inadvertently declassified. On June 15, Warren therefore denied the motion on the grounds that such an error did not place the documents in the public domain. The appellants immediately appealed to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago, claiming that the two documents had been on the shelves for a considerable period of time. The government now advanced the argument that \"technical data\" was not protected by the First Amendment. The motions for an expedited review were denied because the magazine's lawyers had waived that right—something Morland and \"The Progressive\" editors discovered only from the court. The preliminary injunction therefore remained in effect for six months.\n\nOn April 25, 1979, a group of scientists who worked at the Argonne National Laboratory wrote to Senator John Glenn, the Chairman of the United States Senate Subcommittee on Energy, Nuclear Proliferation and Federal Services. They were concerned about information being leaked, in particular by the government's tacit acknowledgement that Morland's bomb design was substantially correct, something that could not otherwise have been deduced from unclassified information. These included the affidavits by the United States Secretary of Defense Harold Brown and government expert witness Jack Rosengren. Copies of the letter were sent to major newspapers, but with a cover note explaining that it was for background information and not publication. After about four weeks, the Glenn subcommittee forwarded it to the DOE, which classified it.\n\nUnaware of this, Hugh DeWitt, a physicist at the Lawrence Livermore nuclear weapons laboratory, forwarded a copy to Chuck Hansen. Hansen was a computer programmer from Mountain View, California, who collected information about nuclear weapons as a hobby. He had run a competition to design an H-bomb, the winner of which would be the first person to have their design classified by the DOE. It now began to occur to him that his hobby might not be legal. On August 27, he wrote a letter to Senator Charles H. Percy detailing how much information he had deduced from publicly available sources. This included his own design, one not as good as Morland's, which Hansen had not seen. Hansen further charged that government scientists—including Edward Teller, Ted Taylor, and George Rathjens—had leaked sensitive information about thermonuclear weapons, for which no action had been taken. In this, Hansen was mistaken: Taylor had indeed been reprimanded, and Teller was not the source of the information that Hansen attributed to him. Hansen made copies of his letter available to several newspapers.\n\nWhen \"The Daily Californian\" (the student-run college newspaper of the University of California at Berkeley), published excerpts from the Argonne letter on June 11, the DOE obtained a court order to prevent further publication. Undeterred, \"The Daily Californian\" published the Argonne letter in its entirety on June 13. In September, the DOE declared the Hansen letter to be classified and obtained a temporary restraining order prohibiting \"The Daily Californian\" from publishing it, but the Hansen letter was published by the \"Madison Press Connection\" on September 16. The government then moved to dismiss their cases against both \"The Progressive\" and \"The Daily Californian\" as moot.\n\nMorland's article was published in the November 1979 issue of \"The Progressive\". A month later he published an erratum in \"The Progressive\" with updates based on information that he had gathered during the trial from UCRL-4725, Chuck Hansen's letter and other sources. In Morland's opinion, the article contributed to a wave of anti-nuclear activism in the late 1970s and early 1980s that resulted in, amongst other things, the closure of the Rocky Flats Plant near Denver. Chuck Hansen went on to publish a book, \"U.S. Nuclear Weapons: The Secret History\", in 1988. This was subsequently expanded to a self-published five volume work entitled \"Swords of Armageddon\". However, many mainstream media organizations still remained reluctant to test the law by publishing. On September 30, 1980, the Justice Department issued a statement that it would not prosecute alleged violations of the Atomic Energy Act during the \"Daily Californian\" or \"The Progressive\" cases.\n\nHearings on the case were held by Glenn's subcommittee and by the House Subcommittee on Government Information and Individual Rights. The subcommittees looked into the implications of the decision with regards to nuclear proliferation. They also examined the doctrine of \"classified at birth\", but did not decide to amend the Atomic Energy Act to remove such provisions. Thus far, fears of thermonuclear proliferation have proven unfounded. Some countries, such as Pakistan and North Korea, have successfully developed fission weapons, while others, like Iraq and Libya, tried and failed. But no other country has managed to develop a hydrogen bomb.\n\nFrom a legal standpoint, the case \"proved to be a victory for no one\", due to the indecisive nature of its conclusion. Yet it remains a celebrated case nonetheless. In 2004, the 25th anniversary of the decision was commemorated with an academic conference at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, attended by many of the participants, at which papers were presented. Law students still study the case, which \"could have been a law school hypothetical designed to test the limits of the presumption of unconstitutionality attached to prior restraints.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102051", "title": "FIA World Motor Sport Council", "text": "FIA World Motor Sport Council\n\nThe World Motor Sport Council (WMSC) is a major organ within the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile's governance structure. Its primary role is amending current regulations and drafting new regulations for all of international motor sport. One of the main duties of the WMSC is to allow motor sport to: Continue to develop with an emphasis on maintaining safety for the drivers and spectators, and to encourage competitive motoring innovation which adheres to environmental standards. The FIA’s largest motorsport championships include the FIA Formula One World Championship, the World Endurance Championship (WEC), and the FIA World Rally Championship. The World Motor Sport Council's membership is chosen by the FIA General Assembly, which contains representatives from national automobile clubs (ASNs) throughout the world. It is one of two FIA World Councils; the other council is responsible for administrating \"issues affecting the automobile in society(The World Council for Automobile Mobility and Tourism (WCAMT)). The World Motor Sport Council meets a minimum of three times a year to consider proposals from specialist FIA Commissions and subsidiaries. It has a current membership of 28 members, including the FIA President Jean Todt and Formula One chairman Chase Carey.\n\nThe World Motor Sport Council is the most senior body in the FIA’s Governance structure. The FIA and the World Council both implement a bureaucratic structure in the form of departments. Though, given the content of the World Motor Sport Council’s “Terms of references” the FIA has a linear approval progression system that requires the assent of the World Motor Sport Council for any amendments.\n\nThe most crucial roles and responsibilities of the World Motor Sport Council include:\n\n\nSource:\nThe World Motor Sport Council (FIA) is the governing entity of the FIA Formula One World Championship. The Formula One World Championship is claimed to be the FIA’s primary series; they have every intention to ensure that Formula One remains as the world \"pinnacle of international motor sport\". The World Motor Sport Council has a major role in the function and operation of Formula One. The Formula One World Championship is an important topic concerning to the FIA World Motor Sport Council and servers as an ideal case study to see the operations of the WMSC, the FIA and Formula One.\n\nThe FIA and the World Motor Sport Council have been striving to reduce emissions from all their championships by changing championship regulations frequently. The consistent rule changes have lead to Formula One engines to be the most efficient car engines in the world. In October 2019 the World Motor Sport Council approved the 2021 Formula One regulations which intends to enlist major reforms to the sport especially towards a more carbon-neutral status.\n\nFormula One motor sport has one of the largest CO footprints of any sport. Between 1950 to 1984 and 1994 to 2010 the dominate engine design philosophy of the cars was to increase horsepower and revolutions per minute, as to maximise speed with little regard to the fuel consumption. This is because for most of Formula One history Grand Prix’s were conducted with refuelling permitted. Following 2010 when refuelling was re-banned, an emphasis on fuel efficiency and fuel cooling was once again considered as an integral factor in race-winning. This new meta (optimal strategy'(s)) gave rise to the implementation of TERS (thermal energy recovery system) and KERS (kinetic energy recovery system) in Formula One Grands Prix. Mourao’s study shows a reasonable relationship between the period of non-refuelling and considerably less CO emissions per car.\n\nIn 2014 the Mercedes-Petronas World Championship winning car was estimated to achieve the same speed and covering the same distance with 1/3 of the fuel usage- in combination with the hybrid power engines utilising KERS and TERS. It was estimated that the 2014-spec engine attained a thermal efficiency of 45%, for reference the average thermal efficiency of a coal fire-power station is 33%. Thus, “the power used to drive an electric car is likely to come from a less efficient source than an F1 engine.” Reducing net greenhouse gas emissions from Formula One cars is ideal for the FIA and the sport. Environmental standards are noted to be one of the key issues of the World Motor Sport Council going forward.\n\nThe FIA Formula One World championship is the second biggest sporting business in the world, with an estimated annual turnover of 4.5 to 8 billion US dollars per annum. The World Motor Sport Council approved FIA F1 rule that provides ‘heritage payments’ to a select few Formula One teams that, serve as a “proxy for fame[d] and pass successes” of those teams for the spectators and sponsors. In 2015, Formula One teams Force India and Sauber F1 submitted a complaint to the competition directorate of the European Commission.\n\nThe complaint was regarding the “allocation of revenues from the collective sale of media rights”. This resulted in the European Parliament requesting the European Commission to enact an official examination into the Formula One motor sport industry. Force India's and Sauber F1’s allegations to the FIA, WMSC and FOM were:\n\n\nBudzinsk and Kock believe that this case requires significantly further investigation to correctly understand and resolve the alleged affair.\n\nThe FIA’s Formula One Group is a multinational enterprise that has major global partners and stakeholders: Including:\n\n\nSource:\n\nThe FIA, the World Motor Sport Council, stakeholders, and partners of Formula One all agreed upon the introduction of a universal team budget cap to promote impartiality in Formula One. This is particularly due to the exceedingly diverse expenditures across all F1 constructors. Additionally, it has been agreed that an overhaul of circuit design, like that of Vietnam, will create “spectacular racing and good passing moves”.\n\nAt the beginning of 2017, the approval from the World Motor Sport Council was given to sell Formula One Group to Liberty Media. At the conference each sitting member of the World Motor Sport Council was able to make any inquires they may have about the details of the arrangement. According to InsiderRacing.com the approval implies that the FIA WMSC “Believes that Liberty [Media] is well positioned to ensure the continued development of its pinnacle Championship [F1]”.\n\nThe FIA as a shareholder in the former company Delta Topco, thus, is thereby involved in the sale of the Formula One Group to Liberty Media. The FIA is apart of the new commercial contract with Liberty Media and remains a shareholder of Formula One Group.\n\nBernie Ecclestone was the former Chief executive office of the Formula One Group and thus was a sitting member of the World Motor Sport Council. Christian Horner, Red Bull Racing Team principal commented on Liberty Media’s acquisition of Formula One, stating how he hopes that both Bernie Ecclestone and Liberty Media will work together to help F1 to continue to grow as a sport. In a similar way to what Ecclestone achieved in the expansion of Formula One. Such as ‘racing in Singapore and Russia’, and opening Formula One to the world stage through widespread wholesale of Formula One broadcasting packages.\n\nIn October 2019, Formula One team, Red Bull Racing, issued a comprehensive report with concerns regarding Ferrari's 2019 engine. Ferrari had achieved six consecutive pole positions at which were achieved on circuits requiring different aerodynamic configurations. In November 2019 at the 2019 United States Grand Prix Circuit of the Americas, Austin, Texas, the FIA conducts a \"full investigation\" into Ferrari’s engine. The FIA released a statement post-investigation saying that both Ferrari and the FIA had \"reached an agreement\". The FIA’s initial response to the issued lead to all non-Ferrari teams to produce a mutual statement demanding that they receive “full and proper disclosure” given their “strong objection” to the settlement.\n\nThe teams stated they would “[reserve their] right to legal redress”. Red Bull Racing, as one of the objecting teams has claimed that they are considering suing the FIA and the World Council for the $24 million in prize money lost to Ferrari’s second placement. The FIA later addressed the legality of the Ferrari-spec 2019, stating they could not ensure the engine was \"consistently legal\". The FIA reneged on any further investigations on the premise that “it would be an impossibility to provide the unequivocal evidence of a breach”.\n\nAt the World Motor Sport Council headquarters, there was a meeting to discuss the ongoing investigation. This meeting included Ferrari F1 Team’s principle Mattia Binotto who is an active member of the World Motor Sport Council. The FIA President and FIA technical department did not provide the information requested in the complaint received by the World Motor Sport Council from the other teams. The World Motorsport Council expressed support for the FIA President and the FIA Technical Department regarding the overall management of the case. Subsequently, this caused Mercedes Formula 1 Team principal, Toto Wolff to resign from any further protesting of the non-disclosed settlement between the FIA and Ferrari. Based on the advice from Mercedes parent company, Daimler,due to possible \"damages to Formula One and the Mercedes-Petronas Formula One Team’s image\".\n\nThe FIA and the non-Ferrari teams are currently in disagreement over the handling of the issue, Jean Todt, FIA President, has stated that it was a complicated decision that ultimately lied on the interest of Formula One as a sport, as alternative options such as the FIA International Tribunal could take “several years” to be concluded. The World Motor Sport Council nor the FIA are permitted to release the full details of the agreement without the \"consent of the defendant\", claimed Todt.\n\nThe World Motor Sport Council (FIA) is also the governing entity of the World Endurance Championship. This includes the famous Le Mans 24 hour race in France. The FIA World Motor Sport Council's function for the World Endurance Championship is similar to that of Formula One.\n\nThe FIA World Motor Sport Council deals with all administrative and regulatory issues within the World Rally Championship. It's prominence is much the same as it is for Formula One and the Endurance Champion Series.\n"}
{"id": "2102062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102062", "title": "Sierpinski (crater)", "text": "Sierpinski (crater)\n\nFile:Sierpinski crater \nSierpinski is a lunar impact crater on the far side of the Moon. It lies to the southeast of the huge walled plain Gagarin, and to the northwest of the crater O'Day and the Mare Ingenii.\n\nThis crater has undergone some wear, particularly along the southwest where Sierpinski Q intrudes slightly into the inner wall. The rim is higher and the inner wall wider along the eastern side. There is a prominent ridge within the interior that extends from near the midpoint to the northern inner wall. There are several small craters along the inner wall in the north and northwest. Only a small portion of the interior floor along the western half is relatively level.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Sierpinski.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102069", "title": "Elan (company)", "text": "Elan (company)\n\nElan is a Slovenian company, located in Begunje na Gorenjskem, specializing in the production of sporting goods. It is best known for its skis and snowboards. Other products include sailboats from length, motor yachts, apparel (mostly sportswear), and equipment for sports facilities. The brand became better known in the late 1970s, when Swedish alpine skiing ace Ingemar Stenmark won three consecutive World Cup overall titles on Elan skis. The company also manufactured license-built DG gliders from 1978.\n\nThe company originated from a Slovene Partisan workshop that operated during the Second World War, when skis were produced for the Yugoslavian Partisan forces. Begunje fielded the only specialized Partisan ski-unit of Yugoslavia during the war. In 1949, the company started with production of small boats, like canoes and kayaks which was later expanded into the production of FRP boats and yachts. The company has also started the production of wide range of gym equipment and sports clothing. In 1978, the production of license-built DG gliders was started. In 1991 Elan company was split into several subdivisions which continue the production. Glider production was later transferred to AMS Flight using the former Elan manufacturing facilities.\n\nElan SCX changed the world ski industry by inventing sidecut skis, which made carve turns possible at low speeds and with a short turn radius. They were first developed in 1988 by Jurij Franko (not to be confused with the skier Jure Franko), who calculated a suitable flex pattern for new kind of skis with his colleague Pavel Škofic. They organized a project dubbed SideCut Extreme (SCX) and set out to build prototypes. Introduced in 1993, the concept was initially ridiculed by other companies, but in secret they quickly started working on similar designs and such shaping was common by the 1995/96 model year.\n\nThe Elan Group consists of 20 interlinked companies under the joint ownership of the Skimar company. Most of the group’s companies use the Elan brand-name and logo as part of their projects, products and services. The company's headquarters are located in Begunje na Gorenjskem, while its various manufacturing companies are scattered throughout Central Europe: Elan skis and sailing yachts are made in Slovenia, Elan snowboards are manufactured in Austria, and its motor yachts are produced in Croatia. The group markets its products through independent distributors in 46 countries over the world, with marketing taken over by Elan’s own companies in North America, Japan, Germany, and Switzerland. On 13 March 2013 Elan’s Austrian subsidiary company named „Elan Sportartikelerzeugungs- und Handelsgesellschaft m.b.H.“ located in Carinthia announced bankruptcy. Elan Austria had liabilities of 8.7 million euro and assets of 6.5 million euro. 78 employees and 120 creditors were affected by this bankruptcy.\n\nThe Slovenian state organisation SDH, which is in charge of privatisation activities in Slovenia on behalf of the government, gave its approval for the sale of the \"state-owned ski maker Elan to Merrill Lynch International and Wiltan Enterprises Limited\" The sale for 100% of the company including the snow sports and yachting divisions with the agreed purchase price not known.\n\nIn the 1985 James Bond series film \"A View to a Kill\" with Roger Moore, Russians were skiing on Elan skis.\n\nElan skis were clearly shown in the romantic comedy \"Working Girl\". The character Katharine Parker (Sigourney Weaver) was skiing with RC Elan skis and poles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102072", "title": "Please Mr. Lostman", "text": "Please Mr. Lostman\n\nPlease Mr. Lostman is an album released by the Pillows on January 22, 1997. The record's title is a play on \"Please Mr. Postman\" by the Marvelettes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102092", "title": "Gumstix", "text": "Gumstix\n\nGumstix is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Redwood City, California. It develops and manufactures small system boards comparable in size to a stick of gum. In 2003, when it was first fully functional, it used ARM architecture System on a chip (SoC) and an Operating System based on Linux 2.6 kernel. It has an online tool called Geppetto that allows users to design their own boards. In August 2013 it started a crowd-funding service to allow a group of users that want to get a custom design manufactured to share the setup costs. It also runs Windows Embedded Compact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102101", "title": "Mary Reilly (film)", "text": "Mary Reilly (film)\n\nMary Reilly is a 1996 American horror film directed by Stephen Frears and starring Julia Roberts and John Malkovich. The movie was written by Christopher Hampton and adapted from the 1990 novel \"Mary Reilly\" by Valerie Martin (itself inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 novella \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\").\n\nThis was the re-teaming of director Frears, screenwriter Hampton, and actors Malkovich and Glenn Close, all of whom were involved in the Oscar-winning \"Dangerous Liaisons\" (1988). The film ended up being a box office bomb, making just $12 million against its $47 million budget.\n\nMary Reilly comes to work as a maid in the home of Dr. Henry Jekyll. She and Jekyll develop a rapport and Jekyll begins to call on her for assistance to the consternation of his Butler, Poole. Jekyll is fascinated by scars Mary bears on her hand and neck, which she reluctantly allows him to examine, explaining they are from a childhood incident where her abusive father locked her in a cupboard with a live rat. The staff begin to notice the Doctor throwing himself into his work at odd hours, culminating in his announcement that he has hired an assistant, Edward Hyde, who is to be given full run of the household.\n\nOne night, having woken from a nightmare, Mary sees Hyde leaving the house and follows him, witnessing him paying off the family of a young girl he has savagely beaten with a cheque signed by Jekyll. Hyde later approaches her in the Doctor's library, crudely propositioning her and making taunting references to her relationship with her father. Mary is equally fascinated and repulsed by him.\n\nOn an errand to deliver a letter from Jekyll to Mrs. Faraday, a madam, Mary learns that a bloody mess at the whorehouse was caused by Mr. Hyde. Mrs. Farraday arrives at Jekyll's home and insists on seeing him. She demands more money for her continued silence. While watering the garden, Mary notices the lights in the laboratory go out, and investigating, discovers a small pool of blood on the theater table. She leaves, not noticing Hyde disposing of Mrs. Farraday's severed head.\n\nMary returns home to plan her mother's funeral. As she is returning to Jekyll's house, Hyde grabs her in the alley and forces her into an embrace; he is being pursued by the police. Eventually the police question Mary about the murder of Sir Danvers Carew, a friend of Jekyll's and Member of Parliament, and she denies having seen Hyde that day. Jekyll later warns Mary that she should not have lied to the police. In any case, because the public killing of Danvers Carew cannot be \"easily swept under the carpet,\" Hyde must leave London; that is why, Jekyll explains, he has bribed and made Hyde swear to disappear forever.\n\nDays later, Mary is surprised to discover Hyde in the doctor's bed. She tries to raise the alarm, but he stops her and then reveals his true nature: he explains that as a cure for depression, Jekyll injects himself with a serum and as a result becomes Hyde, who in turn injects the \"antidote\" to resume being Jekyll. Hyde says he now has the ability to appear without the aid of the serum, and tries to persuade her to have sex with him. Mary is shocked, finding all of this hard to believe; he lets her go.\n\nMary packs to leave, but on her way out, she decides to visit the lab. There Hyde attacks her and holds a knife to her throat, but he cannot bring himself to kill her. He then injects himself with the antidote, and Mary is forced to witness the horrific transformation of one man into the other. Jekyll reveals that Hyde has mixed a poison with the antidote, and then dies in Mary's arms. In the morning, Jekyll, although dead, has transformed into Hyde one last time, awake and smiling, as Mary walks into the fog.\n\n\nProducers Jon Peters and Peter Guber acquired the film rights to \"Mary Reilly\" in 1989, and optioned them for Warner Bros. with Roman Polanski as director. When Guber became CEO of Sony Pictures Entertainment later that year, he moved \"Mary Reilly\" to Sony's sister company, TriStar Pictures, where Tim Burton was approached to direct with Denise Di Novi to produce in 1991. Christopher Hampton was hired to write the screenplay, and Burton signed on as director in January 1993, after he approved Hampton's rewrite.\n\nHe intended to start filming in January 1994, after he completed \"Ed Wood\", with Winona Ryder in the leading role but Burton dropped out in May 1993 over his anger against Guber for putting \"Ed Wood\" in turnaround. Stephen Frears was TriStar's first choice to replace Burton, and Di Novi was fired and replaced with Ned Tanen. Daniel Day-Lewis was TriStar's first choice for the role of Dr. Jekyll and Uma Thurman for the role of Mary.\n\nReports of alleged production delays and animosity between the two leads helped fuel the poor word-of-mouth preceding the film's release. Upon release, the reviews were negative, with few critics finding anything to praise about the production. Many found fault with Roberts, calling her \"miscast\" (though Malkovich, too, received his fair share of ill mention). The film performed poorly at the box office. It earned a paltry $5.6 million domestically on a budget of $47 million and grossed only $12.3 million worldwide. \"Mary Reilly\" currently holds a 26% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 43 reviews, with an average rating of 4.3/10. The website's critical consensus states: \"\"Mary Reilly\" looks good and has its moments but overall, the movie borders on boredom.\"\n\nRoberts was nominated for Worst Actress by the Razzie Awards, and Stephen Frears was nominated for Worst Director, but lost to \"Striptease\". The Stinkers also nominated Roberts for Worst Actress, but she lost to Whoopi Goldberg. The film was also entered in the 46th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102108", "title": "Cytostome", "text": "Cytostome\n\nA cytostome (from \"cyto-\", cell and \"stome-\", mouth) or cell mouth is a part of a cell specialized for phagocytosis, usually in the form of a microtubule-supported funnel or groove. Food is directed into the cytostome, and sealed into vacuoles. \nOnly certain groups of protozoa, such as the Ciliophora and Excavata, have cytostomes. An example is \"Balantidium coli\", a ciliate. In other protozoa, and in cells from multicellular organisms, phagocytosis takes place at any point on the cell or feeding takes place by absorption.\n\nThe cytostome forms an invagination on the cell surface and is typically directed towards the nucleus of the cell. The cytostome is often labeled as the entire invagination, but in fact the cytostome only constitutes the opening of the invagination at the surface of the cell. The rest of the invagination is classified as the cytopharynx. The cytopharynx works in conjunction with the cytostome in order to import macromolecules into the cell. This strong association between the cytostome and cytopharynx is often called the cytostome-cytopharynx complex or the cytopharyngeal apparatus. However, in a small number of cases the cytostome works independently in order to import macromolecules. In these instances, the cytostome imports macromolecules by directly forming vesicles that are imported into the interior of the cell.\n\nThe cytostome is associated with microtubules that function in maintaining its form. One set of microtubules is arranged in a triplet formation and is located directly beneath the cytostome membrane. A second set of microtubules is positioned directly beneath the flagellar pocket membrane and forms a quartet.\n\nEqually as important in the function of endocytosis is the structure known as the cytopharynx. The cytopharynx is a long, tube-like structure that forms the invagination associated with the cytostome. While the shape of the cytopharynx is not constant, it is typically directed towards the posterior of the cell, often hooking around a central nucleus. The length of the cytopharynx varies during the cell cycle, however the average length is 8 μm. \nMuch like the cytostome, a set of microtubules form an association with the cytopharynx. Two sets of microtubules follow the path of the cytopharynx in cells. These sets of microtubules form a gutter like structure that surrounds the cytopharynx. One side of the cytopharynx is not associated with these microtubules and is deemed the \"naked side\". However, vesicles associate with this side of the cytopharynx.\n\nThe location of the cytostome in most flagellated protozoa is strongly conserved. The cytostome is located on the anterior end of the cell close to a structure known as the flagellar pocket. The flagellar pocket is also an invagination in the cell and also serves as a site of endocytosis. The opening of the cytostome is approximately level with the opening of the flagellar pocket.\n\nCiliophora is a phylum of protozoa. The cytostome in this phyla can be either apical or lateral.\n\nThe cytostome-cytopharynx complex functions as follows: macromolecules to be taken up by a cell enter the cytostome. Macromolecules then pass into the lumen of the cytopharynx and are transported to the posterior end of the cell where they are put into budding vesicles that are transported to others parts of the cell. The cytopharynx in this way acts much like a straw that sucks macromolecules to the posterior end of the cell. The passage of macromolecules from the entrance of the cytostome to the posterior end of the cytopharynx takes at least 2 minutes. The cytostome is the main site of endocytosis in \"Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes\".\n\nThe cytostome has also been found to associate with the flagellum of \"Trypanosoma cruzi\". So far, this is the only known example of an endocytotic organelle being associated with an organelle that is used for locomotion.\n\nAs mentioned above, the flagellar pocket is another site of endocytosis in flagellated protozoa. The flagellar pocket is an invagination that is formed around the extracellular flagellum. The flagellar pocket is a site of both endocytosis and exocytosis in cells.\n\nMany methods have been used in order to visualize the cytostome. Eger et al. used gold labeled transferrin molecules in combination with confocal microscopy in order to visualize the cytostome. This experiment showed that labeling with the gold particles was evident at two locations in the cells; one of the locations was the bottom of the cytopharynx, and the other location was in reservosomes in the cell.\n\nAnother team used ion beam scanning electron microscopy, also known as FIB-SEM followed by three dimensional reconstruction in order to create a 3-dimensional model of the cytostome-cytopharynx complex.\n"}
{"id": "2102133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102133", "title": "Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen", "text": "Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen\n\nThe Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen (), or PBGV, is a breed of dog of the scent hound type, bred to trail hares in bramble-filled terrain of the Vendée district of France. The breed is known in the United States as \"Petit\" or \"PBGV,\" in England as \"Roughie,\" and in Denmark as \"Griffon\" or \"Petit\". \n\nBoth males and females should be of similar size, range between 12.5 and 15.5 inches (32 to 40 cm) at the withers and between 25 and 40 pounds (15 to 20 kilograms).\n\nLike the other 3 Griffon Vendéen breeds: the Grand Griffon Vendéen, Briquet Griffon Vendéen, and the Grand Basset Griffon Vendéen; they are solid dogs that appear rough and unrefined yet casual. They have short legs, a sturdy bone structure, and a body that is only slightly longer than it is tall at the withers. The body length is not as extreme as that of a basset hound or dachshund.\n\nThe dogs have a tousled appearance, with a harsh double coat that is both long and rough. The hair on the face and legs may be softer than body hair. The fur on the face resembles a beard and moustache. They usually have very long eyelashes. \n\nThe skull is domed, with drop, oval ears like many hounds share, though dogs tend to have higher domes than bitches. The ears are set low and hanging, and if stretched out should reach the tip of the nose. The tail is usually held upright, and is long and tapered to the end, similar in shape to a saber.\n\nThe coloring is primarily white with spots of orange or lemon or black or grizzle (gray-and-white hairs) or sable, sometimes with tan accents. They may be bicolor, tricolor, or have grizzling.\n\nPBGVs are extroverted, friendly, and independent hounds. Sometimes called the \"happy breed\", PBGVs have tirelessly wagging tails and expressive, intelligent eyes. PBGVs are typically active and lively. This breed most often interacts well with both other dogs and people. The PBGV standard states that the dog should \"give voice freely\"—as is typical of hounds, petits are outspoken dogs. If their 'pack' begins howling or singing, the dog will join in, with amusing results. PBGVs may howl alone or with a companion; they may howl to music, for fun, or in protest at being left alone. PBGV companions report that sleeping dogs have been known to awaken and howl along with favorite songs. \n\nThe PBGV is not a quiet dog. While no PBGV would ever be called \"yippy,\" their assertive, hound-bray is uncharacteristically loud for their petite stature. The outspoken nature of a PBGV varies from dog to dog, but even the shyest Petit will greet other dogs with a bark or call. \n\nLike other hounds, Petits can be a little stubborn when it comes to training. Yet it is not unusual to see PBGV's excel in agility, obedience and in the ring - all requiring training. \n\nBecause they are so extroverted, friendly, and happy, PBGVs make superb therapy dogs. \n\nPBGVs are excellent hunting and tracking dogs. Many PBGVs have passed a \"Hunting Instinct Test\" and earned AKC hunting titles. Petits who work in this manner do not hunt to kill. In the Vendee region of France, the dogs are used to flush and track rabbit in the bramble, sending rabbit out into the open where the hunter takes the rabbit with a shot. Skilled hunting dogs work well with other dogs in the pack, alerting the pack to the presence of a rabbit, or to a rabbit in motion down a trail. \"Saber tails,\" another PBGV nickname, are typically white at the tip of the tail, so the tail is easily identified by a hunter above the bramble and brush. \n\nAs a companion animal, this occasionally pronounced hunting instinct may manifest in the home as a dog that gives chase to birds, squirrel, and cats. For some PBGVs, this instinct may be difficult to overcome with training. Most PBGVs make fine companion animals, and have suitable manners to live among cats and other animals without assuming a hunting role. Potential PBGV owners are cautioned to be aware of this instinct and, if cats are present in the home, work to acclimate the puppy or dog to recognize that the cat is part of the home \"pack.\" \n\nAs scent hounds, most PBGVs should be kept on-leash when in open, non-fenced outdoor areas. Even the most obedient dog may give chase when a scent is found. Petits are natural athletes, and they can run fast and long where scent is involved. Scent will typically trump obedience in the mind of a PBGV. In fact, PBGVs excel at nose work and many have earned AKC scent work and tracking titles.\n\nThe outspoken nature and erect tail of a PBGV can be misinterpreted by other dogs, as these manners typically express dominance to other dogs. PBGVs can inspire a misguided need to express dominance on the part of passing dogs. PBGV owners need to be alert to this potential misinterpretation, as Petits are easily outclassed in both size and aggressiveness.\n\nThe UK Kennel Club conducted a health survey of Basset Griffon Vendéens (both Petit and Grand varieties combined) in 2004. The Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen (PBGV) Club of America has conducted two health surveys, one in 1994 and one in 2000. \n\nAverage longevity of PBGVs in the 2000 Club of America survey was 12.7 years (standard deviation 3.9). Sample size was not clear, but it appeared to be 45 dogs. No longevity data were collected in the 1994 survey. There was no information on causes of death.\n\nAverage longevity of 76 deceased Basset Griffon Vendéens (both varieties) in the 2004 UK Kennel Club survey was 12.1 years (maximum 17.3 years). Leading causes of death were cancer (33%), old age (24%), and cardiac (7%). \n\nCompared to surveyed longevities of other breeds of similar size, Basset Griffon Vendéens have a typical or somewhat higher than average life expectancy. It is not uncommon for the breed to live to be 14 or 15 years of age.\n\nIn the PBGV Club of America 2000 survey, the most common diseases reported by owners of 640 dogs were persistent pupillary membranes, recurrent ear infections, hypothyroidism, neck pain, and epilepsy, treated with daily medication, principally phenobarbitol. In later years they can develop an eye condition known to mainly effect German Shepherds, called Panis. This is kept at bay using steroidal eye drops.\n\nAmong 289 live Basset Griffon Vendéens (both varieties) in the 2004 UKC survey, the most common health issues noted by owners were reproductive, dermatologic (dermatitis and mites), and aural (otitis externa, excessive ear wax, and ear mites). They are also prone to dislocation of their hips due to their long bodies, short legs, and the fact they carry a robust amount of weight for their size. On average around 15 kg.\n\nPart of the charm of a PBGV is its tousled, unkempt appearance.\n\nThey should have daily walks or lots of play time in a large, fenced yard to burn off excess energy. They need to be brushed regularly, but not daily, to avoid matting and tangles.\n\nTo keep the coat well groomed it should be occasionally stripped. Hairs must be pulled out of the coat using either a special stripping tool or the finger and thumb. The coat is shallow rooted and is made to come out if trapped, so this grooming method causes no pain.\n\nThey need regular ear cleanings to prevent yeast infections and clipping of the claws is normally needed once or twice a month.\n\nWinner of the world's biggest dog show, Crufts, in 2013, the four-year-old Soletrader Peek A Boo (\"Jilly\") beat more than twenty thousand dogs to take the coveted title. She won the Hound Group on the first day of the show and then proceeded to win Best of Show on the fourth day. Jilly was previously Reserve Best of Show at Crufts in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102150", "title": "Bovec", "text": "Bovec\n\nBovec ( or ; , , ) is a town in the Littoral region in northwestern Slovenia, close to the border with Italy. It is the central settlement of the Municipality of Bovec.\n\nBovec is located from the capital Ljubljana, at an elevation of . The settlement lies in the Bovec Basin of the upper Soča (\"Isonzo\") River, below the eastern slopes of Mount Kanin in the Julian Alps, forming the border with Italy. The adjacent Trenta Valley in the northwest leads into Triglav National Park.\n\nIt has been traditionally part of the historic Gorizia region, but today locals prefer to identify with the wider region of the Slovenian Littoral.\n\nBovec was attested in written sources in 1070 as \"Plecium\" and \"Pletium\" (and as \"Vlicez\" in 1181–96, \"Plezio\" in 1257, and \"Pleç\" in 1377). During the 12th and 13th centuries, the name designated not only the settlement itself, but also the wider Upper Soča region, including the Trenta Valley. The Slovene name is derived from the Slavic form \"*Blьcь\", but this itself is of pre-Slavic origin.\n\nThe Friulian and German names indicate that the names may be derived from \"*Plitium\" or \"*Pletium\", which could possibly be connected with the oronym \"Phligadia\" mentioned by the ancient Greek geographer Strabo or the place name \"Phlygades\". Less likely possibilities include a connection to the ancient place names \"Ampletium\" and \"Planta\". In the local dialect, the settlement is known as \"Bec\".\n\nArchaeological finds in the upper Soča Valley indicate continuous settlement since the Hallstatt era. In ancient times, the area on the Roman road leading up to the Predil Pass was part of the northeastern \"Venetia et Histria\" region of the \"Italia\" province. It was incorporated into the Carolingian march of Friuli, after Charlemagne had conquered the Italian Kingdom of the Lombards in 774.\n\nWith the medieval Kingdom of Italy, it came under the rule of King Otto I of Germany in 952 and was incorporated into the Imperial March of Verona. Bovec itself was first mentioned in 1192, when it belonged to the ecclesiastical Patria del Friuli, ruled by the Patriarchs of Aquileia. It was part of Tolmin (Tolmein) County, which was conquered by the Republic of Venice in 1420 and incorporated into the \"Domini di Terraferma\".\n\nThe lands on the upper Soča River were finally annexed to the Inner Austrian lands under Emperor Maximilian I during the War of the League of Cambrai in 1509 and added to the County of Gorizia (\"Görz\") in the south, which Maximilian had inherited in 1500. \n\nElevated to the Princely County of Gorizia and Gradisca in 1754, the majority of the predominantly Slovene-speaking territories of the province—with the exception of a brief period between 1809 and 1813, when it was included under the Napoleonic Kingdom of Italy—remained under Austrian rule until 1918, from 1849 within the crown land of the Austrian Littoral (\"Küstenland\"). Slovene completely replaced German as the language of everyday communication in the 19th century.\n\nDuring the last Austro-Hungarian period, when the Littoral was part of Cisleithanian Austria, Flitsch was administrated within the Tolmein district (one of the 11 districts within \"Küstenland\"). The Austro-Hungarian Army had two fortresses erected along the Predil Pass road, the well-preserved Kluže Fortress in 1881–82 and the ruined \"Fort Hermann\".\n\nDuring World War I, the area was the theatre of the bloody Battles of the Isonzo, fought between Austro-Hungarian forces and the Italian Army between June 1915 and November 1917, which devastated the region almost completely.\n\nAfter the war, the military cemetery east of Bovec was expanded and the remains of Austro-Hungarian and Italian soldiers were transferred to the cemetery from surrounding cemeteries. The remains of the Italian soldiers were exhumed and transferred to the Italian military ossuary outside Kobarid in 1938. Over 600 soldiers are buried in the cemetery; the graves cover the entire cemetery area, although only the south quarter has concrete grave markers. There are no names on the grave markers.\n\nUpon the 1918 Battle of Vittorio Veneto, Bovec was occupied by Italian forces and by the 1920 Treaty of Rapallo officially annexed to the Julian March as part of the Kingdom of Italy. Under the Italian Fascist regime between 1922 and 1943, the Slovene-speaking population of Bovec and the neighbouring villages was submitted to a policy of forced Italianization. Numerous locals in turn joined the underground militant anti-fascist TIGR organization, while many others emigrated to the neighbouring Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nBetween 1943 and 1945, the area was occupied by Nazi German forces, and units of Slovene partisans were active in the area. After liberation by the Yugoslav People's Army in May 1945, Bovec came under joint British-U.S. occupation. Between June 1945 and September 1947, Bovec and the entire right bank of the Soča River was included in Zone A of the former Julian March, which was under Allied military administration, with the demarcation line with the Yugoslav occupation zone running just a few kilometers east of the town.\n\nBovec is the site of a mass grave associated with the Second World War. The Cemetery Mass Grave () is located next to the entrance to the town cemetery. It contained the remains of 11 German soldiers killed between 1941 and 1945. The names of all of them are known. The grave was exhumed in 2000 and the remains were transferred to Žale Cemetery in Ljubljana. Unlike most mass graves in Slovenia, the grave was well maintained during the communist era with funds provided by the German War Graves Commission. The mass grave is marked by a plaque in Slovene and German.\n\nIn September 1947, the Paris Peace Treaties gave the town to Yugoslavia. In 1951, Bovec became a town. With the breakup of Yugoslavia in 1991, Bovec became part of independent Slovenia.\n\nBovec was heavily damaged by the 1976 Friuli earthquake. Another moderate quake with a magnitude of 5.6 on the Richter magnitude scale shook the town in April 1998, and a weaker one occurred in July 2004, with a 4.9 magnitude.\n\nThe citizens of Bovec largely depend on tourism. In recent years, the area has become increasingly popular with advertisers and filmmakers; part of the Disney film \"\" was shot here. The area received the European Destinations of Excellence award in 2008 with the Soča Stories project.\n\nArea destinations include Boka Falls, Mount Triglav (2864 m), the Soča River, Lake Krn, the Kanin (Sella Nevea) ski resort, the Vršič Pass (1611 m), and the mountain road to the Mangart Saddle. Activities around Bovec include kayaking, rafting, hiking (the Peace Trail from Bovec to Kluže Fortress, the Soča Trail, and the Alpe-Adria Trail), performances by Društvo 1313, cheese tasting on the Mangart Plain, the Kanin circular cableway, Prestreljenik Window () and other karst features, a zip line, and fishing.\n\nNotable people that were born or lived in Bovec include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102158", "title": "Authorized foreign decorations of the United States military", "text": "Authorized foreign decorations of the United States military\n\nAuthorized foreign decorations of the United States military are those military decorations which have been approved for wear by members of the United States armed forces but whose awarding authority is the government of a country other than the United States.\n\nThe wear of foreign decorations may either be approved on a case-by-case basis or a general order may be declared allowing for blanket approval to all U.S. service members to wear a particular non-U.S. decoration.\n\nThe following is a list of foreign decorations which have been approved at one time for wear on United States military uniforms. Such awards are always worn after all United States decorations and before international military awards. The list below is by no means comprehensive, but does display the awards which have been bestowed to U.S. service members by the governments of foreign countries.\n\n\nArgentinian decorations are only rarely awarded to senior US officers, most of those senior U.S. officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nAustralian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers, at the Joint Chiefs of Staff level\n\n\nThis award consists of fifteen classes, of which the second class was awarded to Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\n\n\nKingdom of Bahrain decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those senior US officers in the United States Central Command as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nBelgian Orders were awarded to senior U.S. officers, while the War Cross was presented to any rank for valor during World War I & World War II. A Fourragère could also be awarded to individuals in units that were cited twice in the Order of the Day.\n\n\nBolivian decorations are only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, most of those senior US officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nBrazil's highest orders of merit were rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, during World War II.\n\nIn the 21st century United States military most of those post World War II era presentations are still only awarded to senior US officers, most of those senior U.S. officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nBulgarian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nCanadian decorations were mainly awarded during World War I and World War II. The Meritorious Service Cross and Meritorious Service Medal are currently the only Canadian awards still being awarded to US personnel today. Most of those are awarded to senior U.S. officers in the United States European Command, United States Northern Command or North American Aerospace Defense Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nChilean decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War II.\n\n\nChinese decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War II.\n\n\nColombian decorations are only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, most of those senior US officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nCroatian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those were awarded to senior US officers in the United States European Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nCzech Order of the White Lion was only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. The Czechoslovak War Cross was a little more commonly awarded to officers, than the \"Czech Order of the White Lion\" was, during World War I and World War II.\n\nCross of Merit of the Minister of Defense First Class are only rarely awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nDanish decorations were only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, during World War II.\n\n\nEcuadorean decorations were only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, during World War II.\n\n\nEgyptian decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those senior U.S. officers in the United States Central Command as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nSalvadoran decorations are only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, most of those senior U.S. officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nEstonian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those were awarded to senior U.S. officers in the United States European Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nFrench decorations were presented to U.S. service members extensively during World War I and World War II. By far, the Croix de guerre was the most commonly bestowed decoration to United States service members of all ranks. Today, members of United States 5th Marine Regiment and 6th Marine Regiment, the Army's 2nd Infantry Division, the Army's 3rd Infantry Division, the Army's 3rd Squadron, 4th Cavalry Regiment, the 1st BN U.S. 28th Infantry Regiment, and the National Guard's 45th Infantry Brigade Separate Brigade are authorized to wear a \"Fourragère aux couleurs de la Croix de guerre\", signifying the award of three Croix de guerre to each unit during World War I, but only while that individual is assigned to the unit. The wearing of the decoration is considered ceremonial and the \"fourragère\" is not entered as an official military award in permanent service records.\n\nThe Legion of Honour was awarded on June 15th, 2015, SSgt Greggory Swarz. Staff Sgt. Greggory Swarz, with the 492nd Aircraft Maintenance Unit, received the Legion of Honor during the International Paris Air Show, according to U.S. Air Forces in Europe. Swarz pulled three French airmen out of a fire that erupted after a Greek F-16 crashed on Los Llanos Air Base, Spain, in January during a multinational exercise. The two Greek pilots and nine French airmen died. \n\nThe Legion of Honour was awarded on August 24th, 2015, to two US Servicemen. Specialist Alek Skarlatos, a National Guardsman based in Oregon, and Airman First Class Spencer Stone, were awarded the Legion of Honour by French President Francois Hollande saying they \"gave a lesson in courage\" by subduing a heavily armed attacker on a high-speed train carrying 500 passengers to Paris on August 21st, 2015.\n\nThe National Order of the Legion of Honor is mostly awarded to senior U.S. officers and Senior Enlisted Advisors in the United States European Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nThe National Order of Merit is awarded to lower ranking U.S. officers (Brigadier General - Major) and Senior Non-commissioned officers assigned to the United States European Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nThe French Commemorative Medal and the French Medal of National Defense can be awarded to any foreign military member who has served under French command. These are the only French medals still being awarded to U.S. personnel today.\n\nThere is an additional badge which can be earned by U.S. Service members upon successful participation and completion of the French Desert Commando Course in Djibouti, Africa. The course location is called Centre d'entraînement au combat d'Arta Plage, but more currently called CECAD (Centre d'entraînement au combat et d’aguerrissement de Djibouti). The badge is individually serialized to the service member who earned it.\n\n\nGerman decorations have been awarded to United States soldiers beginning as far back as the American Revolution. By the time of the First World War, German decorations had faded from the military memory of the United States and, during the actual conflict where Germany and America were on opposing sides, the wear of any German decoration by an American soldier would have been unthinkable.\n\nThe sole authorization of a Nazi decoration to U.S. personnel was in 1938 when the Order of the German Eagle was awarded to a small number of U.S. military personnel who had either served in Germany in a diplomatic posting or who had performed an act of service to the German state. The Order was entered in service records, but was never authorized for display on a United States uniform.\n\nIn the 21st century United States military, the German Proficiency and Marksmanship Badges are far more commonly awarded, mainly to U.S. Army and Air Force personnel. The Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany was last awarded to a US officer in 2015 and is today rarely awarded to only very senior U.S. officers. Most of those senior U.S. officers were in the United States European Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nGreek decorations were only very rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers, during World War II.\n\n\nGuatemalan decorations are only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, most of those senior U.S. officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nHaitian decorations were only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, during World War II.\n\n\nHonduran decorations are only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, most of those senior U.S. officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nHungarian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nIcelandic decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nIraqi decorations are only awarded to very senior U.S. officers, most of those were awarded to the Multi-National Force - Iraq Commander as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nTo date the \"only\" person that has been allowed to wear any Iraqi award has been General Petraeus, Multi-National Force - Iraq Commander.\n\n\nThe Service in Israel Medal is awarded to military attachés who serve at least two years in Israel upon the end of their assignment with the IDF. First instituted in 2007, it is still a somewhat rare decoration and there are certain restrictions regarding its display (or in some case, even its mention) for U.S. personnel stationed in other Middle Eastern Arab countries who are on unfriendly terms with Israel.\n\n\nItalian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. The first presentations of Italian decorations to U.S. personnel were made in the months following World War II. This was mainly done to foster a new era of friendly relations between the US and Italy.\n\nThere are post-World War II presentations, but most of those medals are awarded to officers assigned in Italy. The Italian Orders are mainly awarded to senior U.S. officers in the United States European Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nThe first presentations of Japanese decorations to U.S. personnel were made in the months following World War II when the new Japanese government presented several decorations to senior U.S. military officers then in charge of the occupation force garrisoning Japan. This was mainly done to foster a new era of friendly relations between the US and Japan and to recognize the joint and allied nature which the new Japanese Self Defense Force would have with the United States armed forces. Some awards were discontinued after the Second World War, such as the Order of the Golden Kite.\n\nToday Japanese decorations are only awarded to senior U.S. officers in the United States Pacific Command usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nThe Kuwait Liberation Medal was awarded to all U.S. service members who served in the theater of operations during the \"Operation Desert Shield\" and \"Operation Desert Storm\" phase of the Gulf War, between 2 August 1990 and 31 August 1993.\n\n\nLithuanian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. But most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nLuxembourg decorations were presented mainly during World War II. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nThe Order of the Gold Lion of the House of Nassau was founded by Grand Ducal decree on 31 March 1858 by King-Grand Duke William III. The honour was to be shared between both branches of the House of Nassau, under agreement between William, King of the Netherlands and Grand Duke of Luxembourg, and Adolphe, Duke of Nassau and future Grand Duke of Luxembourg.\n\n\nMexican decorations were mainly presented to very senior U.S. officers during World War II. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but these are mainly confined to the senior ranks of the U.S. military.\n\n\nMontenegrin decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War I.\n\n\nThe Order of Ouissam Alaouite was awarded mainly to United States military officers who had served on the Operation Torch planning staff during World War II. In the film \"Patton\", George C. Scott plays then Major General George S. Patton who is awarded the Grand Cross of the Order of Ouissam Alaouite at the start of the film. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but these are mainly confined to the senior ranks of the U.S. military.\n\n\nThe Dutch presented awards to U.S. service members mainly during World War II; the Honorary Sabre was very rarely awarded to very senior US officers. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nThe Order of the Gold Lion of the House of Nassau was founded by Grand Ducal decree on 31 March 1858 by King-Grand Duke William III. The honour was to be shared between both branches of the House of Nassau, under agreement between William, King of the Netherlands and Grand Duke of Luxembourg, and Adolphe, Duke of Nassau and future Grand Duke of Luxembourg.\n\n\nNicaraguan medals were somewhat commonly awarded to U.S. Marine and Navy personnel, during the Nicaraguan Campaigns of 1912 & 1933.\n\n\nNorwegian decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers, during World War I & World War II.\n\nThe \"War Cross\" is Norway's highest ranking decoration for gallantry. It was so rarely awarded to US military personnel, that only two U.S. officers have ever received it to date, CAPT Alfred Carini and LTC Keith N. Allen.\n\nThe Royal Order of St. Olav is no longer awarded to foreign citizens, except for state leaders and royals. Foreign citizens may now be awarded the Royal Norwegian Order of Merit.\n\n\nPakistani decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War II. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but these are mainly confined to the senior ranks of the U.S. military.\n\n\n\nParaguayan decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War II.\n\n\nPeruvian decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War II. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but these are mainly confined to the senior ranks of the U.S. military.\n\nIn the 21st century United States military, the awarding of Peruvian decorations are still only rarely awarded to senior US officers, most of those senior US officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nThe Philippine Medal of Valor, Distinguished Conduct Star and Philippine Legion of Honor were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers, during World War II. The Philippine Defense Medal, Philippine Liberation Medal and Philippine Independence Medal were commonly awarded to soldiers and sailors of all ranks during World War II.\n\n\nPolish decorations were first presented to U.S. senior military leaders in the aftermath of World War II as a measure of thanking the Allies for liberating Poland from Nazi Germany.\n\nWhen Poland fell behind the Iron Curtain, awards to U.S. service members all but ceased. In the 21st century, with Poland now a member in NATO, awards have resumed to U.S. personnel, but most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations. \n\nThe Iraq Star has been awarded to U.S. officers who served with Polish forces in Iraq (MND-CS).The Afghanistan Star has been awarded to U.S. officers who served with Polish forces in Afghanistan (as part of the ISAF).\n\nThe Polish Army Medal has been awarded by Minister of National Defense \"to foreign nationals, military or civilian, who rendered merit in cooperation between the Polish Armed forces and the armed forces of other countries, in particular by supporting peacekeeping operations of the Polish Armed forces, rendered merit in the area of cooperation of international military units including Polish units, contributed to the growth of military potential of the Polish Armed Forces or to dissemination of Polish military history or traditions abroad.\"\n\n\nPortuguese Order of Aviz was awarded to very senior U.S. officers, during World War II. Most of the medals awarded now in the 21st century United States military, are to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nSouth Korean decorations were first awarded to U.S. service members during the Korean War. \n\nThe award of Korean medals in the 21st century is mainly confined to senior U.S. military leaders attached to either USFK or CNFK.\n\nSenior Leadership awards\n\nIndividual awards\n\nUnit awards\n\nOther awards\n\nRepublic of Vietnam military awards (South Vietnam decorations) were first awarded to United States service members beginning around 1964. The \"Vietnamese Gallantry Cross\" and the \"Vietnamese Civil Actions Medal\" were awarded to some U.S. servicemen for heroism and meritorious service. The \"National Order\" was awarded to some U.S. military officers who were killed in action and the \"Military Merit Medal\" was awarded to some U.S. non-officers who were killed in action. The \"National Order\" and \"Distinguished Service Order\" was awarded to some senior U.S. military personnel. The \"Campaign Medal\" were commonly awarded to all U.S. military personnel and the remainder of the decorations were awarded with different frequency between the U.S. service branches and amongst officer/non-officer personnel.\n\n\nRomanian decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers, during World War I and World War II. There have been some rare post-World War II presentations, but these are mainly confined to the senior ranks of the U.S. military.\n\n\nThe Saudi Arabian Kuwait Liberation Medal was a little less commonly awarded to all U.S. service members, it was awarded only during the dates of 17 January 1991 and 28 February 1991 with in-theater service of the Gulf War.\n\n\nSingaporean decorations are very rarely awarded to only senior U.S. officers, at the Joint Chiefs of Staff level.\n\n\nSlovakian decorations are only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers. Most of those were awarded to the United States European Command Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nSoviet decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during World War II. Due to the different ribbon bar sizing between US and USSR decorations, Soviet ribbons were also impractical for daily wear on United States uniforms. In addition, by the 1950s at the start of the Cold War, most U.S. officers who had been awarded such medals during World War II simply chose to stop wearing them.\n\nSpanish decorations were only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers during World War II.\n\n\nSwedish decorations were only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers during World War II.\n\n\nThai decorations are very rarely awarded to only senior U.S. officers, at the Joint Chiefs of Staff level.\n\n\nTunisian decorations were only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers during World War II.\n\n\nUAE decorations were only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers during the Gulf War. Most of those senior U.S. officers in the United States Central Command as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\n\nOrders of Chivalry\n\nMilitary Decorations\n\nCampaign Medals\n\nBritain's highest award for gallantry the Victoria Cross has only been awarded to one U.S. military member, the U.S. Unknown Soldier was awarded the Victoria Cross, on November 11, 1921.\n\nUnited Kingdom decorations were awarded extensively to U.S. service members during both the First World War and World War II. The orders of chivalry were reserved mainly for senior U.S. military leaders. The remaining decorations were awarded frequently amongst the entire enlisted and officer corps of the U.S. military. The Distinguished Flying Cross was a common decoration for those Americans attached to the Eagle Squadrons; when some of those personnel transferred back to the United States Army Air Forces after America entered the war, the British DFC became a fairly common sight on U.S. uniforms during that time period.\n\nIn the 21st century United States military, the awarding of British decorations to U.S. service members is still somewhat common, most often to officers assigned in England or other various capacities with NATO European based defense groups.\n\nUruguayean decorations are only rarely awarded to senior U.S. officers, most of those senior U.S. officers have been in the United States Southern Command & United States Southern Command Air Forces Commander usually as \"end-of-tour\" decorations.\n\nVatican awards of Pontifical Equestrian Orders of Chivalry are made by the Vatican Secretary of State in the name of the Sovereign Pontiff and may be accepted and retained by U.S. Military personnel as honorary merit awards and not for wear of the U.S. Military Uniform.\n\n\nThe Order of the White Eagle was only rarely awarded to very senior U.S. officers, during World War II.\n\nAwards and decorations of the United States Armed Forces\nAwards and decorations of the United States government\n\n"}
{"id": "2102162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102162", "title": "Museum of Northwest Art", "text": "Museum of Northwest Art\n\nThe Museum of Northwest Art (also referred to as MoNA) is an art museum located in La Conner, Washington, and is focused on the Northwest School art movement, which had its peak in the mid-20th century. The Museum was founded by Art Hupy in 1981. It moved to its present building in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102163", "title": "Jimmy Aubrey", "text": "Jimmy Aubrey\n\nJimmy Aubrey (23 October 1887 in Bolton, Lancashire, England – 2 September 1983 in Woodland Hills, California) was an English actor who worked with both Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy, having gone with Fred Karno's theatrical company to America in 1908. However he left to start on his own in vaudeville. He started in comedies, then went on to comedic roles in drama.\n\nHe appeared in 419 films between 1915 and 1953.\n"}
{"id": "2102165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102165", "title": "Adrian Ilie", "text": "Adrian Ilie\n\nAdrian Bucurel Ilie (; born 20 April 1974) is a Romanian former international footballer who played as a forward. He was nicknamed \"Cobra\" by his former coach at Valencia, Claudio Ranieri, because of his spectacular skills and goalscoring prowess.\n\nHe represented the Romanian national team in one World Cup and two European Championships.\n\nIlie began his career with his local club Electroputere Craiova before transferring to Romania's biggest club Steaua Bucuresti in 1993. During his three years with Steaua, Ilie helped the club to three consecutive Romanian league titles and the 1995–96 Cupa României.\n\nIn 1996, Ilie was purchased by Turkish side Galatasaray for an amount of €2.35 million, where he won the Turkish championship in 1996–97. After an impressive season, he moved from Galatasaray to Valencia CF for a reported US$ 7 million, where he replaced in the squad the Brazilian star Romário and took over his no. 11 jersey. At Valencia he impressed from his debut, scoring twelve goals in 17 matches, and thus getting the nickname of \"Cobra\" from coach Claudio Ranieri, because he was as \"lethal as a cobra\". At the \"Mestalla\", Ilie made a remarkable attacking duo together with teammate Claudio López, helping \"Los Che\" to win the 1998–99 Copa del Rey. In 2000, under Héctor Cúper's command, Valencia reached the final of the UEFA Champions League, where Ilie appeared as a substitute for Gerardo in a 3–0 loss to Real Madrid CF. Two years later, Ilie was a member of Rafael Benítez's 2001–02 La Liga winning squad, scoring only two goals in 10 matches because of injuries.\n\nIn 2002, Ilie left Valencia to join Deportivo Alavés but the club was relegated to the Segunda División in his only season. He then returned to Turkey to play for Beşiktaş J.K. before transferring to Switzerland's FC Zürich a year later. In 2005, he signed with Belgian side Beerschot AC but never played with the club due to a severe ankle injury, resulting in his retirement from football at the age of only 31.\n\nHowever, in 2009, he decided to come back into professional football after some discussions with Russian club FC Terek Grozny but he had to quit after failing his medical tests.\n\nAt the international level, Ilie won 55 caps for Romania, scoring 13 goals. He played at the 1996 European Football Championship, 1998 FIFA World Cup and 2000 European Football Championship.\nAt 1998 FIFA World Cup, he scored against Colombia one of the most spectacular goals of the tournament. In the period between 1997-2000, alongside teammate Gheorghe Hagi, he was Romania's national team leader, scoring important goals and impressing with his skills. In 1998, he won the title of Romania's footballer of the year.\n\nHe is the older brother of fellow footballer Sabin Ilie.\n\nSteaua Bucharest\n\nGalatasaray \n\nValencia\n\nZürich\n\n"}
{"id": "2102172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102172", "title": "Icelandic Sign Language", "text": "Icelandic Sign Language\n\nIcelandic Sign Language () is the sign language of the deaf community in Iceland. It is based on Danish Sign Language; until 1910, deaf Icelandic people were sent to school in Denmark, but the languages have diverged since then. It is officially recognized by the state and regulated by a national committee.\n\nIcelandic Sign Language is distinct from spoken Icelandic; in 1999, the Icelandic Ministry of Education stated that, in the Icelandic basic curriculum, Icelandic Sign Language is the first language of deaf people, while spoken Icelandic is a second language. Therefore, deaf Icelanders should learn Icelandic Sign Language as their first language and Icelandic as their second language.\n\nA lexical comparison of signs from Icelandic Sign Language with their counterparts in Danish Sign Language was undertaken to try to determine the degree of current lexical similarity. It was found that whilst the two sign languages are certainly related, 37% of signs analysed were completely different in structure and a further 16%, whilst similar, still contrasted in one of the four parameters of hand-configuration, location, movement or orientation.\n\nIcelandic sign language is used as a first language of deaf people in Iceland. The majority of the speakers live in Reykjavik and the surrounding areas.\n\nIn June 2011, Icelandic Sign Language was officially recognized as a first language. In no.61/2011 under Article 3 it states that,\n\"Icelandic sign language is the first language of those who have to rely on it for expression and communication, and of their children. The government authorities shall nurture and support it. All those who need to use sign language shall have the opportunity to learn and use Icelandic sign language as soon as their language acquisition process begins, or from the time when deafness, hearing impairment or deaf-blindness is diagnosed. Their immediate family members shall have the same right.\"\nArticle 5 of the Act also ensures that the government must promote all aspects of education and awareness in regards to Icelandic Sign Language.\n\nArticle 7 appoints the Icelandic Sign Language Committee whose role it is to give advice to the government regarding the implementation of regulations for Icelandic Sign Language.\nArticle 13 provides that all who need Icelandic Sign Language services will have access to them.\n\nThere are no geographical dialects of Icelandic Sign Language. However, generational variation has been attested. There is variation in the phonology, lexicon, morphology, and syntax between difference generations.\n\nIceland was part of the Kingdom of Denmark until 1918. Icelandic Sign Language is part of the Danish Sign Language family. \n\nUntil the first Icelandic teacher, Rev. Páll Pálsson, was employed in Iceland in 1867, Icelandic deaf children attended a school in Copenhagen. In 1874, Pálsson outlined his objectives for teaching his students in a newspaper article. He wanted his students to be able to express their thoughts and be understood through writing, finger language and pointing, and did not care about speaking Icelandic or lip reading. In 1922, the Danish Mouth-Hand system was adopted as the new teaching method, with the objective of having the students speak and understand speech augmented with finger spelling and signs. A change was made in 1944 to the educational system and Oralism was adopted. All signing was banned in the classroom because the sole objective of Oralism was to teach the students to speak and understand Icelandic. In the early eighties, new principal Guðlaug Snorradóttir introduced a new teaching method called Total Communication to the Deaf School. The Total Communication method involved using multiple methods for communicating, including the manual alphabet, signs, gestures, lip-reading, and writing. This was not teaching Icelandic Sign Language as they only taught single signs and no grammar. The main objective of the school remained teaching the students to speak and understand Icelandic. The teachers at the school did not know Icelandic Sign Language, and so the students could only communicate with them through speaking. Berglind Stefánsdóttir was appointed as the first deaf principal of the Deaf School in 1996. It was during her term that bilingualism became the objective for students. In 2002 the Deaf School was merged into the hearing school, and while bilingualism was still promoted, the deaf children were still being taught with techniques developed for hearing children. Icelandic Sign Language has only a marginal role in the classroom.\nThe manual alphabet used in Icelandic Sign Language is signed using one hand. The manual alphabet is used when a signer does not know the sign for something they are trying to express, or for things like names, street or place names, companies or abbreviations. \n\nIcelandic Sign Language has somewhat variable word order depending on the verb used. The basic word order is SVO however, with agreement verbs SOV and OSV word order is also accepted.\n\nÍTM has two signs for the verb \"vera\" (\"to be\"), known as BIDD and LALLA. BIDD is used to describe permanent conditions, while LALLA is used for temporary conditions. This distinction is similar to the distinction between the Spanish and Portuguese verbs \"ser\" and \"estar\".\n\nResearch shows a high degree of intelligibility of between Icelandic Sign Language and Danish Sign Language. The first Icelandic Sign Language dictionary published in 1976 lists 600–700 signs borrowed from Danish Sign language and Swedish Sign Language. \nThere has been little research into Icelandic Sign Language's phonology. SignWiki Ísland lists 35 different handshapes with seven places of articulations.\n\nIcelandic Sign Language has minimal pairs in all five of the sign parameters. Some examples of minimal pairs in Icelandic Sign Language are the words Father and Grandfather which contrast with each other by handshape, Do and Teach which contrast by orientation, Fun and Sick which contrast by movement, Mother and Red which contrast by location, and finally Sister and Brother which contrast by non-manuals.\n\nIn order to mark the plural in personal pronouns in Icelandic Sign Language an arc is added to the index pointing from the singular sign. Icelandic Sign Language has twenty five agreement verbs, the features of agreement are motion of the hands and orientation of the hands or both. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102175", "title": "Harry Bernard", "text": "Harry Bernard\n\nHarry Bernard (January 13, 1878 – November 4, 1940) was a movie comedian who worked for Mack Sennett and Hal Roach.\n\nHarry Bernard appeared in over 150 films between 1915 and 1940, usually typecast as a policeman. He played with Laurel & Hardy (25 films), Our Gang (nine films) and Charley Chase (33 films). The character actor also worked as a theatre and vaudeville actor. Bernard was born in San Francisco, California, and died of a heart attack in Hollywood in 1940. He was married to Jere Gerard Bernard (1886-1970); they had one daughter named Patricia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102192", "title": "Marie Wilson (soap opera actress)", "text": "Marie Wilson (soap opera actress)\n\nMarie Wilson (born Marie Flevaras; October 12, 1974) is a Canadian actress, known for her roles on the daytime soap operas \"Port Charles\" and \"As the World Turns\". In 2016, she starred on the NBC daytime soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\" in the role of Summer Townsend.\n\nWilson was born in Athens, Greece, but raised in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. She married Michael Wilson on December 31, 1996 and they have a daughter, Skye Alexandra (born February 12, 2001). She began her career as a model before making her screen debut with the role of Karen Wexler in the ABC daytime soap opera, \"General Hospital\". She appeared on show from 1999 to 2003 and also was regular cast member on \"Port Charles\" from 1999 until her character was killed off in 2003.\n\nIn 2005, Wilson was cast as Meg Snyder in the CBS soap opera, \"As the World Turns\". She succeeded Jennifer Ashe, who was in the role from 1986–89. In April 2010, following the cancellation of the series, it was announced that Wilson would exit the series prior to its September 2010 finale. In 2012, Wilson guest starred in the CBS crime drama \"Criminal Minds\". In October 2014, she joined the cast of NBC soap opera, \"Days of Our Lives\" in the recurring role of Bree Tjaden, which she held until early 2015. In October 2015, it was announced she would again appear on \"Days of Our Lives\", this time in a newly created role. Wilson made her first appearance as Summer on February 5, 2016. She departed later in the year, but returned briefly in January 2020.\n"}
{"id": "2102198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102198", "title": "Mervyn Davies", "text": "Mervyn Davies\n\nThomas Mervyn Davies (9 December 1946 – 15 March 2012), often known as \"Merv the Swerve\", was a Welsh rugby union player who won 38 caps for Wales as a No. 8.\n\nDavies was born in Swansea, where he attended Penlan County School.\nDavies joined London Welsh in 1968, later moving to Swansea. \n\nHe won his first cap for Wales in 1969 against Scotland, going on to play 38 consecutive matches for Wales and scoring two tries. During this period Wales won two Grand Slams and three Triple Crowns. He went on the British and Irish Lions tours to New Zealand in 1971 and to South Africa in 1974, playing in eight tests. In a total of 46 international appearances for Wales and the Lions he only ended on the losing side nine times.\n\nTall and slight of frame, he grew a Mexican moustache to make himself appear more aggressive on the rugby field. He was nicknamed \"Merv the Swerve\" and \"in a poll of Welsh rugby fans in 2002, Davies was voted both greatest Welsh captain and greatest Welsh number eight.\"\n\nHis career was ended by a subarachnoid hemorrhage suffered when captaining Swansea against Pontypool in 1976. He had collapsed during a game on another occasion, four years earlier, and had been wrongly diagnosed with meningitis. Following the second incident he was a patient in the University Hospital of Wales for several months, and received goodwill messages from all over the world.\n\nIn a poll of Welsh rugby fans in 2002, Davies was voted both Greatest Ever Welsh Captain and Greatest Ever Welsh Number 8. In 2001 he was inducted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame.\n\nHe was a smoker and was diagnosed with lung cancer (adenocarcinoma) in November 2011. He died 4 months later.\n\nDavies had a son and daughter by his first wife Shirley; the marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife Jeni and his three stepchildren, and by his two children from his first marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102207", "title": "Victoria Cross (Canada)", "text": "Victoria Cross (Canada)\n\nThe Victoria Cross (VC) is the highest award of the United Kingdom honours system. It was previously awarded to Canada and other Commonwealth countries, most of which including Canada have established their own honours systems and no longer recommend British honours. Today, the Victoria Cross (), created in 1993 and named in honour of the British Victoria Cross is the highest award within the Canadian honours system, taking precedence over all other orders, decorations, and medals. It is awarded by either the Canadian monarch or his or her viceregal representative, the Governor General of Canada, to any member of the Canadian Forces or allies serving under or with Canadian military command for extraordinary valour and devotion to duty while facing hostile forces. Whereas in many other Commonwealth countries the relevant version of the Victoria Cross can only be awarded for actions against the enemy in a wartime setting, the Canadian government has a broader definition of the term \"enemy\". In Canada, the Victoria Cross can be awarded for action against armed mutineers, pirates, or other such hostile forces without war being officially declared. Recipients are entitled to use the post-nominal letters \"VC\" (for both English and French) and also to receive an annuity of C$3,000. The decoration has not been awarded since its inception.\n\nThe original Victoria Cross was created by a Royal Warrant issued on 29 January 1856 with the royal sign-manual of Queen Victoria, and was intended to recognize demonstrations of gallantry during the Crimean War, regardless of either a man's social status or his record of service. Initially, the Victoria Cross could not be conferred on colonial troops, until Major Charles Heaphy received the medal for his actions while serving with a New Zealand militia unit in 1864. After this, the Victoria Cross was made available to all \"local forces under imperial command.\" The cross could not be awarded posthumously but the policy was reversed in 1907.\n\nUntil 1972, 81 members of the Canadian military (including those from Newfoundland) and 13 Canadians serving in British units had been awarded the Victoria Cross. After that date, however, the Canadian honours system was overhauled, and the Victoria Cross was eliminated from the official list of honours, instigating a decades-long debate on whether or not to reinstate the decoration. The prime minister at the time, Pierre Trudeau, regularly dodged questions about the Victoria Cross, stating that \"only Canadians should receive Canadian decorations.\" In 1987, prime minister Brian Mulroney set up a committee to look into the creation of a Canadian Victoria Cross as part of a new series of military honours. Although the committee did not recommend the Victoria Cross—names such as the \"Canada Cross\" and the \"Cross of Military Valour\" were put forward—the creation of a Victoria Cross for Australia in 1991 and pressure from \"The Globe and Mail\" and advocacy groups, such as the Monarchist League of Canada and the Royal Canadian Legion, forced the plans to be amended. In 1991 a private member's bill received all-party support in the House of Commons, following which the Victoria Cross, along with other Canadian military valour decorations, were on 31 December 1992 formally requested by Mulroney. The request was approved with the issue of letters patent by Queen Elizabeth II on 2 February of the following year, thereby ceasing Canadian dependence on the British honours system.\n\nThe Victoria Cross is awarded for \"the most conspicuous bravery, a daring or pre-eminent act of valour or self-sacrifice or extreme devotion to duty, in the presence of the enemy\" at any point after 1 January 1993. It may be presented posthumously, and, like its British counterpart, can not be revoked. The main distinction between the Victoria Cross and the Cross of Valour is the specific reference to \"the enemy\", which the Canadian government has defined as a force hostile towards the Canadian Crown, including armed mutineers, rebels, rioters, and pirates. This means that the Queen-in-Council does not officially have to declare war to give acknowledgement of the existence of a hostile force that fits the official description. Thus, a Canadian serving as part of a peacekeeping operation is eligible to be awarded the Victoria Cross if the service member fulfils the above criteria.\n\nIn the case of a gallant and daring act having been performed by a squadron, ship's company, or detached body of individuals (such as a security detachment) in which all persons were deemed equally brave and deserving of the Victoria Cross, a ballot is to be drawn; the commissioned and non-commissioned officers each select one of their own, and the private soldiers or seamen select from amongst themselves two individuals. This provision with modification is included in the current warrant but has not been used since the First World War.\nThe process of awarding the Victoria Cross may take place in two ways: One is through a recommendation by the Decorations and Commendations Advisory Committee, which is a part of the Department of National Defence and has six members, one appointed by the governor general and the rest by the chief of the Defence Staff. Alternatively, a field commander can submit a name for consideration, though permission must be obtained from the governor general before the award can be presented. Recipients are entitled to receive an annuity from the federal Canadian Crown; per the Canadian gallantry awards order issued in January 2005, members of the Canadian Forces or those who joined the British forces while domiciled in Canada or Newfoundland prior to 31 March 1949, after receiving the Victoria Cross, be granted C$3,000 each year. Previously, Canadians who were posthumously awarded the British Victoria Cross were given special headstones at their burial sites in Commonwealth War Graves and other cemeteries.\nTo date, no Canadian Victoria Cross has been conferred; Smokey Smith, who died in 2005, was the last living Canadian recipient of the imperial Victoria Cross, personally receiving it from King George VI at Buckingham Palace in December 1944. The last action that resulted in a Canadian being awarded the Victoria Cross was to Lieutenant Robert Hampton Gray for gallantry on 9 August 1945, at Onagawa Bay, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. The award was posthumously gazetted on 13 November 1945 although in the following five months, three additional awards to Canadians were gazetted for actions in 1941, 1942 and February 1945. Prior to Queen Elizabeth II's re-dedication of the Vimy Memorial on 7 April 2007, there was speculation she would present a Canadian Victoria Cross to her then-prime minister, Stephen Harper, offering it in recognition of the gallantry of the Unknown Soldier, as representative of all Canadian forces casualties of combat. The proposal was met with a mixed response from members of the Royal Canadian Legion and Canadian Forces, detractors feeling that the Unknown Soldier should not be elevated above his other fallen comrades. It had also been agreed at the time of the Unknown Soldier's repatriation that no award or decoration would be bestowed on the remains. No decision was taken about the awarding of the Canadian Victoria Cross to the Canadian Unknown Soldier.\n\nNear the end of Canada's role in the Afghanistan War, concerns were raised about the stringency of the criteria that needed to be met to receive the Victoria Cross. Other countries with a Victoria Cross had awarded it numerous times since the end of the Second World War, some members of the Australian, New Zealand, and British armed forces receiving the decoration for their actions during the Afghan and Iraq wars of the 2000s. Members of the Canadian Armed Forces questioned why some actions by Canadians were deemed worthy only of the Star of Military Valour; citations for individuals who had received the imperial Victoria Cross during the First World War were very similar to those for Canadians who were presented with the Star of Military Valour during the war in Afghanistan. This led then Chief of the Defence Staff, Walter Natynczyk, to create a special committee to review the matter. The Department of National Defence's Directorate of Honours and Recognition explained concepts of war had changed since the mid-20th century and Canada had also developed a more elaborate honours system.\n\nThe design of the Canadian medal is derived from that of the British original, which was the creation of Albert, Prince Consort, royal consort to Queen Victoria. Canada's Victoria Cross is thus a cross \"pattée\" with straight arms, across in each direction, and made out of bronze coloured alloy, the obverse bearing a lion crowned and statant guardant, similar to that which forms the crest of the Royal Arms of Canada, standing upon a representation of St. Edward's Crown, which itself rests above a semi-circular scroll. On the reverse is a raised circle for engraving the date of the act of gallantry along with the name, rank, and unit of the recipient. The medal is suspended from a link forming the letter \"V\" attached to a bar adorned on the front with laurel leaves, and on the reverse with the name, rank, and unit of the medal's recipient, all cast in the same metal as the medal. The ribbon, also wide, is solid crimson in colour. Cathy Bursey-Sabourin, Fraser Herald of the Canadian Heraldic Authority, and Bruce W. Beatty, however, made certain modifications for the Canadian Victoria Cross, the most notable being the inclusion of Canadian flora as decoration and the alteration of the inscription on the scroll from \"FOR VALOUR\" to the Latin translation, \"PRO VALORE\", so as to accommodate Canada's two official languages. In 2008, Citizens for a Canadian Republic's leader, Tom Freda, publicly objected to the decoration's name and appearance, with what he saw as its \"objectionable colonial symbolism,\" royal iconography, and a shape offensive to Muslims and Jews.\n\nWith Canada at war for the first time since its version of the Victoria Cross was created, preparations for a physical cast of the medal were initiated in 2006, when a committee called the Victoria Cross Production Planning Group was formed under the leadership of the Chancellery of Honours at Rideau Hall. It originally consisted of representatives from the Department of National Defence, Veterans Affairs Canada, and the Office of the Secretary to the Governor General of Canada, and the group later expanded to include individuals from the Department of Canadian Heritage, Natural Resources Canada, and the Royal Canadian Mint, with assistance provided by the Queen and the British Ministry of Defence. Following their research and deliberations, the first Victoria Cross decoration was struck in 2007, as confirmed by Deputy Herald Chancellor Emmanuelle Sajous, and the medal was officially released to the public on 16 May 2008 by Governor General Michaëlle Jean at Rideau Hall. It was one of 20 cast, each of which is composed of three groupings of metals: that of a Russian cannon captured at the siege of Sevastopol (1854–1855), donated by Queen Elizabeth II; a Confederation Medal, created to mark Canada's confederation in 1867; and a selection of metals from each of Canada's regions. These were cast, rather than struck, continuing the tradition started in the United Kingdom when it was found the metal alloy was too brittle for striking, and finished at the Royal Canadian Mint. The first two were sent to Buckingham Palace for addition to the British Royal Collection and other specimens were kept as part of the Crown Collection at Rideau Hall, as well as at the Department of National Defence, Library and Archives Canada, and the Canadian War Museum.\n\nAs the apex of the Canadian system of honours, the Victoria Cross is to be worn before all other Canadian decorations and insignia of orders, including the Order of Merit and the Order of Canada. It is worn as a medal, suspended from a medal bar on the left chest, unless protocol calls for a ribbon bar, which consists of a crimson ribbon with a miniature bronze Victoria Cross at its centre. Should an individual receive multiple awards of the Victoria Cross, additional bronze medal bars are added to the ribbon and further miniatures are placed evenly on the ribbon bar, reflecting the number of crosses the wearer has earned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102209", "title": "Sturm &amp; Drang Tour 2002", "text": "Sturm &amp; Drang Tour 2002\n\nSturm & Drang Tour 2002 is a KMFDM album recorded live during the Sturm and Drang Tour in 2002. It was compiled from the Cleveland, Detroit and Chicago shows. It includes some of the tracks from the \"Attak\" album, along with some songs from other albums. The tour featured 16 Volt, Kidneythieves, and PIG as supporting acts. KMFDM's lineup consisted of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102213", "title": "Aston Martin V8 Zagato", "text": "Aston Martin V8 Zagato\n\nThe V8 Zagato model Aston Martin was a grand tourer of the 1980s. Just 52 examples of the coupe and 37 of the convertible were built between 1986 and 1990. The coupe was first unveiled at the 1986 Geneva Motor Show and orders were quickly taken despite only showing the drawing of the car. The decision to build the later convertible was controversial – all 52 coupes had already been purchased at the height of the supercar speculation market, and the convertibles were to remain more desirable than their predecessors.\n\nThe V8 Zagato, as the name suggests, was based on the Aston Martin V8, but with a body by the famed Zagato coachbuilder. The design was an angular modern interpretation of the Aston Martin DB4 GT Zagato of the 1960s. The squared-off grille was especially controversial.\n\nThe Zagato was powered by a 430 hp (321 kW) V8 engine with twin-choke Weber carburettors. The all-alloy car could hit 300 km/h (186 mph). It was a luxurious car, with a price tag of US$156,600 at the time but with the high rarity and being released at the supercar price boom of 1987 to 1990, by the end of the decade, the car was changing hands for £450,000. The later convertible sold for $171,000.\n\nIn 1998 a famous comedian, Rowan Atkinson, purchased the first right-hand drive car produced, chassis number 20013 and had it converted to Aston Martin Owners Club racing series C2 specification. Conversion was undertaken by Aston Martin Works Service and total rebuild cost was around 220,000 GBP. The famous Tadek Marek 5.3 V8 engine was reworked to produce an estimated carrying unique \"580XR\" designation. It retired racing in 2007 and Atkinson subsequently sold it at Aston Martin Bonhams auction in Newport Pagnell on 17 May 2008 for £122,500.\n"}
{"id": "2102218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102218", "title": "GoAir", "text": "GoAir\n\nGoAir is an Indian low-cost airline based in Mumbai, Maharashtra. It is owned by the Indian business conglomerate Wadia Group. In October 2017 it was the fifth largest airline in India with an 8.4% passenger market share. It commenced operations in November 2005 and operates a fleet of Airbus A320 aircraft in all economy configuration. As of March 2020, the airline operates over 330 daily flights to 36 destinations, including 27 domestic and 9 international destinations, from its hubs at Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Kolkata and Kannur.\n\nGoAir was founded in Nov 2005 by Jeh Wadia, son of Indian industrialist Nusli Wadia. The airline is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Wadia Group. GoAir commenced its operations using an Airbus A320 aircraft and operated its inaugural flight from Mumbai to Ahmedabad on 4 November 2005. The airline initially operated with a single aircraft to four destinations including Goa and Coimbatore with plans to induct 36 aircraft by 2008. In March 2008, the airline announced revised plans to operate 11 aircraft and service new destinations in North East and South India by the end of the year. But increasing fuel prices forced GoAir to cut down the existing number of flights in June 2008.\n\nIn January 2009, British Airways was interested in buying a stake in the airline. In November 2009, GoAir entered into talks with Indian airline SpiceJet over a possible merger which ended in a no deal. In April 2012, GoAir became the fifth largest airline in India in terms of market share following the demise of Kingfisher Airlines. In 2013, the airline appointed investment bank JP Morgan to scout for potential investors.The airline's growth has been slow compared to other airlines established at the same time such as IndiGo and SpiceJet, which have larger market share, fleet size and destinations served as of 2016. \n\nAccording to the airline, it is a planned strategy due to the tough aviation environment in India and to focus on maintaining profitability rather than on capturing market share and increasing the destinations and fleet size. As of February 2016, it remains the fifth largest carrier in the country with an 8% market share. The airline is planning for an Initial Public Offering (IPO) in 2020. The airline took delivery of its 20th aircraft in June 2016, making it eligible to operate international flights.\n\nGoAir became the sixth Indian domestic carrier to fly international when it launched its inaugural flight to Phuket from New Delhi on 11 October 2018.\n\nOn 17 March 2020, due to the impact of coronavirus, Go Air suspended its international flights till further notice.\n\nThe airline is headquartered in Mumbai, India. Jehangir Wadia has served as the Managing Director of the airline since its inception in November 2005. Vinay Dube is the CEO of GoAir. He took on this role in February 2020.\n\nAs of March 2020, GoAir operates to a network of 38 destinations – 27 domestic and 11 international to Thailand (Bangkok and Phuket), Muscat, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, Kuwait City, Singapore and Male. As of now, GoAir operates international flights from Mumbai, New Delhi, Bengaluru, Kannur and Kolkata . The airline has a total of 325 daily flights and more than 2200 weekly flights. The airline maintains hubs at Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Kannur and Mumbai airports.\n\nThe airline commenced its first international operations on 11 October 2018 from Delhi to Phuket, then from Mumbai to Phuket on 12 October, from Mumbai and Delhi to Male on 14 and 17 October respectively.\n\nAs of March 2020, the fleet of GoAir consists of the following aircraft:\n\nIn June 2011, GoAir placed an order for 72 Airbus A320neo aircraft worth . Deliveries began from 2016, with an induction rate of 12–15 aircraft per year. In December 2015, Airbus intimated that the deliveries will be delayed by three months due to technical issues and the aircraft will be delivered by the second quarter of financial year 2015–16. GoAir received its first A320neo aircraft on 1 June 2016.\n\nIn July 2016, GoAir signed a memorandum of understanding with Airbus for 72 Airbus A320neo aircraft valued at $7.7 billion, potentially taking the total number of orders to 144. This deal was announced at Farnborough Air Show 2016.\n\nBeing a budget airline, GoAir does not provide complimentary meals on its flights but offers options for buy on board in-flight meals. The airline publishes an in-flight magazine named \"Go-getter\". GoAir offers a premium service known as \"Go Business\" at a higher fare which provides extra services including seats with greater legroom, free meals, increased baggage allowance and priority boarding. In 2011, the airline launched its frequent flyer programme called \"Go Club\", which provided benefits such as lounge access and free upgrade to Go Business. New membership was discontinued in February 2014.\n\nGoAir was rated as the \"Best Domestic Airline For Excellence in Quality and Efficient Service\" by Pacific Area Travel Writers Association in 2008. The airline was also awarded as the \"Best Performing Airline\" in Asia and Africa of all Airbus A320 operators by Airbus in 2011 based on fleet utilization and other performance metrics.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102224", "title": "Conservation in Hong Kong", "text": "Conservation in Hong Kong\n\nOut of the total 1,092 km² of Hong Kong land, three-quarters is countryside, with various landscapes including beaches, woodlands and mountain ranges within the small territory. Most of Hong Kong's parks have natural diversity, usually containing over 1,000 species of plants\n\nTo conserve and, where appropriate, open up the countryside for the greater enjoyment of the population, the Country Parks Ordinance was enacted in 1976 to provide a legal framework for the designation, development and management of Country Parks and Special Areas. It provides for the establishment of a Country and Marine Parks Board to advise the Director of Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation who, as Country and Marine Parks Authority, is responsible for all matters on Country Parks and Special Areas.\n\nA total of 24 country parks have been designated. The country parks and special areas cover a total area of 440  km².\nCountry Parks are designated for the purposes of nature conservation, countryside recreation and outdoor education. The country parks comprise scenic hills, woodlands, reservoirs and coastline in all parts of Hong Kong.\nThe parks include Tai Mo Shan, Pat Sin Leng mountain range, Ma On Shan, Lion Rock, Sai Kung Peninsula, forest plantations at Shing Mun and Tai Lam, Shek Lei Pui Reservoir group and Lantau Island. Several islands such as Ping Chau in Mirs Bay are included, and Hong Kong Island itself has six Country Parks.\nThe Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department (AFCD) manages the parks and is responsible for tree planting, litter collection, fire fighting, development control and provision of recreation and education facilities. The country parks are very popular with all sectors of the community, with about 13.5 million visitors recorded in 2011.\n\nPark facilities provided in recreational sites include tables and benches, barbecue pits, litterbins, children's play apparatus, shelters, campsites and toilets. Footpaths and family walks provide easy access to the hills and the woodlands for visitors to enjoy the scenic beauty of these areas. Major paths are being improved and way marked through the hilly terrain.\n\nThe four long-distance hiking trails are very popular among hikers:\n\nVisitor centres have been established at Aberdeen, Plover Cove, Sai Kung, Clear Water Bay, Shing Mun and Tai Mo Shan. The Lions Nature Education Centre at Tsiu Hang Special Area in Sai Kung is a special attraction to visitors as it consists of a rich collection of fruit-bearing and amenity trees, vegetables, rocks and minerals and other local vegetation. The Shing Mun Arboretum has a collection of about 300 plant species. Along nature trails and tree walks, there are on-site interpretative signs for those who wish to study nature. AFCD has also set up a website and a number of fax-on-demand lines to provide the public with information about country parks. Furthermore, community involved conservation programmes such as the Corporate Afforestation Scheme, School Visit Programme, Guided Walks and many other voluntary services have been organised. In 2004, more than 200,000 people participated in these conservation programmes.\n\nThe parks and the special areas contain a wide variety of vegetation, including native and introduced tree species such as camphor laurel \"(Cinnamomum camphora)\", \"Machilus\", \"Schima\", \"Acacia\", slash pine and Brisbane box. There are also animals such as barking deer, rhesus macaques, long-tailed macaques, wild boar, civet, pangolin, Chinese porcupine and squirrel; birds such as the greater coucal, great barbet, Chinese bulbul, crested mynah, spotted dove and black-eared kite; and a large variety of insects and about 240 species of butterflies. Over 500 bird nest boxes have been introduced into country parks to enhance the breeding of birds.\n\nThe Tai Po Kau Special Area is a nature reserve and caters for those who wish to study tree, plant, bird and insect life, as well as providing pleasant and interesting walks. There is a total ban on the lighting of fires in the woodland area. This is Hong Kong's best site for forest birding, with species including chestnut bulbul, scarlet and grey-throated minivets, orange-bellied leafbird, fork-tailed sunbird, and scarlet-backed flowerpecker. Several species that were certainly or probably escapees from captivity have become established here – for instance, velvet-fronted nuthatch, blue-winged minla and silver-eared mesia. Migrants occur here, especially during spring and autumn, and in winter; the globally near-threatened Japanese paradise-flycatcher occurs annually in small numbers.\n\nIncreasing emphasis is being given to facilities to help visitors to enjoy and understand the countryside. Six visitor centres have been established at Aberdeen, Plover Cove, Sai Kung, Clear Water Bay, Shing Mun and Tai Mo Shan. The Lions Nature Education Centre at Tsiu Hang Special Area in Sai Kung, has a collection of fruit-bearing and amenity trees, vegetables, rocks and minerals, and other local vegetation, has been established for the purpose of nature education. The Shing Mun Arboretum has a collection of about 300 plant species. Along nature trails and tree walks, there are on-site interpretative signs for those who wish to study the nature.\n\nFire is the major hazard and it bedevils park management for about six months every year. This is the time of the cool, dry winter when many people like to spend a day out in the hills-especially at weekends and public holidays. In a normal fire season there can be as many as 300 hill fires in the parks with five to seven fires a day when conditions are particularly bad. In 1986, a 34-hour blaze destroyed 282,500 trees at Shing Mun and Tai Mo Shan and ravaged 7.4 km² of countryside. Fire is the greatest threat to the country parks.\n\nLitter is another problem. One of the major tasks of park management is to collect litter left by the visitors which in 2001 totalled some 3,850 tonnes.\n\nWith such problems in mind, the Country and Marine Parks Authority has provided barbecue pits and litter bins located strategically throughout the park areas for the visitors. The Authority also prosecutes anyone found littering, damaging facilities or lighting fires outside the approved barbecue sites in the Country Parks.\n\nA number of management centres have been established in strategic locations within the Country Parks from which construction, maintenance and protection services are provided.\n\nSpecial Areas are created mainly for the purpose of nature conservation, inside or outside Country park.\n\nThe Marine Parks Ordinance protects and conserves the marine environment and a rich collection of aquatic animals and plants, such as corals, sea grasses and dolphins. The ordinance also provides the legal framework for the designation, control and management of marine parks and marine reserves. The Marine Parks and Marine Reserve Regulation provides for the prohibition and control of certain activities in marine parks and marine reserve.\n\nA wide variety of animal and plant life can be found in large areas of Hong Kong, especially in the New Territories. The Government's increasing concern with the protection of the natural environment has been demonstrated both by legislation and by the activities of its conservation staff. Game hunting is prohibited.\n\nAbout 38 per cent of land in Hong Kong has been designated as country parks and special areas which provide statutory protection for the habitats of our diverse flora and fauna. In addition, 67 Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) have been listed to recognise the scientific importance of these sites and to ensure that due consideration to conservation is given when developments in or near these sites are proposed. For example, San Chau and Ngong Ping at Lantau have been listed as SSSIs in recognition of the presence of the largest population of Rhododendron championae and Romer's Tree Frog (Philautus romeri) in Hong Kong respectively. Tree Frogs normally appear in Hong Kong.\n\nThe flora of Hong Kong is diverse in character and surprisingly numerous in species. Many typical species of the Southeast Asian tropical flora are seen here at the limit of their northern distribution range. More than 3,100 species and varieties of vascular plants have been recorded in Hong Kong, approximately 2,100 of which are native and the rest are of exotic origin. Many species of plants in Hong Kong are noteworthy for the beauty or fragrance of their blossoms. Bauhinia blakeana (Hong Kong Orchid Tree) was discovered in 1908 at Pok Fu Lam. It is among the finest of the Bauhinia genus anywhere in the world. The flower of the bauhinia is prominently featured on the flag of Hong Kong. It is widely planted – being propagated by cuttings since its seeds are usually sterile.\n\nAFCD's Hong Kong Herbarium is responsible for the systematic collection, identification and curation of plant specimens of the Hong Kong flora. It plays a significant role in supporting the studies on taxonomy, ecology and conservation of Hong Kong flora. Established in 1878, it houses approximately 37,000 plant specimens and is equipped with a specialised library to support its function.\n\nEfforts have been made to conserve rare and endangered plant species. In addition to habitat protection, they are also conserved through the following approaches.\n\nLarger wild mammals are declining in numbers in Hong Kong, mainly because of the increased urbanisation. Civets, leopard cats and Chinese porcupines are seen occasionally at night in the New Territories. Indian muntjac (also called barking deer) are uncommon but are heard and seen in wooded areas. There are wild boars in some remote areas, occasionally causing damage to crops. Unlike others, rhesus macaques are easily seen in Kam Shan Country Park. Visitors are reminded not to feed these wild animals as uncontrolled feeding has led to unnatural growth of the monkey population and caused nuisances. A feeding ban has been implemented and enforced in the area since July 1999 to help the monkeys revert to forage natural food in the natural environment. Smaller mammals such as squirrels, the woodland shrew, house shrew and bats are common in rural areas. As of 2005, some 54 species of terrestrial mammals have been recorded in Hong Kong.\n\nHong Kong is a major stopover point of Asia's migration routes for birds. The wide varieties of local habitats including wetlands, grasslands, woodlands, seashores, and farmlands contribute to the diversity of the birds. There are over 490 species of wild birds including residents, winter visitors, passage migrants, and summer visitors recorded in Hong Kong. Some of these are globally endangered species such as Black-faced Spoonbill. About 120 species have been recorded breeding in the territory. The Mai Po Marshes are listed as a restricted area and access is restricted to permit holders. This area of mudflat, mangrove and shrimp ponds is the richest habitat for migratory birds. More than 320 species of birds have been recorded in the area and about 120 of these are rarely seen elsewhere in the territory. The Marshes form part of the 15 km² Mai Po Inner Deep Bay Ramsar Site which was listed in 1995 as a Wetland of International Importance under the Ramsar Convention. This area is also one of the participants of the East Asian – Australasian Shorebird Reserve Network.\n\nHong Kong has over 100 species of amphibians and reptiles. Among them, over 40 species are snakes. Most snakes in Hong Kong are harmless and there have been very few cases of known bites by highly venomous snakes. There are nine species of chelonians found in Hong Kong, of which the Green Turtle is of particular interest in that it is the only known species of sea turtles breeding locally. The nesting site of Green Turtles at Sham Wan of Lamma Island was designated a restricted area in 1999 to protect the species during the breeding season. Hong Kong has a total of 23 species of amphibians. Three of them, Hong Kong Cascade Frog, Hong Kong Newt and the endemic Romer's Tree Frog have been listed under the Wild Animals Protection Ordinance due to their rarity. A site that supports the largest population of the Romer's Tree Frog – part of Ngong Ping on Lantau Island, has also been designated as SSSI in May 1999.\n\nHong Kong has a rich insect fauna. At least 6,784 species has been recorded so far and 700 additional species are expected to be found. There are about 240 butterfly species, including the beautiful swallowtails and birdwings (\"Troides helena\" and \"Troides aeacus\"). Of over 2,000 moth species recorded, the Atlas moth (\"Attacus atlas\") is outstanding for its large size with wing span up to 30 centimetres, while the Chinese moon moth (\"Actias ningpoana\") is eye catching for its long hindwing tails. Endemic moth species include \"Athetis hongkongensis\", \"Ugia purpurea\", \"Athetis bispurca\" and \"Egira ambigua\". The dragonfly fauna is diverse, with over 110 species recorded, some of which are endemic to Hong Kong. Hong Kong also has 235 species of ants, 17 species of praying mantids, 31 species of cockroaches, 6 species of flea, 78 species of mosquitoes and 124 species of grasshoppers. 4,583 species are known to be plant eating (phytophagous) and over 1,000 species are beneficial insects either preying on or existing as parasites over other pests.\n\nThe marine fauna of Hong Kong is exceptionally diverse. Though primarily tropical, it is an admixture of tropical South China Sea and temperate Chinese forms because of the seasonal fluctuations of warm and cold water and monsoon weather conditions. Of an estimated 1,800 species of fish on the South China continental shelf, clupeoids, croakers and sea breams are the dominant groups in Hong Kong waters. Farther offshore, golden thread, big-eyes and others are also of high value to fishermen. Marine invertebrates are also abundant – ranging from corals, molluscs to crustaceans. There are 84 species of stony corals in Hong Kong. The richest coral communities prevail to the east of Hong Kong where the waters are both sheltered and free from the influence of Pearl River. Marine mammals, Chinese White Dolphin and Finless Porpoise, are resident species and can be found year-round. All cetaceans are protected in Hong Kong under the Wild Animals Protection Ordinance. There are more than 120 species of native freshwater fish recorded of which about 30 primary freshwater species spend their entire lives in freshwaters. Of the primary freshwater fish, cyprinids are dominant. There are four freshwater crab species described and recorded from Hong Kong and so far considered endemics: Three potamids, of which two belong to the genus \"Nanhaipotamon (N. hongkongense\" and \"N.aculatum\") and one to the genus \"Cryptopotamon\" (\"C. anacoluthon\"), and one gecarcinuid, \"Somanniathelphusa zanklon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2102231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102231", "title": "Guy Goffette", "text": "Guy Goffette\n\nGuy Goffette (born 18 April 1947) is a Belgian-born poet and writer. Goffette published his first book of poems in 1969. Since then he has worked as an editor at the publishing company Gallimard. Goffette's poetry has been compared to Verlaine (of whom Goffette has written a fictional \"biography\") - the contemporary French poet Yves Bonnefoy remarked Goffette is an heir to Verlaine. A poet who very courageously has decided to remain faithful to his own personal life, in its humblest moments. He keeps things simple, he is marvelously able to capture the emotions and desires common to us all. Goffette is without question one of the best poets of the present moment in France.\n\nGoffette's short fiction (récits) often reimagine historic figures - the poet Paul Verlaine in \"Verlaine d'ardoise et de pluie\" (1995) and again in \"L'autre Verlaine\" (2007) or the painter Pierre Bonnard through his muse Marthe in \"Elle, par bonheur et toujours nue\" (published in English as \"Forever Nude\" in 2008). For several years, the American poet and critic Marilyn Hacker has translated a number of his poems, which have appeared in The Paris Review, TriQuarterly, Barrow Street, and Poetry London. A bilingual anthology of her translations of Goffette's poetry, \"Charlestown Blues \", was published in 2007 by University Of Chicago Press\n\nIn addition to his poetry and his fiction, Goffette is a prolific essayist and a critic who regularly contributes to the Nouvelle Revue Française.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102237", "title": "Barbara Harris (bishop)", "text": "Barbara Harris (bishop)\n\nBarbara Clementine Harris (June 12, 1930 – March 13, 2020) was an American bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States. She was the first woman ordained a bishop in the Anglican Communion. She was elected suffragan bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, on September 24, 1988, and was consecrated on February 11, 1989. Eight thousand people attended the service, which was held at the Hynes Convention Center in Boston, Massachusetts. She served in the role of suffragan bishop for 13 years, retiring in 2003. \n\nBarbara Clementine Harris was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on June 12, 1930. She was the daughter of Walter Harris and Beatrice Waneidah Price. Harris attended the Philadelphia High School for Girls (class of 1948). There, she excelled in music and wrote a weekly column for the Philadelphia version of the \"Pittsburgh Courier\" called \"High School Notes by Bobbi\". The alumnae association of the school recognized her as an outstanding alumna for her professional work and she was installed in its court of honor.\n\nAfter graduation from high school, Harris attended the Charles Morris Price School of Advertising and Journalism in Philadelphia, where she earned a certificate in 1950. She later attended Villanova University, the Urban Theology Unit in Sheffield, England, and also graduated from the Pennsylvania Foundation for Pastoral Counseling. \n\nPrior to her ordination to the priesthood, Harris served as head of public relations for the Sun Oil Company.\n\nHarris was long active in civil rights issues, participating in freedom rides and marches in the 1960s, including the march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, led by Martin Luther King, Jr.. She spent summer vacations registering black voters in Greenville, Mississippi. She dismissed the risks she took, saying only, \"Everyone was in danger.\"\n\nThroughout her various careers, Harris was noted for her liberal views and her outspokenness. As early as 1989 she was reported as arguing for gay rights and lambasting the Episcopal Church for racism and sexism.\n\nHarris attended the Church of the Advocate on the north side of Philadelphia, for many years. She served as an acolyte in the historic service, held at the Church of the Advocate, in which the first eleven women, now known as the Philadelphia Eleven, were ordained priests in the Episcopal Church on July 29, 1974. The ordinations were controversial, as women's ordination was still being debated in the Episcopal Church, but they were later officially recognized. \n\nHarris herself felt called to the ministry. The rector at Church of the Advocate, Paul Washington, recommended her to Bishop Lyman C. Ogilby of Pennsylvania, as a candidate for ordination. Ogilby ordained her as a deacon in 1979 and then as a priest in 1980. \n\nHarris was the priest-in-charge of St. Augustine of Hippo Church in Norristown, Pennsylvania, from 1980 to 1984. She also served as chaplain to the Philadelphia County prisons, and as counsel to industrial corporations for public policy issues and social concerns. She was named executive director of the Episcopal Church Publishing Company in 1984, and publisher of \"The Witness\" magazine. In 1988 she served as interim rector of the Church of the Advocate.\n\nHarris was elected bishop suffragan of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, on September 24, 1988, at the General Convention. Her election was controversial, in part because she was divorced and had not attended seminary. She was also the first woman to be elected to the position of bishop not only in the Episcopal Church, but in all of the Anglican Communion. Some members of the church felt it was inappropriate to elevate a woman to the position of bishop, and others were concerned that her election would strain relations with the wider Anglican Communion. Nevertheless, Harris had many supporters and her election was successful.\n\nHarris was consecrated on February 11, 1989. Eight thousand people attended the service, which was held at the Hynes Convention Center in Boston, Massachusetts. Sixty bishops participated in the laying on of hands. There were 1,200 dignitaries and clergy in the opening procession, and four choirs participating in the service. The service was televised live and lasted three hours. \n\nAs the first woman ordained as a bishop, and as an African American, she received death threats and obscene messages. Though urged to wear a bulletproof vest to her ordination, she refused. A contingent of the Boston police were assigned to her consecration. Her comment was merely, \"I don't take this in a personal way.\" \n\nSpeaking of her work as bishop, Harris said, \"I certainly don't want to be one of the boys. I want to offer my peculiar gifts as a black woman ... a sensitivity and an awareness that comes out of more than a passing acquaintance with oppression.\"\n\nHarris served for 13 years as bishop in the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, a large diocese with 98,000 members. She retired in 2003 and was succeeded by another African-American woman, Gayle Elizabeth Harris. She then served as assisting bishop in the Episcopal Diocese of Washington, DC, until 2007. She was also the president of the Episcopal Church Publishing Company, publishers of \"The Witness\" magazine.\n\nConservative Episcopalians who were opposed to women's ordination established an independent denomination, the Episcopal Synod of America, in reaction to Harris' election as bishop suffragan.\n\nIn 2010, Harris suffered a stroke at her home in Massachusetts. She appeared to have made a full recovery and preached at an ecumenical worship service in the historic Tabernacle in Oak Bluffs, Massachusetts, on September 5, 2010. Her sermon was entitled \"It Isn't Easy Being Green\". Harris died at a hospice in Lincoln, Massachusetts, on March 13, 2020, at age 89.\n\nThe Barbara C. Harris Camp & Conference Center is a ministry of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts located in Greenfield, New Hampshire. The center is named in honor of Harris. A task force was convened in 1997 to explore the potential of the center and their recommendation to proceed with the development of the center was approved by the diocesan council in 1998. From 1999 to 2002, the development of the center was under the direction of diocesan staff. In addition, over 200 lay and clergy volunteers lent their time, energy, and expertise to the project, working in a variety of roles. An extensive fund-raising campaign took place in order to finance the construction and to fund a scholarship endowment and an operating endowment. The center welcomed its first summer campers in July 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102240", "title": "Tan Sitong", "text": "Tan Sitong\n\nTan Sitong (, March 10, 1865 – September 28, 1898), courtesy name Fusheng (), pseudonym Zhuangfei (), was a well-known Chinese politician, thinker and reformist in the late Qing Dynasty (1644–1911); he was executed at the age of 33 when the Reformation Movement failed. He was one of the \"Six gentlemen of the Hundred Days' Reform\" (). He occupies a place of tremendous importance in modern Chinese history. To many contemporaries, his execution symbolised the political failure of the Qing Dynasty's reformation from within itself and turned the intellectual class to seek violent and hostile means, through revolution, to overthrow the Qing Dynasty.\n\nTan Sitong was born in Beijing though his family came from Liuyang, Hunan Province. His father, Tan Jixun (), was the governor of Hubei Province. His mother, Xu Wuyuan (), a traditional Chinese housewife, was quite strict with her children. Tan Sitong had nine siblings in total.\n\nTan Sitong spent his childhood in Beijing and his youth in Liuyang. He began to study at the age of 5. He learned from a famous scholar called Ouyang Zhonggu () when he was 10. Though he was talented in writing essays, he objected to the conventional form of the essay which was required in every exam at that time. As a result, he was only titled \"mandarin scholar\" (Xiu Cai), a very low educational level.\n\nAt the age of 12, Tan Sitong lost his mother, his eldest brother and his second eldest sister, who died one after another within a span of 5 days due to diphtheria contracted from one of his cousins when they went to visit her. He himself also fell gravely ill and only recovered three days later, which was deemed to be a miracle. This event struck him so much that his outlook on life completely changed. After Tan Sitong lost his mother, his father’s concubine treated him badly.\n\nIn 1879, Tan Sitong studied under another scholar, Xu Qixian (), with whom he began a systematic study of representative works in Chinese and was exposed to natural science.\n\nIn 1884, he left his home and began a long trip, which expanded his outlook. He traveled to several different provinces of China including Hebei, Gansu, Xinjiang, Shaanxi, Henan, Hubei, Jiangxi, Jiangsu, Anhui, Zhejiang, Shandong, Shanxi, and wrote more than 200 poems during the trip.\n\nHe was married to Li Run () at the age of 19 and together had a son named Tan Lansheng (), who unfortunately lost his life in within 1 year.\n\nDue to long-term self-blockade () in which access to the industrial revolutions was missed and considerable corruption in the feudal authorities occurred, rapidly increasing development gap had been seen between China and Western industrialized countries since the late eighteenth century. Equipped with much advanced productivity, booming wealth and military forces pushed developed countries to explore more interests in then undeveloped world, including China. Since 1840, began with UK-triggered First Opium War, China, ruled by Qing Dynasty then, entered an era of constant invasion, oppression and colonization. Seeing such, intellectuals and certain enlightened officials were eager to seek ways for saving China from the hardships. In 1895, as had been defeated by Japan in the First Sino-Japanese War, China was forced to sign the unequal Treaty of Shimonoseki, under which Taiwan was occupied and 250 million kuping taels (then Chinese currency) were compensated.\n\nAstonished and indignant by the news, Tan Sitong started to realize the necessity of a thorough reformation in China. In this sense, he and his colleagues began to search for new approaches to renovate the current situation in the nation. In 1896, he wrote his poem \"My Feelings\" ():\n世间无物抵春愁，<br>合向苍冥一哭休。<br>四万万人齐下泪，<br>天涯何处是神州？<br><br>Nothing in this world can withstand the longing for Spring, <br>These longings join together until they reach the shadowy netherworld in tears. <br>The wailing 400 million people are owning the same question:<br>Oh Where, oh where on this earth can we find our divine China?\n\nDuring 1896 and 1897, he finished a famous book called \"Ren Xue\" (仁学, Theory of Benevolence), which was considered to be the first philosophical work of the reformation clique. In this book, he pointed out that absolute monarchy greatly oppressed human nature and was the fountain head of every sort of evil. In 1897, Tan Sitong helped the governor of Hunan province with the new policy. In 1898, he founded a new academy called the “South Academy” which aimed at combining the power of reformation in the South. Later, he also created “Hunan Reporter” () to give publicity to the advantage of new policies.\n\nEarly in 1898, Tan Sitong was introduced to Emperor Guangxu who was also considering developing and reforming methods then, and Tan was soon appointed a member of the Grand Council in April. After 2 months, the Hundred Days' Reform began with the issuing of an Emperor order called Ming Ding Guo Shi (), which contained a series of new policies on June 11. However, some of the new policies appeared to greatly challenged the existing interests of many government officials, for which impacted Manchu aristocrats were soon joining into serious opposition, which gradually triggered the conservative Empress Dowager Cixi’s vigilance against the reforming campaign. In fact, in then situation, Cixi was still holding dominant political power in the central authority although Emperor Guangxu had been in throne for more than two decades. Therefore the reforming group including the Emperor and Tan was actually in weak potentials to counteract the conservative forces headed by the Dowager, which mainly set the stage for the failure in the end.\n\nWhen it came to September, Tan heard Cixi was planning to interfere the campaign, he immediately visited general Yuan Shikai on September 18, in the hope that Yuan's army might support the Reformation Movement and prevail over the opposition forces headed by Cixi. However, after returning to Tianjin on September 20, Yuan immediately betrayed the reform movement and divulged the conspiracy to overthrow Cixi’s power. Largely irritated, on the next day, Cixi swiftly returned to the Forbidden City from the Summer Palace where she had been in for relaxing, responding with a coup in which she seized the throne power from Emperor Guangxu and commanding to arrest all those who were involved in the reform. According to this, the Hundred Days Reform eventually failed after 103 days, hence its name. The Emperor had been imprisoned ever since with a fake reason of being too ill to work, for which Cixi can get into the supreme power more reasonably in public sense. Tragically, all the reforming results were abolished except for Jing Shi Da Xue Tang (京师大学堂), the first government-established modern tertiary educational institution in China’s history which evolved to current Peking University later.\n\nTan was arrested at the \"Guild Hall of Liuyang\" () in Beijing on September 24. Before that, Someone had tried to persuade him to escape to Japan where the government had expressed sympathy and intention to shelter the reformists. Unexpectedly, Tan refused to go, by the hope that his death would awaken and encourage the masses to take more actions in renovating the country in which his unfinished dream of a much stronger China would be achieved. His words on this were as follows:\n\n各国变法，无不从流血而成。今中国未闻有因变法而流血者，此国之所以不昌者也。有之，请从嗣同始。<br>Seen from the world, no successful transformations were made without sacrificing. So far, within China, it has never been heard that anyone was bleeding from their efforts to reform the nation, for which this country lacks prosperity. If there is anyone to be, just start from me.\n\nAfter being caught, Tan Sitong was put in the Xing Bu Da Lao (刑部大牢, the jail belonged to the Ministry of Justice then), examined for treason and attempting a military coup, but the process was interrupted shortly by an Emperor’s order (actually made by Cixi as the Emperor’s power had been deprived then) for an immediate execution due to severe rebellion against the authority. Under this, with no more interrogation taken, Tan was suddenly escorted to the Caishikou Execution Grounds () outside Xuanwu Gate() of Peking on the afternoon of September 28, 1898, where and when he was executed by beheading along with five others (杨深秀, 林旭, 刘光第, 康广仁, 杨锐; Yang Shenxiu, Lin Xu, Liu Guangdi, Kang Guangren, Yang Rui) who were officially seen to be in the same complicity. Historically, they are called the six gentlemen of the Hundred Days' Reform.\n\nSome of his last words on the execution ground are famous in China and are translated as follows:\n有心杀贼，无力回天。死得其所，快哉！快哉！<br>I wanted to kill the robbers, but lacked the strength to transform the world. This is the place where I should die. Rejoice, rejoice!\n\nAfter the execution, Tan’s remains were collected and stored by some of his friends. In 1899, the remains were sent back and buried in his hometown, Liuyang(), Hunan(). His father, who had been officially believed to disagree with his son’s actions in the reforming campaign, was less disciplined to have all his official positions dismissed. He returned to his hometown and died 3 years later. Tan’s wife, Li Run, became active in promoting girls’ education and voluntary activities including adopting and caring for abandoned babies in Hunan in her later years. Li passed away in 1925, 14 years after the collapse of Qing Dynasty and 27 years after his husband’s death.\n\nShortly before the execution, Tan had foreseen his forthcoming fate for which he wrote a farewell letter to his wife, in which some of his principles and values could be found:\n\n闰妻如面：<br><br>结缡十五年，原约相守以死，我今背盟矣！手写此信，我尚为世间一人；君看此信，我已成阴曹一鬼。死生契阔，亦复何言，惟念此身虽去，此情不渝。小我虽灭，大我常存。生生世世，同住莲花。如比迎陵毗迦同命鸟，比翼双飞，亦可互嘲。愿君视荣华如梦幻，视死辱为常事。无喜无悲，听其自然。我与殇儿，同在西方极乐世界相偕待君，他年重逢，再聚团圆。殇儿与我，灵魂不远，与君魂梦相依，望君遣怀。<br><br>戊戌八月九日，嗣同<br><br>My love Run as you see my face here,<br><br>You see, we had promised our 15-year marriage to finish the life hand in hand but heartbreakingly, I may have to break the promise now! When I was writing this, I was still alive in the world; however, you, as the reader, are facing a ghost in the netherworld. A long separation is standing ahead, deserving no extra words. Though I am gone, our affections exist as usual. My small ego perished though, long lives my super ego. Life after life, a lotus is accommodating us, we are something like inseparable king birds there - always flying together and making jokes on each other. My last hope, here for you, is to endow glory and wealth with unreal illusions while defining the daily life largely as sacrifice and humiliation. Better to discard extreme happiness and sorrow and, just let everything go. I, along with our dead son, are sincerely waiting for our another reunion in heaven some time after you. We will not go too far away from home, where we are still accompanying your soul and dream, for which nothing will be different for you.<br><br>Sitong<br>Sep 24 1898\n\nSince this event, Tan had been symbolized with a spirit of courage, patriotism and anti-feudalism among Chinese people, for which he is always made positive models in literatures, movies and stories until today. What he had done is also well-known to all age levels in China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102244", "title": "Nick Samaras", "text": "Nick Samaras\n\nNick Samaras is a poet and essayist. His first book of poetry, \"Hands of the Saddlemaker\" received the Yale Series of Younger Poets Award. \nHe is the son of Bishop Kallistos Samaras, a prominent Greek Orthodox Clergyman and theologian. \nHe was born in Foxton, Cambridgeshire, England, living there and on the island of Patmos, Greece. At the time of the political Greek Junta (“Coup of the Generals”) Military Dictatorship, he was brought in exile to be raised further in America, via previous living in Greece, Asia Minor, England, Wales, Brussels, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Germany, Yugoslavia, Jerusalem, thirteen states in America, later settling in Woburn, Massachusetts, his father's home town. He has come to write from a place of permanent exile. \n\nHe earned his MFA from Columbia University, and his doctorate from the University of Denver. \nHis individual poems have been featured in \"The New Yorker\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Paris Review\", \"Poetry\", \"The New Republic\", \"Kenyon Review\", and many other publications. \nCurrently, he lives in West Nyack, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102251", "title": "Canadian Tire Financial Services", "text": "Canadian Tire Financial Services\n\nCanadian Tire Services Ltd. (CTSL), doing business as Canadian Tire Bank (), is the financial services subsidiary of the Canadian Tire retail chain. The bank is based in Oakville, Ontario, and has additional business operations in St. Catharines and Welland (which are also in Ontario). Between 1968 and 2016 (with some branding continuing until 2018), Canadian Tire Services Ltd. was known as Canadian Tire Financial Services Ltd. (CTFS or CTFSL).\n\nIn 1968, Canadian Tire purchased Midland Shoppers Credit Limited, a small company founded in 1961 to provide third-party credit processing for local retailers in the Niagara Region. After its acquisition, the company was renamed to Canadian Tire Acceptance Limited (CTAL), and later Canadian Tire Financial Services Limited.\n\nCanadian Tire Bank (CTB), a Schedule 1 (domestic, deposit-taking) bank under the Bank Act, was founded in 2003 and took over financial services previously provided by CTFS. In addition to MasterCard credit card services, Canadian Tire Bank also launched high interest savings accounts, tax free savings accounts, and GIC products.\n\nIn 2014, Scotiabank signed a deal to buy a 20 percent stake in Canadian Tire's financial services business, which includes Canadian Tire Bank, for $500 million in cash as part of a strategic partnership between the two companies under which Scotiabank was also permitted to buy up to an additional 30% (or sell back to Canadian Tire its 20% stake) at the then fair market value within 10 years.\n\nIn 1995, the bank issued the Canadian Tire Options MasterCard nationally with a reward program for purchases of products from Canadian Tire and, later, launched its Gas Advantage MasterCard product whereby the cardholder earned a tiered discount of 2¢–10¢ (in Canadian currency) per litre on gasoline purchases from Canadian Tire based on the previous month's gas purchases. In 2008, it embedded the card with Mastercard's PayPass \"tap-and-go\" technology. These cards remain currently offered by Canadian Tire Bank.\n\nIn 2006, the bank began a pilot program of the Cash Advantage MasterCard. Its reward program allowed cardholders to earn up to 1.5% cash back based on the amount of eligible annual purchases made on their card. In 2007, it created the Vacation Advantage MasterCard with cardholders rewarded with points that could be redeemed for any vacation-related purchase.\n\nIn 2009, it issued the Curve MasterCard nationwide, so named for the distinctly curved chape of the lower right-hand corner of the card. It had no annual fee and had a reward program that allowed cardholders to earn up to 3.5% cash back, based on the amount of eligible annual purchases made on their card. Cardholders could earn double cash back at Canadian Tire and Mark's Work Wearhouse stores. (Mark's is a clothing and footwear retailer that has been a subsidiary of Canadian Tire since 2002.) In late 2010, both the Vacation Advantage and Curve MasterCards were removed from Canadian Tire's credit portfolio.\n\nIn spring 2018, the cards were rebranded under the Triangle Rewards name, to match up with Canadian Tire's new customer loyalty program.\n\nCTB currently markets only payment protection insurance underwritten by Assurant, and identity theft insurance offered in a partnership arrangement with Sigma Loyalty Group who, in turn, partners with Intersections, Inc., to underwrite the policies under its Identity Guard product offering. It had previously sold term life and travel insurance underwritten by Canada Life, but later stopped marketing those products.\n\nIn October 2006, CTB began to offer more traditional banking services over the phone or online. Such offerings currently include:\n\nThis also formerly included offering mortgages. However, in October 2009, CTB sold its residential real estate secured lending portfolio of approximately 1,000 mortgages valued at approximately $167 million to National Bank of Canada and no longer offers mortgage products.\n\nAll deposit products are automatically insured to applicable limits by the federal Crown corporation CDIC.\n\nCanadian Tire Roadside Assistance, formerly Universal Travel Auto Club and later Canadian Tire Auto Club, was launched in 1981 by Canadian Tire.\n"}
{"id": "2102259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102259", "title": "Sturm &amp; Drang Tour 2002 (video)", "text": "Sturm &amp; Drang Tour 2002 (video)\n\nSturm & Drang Tour 2002 is a live DVD documenting KMFDM's Sturm & Drang Tour of 2002 in support of the album \"Attak\". It was the first tour after the band reunited following a 1999 split.\n\n"}
{"id": "2102271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102271", "title": "Nafarelin", "text": "Nafarelin\n\nNafarelin, sold under the brand name Synarel among others, is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH agonist) medication which is used in the treatment of endometriosis and early puberty. It is also used to treat uterine fibroids, to control ovarian stimulation in \"in vitro\" fertilization (IVF), and as part of transgender hormone therapy. The medication is used as a nasal spray two to three times per day.\nSide effects of nafarelin are related to sex hormone deprivation and include symptoms of low testosterone levels and low estrogen levels such as hot flashes, sexual dysfunction, vaginal atrophy, and osteoporosis. Nafarelin is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH agonist) and works by preventing the production of sex hormones by the gonads. It can lower sex hormone levels by 95% in both sexes. Nafarelin is a peptide and an analogue of .\nNafarelin was introduced for medical use in 1990. It is available widely throughout the world, including in North America, Europe, and elsewhere throughout the world. The medication is one of only two medically used GnRH analogues that are available as nasal sprays, the other being buserelin.\n\nNafarelin is approved and used in the treatment of endometriosis and precocious puberty. It is also used in the treatment of uterine fibroids. The medication is used to control ovarian stimulation in \"in vitro\" fertilization (IVF). Nafarelin is used as a puberty blocker in transgender youth and to suppress testosterone levels in transgender women. Nafarelin can also be used to treat hirsutism and polycystic ovary syndrome by lowering gonadotropin and androgen levels. It is effective in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia.\n\nNafarelin is used to treat precocious puberty at a dosage of 1,600 to 1,800 μg per day. The 1,600 μg/day dosage is achieved by two sprays (400 μg total) into each nostril in the morning (four sprays, 800 μg total) and two sprays (400 μg total) into each nostril in the evening (four sprays, 800 μg total). If 1,600 mg/day is insufficient for adequate pubertal suppression, the 1,800 μg/day dosage can be used instead. This is achieved by three sprays (600 μg total) into alternating nostrils three times per day (nine sprays per day total). When administering the sprays, the head should be tilted back slightly and 30 seconds should elapse between each spray. A bottle of nafarelin nasal spray (brand name Synarel) lasts for about 7 days at a dosage of 1,600 μg/day.\n\nNafarelin is used to treat endometriosis at lower dosages of 400 to 800 μg per day. This is achieved by one or two sprays (200 or 400 μg total) into alternating nostrils once in the morning and once in the evening (two to four sprays per day total). A bottle of nafarelin nasal spray (brand name Synarel) lasts for about 30 days at a dosage of 400 μg/day.\n\nNafarelin is available in the form of a 0.2% nasal spray for use one, two, or three times per day. Each bottle of nafarelin nasal spray (brand name Synarel) contains about 60 sprays delivering approximately 200 μg nafarelin in 100 μL solution per actuation. Nafarelin is not available for use by any other routes than intranasal administration.\n\nSide effects of nafarelin are related to sex hormone deficiency and include hot flashes, vaginal dryness, headaches, mood changes, and sexual dysfunction. Nafarelin causes erectile dysfunction in more than half of men with benign prostatic hyperplasia treated with it. Some people may experience acne, muscle pain, reduced breast size, and nasal irritation. These side effects are reversible and should resolve after stopping the medication. There is a case report of severe hyperkalemia during nafarelin therapy in a woman with uterine fibroids. The mechanism is unknown.\n\nNafarelin is a GnRH agonist, or an agonist of the GnRH receptor, the biological target of GnRH. It works by continuously activating the GnRH receptor, which results in profound desensitization of the receptor such that it becomes non-functional. As a result, nafarelin suppresses the GnRH-induced secretion of the gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, from the pituitary gland. This, in turn, results in profound suppression of gonadal sex hormone production, as well as reversible suppression of fertility.\n\nThe bioavailability of nafarelin with intranasal administration is 2.8% on average, with a range of 1.2 to 5.6%. The plasma protein binding of nafarelin is 80%. It is metabolized primarily by peptidases and not by cytochrome P450 enzymes. The elimination half-life of nafarelin is 2.5 to 3.0 hours by intranasal administration, whereas the half-life of nafarelin and its metabolites by subcutaneous injection is 85.5 hours. Nafarelin is eliminated 44 to 55% in urine and 18.5 to 44.2% in feces.\n\nNafarelin is a GnRH analogue, or a synthetic analogue of GnRH. It is a decapeptide and is also known as [6--(2-naphthyl)alanine]-GnRH. Nafarelin is marketed for medical use in both its free base (nafarelin) and acetate salt (nafarelin acetate) forms.\n\nNafarelin was introduced for medical use in 1990.\n\n\"Nafarelin\" is the generic name of the drug and its and , while \"nafaréline\" is its and \"nafarelin acetate\" is its , , and . It is also known by its former developmental code name \"RS-94991\" or \"RS-94991-298\".\n\nThe major brand names of nafarelin are Synarel and Synarela. It has also been marketed under a number of other brand names including Synrelin, Synrelina, Nafarelil 0.2%, and Nasanyl 0.2%.\n\nNafarelin is available widely throughout the world, including in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, other European countries, Australia, Israel, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102273", "title": "Umpqua River Bridge", "text": "Umpqua River Bridge\n\nThe Umpqua River Bridge is a swing-span bridge that spans the Umpqua River in Reedsport, Oregon. It consists of a central swing span flanked by two reinforced concrete arches on each end. The swing span was necessary to accommodate tall sailing vessels which were common on the Umpqua River. The final cost of the bridge was $510,500.\n\nLocated at milepoint 211.11 on U.S. Route 101, this bridge is the only remaining swing-span bridge on the Oregon state highway system. This bridge was one of the many bridge projects of Conde McCullough, Oregon's Master Bridge Designer and Builder. It opened to traffic on July 3, 1936.\n\nThe north end of the bridge is within Bolon Island Tideways State Scenic Corridor; the south is within Reedsport city limits. The bridge was added to the National Register of Historic Places on August 5, 2005.\n\nNo dedication ceremony occurred at the time due to the unavailability of President Franklin Roosevelt. The ceremony was postponed indefinitely. At 3pm on September 8, 2011, the bridge was opened and closed, followed by a ribbon cutting, and cars from the 1910s, 1920s and 1930s crossed the bridge. It was finally officially dedicated to celebrate its 75th anniversary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102274", "title": "Sodium iodide", "text": "Sodium iodide\n\nSodium iodide (chemical formula NaI) is an ionic compound formed from the chemical reaction of sodium metal and iodine. Under standard conditions, it is a white, water-soluble solid comprising a 1:1 mix of sodium cations (Na) and iodide anions (I) in a crystal lattice. It is used mainly as a nutritional supplement and in organic chemistry. It is produced industrially as the salt formed when acidic iodides react with sodium hydroxide. It is a chaotropic salt.\n\nSodium iodide, as well as potassium iodide, is commonly used to treat and prevent iodine deficiency. Iodized table salt contains 10 ppm iodide.\n\nSodium iodide is used for conversion of alkyl chlorides into alkyl iodides. This method, the Finkelstein reaction, relies on the insolubility of sodium chloride in acetone to drive the reaction:\n\nSome radioactive iodide salts of sodium, including NaI and NaI, have radiopharmaceutical uses, such as in the treatment of thyroid cancer and hyperthyroidism or as radiolabeling tracers in imaging (see Isotopes of iodine > Radioiodines I-123, I-124, I-125, and I-131 in medicine and biology).\n\nSodium iodide activated with thallium, NaI(Tl), when subjected to ionizing radiation, emits photons (i.e., scintillate) and is used in scintillation detectors, traditionally in nuclear medicine, geophysics, nuclear physics, and environmental measurements. NaI(Tl) is the most widely used scintillation material. The crystals are usually coupled with a photomultiplier tube, in a hermetically sealed assembly, as sodium iodide is hygroscopic. Fine-tuning of some parameters (i.e., radiation hardness, afterglow, transparency) can be achieved by varying the conditions of the crystal growth. Crystals with a higher level of doping are used in X-ray detectors with high spectrometric quality. Sodium iodide can be used both as single crystals and as polycrystals for this purpose. The wavelength of maximum emission is 415 nm.\n\nSodium iodide exhibits high solubility in some organic solvents, unlike sodium chloride or even bromide:\nIodides (including sodium iodide) are detectably oxidized by atmospheric oxygen (O) to molecular iodine (I). I and I complex to form the triiodide complex, which has a yellow color, unlike the white color of sodium iodide. Water accelerates the oxidation process, and iodide can also produce I by photooxidation, therefore for maximum stability sodium iodide should be stored under dark, low temperature, low humidity conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2102276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2102276", "title": "David Calder", "text": "David Calder\n\nDavid Calder may refer to:\n\n"}
