{"id": "2120604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120604", "title": "Assumption Island", "text": "Assumption Island\n\nAssumption Island is a small island in the Outer Islands of Seychelles north of Madagascar, with a distance of south-west of the capital, Victoria, on Mahé Island which is not under any control of India.\nIn 2018, Seychelles and India signed an agreement to build and operate a joint military facility on a portion of the island,which the National Assembly of Seychelles refuted the agreement and deemed after protestation by the Citizens of Seychelles.\nAs Protests Continue, Seychelles President Endorses Assumption Island Deal With India. The plan caused public protests by activists who believed that the islands should stay out of the brewing India-China regional conflict. The agreement was declared \"\"dead\"\" by the Island’s opposition party.\n\nAssumption Island was discovered by Captain Nicolas Morphey on 14 August 1756, and was named after the religious feast of the next day. \nIn 1908, the island was leased to Mr H. Savy of Mahé, who built a coconut plantation there.\nThe first settlement was in the northern part of the island.\nDuring a visit two years later, he realized the guano potential of the island. The villagers transferred their labor force to guano mining camp that operated from 1907 until 1983. The camp was the location of the current village. Later, the villagers were employed as fishermen, usually of bêche-de-mer, until it was declared protected. \nIn the mid 1960s, the island was proposed as an American military base, including a deep sea port. After strong protests from environmental organizations, this plan was rejected. \nIn 1990 The airfield was built.\n\nAssumption Island is located about 27 km south of Anse Takamaka on Aldabra Atoll and is part of the Aldabra Group.\nIt is a single coral island in area. The western shore features an almost uninterrupted sandy beach 5.5 km. Two large sand dunes are prominent on the southeastern coast of the island, one of them high.\nThe 5.5 km, white, sandy beach that stretches on the southeastern side of the island has been several times named \"'the best beach in the world\"' for its white sand, crystalline waters, diversity of marine life and lack of crowds.\nDue to the disruptive effect of guano mining which lasted until 1983, the island is dominated by expanses of bare rock and caves, and is sparsely covered with low-growing vegetation.\n\nThe island belongs to the Outer Islands District.\n\nThe island is bisected by a concrete airfield running between the two sand dunes on the southeast point to the village on the western coast. The island is occasionally serviced by an Island Development Company (IDC) aircraft from Mahé, usually with scientists which have a boat take them to Aldabra Atoll.\nThe island has a small port called \"St. Thomas Anchorage\", which is currently enlarged by the Indian Army to a large port.\n\nIn 2015, Seychelles and India signed an agreement for constructing and operating joint military facility on the Island. A coast surveillance radar system built by support from India became operational in 2016. A revised agreement was signed in 2018 and the Seychelles President has endorsed its ratification. The Government of India has also stated that this was a joint project on the request of the Seychelles government and would be jointly managed by both countries. India plans to invest $550 million in building the facility. Recently, the deal for an Indian military base in Seychelles was declared as ‘\"dead\"’ by the Island’s opposition party. The leader of the opposition also clearly stated that this was the end of the ‘\"assumption agreement\"’ and no further discussions on India’s military base were on the agenda.\n\nAssumption Island was once home to a great diversity of seabirds, including the Abbott's booby, which is now confined to a single breeding island: Christmas Island, in the eastern Indian Ocean. Efforts are now underway by the Seychelles Islands Foundation, in conjunction with Island Conservation Society and the Islands Development Company, to restore the habitat of the island. The first successful step in this process was the removal of invasive, introduced bird species, Madagascar fody and red-whiskered bulbul.\nA notable feature of this island is the Assumption Island day gecko, a subspecies of gecko found only on this island. An endemic race of souimanga sunbird once bred on the island, called Abbott's Booby.\nThe nature documentary of Jacques-Yves Cousteau and Louis Malle, \"The Silent World\" was partially shot on Assumption. The island is known for its rich fish life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120605", "title": "Peter Kocot", "text": "Peter Kocot\n\nPeter Vincent Kocot (September 18, 1956 – February 22, 2018) was an American politician who was representative to the state legislature of Massachusetts from April 2002 until his death in February 2018. A member of the Democratic Party, he represented the First Hampshire district, which includes Montgomery, Hatfield, Southampton, Westhampton, and Northampton. His positions included support of gay marriage and opposition to education spending cuts.\n\nKocot easily won reelection in 2006; his Republican opponent, Western New England College Economics professor John Andrulis (whom Kocot also faced in 2002 and 2004), polled at 18 percent.\n\nIn the state legislature, Kocot was the chairman of the Joint Committee on State Administration and Regulatory Oversight and a member of the House Committee on Ethics.\n\nKocot was one of five children (Paul, Joseph, Mary, and Kathy) born to Dorothy and Edward Kocot on September 18, 1956. He was born in Northampton, Massachusetts, but raised in Florence, Massachusetts.\n\nKocot had two sons, Jake and Luke, with his wife of 29 years, Shauneen (née O'Donnell).\n\nKocot died on February 21, 2018, after a brief illness, at the age of 61.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120607", "title": "Thomas Burke (railroad builder)", "text": "Thomas Burke (railroad builder)\n\nThomas Burke (December 22, 1849 – December 4, 1925) was an American lawyer, railroad builder, and judge who made his career in Seattle, Washington. He served as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Washington Territory from 1888 to 1889. He was the main representative of railroad magnate James J. Hill in Seattle. Burke Avenue, The Burke-Gilman Trail and the Burke Museum are named in his honor.\n\nBurke frequently organized subscription drives to raise money for Seattle projects, to the point that he often described himself as a \"professional beggar.\" His would often be the first name on the petition, pledging the first dollar—or, later, the first thousand dollars. \n\nBurke arrived in Seattle in 1875 and formed a law partnership with John J. McGilvra; he soon married McGilvra's daughter Caroline. He established himself as a civic activist: one of his first projects was to raise funds for a planked walkway from roughly the corner of First and Pike (now site of Pike Place Market) through Belltown to Lake Union. \n\nHe served as probate judge 1876-1880 and as chief justice of the Washington Territorial Supreme Court in 1888.\n\n\"Irish as a clay pipe,\" and well liked by early Seattle's largely Irish working class, as a lawyer Burke was well known for collecting large fees from his wealthy clients and providing free legal services for the poor. Therefore, many were surprised when he opposed the working-class anti-Chinese agitation in 1885–86, allying instead with George Kinnear and his Home Guard in providing armed defense for the Chinese against vigilantism. In this, he was a defender not so much of the Chinese themselves as of the rule of law. When one of the anti-Chinese rioters died of a gunshot incurred during the violence of February 7, 1886, Burke was among those charged with shooting with intent to kill; none were ever actually brought to trial.\n\nTwo years before Burke's arrival in Seattle, the Northern Pacific Railway had chosen nearby Tacoma as its western terminus. Many thought that this would condemn Seattle to, at best, a secondary role on Puget Sound. Burke would rise to prominence as a leader in Seattle's effort to avoid that fate.\n\nSeattle's first attempt to build its way into the national rail network—the Seattle and Walla Walla Railroad—never got out of King County, although it did make a decent profit for its investors when Henry Villard bought it out in 1883 during his brief tenure at the head of Northern Pacific. However, Villard's successors operate the line intermittently at best, leaving the city little benefit from its support for the venture. \n\nBurke raised money to send Daniel Hunt Gilman back east to seek investment for another railroad, the Seattle, Lake Shore and Eastern Railway (SLS&E). (Others involved in the founding of the railroad included David Denny, Thomas T. Minor, and George Kinnear.) In the event, Burke ended up accompanying Gilman on the trip. It became clear that any eastern investment would be dependent upon at least 10% of the investment coming from Seattle-area locals. The investment was found, and Burke became a railway attorney.\n\nThe building of the SLS&E was a combination of hard-headed business and frontier disregard for law. On at least one occasion, Burke convinced the Snohomish County sheriff to head off to the wilderness with all of his deputies to prevent a representative of a rival railway scheme from serving a writ that would have prevented the construction of a bridge across the Snohomish River. Exploits like this helped to bring him to the attention of James J. Hill of the Great Northern Railway.\n\nAlong with Judge Cornelius H. Hanford, Burke convinced the Seattle City Council to establish the Railroad Avenue (now Alaskan Way) along the downtown waterfront. The SLS&E got first choice of a right-of-way.\n\nThe Northern Pacific eventually gained control of SLS&E by purchasing a majority of its stock. By this time, Seattle had established itself well enough as a city that Northern Pacific chose actually to operate the line (though the city did not get a major passenger terminal until 1905).\n\nBurke was a partner with Bostonian Frank Osgood and Seattle pioneer David Denny in the city's first horse-drawn streetcars (1884); only five years later, the three built one of the country's first electric streetcar lines.\n\nJames J. Hill hired Burke in 1890 as the local counsel for the Great Northern, virtually guaranteeing Seattle's role as that line's western terminus. However, city engineer R. H. Thomson opposed adding yet another railroad to the crowded waterfront. When the Great Northern ran its first train to Seattle June 20, 1893, the end of the line was at Smith Cove in Interbay, a bit north of downtown. Eventually, Hill, Burke, and the city engineer's office reached a mutually satisfactory solution to the problem: the Great Northern Tunnel, a railway tunnel under downtown Seattle, built 1903–1906.\n\nBurke died on December 4, 1925. He is buried at the Burke family monument at Evergreen Washelli Memorial Park.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120608", "title": "Phra Pathommachedi", "text": "Phra Pathommachedi\n\nPhra Pathommachedi or Phra Pathom Chedi () is a stupa in Thailand. The stupa is located in the Wat Phra Pathommachedi Ratcha Wora Maha Wihan (), a temple in the town center of Nakhon Pathom, Nakhon Pathom Province, Thailand. Phra Pathommachedi is the tallest stupa in Thailand. The top of its spire reaches 120.45 meters, with the base circumference of 235.50 meters. \n\nThe name Phra Pathommachedi means the first holy stupa, given by king Mongkut. Originally the stupa named Phra Thom Chedi means the big stupa in ancient Khmer language or the royal stupa in Northern Thai language. One of the common misunderstandings about this stupa is that Phra Pathommachedi is the oldest and the first stupa in Suvarnabhumi, an ancient name of Southeast Asia. Modern Historians believe that the stupa was one of the principal stupas of ancient Nakhon Pathom, the largest settlement of Dvaravati culture in Nakhon Pathom area together with the nearby Phra Prathon Chedi () during the 6th to the 8th centuries.\n\nThe original of Phra Pathommachedi has no historical record, but according to , a prominent Thai historian and archaeologist, Ashoka, an Indian Emperor who ruled almost all of the Indian subcontinent from circa 269 to 232 BCE, sent prominent Buddhist monks to expand Buddhism in Suvarnabhumi including the area that is Nakhon Pathom in the present day. A Buddhist temple, Wat Phra Pathom, had been established around the year 325 BCE, and the stupa had been built around the year 193 BCE. The original structure is believed to be similar with the Great Stupa in Sanchi, India, with a simple hemispherical brick structure built over the relics of Gautama Buddha with a structure on the top of the stupa in the shape of a chatra or parasol symbolising high rank. The stupa is first mentioned in Buddhist texts of the year 675, however archaeological findings date back to the 4th century. Modern Historians believe that the stupa was one of the principal stupas of ancient Nakhon Pathom, the largest settlement of Dvaravati culture together with the nearby Phra Prathon Chedi () during the 6th to the 8th centuries.\n\nSince the origin of Phra Pathommachedi is unknown, there are many legends about the stupa construction. The most famous is the legend of Phraya Gong and Phraya Phan (Thai: ตำนานพระยากงพระยาพาน). The story is about a king of Nakhon Chai Si, Phraya Gong, who had a son named Phan. The court astrologer predicted that Phan will commit fratricide in the future. Phraya Gong then abandoned Phan. The orphan baby had been unknowingly adopted by a childness woman named Granny Hom. Granny Hom raised Phan in Ratchaburi, a vassal city state of Nakhon Chai Si. One day an elephant belonging to a lord from Ratchaburi was in rut and begun attacking people. Phan went to see the elephant and was able to subdue it. After the lord from Ratchaburi heard about heroic act of Phan, he adopted Phan as his son. Phan wanted to conquer Nakhon Chaisi of Phraya Gong, so he sent a letter to Phraya Gong for challenging him to a war elephant duel. Phan killed Phraya Gong becoming king Phraya Phan. According to an ancient custom, Phraya Phan demanded Phraya Gong's wife to become his queen. When the queen met Phraya Phan, she recognized him to be her son, and told him the truth. Shocked and fearful of the truth getting out, Phraya Phan executes Granny Hom. After realising that he committed a great sin by killing both father and a person who raised him - Granny Hom. In the year 26 BCE, Phraya Phan consulted with a group of arhats how to atone for his sin. The arhats recommended Phraya Phan to build a great stupa, one which is of great height that even a bird can not fly higher. Phraya Phan then built a Sri Lankan style stupa by using a very big gong and his bed as a foundation and put Buddha's tooth relic inside. Hundreds of years later, the king of Bago wanted the big gong, so he ordered his men to dig the stupa's foundation; as a result, both gong and stupa then collapsed. The Bago king tried to rebuild the stupa, so he built a Khmer style stupa on the top of this old stupa, which was the stupa form until the reign of king Mongkut.\n\nAfter Khmer Empire annexed Dvaravati settlements including ancient Nakhon Pathom, in the 11th century, the stupa had been modified with a Khmer style prang on the top of stupa. Anawrahta of Pagan Kingdom invaded and plundered ancient Nakhon Pathom. Then the city and the stupa had been abandoned and later overgrown by the jungle. According to No.2 Sukhothai Inscription, a prominent monk from Sukhothai Kingdom tried to rebuild Phra Pathommachedi, but none of the archaeological evidence support this claim. In 1548 Maha Chakkraphat of Ayutthaya Kingdom rebuilt the city and named Nakhon Chai Si, but because of Phra Pathommachedi was far from the new city, the stupa was left in the jungle.\n\nIn 1831 under the reign of king Rama III, his brother, prince Mongkut, as a monk, discovered the ruin of Phra Pathommachedi and visited several times. He requested royal approval to restore the stupa, but Rama III declined. In 1832 Sunthorn Phu, a famous Thai poet, accompanied prince Chutamani on a visit to Phra Pathommachedi. After his coronation, Mongkut rebuilt the stupa in the Sri Lankan style, covering the old stupa as well as the new temple. The new temple has four viharas used for Buddhist ceremonies as well as many storage buildings to keep artifacts that were found in the nearby area. Mongkut also built a palace named Pathom Nakorn Palace near Phra Pathommachedi. Damrong Rajanubhab mentioned the reason for building this palace in the book “Tamnaan Wang Gao” (or Tales of the Old Palaces) that during the renovation of Phra Pathommachedi, it was inconvenient to come and go from Bangkok to Nakhon Pathom within a day, thus staying overnight was obligatory. Under the royal command of Mongkut, the palace was built near the stupa. The canals of Mahasawas and Chedi Bucha were also dug to facilitate commuting by boat between Bangkok and Nakhon Pathom. After 17 years of construction, the stupa and temple were finished in 1870 in the reign of Chulalongkorn. Chulalongkorn added belfries and imported golden brown colour tiles from China to cover the whole stupa. The population of nearby Nakhon Chai Si District was ordered to move to the newly created city around Phra Pathommachedi.\n\nIn 1907 as a crown prince, Vajiravudh, after visited Phra Pathommachedi for several times, he decided to build Sanam Chandra Palace in Nakhon Pathom. He recorded the miracle stories of Phra Pathommachedi as well as renovated the stupa complex. In 1911 he built the 7.20 metres Buddha image and named Phra Ruang Rojanarit Sri Indraditya Dhammobhas Mahavajiravudhraj Pujaneeya Bophitr () and installed in the front niche of Phra Pathommachedi. The ashes of Vajiravudh, his consort Suvadhana, and his daughter Bejaratana are kept at Phra Pathommachedi. Prajadhipok rebuilt ordination hall. In 1940 Nakhon Pathom Province selected Phra Pathommachedi as the symbol in provincial seal.\n\nIn 1966, the temple abbot found several cracks inside the stupa. Ministry of Interior sent a group of experts to check the stupa. After nine years research, the experts group reported that the stupa was in critical state and needed urgent restoration. The restoration finished in 1981. In 2008 Phra Pathommachedi had been restored again to solve inside stupa moisture problem, the works done in 2012.\n\nIn 1998 to celebrate the 84th birthday of Phra Ruang Buddha image, Wat Phra Pathommachedi constructed three giant incense sticks to be the biggest incense stick in the world in front of the Northern Vihara. On November 2, 1998, the incense collapsed immediately causing 5 deaths and 13 injuries.\n\nIn 2009 Department of Fine Arts, Ministry of Culture announced a plan to promote Phra Pathommachedi to be UNESCO World Heritage Site because of the stupa's long history and its significance on Buddhism expansion in Southeast Asia and Dvaravati culture. Initially the government plan had been welcomed by media and general public and supported by local municipal office as well as the temple. However the plan caused concerns to local people around Phra Pathommachedi which located in the city center and near city central fresh market. Fearing that if Phra Pathommachedi becomes World Heritage Site, the market may have to relocate and the whole community may affect from management plan of UNESCO, locals started to protest the plan. In 2011, Department of Fine Arts organized the public hearings in Phra Pathommachedi Temple on World Heritage Site nomination, by vote only 3 persons from 200 supported the nomination.\n\nPhra Pathommachedi Stupa and surrounding temple are located on the flat floodplain of Chao Phraya - Tha Chin rivers watershed. The land of temple has been filled up and the sewerage system has been created, but the temple complex still floods occasionally after heavy rain especially the grass fields around the stupa. In 1996 the temple grass fields have been cemented to prevent flood.\n\nThe design of Phra Pathommachedi complex, when viewed from above, takes the form of a giant Buddhist mandala, simultaneously representing the Buddhist cosmology with Phra Pathommachedi in the center.\n\nPhra Pathommachedi is the tallest stupa in Thailand, standing at 120.45 meters and with circumference of 235.50 meters. The current form of Pathommachedi is bell shape Sri Lanka styled brick stupa covered by golden brown colour tiles. The structure foundation of the stupa is timbers strapped by gigantic metal chain. There is a gilded niche which installed Buddha image at the eastern direction. The stupa surrounds by inner boundary wall. then 562 meters round cloister. The cloister has inner and outer open galleries. Inner open gallery has ancient Khmer language inscriptions. Outer open gallery has collection of Buddha images. At four Cardinal directions of the cloister have a vihara. In front of each vihara has grand staircase leading to lower terrace. The stupa, viharas and round cloister complex surrounds by outer boundary wall. Between the cloister and outer boundary wall has 24 belfries.\n\nOriginally called Viharn Prasuth (), built by Mongkut in 1861. In 1900 after the construction of railway from Bangkok to Nakhon Pathom and Nakhon Pathom railway station in the north of Phra Pathommachedi, the Northern Vihara has become the main entrance to Phra Pathommachedi. Saovabha Phongsri built two levels grand staircase in front of the vihara as an entrance to the stupa complex in 1906. In 1913, Vajiravudh appointed Narisara Nuwattiwong, a notable Thai architect and a prince, to redesign the vihara to install the Phra Ruang Rojanarit Sri Indraditya Dhammobhas Mahavajiravudhraj Pujaneeya Bophitr (). The beautiful new T-shaped vihara with apse liked portico in the front was completed in 1915 and has been called Viharn Phra Ruang () after since. The wall behind the Buddha image is where the royal ashes of Vajiravudh and his family have been kept. Inside the vihara is a baby Buddha statue as a principal image side by two female statues.\n\nOfficially the main entrance of Phra Pathommachedi complex. Eastern Vihara or Viharn Luang () is a single storey reinforced concrete building with traditional Thai temple glazed tiles roof built by Mongkut on 18 December 1861. Inside has two rooms, inner room and outer room. The inner room has mural paintings depicting the stories of restoration of Phra Pathommachedi throughout the history and the gathering of heaven. The mural was paint during the reign of Vajiravudh with interesting mix of Dvaravati and modern Thai styles. There is no wall on the side of Phra Pathommachaedi to allow worshipper to see the stupa. Directly opposite the vihara is a gilded niche attached to Phra Pathommachedi. Inside the niche is the copy image of Phra Phuttha Sihing from the Front Palace. The outer room housing the principal Buddha image of the Eastern Vihara, Phra Nirantarai (), also built by Mongkut, behind the image has mural painting of sacred tree. In the front of vihara has a portico housing Phra Phuttha Maha Vajira Maravichai Buddha image (), built by then crown prince Vajiralongkorn in 1984 when he was a Bhikku. In 2001 on behalf of Sirikit, Vajiralongkorn installed the Buddha image on the newly built pedestral. On the lower terrace in front of vihara has ordination hall, meditation hall and a platform erected specially for a king to mount an elephant or a palanquin.\n\nSouthern Vihara or Phra Panchawaki Vihara () is a single storey reinforced concrete building with traditional Thai temple glazed tiles roof built by Mongkut on 18 December 1861. Inside has two rooms, inner room and outer room. The inner room has an image of Buddha with Mucalinda. The outer room housing the principal Buddha image of the Southern Vihara with statues of his first five disciples. The inner room has mural paintings depicting Phra Pathommachedi throughout the history as well as Buddhist sacred sites in India. On the lower terrace in front of Southern Vihara has a large Dvaravati stone buddha named Phra Phuttha Noraseth or Phra Sila Khao (). Originally enshrined in the abandoned Na Phra Meru Temple, with unknown reason the image has been divided and kept in various places. In 1967 Department of Fine Arts successfully assembled all the fragments of the image and gave to the temple of Phra Pathommachedi.\n\nWestern Vihara or Reclining Buddha Vihara or Viharn Phra Noan () is a two rooms single storey reinforced concrete building with traditional Thai temple glazed tiles roof built by Mongkut on 18 December 1861. Inside housing 17 metres Reclining Buddha image. Before the redesign of Northern Vihara in 1913, the design of this vihara was different from other three viharas, as the building was built in T-shaped building and in parallel direction of the gallery because the original Western Vihara was built before the whole complex renovation by Mongkut. The original Reclining Buddha image was 8 metres and was the principal Buddha image of Phra Pathommachedi. Another room inside vihara is kept smaller Reclining Buddha image built by Mongkut, but the room is closing from public. On the lower terrace in front of vihara has many sacred trees that related to the story of Buddha as well as two Chinese stone dolls.\n\nThe current ordination hall or ubosoth hall (), from the entrance, is located on the left in front of Northern Vihara on lower terrace, originally built by Mongkut and rebuilt by Prajadhipok with design of Narisara Nuvadtivongs in 1932. The ordination hall is a single storey reinforced concrete building with traditional Thai temple glazed tiles roof. The principal Buddha image is the ancient 3.75 metre large white stone craved sitting Buddha image on the lotus petals shaped pedestral. The image was built in Dvaravati period. Originally enshrined in the abandoned Na Phra Meru Temple, in the south of Phra Pathommachedi. In 1861 Mongkut moved the Buddha image to be the principal image of the ordination hall. There are four marble Bai Sema attached into the hall, and at the entrance adorned by two stone Chinese lion statues. The front facade depicting Dharmacakra and two sitting deers.\n\nPhra Pathommachedi Museum or Phra Pathomchedi Museum building () is originally a mediation hall and is located opposite the ordination hall and from the entrance, is located on the right in front of Northern Vihara on lower terrace. Later the building has been renovated and used as temple museum. The ordination hall is a single storey reinforced concrete building with traditional Thai temple glazed tiles roof. The collection includes many old Buddha images and talipot fans.\n\nWat Phra Pathommachedi Ratcha Wora Maha Wihan () or Wat Phra Pathommachedi, is a large temple in the city center of Nakhon Pathom. The temple consists of Phra Pathommachedi Stupa zone and the monastic zone. The monastic zone is located in the southwest of Phra Pathommachedi Stupa zone separated by Khwaphra Road. Both zones are surrounding by wall to show boundaries. Wat Phra Pathommachedi is the first rank royal temple of Ratcha Wora Maha Wihan, the highest category of Thai royal temple. Locals called the temple, Wat Yai (), which means the big temple. Original names of the temple are Wat Phra Pathom () or Wat Phra Banthom () and Wat Phra Phut Borommathat (). The temple belongs to Maha Nikaya sect of Theravada Buddhist monks in Thailand. The temple was found around the year 325 BCE before the construction of Phra Pathommachedi. Mongkut revived the temple in 1853 as a part of Phra Pathommachedi restoration plan. The total area of the temple is approximately 0.25 Square Kilometre. Originally the monastic area was located in the area of present-day lower terrace in front of Southern Vihara. Mongkut built the new monastic area in front of Northern Vihara with 25 living buildings, a sermon hall and a dining hall. After built a railway station and the Northern Vihara became the main entrance, Chulalongkorn relocated the monastic area to the present location.\n\nList of Temple Abbot\n\nEstablished in 1866 by Chulalongkorn, as the first school in Nakhon Pathom inside the sermon hall of Wat Phra Pathommachedi, a part of Phra Pathommachedi complex. In 1922 two buildings had been built for school buildings by donation money from the Governor of Nakhon Chai Si, Phaya Mahindhara Dejanuwat. The school was officially named by Vajiravudh, Wat Phra Pathom Chedi School (Mahidharasuksakarn). The school is now an elementary school under Office of the Basic Education Commission, but occasionally received supporting money from Wat Phra Pathommachedi to develop facilities of the school.\n\nInitiated in the reign of King Chulalongkorn by Damrong Rajanubhab, who planned to gather artefacts scattered across Nakhon Pathom, Phra Pathommachedi National Museum () has developed over time. Its current exhibition presents the history of the province and consists of three sections. Zone 1 starts with an introduction to present-day Nakhon Pathom, including its geography, economy and demography. This is followed by its history. Visitors will see evidence of prehistoric dwellers found in the area, dating back 2,000-3,000 years. Zone 2 of the museum focuses on beliefs and religions through art mostly related to Buddhism - the main faith of Dvaravati culture. Zone 3 showcases the history and development of Nakhon Pathom during the Rattanakosin period. Objects on view include a model of Pathom Nakhon Palace, the residence of king Mongkut during his visit to Nakhon Pathom, and Buddha images found at Phra Pathommachedi as well as a model of present-day Nakhon Pathom town. The highlights are models of Phra Pathommachedi, whose shape has been altered several times since the Dvaravati period.\n\nSince Phra Pathommachedi has become an important destination for pilgrimage, many poets wrote poetries about the stupa. One of the earliest is the work of Prince Wongsathiratsanit, Nirat Phra Pathom () in 1834 and the most famous one is Sunthorn Phu's Nirat Phra Pathom () in 1842.\n\nThe annual Phra Pathommachedi Festival () takes place from the evening of the full moon of the 12th month to the 4th day of the waning moon in the 12th month in the traditional Thai lunar calendar. In the Gregorian calendar this usually falls in November. Since 1974 Wat Phra Pathommachedi organized the festival in order to raise money to maintain the stupa and the temple. Normally the festival takes place for 5 days 5 nights or 9 days 9 nights, as decided by the festival committee.\n\nOn 2 November of every year is considered birthday of Phra Ruang Rojanarit Buddha image, Wat Phra Pathommachedi organize ceremony to celebrate the Buddha image. The ceremony attracts thousands of worshippers. The highlight of the ceremony is a lucky draw to find a person to be a representative of all worshippers to lit light in front of the Buddha image. Most of worshippers bring red painted boiled eggs and yellow flower garlands to worship the Buddha image.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120609", "title": "BTH Bank", "text": "BTH Bank\n\nBTH Bank is a bank headquartered in Quitman, Texas. It operates 13 branches, all of which are in East Texas and the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex.\n\nThe bank was formed as The First National Bank of Quitman on October 21, 1914.\n\nIn 2005, the bank changed its name to BankTexas.\n\nIn 2013, Bob Dyer was named chairman and chief executive officer of the bank.\n\nThe bank received $42 million of equity investments in 2013 and another $45 million of equity investments in 2015.\n\nIn 2015, the bank changed its name to BTH Bank to differentiate itself and to comply with intellectual property laws.\n\nIn 2017, the bank was ranked third in total deposits in Longview, Texas.\n\nIn October 2017, the bank opened a branch in McKinney, Texas.\n"}
{"id": "2120615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120615", "title": "Awami National Party", "text": "Awami National Party\n\nThe Awami National Party (, ; Acronym: ANP) is a secular and leftist Pashtun nationalist political party in Pakistan. The party was founded by Abdul Wali Khan in 1986 and its current president is Asfandyar Wali Khan, grandson of Bacha Khan, with Mian Iftikhar Hussain serving as the Secretary-General. Part of the PPP-led cabinet of the Pakistani government during 2008−13, the ANP's political position is considered left wing, advocating for secularism, democratic socialism, public sector government, and economic egalitarianism.\n\nANP was the largest Pashtun nationalist party in Pakistan between 2008−2013 with influence lying in the Pashtun dominated areas in and around Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. They governed the province from 2008-2013 but lost to Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf in the assembly election of 2013.\n\nKhan Abdul Wali Khan's political career had been built on the tradition of intense Pashtun nationalism inherited from his father, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan (Bacha Khan). Although it was formed after the partition of India but most of the leaders were Pro-India, and were against the creation of Pakistan. Most of the leaders were used to congress right hands before the independence. Both men were opposed to the creation of Pakistan, and after the proclamation of independence of Pakistan in 1947, they were imprisoned. In 1956 Wali Khan joined the National Awami Party (NAP), led by a charismatic Bengali socialist, Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani. In 1965 the NAP split into two factions, with Wali Khan becoming president of the pro-Moscow faction. The party's members participated in 1970 parliamentary elections through the Pakistan Peoples Party's platform and the National Awami Party, forming a largest socialist alliance with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1970. However, the alliance fell apart and its members joined the Pakistan National Alliance.\n\nIn 1972 the party was strong enough to form coalition provincial governments, with its partner the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI) in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan. These governments were short lived. Wali Khan was again jailed, and his party was barred from politics when the Supreme Court upheld the finding of President Bhutto that the NAP was conspiring against the state of Pakistan. General Zia-ul-Haq subsequently withdrew the charges against the NAP. Wali Khan was released, joined the National Democratic Party, and ultimately formed the Awami National Party. In the meantime, President Bhutto was imprisoned and executed in April 1979.\n\nThe Awami National Party (awami means \"people's\"), which depends on ethnic Pashtuns (Pukhtuns) of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (formerly NWFP) and northern Balochistan as its political base, was formed in 1986 by the merger of several left-leaning parties including the Awami Tehrik and the National Democratic Party.\n\nThe National Democratic Party merged with several other progressive political and nationalist groups to form the Awami National Party. Wali Khan, the influential Pashtun and Soviet-backed leader, was elected as its first president and Sindhi socialist Rasul Bux Palejo was appointed its first secretary general. From 1986 to 1988, the ANP party was a member of the Movement for Restoration of Democracy.\n\nSince its inception, the ANP has been an important ally of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP). The party formed a coalition government with the PPP in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, and in Sindh province and Islamabad for central government after the Pakistani parliamentary elections in 1988. This alliance, however, collapsed in April 1989 after differences cropped up between the two parties, after Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto ordered a military action that brutally failed. The Awami National Party later formed an alliance with the Pakistan Muslim League (PML) in early June 1989 which led to a formal split in the party with many activists allying with the PPP.\n\nAfter the election of Nawaz Sharif in 1990, the ANP again formed a coalition with former rivals PML. This alliance proved longer lasting, surviving till 1998 when it collapsed over differences over the building of Kalabagh Dam and renaming the province NWFP to Pakhtunkhwa. It won six seats in the National Assembly in the 1990 elections. In the 1993 national elections, the party won three seats in the National Assembly. It then joined the Grand Democratic Alliance, campaigning against the Sharif government's policies. After Nawaz Sharif's overthrow by Pervez Musharraf, the party stayed an active member of the Alliance for Restoration of Democracy, until the 2001 September 11 attacks in the United States, when it left the alliance over supporting NATO's ouster of the Taliban government. The party's reputation was damaged in this period following the arrest of former Federal Minister and senior party leader Azam Khan Hoti.\n\nIn the 2002 elections the party struck up an alliance with the PPP. However, both parties were electorally routed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by the religion-political alliance Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) riding on a wave of anti-American sentiment in Pakistan.\n\nIn the 2008 parliamentary elections, the ANP dominated the far-right wing coalition, the MMA, a party formed by coalition of Islamic movements in 2002. The ANP has also won provincial seats in Balochistan and in Sindh for the first time in 15 years. It formed a coalition government with the Pakistan People's Party in all three provinces. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the ANP has its first chief minister since 1948.\n\nThe strongholds of the ANP are in the Pashtun dominated areas of Pakistan, particularly in the Mardan area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and it has traditionally dominated Charsadda, Mardan, Nowshera, Peshawar, and Swabi areas of central KPK. On the other hand, the city of Karachi in Sindh province hosts one of the largest Pashtun populations in the world, but the ANP only had 2 seats in 2011, whereas the number of Pashtuns present would predict them having \"up to 25 seats\".\n\nIn May 2008, Asfandyar Wali Khan made an unannounced visit to the United States in which he and his delegate held high-level meetings with top U.S. officials. A source explained that \"the delegation is here as part of a visitors programme that brings important people from other nations for meeting US civil and military officials and members of the civic society.\" This was Wali Khan's second such visit to the United States, a country where he has several relatives.\n\nIn the last decade, hundreds of members of the ANP have been assassinated or became victims of target killings. Most of the attacks occurred in the Karachi and Peshawar areas. An ANP rally in Quetta was subject to a bomb blast on 13 July 2012. The blast killed six people and injured 12 others. It was speculated that a cycle parked behind the stage was the probable cause. The dead included two children as well.\n\nThe party has also accused Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf chairman Imran Khan and of being complicit in the Taliban attacks.\n\nOn 10 July 2018, during the 2018 Pakistani general election there was a suicide bombing attack on political rally of Awami National Party (ANP) in YakaToot neighborhood of Peshawar in which fourteen people were killed and sixty five injured. Among the killed was ANP's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly candidate, Haroon Bilour. Bilour was son of Bashir Ahmad Bilour who was also killed in a suicide bombing attack in December 2012. Elections for Constituency PK-78 were postponed to an disclosed date by the Election Commission.\n\nThe party espouses a nonviolent approach to tackling extremism. It promotes democratic socialism, secularism, economic egalitarianism, and Pashtun nationalism. The party has dense support among the Pashtun population in the country. Since 2000, its liberal socialism and pro-Pashtun philosophy has become the integral part of the party, advocating for the regional autonomy and increased Pashtun cultural expression. A frequent coalition partner in provincial politics, it was routed in the 2002 elections because of its opposition to the Taliban and support for the NATO-backed Karzai administration in neighboring Afghanistan.\n\nIt joined the opposition All Parties Democratic Movement, and along with other parties except the Pakistan Peoples Party resigned from Parliament in October 2007 in protest against the military regime of Pervez Musharraf. It was targeted in 2007 and 2008 by presumed supporters of the Taliban. Despite the attacks, the party has advocated dialogue with moderate tribal elements to end the violence in the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Federally Administered Tribal Areas.\n\nThe Awami National Party is one of the few parties in Pakistan to hold a system of regular internal general elections every four-year period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120619", "title": "Jacek Yerka", "text": "Jacek Yerka\n\nJacek Yerka (born Jacek Kowalski in 1952) is a Polish surrealist painter from Toruń. Yerka's work has been exhibited in Poland, Germany, Monaco, France, and the United States, and may be found in the museums of Poland.\n\nJacek Yerka was born in Toruń, Poland, in 1952. He was born into an artistic family with both his parents graduates from a local Fine Art Academy. His earliest memories were of paints, inks, paper, rubbers and brushes. As a child, Yerka loved to draw and make sculptures. He hated playing outside, and preferred to sit down with a pencil, creating and exploring his own world. This difference between the other children in his primary school led to social problems with his peers and Yerka describes his primary school life as being a \"grey, sometimes horrifying reality\". However, Yerka later became 'untouchable' in his high school due to his clever sketches of the school's worst bullies.\n\nYerka had never intended to be an artist like his parents and was considering doing astronomy or medicine. However, a year before his final exam, he decided for the first time to try working with paint, which resulted in his decision to study fine art and graphic design instead. \nAccording to Yerka, during his period studying in the academy he was pressured by his instructors to eschew detail and realism in favor of the fashion of the times - but did not relent, adhering to the meticulous classic Flemish technique that still typifies his work. In time they came to see him as a brilliant - though troubled - talent.\n\nDuring his studies at the Academy, each day was split into two sections. In the morning and afternoon he had to do tests, projects and attend lectures, and during the evening he was given a couple hours to work at a painting that was shown only to his family and friends. He graduated from the Faculty of Fine Arts at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, specializing in printmaking.\n\nYerka began working full-time as an artist in 1980. He had several contracts with galleries in Warsaw and also worked for commissions. He cites Hieronymus Bosch, Pieter Bruegel, Cagliostro, Jan van Eyck, and Hugo van der Goes as formative influences on his work. His subject matter ranges from odd beasts to whimsical landscapes incorporating extraordinary architecture, and includes imagery gleaned from his childhood, such as his grandmother's kitchen. Says Yerka, \"For me, the 1950s were a kind of Golden Age ... If I were, for instance, to paint a computer, it would definitely have a pre-war aesthetic to it.\"\n\nIn 1990, Yerka received a contract with Hollywood producer Renee Daalder to design figures, monster-machines and surreal landscapes for the science fiction film Strawberry fields. The film planned to combine both Yerka's work with songs from the Beatles and Yerka participated in the first stage of its production. Work typically progresses from a graphite sketch, to crayon drawing, then a pastel com, and finally an acrylic painting.\n\nYerka solicits input on developing works from his wife and four daughters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120627", "title": "Gigi Zanchetta", "text": "Gigi Zanchetta\n\nGigliola (Gigi) Zanchetta Pirella is a Venezuelan actress. Zanchetta has starred in many soap operas, among them \"Primavera\" alongside Fernando Carrillo and \"Cara Sucia\". Also in \"La Dama de Rosa\" alongside Jeannette Rodríguez.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120633", "title": "Baytown Refinery", "text": "Baytown Refinery\n\nExxonMobil's Baytown Refinery is the second largest oil refinery in the United States located in Baytown, Texas. It has capacity of . The site first opened in 1919 and was originally operated by the Humble Oil Company. Today, it is the largest employer in the city. The plant takes up of land next to the Houston Ship Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120637", "title": "Luisa Casati", "text": "Luisa Casati\n\nLuisa, Marchesa Casati Stampa di Soncino (23 January 1881 – 1 June 1957), was an Italian heiress, muse, and patroness of the arts in early 20th-century Europe.\n\nLuisa Adele Rosa Maria Amman was born in Milan, the younger of two daughters of Alberto Amman and his wife Lucia (née Bressi). Her father was a prosperous textile manufacturer, born in 1847 to Austrian parents from Göfis in Vorarlberg, and her mother was born in 1857 Vienna to an Italian father and Austrian mother. At the time of her parents' births, Milan and much of northern Italy belonged to the Austrian Empire. Her father was made a count by King Umberto I. Her mother died when Luisa was 13, and her father died two years later, making his daughters, Luisa and her older sister, Francesca (1880–1919, married Giulio Padulli), reportedly the wealthiest women in Italy.\n\nIn 1900, she married Camillo, Marchese Casati Stampa di Soncino (Muggiò, 12 August 1877 – Roma, 18 September 1946). The couple's only child, Cristina Casati Stampa di Soncino, was born the following year. The Casatis maintained separate residences for the duration of their marriage. They were legally separated in 1914. They remained married until Marchese Casati's death in 1946.\n\nIn 1925, the couple's daughter Cristina (1901–1953), married Francis John Clarence Westenra Plantagenet Hastings, known as Viscount Hastings and later the 16th Earl of Huntingdon; they had one child, Lady Moorea Hastings (4 March 1928 – 21 October 2011), and divorced in 1943. The following year the Viscountess Hastings married Wogan Philipps; that marriage produced no children.\n\nLuisa Casati's only grandchild, Lady Moorea Hastings, was the wife of politician and diarist Woodrow Wyatt from 1957 to 1966, and later married the adman Brinsley Black, named as one of the best-dressed Englishmen in the inaugural issue of \"Men in Vogue\" in 1965. She had a son with each husband:\n\n\nMoorea Hastings was so unmaternal that, on learning she was pregnant, she arranged with her first husband that childless cousins of his would care for the baby. When Wyatt later sued for divorce on grounds of her adultery, he was, unusually, given full custody of the child.\n\nCasati was known for her eccentricities that delighted European society for nearly three decades. The beautiful and extravagant hostess to the Ballets Russes was something of a legend among her contemporaries. She astonished society by parading with a pair of leashed cheetahs and wearing live snakes as jewellery.\n\nShe captivated artists and literary figures such as Robert de Montesquiou, Romain de Tirtoff (Erté), Jean Cocteau, and Cecil Beaton. She had a long term affair with the author Gabriele d'Annunzio, who is said to have based on her the character of Isabella Inghirami in \"Forse che si forse che no\" (Maybe yes, maybe no) (1910). The character of La Casinelle, who appeared in two novels by Michel Georges-Michel, \"Dans la fete de Venise\" (1922) and \"Nouvelle Riviera\" (1924), was also inspired by her.\n\nIn 1910, Casati took up residence at the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni, on Grand Canal in Venice, owning it until circa 1924, in 1949, Peggy Guggenheim purchased the Palazzo from the heirs of Viscountess Castlerosse and made it her home for the following thirty years, it is the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, a modern art museum on the Grand Canal in the Dorsoduro sestiere of Venice, Italy.\n\nCasati's soirées there would become legendary. Casati collected a menagerie of exotic animals, and patronized fashion designers such as Fortuny and Poiret. From 1919 to 1920 she lived at Villa San Michele in Capri, the tenant of the unwilling Axel Munthe. Her time on the Italian island, tolerant home to a wide collection of artists, gay men, and lesbians in exile, was described by British author Compton Mackenzie in his diaries.\n\nNumerous portraits were painted and sculpted by artists as various as Giovanni Boldini, Paolo Troubetzkoy, Adolph de Meyer, Romaine Brooks (with whom she had an affair), Kees van Dongen, and Man Ray; many of them she paid for, as a wish to \"commission her own immortality\". She was muse to Italian Futurists such as F. T. Marinetti (who regarded her as a Futurist) Fortunato Depero, Giacomo Balla (who created the portrait-sculpture \"Marchesa Casati with Moving Eyes)\", and Umberto Boccioni. Augustus John's portrait of her is one of the most popular paintings at the Art Gallery of Ontario; Jack Kerouac wrote poems about it and Robert Fulford was impressed by it as a schoolboy.\n\nBy 1930, Casati had amassed a personal debt of $25 million. As she was unable to pay her creditors, her personal possessions were auctioned off. Designer Coco Chanel was reportedly one of the bidders.\n\nCasati fled to London, where she lived in comparative poverty in a one-room flat. She was rumoured to be seen rummaging in bins searching for feathers to decorate her hair. On 1 June 1957, Casati died of a stroke at her last residence, 32 Beaufort Gardens in Knightsbridge, aged 76. Following a requiem mass at Brompton Oratory, the Marchesa was interred in Brompton Cemetery.\n\nShe was buried wearing her black and leopard skin finery and a pair of false eyelashes. She was also interred with one of her beloved stuffed pekinese dogs. Her tombstone is a small grave marker in the shape of an urn draped in cloth with a swag of flowers to the front. The inscription on the tombstone, which misspells her \"Louisa\" rather than \"Luisa\", is inscribed with the quote, \"Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety\", from Shakespeare's \"Antony and Cleopatra\".\n\nCharacters based on Casati were played by Vivien Leigh in the play, \"La Contessa\" (1965) and by Ingrid Bergman in the movie, \"A Matter of Time\" (1976).\n\nIn 1998, John Galliano based his spring/summer Christian Dior collection on her. Gowns from this collection have been displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art Fashion Institute. Casati served as inspiration for another of Galliano's ensembles created for his autumn/winter 2007/2008 Bal des Artistes haute couture collection for Dior.\n\nDesigner Alexander McQueen's spring/summer 2007 collection was inspired by Casati.\n\nCasati is also the namesake of the Marchesa fashion house started by British designers Georgina Chapman and Keren Craig.\n\nIn May 2009, Karl Lagerfeld debuted his 2010 Cruise-wear collection on the Lido in Venice, for which Casati was once again a major muse. In February 2016, London based designer Omar Mansoor mused his autumn winter collection on Casati at London Fashion Week and Paris Fashion Week.\n\nIn 2013, Italian publisher Rizzoli Libri published biographical graphic novel by artist Vanna Vinci. Translation has been published by Dargaud in France. English translation has been available from Europe Comics since 2015 with the title .\n\nIn 2020, Italian rapper Achille Lauro dressed as Casati for his performance at the most important musical competition in Italy, the Sanremo Music Festival.\n\nOn 21 March 2020 the opera “Ritratto“ premiered with the Dutch National Opera: an opera by Willem Jeths on the life of Luisa Casati.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120641", "title": "Gramont family", "text": "Gramont family\n\nGramont is the name of an old French noble family, whose name is connected to the castle of Gramont (\"Agramont\" in Spanish) Basque province of Lower Navarre, France.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120644", "title": "Francis Walker (entomologist)", "text": "Francis Walker (entomologist)\n\nFrancis Walker (31 July 1809 – 5 October 1874) was an English entomologist. He was one of the most prolific authors in entomology, and stirred controversy during his later life as his publications resulted in a huge number of junior synonyms.\n\nWalker was contracted by the British Museum between June 1848 and late 1873 to catalogue their insects (except Coleoptera). He was born in Southgate, England on 31 July 1809 and died at Wanstead, England on 5 October 1874. Walker added an immense amount of material to the collections of the British Museum and wrote over 300 scientific papers and notes. He is best known for his catalogues of Orthoptera, Neuroptera, Hemiptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera. Collaborating with Alexander Henry Haliday, a lifelong friend, he was one of the first students of the Chalcidoidea. He was also a close friend of John Curtis. Walker was a fellow of the Entomological Society. Walker's specimens are in the Natural History Museum, London; Hope Department of Entomology, University of Oxford; the National Museum of Ireland, Dublin; Zoologische Staatssammlung München and the School of Medicine, Cairo, Egypt.\n\nFrancis Walker was the son of John Walker of Arnos Grove, who was a fellow of the Royal Society, the Linnean Society and the Royal Horticultural Society. Born into a wealthy and educated family, Francis spent the years 1816 (when he was seven years old) to 1820 (when he was eleven) in Switzerland at Geneva, Lucerne and Vevey where the family party was joined by Madame de Staël, the poet Lord Byron and some Swiss naturalists gathered around Nicolas Théodore de Saussure. With his brother Henry (1825–1892), Francis collected butterflies on an ascent of Mount Pilatus in 1818 and so was an entomologist at age nine. In 1840 Walker married Mary Elizabeth Ford.\n\nIn 1834 Walker took up the editorship of the \"Entomological Magazine\" for one year and unpaid and in 1837 he began working on a contract basis for the British Museum where he remained until 1863. He lived at Arnos Grove and relied on family money for his main income.\n\nWalker was a traveller with a liking for mountains. His known trips are:\n\n\nWalker is notable in the present time for the large number of synonymous taxa he described. A careless taxonomist by today's standards, he often gave more than one name to the same species. In this respect, however, he was no worse than many entomologists of his time; what makes for the more common occurrence of Walker's taxa in synonymy is the sheer volume of his work.\n\nAn unsigned obituary began \"More than twenty years too late for his scientific reputation, and after having done an amount of injury almost inconceivable in its immensity, Francis Walker has passed from among us\". Edward Newman, in contrast described him as the \"most voluminous and most industrious writer on Entomology this country has ever produced\" and said of him \"I never met anyone who possessed more correct, more diversified, or more general information, or who imparted that information to others with greater readiness and kindness.\"\n\nKenneth G.V. Smith wrote:\n\n\n— and\n"}
{"id": "2120645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120645", "title": "Water (data page)", "text": "Water (data page)\n\nThis page provides supplementary data to the article properties of water.\n\nFurther comprehensive authoritative data can be found at the NIST Webbook page on thermophysical properties of fluids. Except where noted otherwise, data relate to standard ambient temperature and pressure.\n\nVapor pressure formula for steam in equilibrium with liquid water:\n\nwhere \"P\" is equilibrium vapor pressure in kPa, and \"T\" is temperature in kelvins.\n\nFor \"T\" = 273 K to 333 K: \"A\" = 7.2326; \"B\" = 1750.286; \"C\" = 38.1.\n\nFor \"T\" = 333 K to 423 K: \"A\" = 7.0917; \"B\" = 1668.21; \"C\" = 45.1.\n\nData in the table above is given for water–steam equilibria at various temperatures over the entire temperature range at which liquid water can exist. Pressure of the equilibrium is given in the second column in kPa. The third column is the heat content of each gram of the liquid phase relative to water at 0 °C. The fourth column is the heat of vaporization of each gram of liquid that changes to vapor. The fifth column is the work \"P\"Δ\"V\" done by each gram of liquid that changes to vapor. The sixth column is the density of the vapor.\n\nData obtained from \"CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics\" 44th ed., p. 2390\n\nNote: ρ is density, \"n\" is refractive index at 589 nm, and η is viscosity, all at 20 °C; \"T\" is the equilibrium temperature between two phases: ice/liquid solution for \"T\" < 0–0.1 °C and NaCl/liquid solution for \"T\" above 0.1 °C.\n\nThe data that follows was copied and translated from the German language Wikipedia version of this page (which has moved to here). It provides supplementary physical, thermodynamic, and vapor pressure data, some of which is redundant with data in the tables above, and some of which is additional.\n\nIn the following tables, values are temperature-dependent and to a lesser degree pressure-dependent, and are arranged by state of aggregation (s = solid, lq = liquid, g = gas), which are clearly a function of temperature and pressure. All of the data were computed from data given in \"Formulation of the Thermodynamic Properties of Ordinary Water Substance for Scientific and General Use\" (1984). This applies to:\n\nIn the following table, material data are given for standard pressure of 0.1 MPa (equivalent to 1 bar). Up to 99.63 °C (the boiling point of water at 0.1 MPa), at this pressure water exists as a liquid. Above that, it exists as water vapor. Note that the boiling point of 100.0 °C is at a pressure of 0.101325 MPa (1 atm), which is the average atmospheric pressure.\n\nIn the following table, material data are given with a pressure of 611.7 Pa (equivalent to 0.006117 bar). Up to a temperature of 0.01 °C, the triple point of water, water normally exists as ice, except for supercooled water, for which one data point is tabulated here. At the triple point, ice can exist together with both liquid water and vapor. At higher temperatures, the data are for water vapor only.\n\nThe following table is based on different, complementary sources and approximation formulas, whose values are of various quality and accuracy. The values in the temperature range of −100 °C to 100 °C were inferred from D. Sunday (1982) and are quite uniform and exact. The values in the temperature range of the boiling point of water up to the critical point (100 °C to 374 °C) are drawn from different sources and are substantially less accurate; hence they should be used only as approximate values.\n\nTo use the values correctly, consider the following points:\n\nThe table values for −100 °C to 100 °C were computed by the following formulas, where \"T\" is in kelvins and vapor pressures, \"P\" and \"P\", are in pascals.\n\nOver liquid water\n\nFor temperature range: 173.15 K to 373.15 K or equivalently −100 °C to 100 °C\n\nOver ice\n\nFor temperature range: 173.15 K to 273.15 K or equivalently −100 °C to 0 °C\n\nAt triple point\n\nAn important basic value, which is not registered in the table, is the saturated vapor pressure at the triple point of water. The internationally accepted value according to measurements of Guildner, Johnson and Jones (1976) amounts to:\n\nAccepted standardized value of the magnetic susceptibility of water at 20 °C (room temperature) is −12.97 cm/mol.\n\nAccepted standardized value of the magnetic susceptibility of water at 20 °C (room temperature) is −0.702 cm/g.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120650", "title": "Fort Ord", "text": "Fort Ord\n\nFort Ord is a former United States Army post on Monterey Bay of the Pacific Ocean coast in California, which closed in 1994 due to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) action. Most of the fort's land now makes up the Fort Ord National Monument, managed by the United States Bureau of Land Management as part of the National Conservation Lands, while a small portion remains an active military installation under Army control designated as the Ord Military Community.\n\nBefore construction and official designation as a fort in 1940, the land was used as a maneuver area and field-artillery target range during 1917. Fort Ord was considered one of the most attractive locations of any U.S. Army post, because of its proximity to the beach and California weather. The 7th Infantry Division was its main garrison for many years. When Fort Ord was converted to civilian use, space was set aside for the first nature reserve in the United States created for conservation of an insect, the endangered Smith's blue butterfly. Additional endangered species are found on Fort Ord, including Contra Costa goldfields and the threatened California tiger salamander.\n\nWhile much of the old military buildings and infrastructure remain abandoned, many structures have been torn down for anticipated development. California State University, Monterey Bay (CSUMB) and the Fort Ord Dunes State Park, along with some subdivisions, the Veterans Transition Center, a commercial strip mall, a tandem skydiving drop zone, military facilities and a nature preserve occupy the area today.\n\nOn April 20, 2012, President Barack Obama signed a proclamation designating a portion of the former post as the Fort Ord National Monument.\nIn his proclamation, the President stated that, \"The protection of the Fort Ord area will maintain its historical and cultural significance, attract tourists and recreationalists from near and far, and enhance its unique natural resources, for the enjoyment of all Americans.\"\n\nAfter the American entry into World War I, land was purchased just north of the city of Monterey along Monterey Bay for use as an artillery training field for the United States Army by the U.S. Department of War. The area was known as the Gigling Reservation, U.S. Field Artillery Area, Presidio of Monterey and Gigling Field Artillery Range. Although military development and construction was just beginning, the War only lasted for another year and a half until the armistice in November 11, 1918.\n\nDespite a great demobilization of the U.S. Armed Forces during the inter-war years of the 1920s and 1930s, by 1933, the artillery field became Camp Ord, named in honor of Union Army Maj. Gen. Edward Otho Cresap Ord, (1818–1883). Primarily, horse cavalry units trained on the camp until the military began to mechanize and train mobile combat units such as tanks, armored personnel carriers and movable artillery.\n\nBy 1940, the 23-year-old Camp Ord was expanded to , with the realization that the two-year-old conflict of World War II could soon cross the Atlantic Ocean to involve America. In August 1940, it was re-designated Fort Ord and the 7th Infantry Division was reactivated, becoming the first major unit to occupy the post.\n\nIn 1941, Camp Ord became Fort Ord. But soon the first threat came from the west as the Imperial Japanese Navy struck the island of Oahu, Hawaii at Pearl Harbor near Honolulu in a sneak air attack, Sunday, December 7, 1941. In a few days the other Axis powers of dictators Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany, along with Fascist Italy of Benito Mussolini, declared and spread their war in Europe against Great Britain and France and the Low Countries to the U.S.\n\nWith the end of the war with the surrenders of Germany in May and Japan in September 1945, the soon onset of a Cold War against the Soviet Union continued for the next forty some years to the early 1990s. In 1947, Fort Ord became the home of the 4th Replacement Training Center. During the 1950s and 1960s, Fort Ord was a staging area for units departing for war in the Korean War and later peacetime/occupation duty in Japan, South Korea and the Philippines and Thailand. Then, when Southeast Asia became a war zone with Vietnam (and later involving, by the 1970s, Cambodia and Laos), the United States had, at one time, 50,000 troops on the installation. The 194th Armored Brigade was activated there under Combat Development Command in 1957, but departed for Fort Knox in Kentucky in 1960.\n\nBetween 1952 and 1954 the Del E. Webb Construction Company was hired to construct some 42 new permanent buildings to make Fort Ord a permanent Army post. The total cost of construction was more than $20,000,000. The first buildings completed were dormitories followed by a guard house and stockade. Additional buildings constructed as part of the plan were an administrative headquarters building, quartermaster warehouses, and an improved water storage system. There were a total of 31 dormitory buildings that could house 7,000 men.\n\nIn 1957, land on the eastern side of the post was used to create the Laguna Seca Raceway which served to replace the Pebble Beach road racing course that ceased operations for safety reasons in that same year.\n\nThe post continued as a center for instruction of basic and advanced infantrymen until 1976, when the training area was deactivated and Fort Ord again became the home of the 7th Infantry Division, following their return from South Korea after twenty-five years on the DMZ (\"demilitarized zone\").\n\nOn July 14, 1989, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed placement of Fort Ord on the National Priorities List (NPL). The site contained leaking underground petroleum storage tanks, a landfill that was primarily used to dispose of residential waste and small amounts of commercial waste generated by the base, a former fire drill area, motor pool maintenance areas, small dump sites, small arms target ranges, an firing range, and other limited areas that posed threats from unexploded ordnance. NPL status was finalized on February 21, 1990.\n\nThe final basic training classes were held in 1990.\n\nIn 1991, the decision to close Fort Ord was made. The \"Base Realignment and Closure\" (\"BRAC\") legislation considering the post-Cold War era was passed by the Congress under 41st President George H. W. Bush.\n\nIn 1994, Fort Ord was officially closed. The Fort was the largest U.S. military base to be closed at the time.\n\nThe Base Realignment and Closure Commission of 1991 recommended closing the post and moving the units stationed at Fort Ord to Fort Lewis, Washington. On May 2, 1992, Army elements from Fort Ord along with Marines from Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton participated in quelling the 1992 Los Angeles riots. In 1994, Fort Ord was finally closed. Most of the land was returned to the State of California for further public use and became the home of CSUMB. The remainder was given to University of California, Santa Cruz to be developed into the \"UC MBEST\" (Monterey Bay Education, Science and Technology) Center. The MBEST Center is a regional economic development effort focused on developing collaborative research-business opportunities in the Monterey Bay region.\n\nThe Fort Ord Reuse Authority (FORA) is responsible for the oversight of Monterey Bay area economic recovery from the closure of and reuse planning of the former Fort Ord. The military base was located on the California coastline near the Monterey Peninsula, consisting of of land. FORA implements this legislatively mandated mission by overseeing replacement land use; assuring compliance with adopted measures; removing physical barriers to reuse; financing and constructing major components of the required infrastructure and basewide demands; and protecting identified environmental reserves. FORA exercises its planning, financing, and monitoring responsibilities under state law authority to meet these objectives in the best interest of the northern Monterey Bay community.\n\nFORA is small multi-governmental body, composed of elected officials at the local, state, and federal levels, as well as representatives from the United States Armed Forces and educational bodies such as CSUMB at the primary, secondary, and university levels. Voting members are made up of representatives from the cities of Carmel-by-the-Sea, Del Rey Oaks, Marina, Sand City, Monterey, Pacific Grove, Salinas, and Seaside as well as two representatives from the County of Monterey Ex-officio members are composed of representatives from the Monterey Peninsula Community College District, the Monterey Peninsula Unified School District, California's 17th congressional district, California's 15th State Senate district, California's 27th State Assembly district, the United States Army, the Chancellor of the California State University, the President of the University of California, the Monterey County Water Resources Agency, and the Transportation Agency of Monterey County.\n\nThis legislatively mandated mission is directed by FORA's 1997 Fort Ord Base Reuse Plan (Reuse Plan). In 2012, FORA performed a comprehensive Reuse Plan Reassessment to assess remaining work.\n\nThe Army's environmental cleanup of the former Fort Ord has been underway since the base was closed and is separated into two programs — the Soil and Groundwater Contamination Cleanup Program, and the Munitions and Explosives of Concern (MEC) Program. A Federal Facility Agreement was signed by the Army, EPA, California Department of Toxic Substances Control and the California Regional Water Quality Control Board Central Coast Region in 1990. Additionally, the Army provides oversight on FORA's cleanup program, called the Environmental Services Cooperative Agreement (see below).\n\nIn May 2007, the Fort Ord Reuse Authority voluntarily entered into an Administrative Order on Consent with EPA and the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC) for the cleanup of of Fort Ord land. The Army and EPA provide the necessary oversight on the project, referred to as FORA's Environmental Services Cooperative Agreement (ESCA). Under this privatized cleanup scheme, FORA received these properties through early transfer and is responsible for the cleanup of these specific areas of Fort Ord. The Administrative Order on Consent requires FORA to clean up the parcels to an extent that would protect human health and environment.\n\nFort Ord's former military golf courses, Bayonet and Black Horse, are, as of January 16, 1997, public golf courses. They have hosted PGA golf events and were recently renovated.\n\nCalifornia State University, Monterey Bay opened on the Fort's former ground shortly after Fort Ord's closing in 1994 as part of 42nd President Bill Clinton's \"peace dividends\" program. The University has currently enrolled more than 7,500 students. The Leon Panetta Institute (named for the former U.S. Representative and Secretary of Defense) is located on its campus. Schoonover, Frederick and Frederick II are housing developments located in the former Fort Ord created for students and families who are associated with CSUMB, Monterey Peninsula Unified School District and local school districts. All three parks are accessible off of Abrams Drive.\n\nThe Veterans Transition Center (VTC) is located on the site of the former Fort Ord. Since its inception it has served 4,155 single veterans and 351 veterans with families. the center is looking to expand by adding more housing units and a non-profit store (to be run by partner company, Vocational Rehabilitation Specialists Inc.) with the express purpose of employing as many veterans as possible.\n\nIn 2009, a coastal strip overlooking Monterey Bay became California's newest state park, Fort Ord Dunes State Park.\nAt the end of Gigling Road, where the DOD Building is located, is one of many entrances to the Fort Ord National Monument; the land underwent comprehensive remediation that involved an extensive munitions clean-up. There are more than of recreational trails available. They are used by the trail communities on foot, on bicycles, and on horseback. All open trails are available to all non-motorized trail user groups. A small number of trails are fenced along their edges because of possible unexploded ordnance.\n\nOn January 13, 2012, United States Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar visited Fort Ord, addressed a crowd of 200 supporters and announced that he was proposing to President Obama that Fort Ord be elevated to National Monument status. On April 20, 2012, Barack Obama signed a Presidential Proclamation establishing Fort Ord National Monument.\n\nFort Ord National Monument refers to that land on the former Fort Ord that is administered by the Bureau of Land Management and is open to the general public. The BLM currently manages 7,200 acres and will manage 14,650 acres after the U.S. Army finishes environmental restoration on the remaining parcel.\n\nAs of May 2018, Fort Ord National Monument has extended its trail system to add bypass and spur trails to popular areas.\n\nA small portion of the former Fort Ord still remains under U.S. Army control, originally called the Presidio of Monterey (POM) Annex. It is now called the Ord Military Community (described below).\n\nThe military is still present at Fort Ord, in the form of several California Army National Guard units, facilities administered by the Presidio of Monterey, the Defense Manpower Data Center, and the continued operation of the base Army and Air Force Exchange Service PX and a Commissary catering to the active duty military stationed in the Monterey area as well as reservists, national guardsmen, and military retirees who chose to settle in the area and are entitled to shop at such facilities. Management of the military housing has been outsourced to private firms, but the homes are still occupied by personnel stationed at the Presidio of Monterey, the Naval Postgraduate School and retired military members.\n\nThe nearby city of Marina is developing a large parcel of land from the former Fort Ord within its city limits, building more than 1,000 new homes. A large commercial strip mall along Highway 1 at the former 12th Street Gate entrance to Fort Ord opened in late 2007, and houses popular retail stores. The City of Marina is planning a 13-mile recreation trail to run through Fort Ord to the Fort Ord National Monument, the Salinas River, and through Fort Ord Dunes State Park.\n\nAs of December 2014, some of the land for a proposed development project (Monterey Downs) will not be officially clear of unexploded ordnance until at least late 2017.\n\n\nThe Fort Ord Station Veterinary Hospital at the Marina Equestrian Center Park in Marina was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2014, by the Friends of the Fort Ord Warhorse. This is the first such designation on Fort Ord. The history is detailed at. The Fort Ord SVH was built for the Army Veterinary Corps as an equine veterinary hospital in 1941 to serve the 1400 horses of the 76th Field Artillery Regiment, cavalry, and quartermaster mule-train units. This is the only remaining example of a major World War II-construction medical facility for warhorses. Twelve of the original twenty-one World War II stables for the horses and mules were about 200 yards away, on Fourth Avenue and Gen Jim Moore Boulevard, but were demolished by CSUMB in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120666", "title": "Canadian Elite Hockey League", "text": "Canadian Elite Hockey League\n\nThe Canadian Elite Hockey League (CEHL) was a semi-professional hockey league that played one season in 2005-2006. The CEHL was founded by Harold MacKay, a prominent member of the local hockey community. He previously brought the expansion Halifax Mooseheads of the QMJHL to Nova Scotia in 1994 and was later responsible for moving the Granby Predateurs franchise to Cape Breton where they became the Cape Breton Screaming Eagles.\n\nMacKay hoped to recruit players from major junior and university by giving them an opportunity to play locally and not re-locate to professional leagues in Europe or the United States. The league's champion won the Alexander Cup. Team budgets were set at $450,000 CAD and rosters were limited to a maximum of six import players.\n\nThe first league champion was the Saint John Scorpions, coached by Yvon Vautour, who won the Alexander Cup by defeating the Dartmouth Destroyers in four games. In June 2006 the Cape Breton Crush folded leaving the league with just three teams. Soon after that the league itself shut down.\n\nThe charter franchises of the league were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2120675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120675", "title": "Arroyo Hondo, New Mexico", "text": "Arroyo Hondo, New Mexico\n\nArroyo Hondo is a small census-designated place in Taos County near Taos, New Mexico, United States. It is historically notable as the site of the killing of six to eight employees by a force of allied Native Americans at Simon Turley's mill on January 20, 1847. This took place during the Taos Revolt, a popular insurrection of New Mexicans and Native Americans against the new United States territorial regime during the Mexican–American War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120678", "title": "1985 in art", "text": "1985 in art\n\nThe year 1985 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120681", "title": "Brother Isle", "text": "Brother Isle\n\nBrother Isle ( meaning broad beach island) is a small, uninhabited island in Shetland, Scotland. It lies between the islands of Yell and Shetland Mainland. It is in size.\n\nThe island's rock is \"undifferentiated moine gneiss and quartzite.\"\n\nIt is sometimes assumed that the \"Brother\" in the name refers to Culdees/\"papar\" who were frequent inhabitants of the smaller islands, however, in this case there is no apparent evidence for this claim, and it would appear to be merely folk etymology.\n\nAt only 40 hectares in size (about 1/6 of a sq. mile) and surrounded by tidal rips which make landing difficult, it would seem unlikely that the island has ever been inhabited. However, Brother Isle was inhabited until the 1820s, latterly by brothers with the surname Tulloch. This led to the mistaken assumption that the island's name referred to them.\n\nIn 2004, a lighthouse was built on the island.\n"}
{"id": "2120682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120682", "title": "Kaiser Foundation", "text": "Kaiser Foundation\n\nThe Kaiser Foundation is a mental health organization based in Canada. Its stated mission is to assist individuals and communities in preventing and reducing the harm associated with problem substance use and addictive behaviours. Although founded by a related person, it is not the same organisation as the Kaiser Family Foundation based in the United States. It was founded in 1985 by Edgar Kaiser, Jr. \n\n"}
{"id": "2120690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120690", "title": "Cryptic Slaughter", "text": "Cryptic Slaughter\n\nCryptic Slaughter was an American crossover thrash band based in Santa Monica, California, United States, and originally formed in 1984.\n\nCryptic Slaughter was formed in 1984 by Les Evans (age 17), Scott Peterson (age 14) and Adam Scott (age 15), who met through their mutual participation in the American Youth Soccer League (AYSO). Soon they were joined by Bill Crooks (age 15), a friend of Adam Scott and a fellow soccer player. Adam Scott was let go a few months later due to conflicts regarding his parents and school.\n\nTheir first demo, \"Life in Grave\", was produced in 1985 and became well circulated in the burgeoning tape-trader underground. Their first full-length LP, \"Convicted\", was released in 1986 on Death/Metal Blade records, whose artist roster also boasted D.R.I., Corrosion of Conformity, Dr. Know, The Mentors, and Beyond Possession. Within its first year of release, \"Convicted\" sold over 25,000 copies and earned Cryptic Slaughter the reputation as being one of the fastest bands in hardcore. Next came \"Money Talks\" in 1987, which is still considered by many to be the band's best effort. Mixing crushing grooves with lightning speed, \"Money Talks\" surpassed \"Convicted\"'s success by selling 35,000 in its first year and by earning Cryptic Slaughter a fanatical following around the world. They took on the right-wing theocracy directly, with songs like \"Freedom of Expression\" that skewered the censorial nature of the Parents Music Resource Center (PMRC), founded by Al Gore's wife Tipper. Their \"American Heroes\" directly confronted the mass media heroic mythology of the astronauts who died in the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger, when millions toil to survive daily in a world of injustice. Along with DRI they were at the forefront of a musical genre known as much for its relentless energy as its radical anti-authoritarian politics, even if not all the listeners paid attention.\n\nThe original line-up recorded their final studio album, \"Stream of Consciousness\", in 1988. Unhappy with the recording process and the album's production, the band's internal problems were magnified by life on the road. They broke up in the summer on tour before \"Stream\" was released later that fall. They played their last show in Detroit on July 14, 1988.\n\nShortly after returning home, however, guitarist Les Evans and bassist Rob Nicholson recruited new member Eli Nelson and continued on in a new direction. This new incarnation was short-lived, however, and Evans moved to Portland in May 1989 to reform the band with an entirely new line-up. The final Cryptic Slaughter album, \"Speak Your Peace\" (1990), was a definite departure from the previous material, heavily influenced by a changing music scene.\n\nCryptic Slaughter are often credited as one of the progenitors of crossover, the thrash metal and hardcore crossover genre, along with such seminal acts as D.R.I., Corrosion of Conformity and Suicidal Tendencies.\n\nIn 2003, Relapse Records reissued \"Convicted\" and \"Money Talks\" with added bonus tracks from Cryptic Slaughter's demo and live recordings.\n\nDue to legal reasons, the band changed their name to Lowlife and will be touring and playing CS songs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120699", "title": "Jim Babka", "text": "Jim Babka\n\nJim Babka (born 1968) is a writer, activist, former radio talk-show host, and president of the Downsize DC Foundation.\n\nBabka was born in Cleveland, Ohio in 1968 to James Sr. and Joyce Babka. He was raised in Twinsburg Ohio. His mother died in a car accident in May 1978. He attended the University of Akron where he majored in political science and minored in business management. \n\nBabka was the press secretary for Libertarian Party presidential candidate Harry Browne in 2000. He also worked as a paid consultant for Libertarian Bill Redpath in his run for Virginia Governor in 2001.\n\nBabka was named the President of RealCampaignReform.org, a project to oppose the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform, which ultimately passed as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002. Immediately, Babka went to work with his attorneys to organize a group of plaintiffs to challenge the law. Congressman Ron Paul was the lead plaintiff, making their case, Paul v. FEC. RealCampaignReform.org was joined by Gun Owners of America, Citizens United, Massachusetts candidates Carla Howell and Michael Cloud, and others.\n\nBabka wrote a column published at WorldNetDaily called, \"The Deliciously Absurd Plan of the NRA,\" and was invited on to National Public Radio to talk about it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120705", "title": "Silver pheasant", "text": "Silver pheasant\n\nThe silver pheasant (\"Lophura nycthemera\") is a species of pheasant found in forests, mainly in mountains, of mainland Southeast Asia, and eastern and southern China, with introduced populations in Hawaii and various locations in the US mainland. The male is black and white, while the female is mainly brown. Both sexes have a bare red face and red legs (the latter separating it from the greyish-legged kalij pheasant). It is common in aviculture, and overall also remains common in the wild, but some of its subspecies (notably \"L. n. whiteheadi\" from Hainan, \"L. n. engelbachi\" from southern Laos, and \"L. n. annamensis\" from southern Vietnam) are rare and threatened.\n\nLike other pheasants, the silver pheasant was placed in the genus \"Phasianus\" when described by Linnaeus in 1758. Since then, it – or at least some of the subspecies associated with it – have been placed either in \"Euplocamus\" or \"Gennceus\". Today all major authorities place the silver pheasant in \"Lophura\".\n\nThe silver pheasant is closely related to the kalij pheasant and the two are known to hybridize. The placement of the taxa \"L. n. lineata\" and \"L. n. crawfurdi\" has been a matter of dispute, with some treating them as subspecies of the kalij pheasant and others as subspecies of the silver pheasant. They have greyish legs as in the kalij pheasant, but their plumage is closer to that of some subspecies of the silver pheasant. Additionally, as the silver pheasant, \"L. n. lineata\" and \"L. n. crawfurdi\" are found east of the Irrawaddy River, a major zoogeographic barrier, while all other subspecies of the kalij pheasant are found west of the river (\"L. n. oatesi\", a subspecies of the kalij pheasant, has sometimes been reported as occurring east of that river, but this is incorrect). Based on mtDNA, it was recently confirmed that \"L. n. lineata\" and \"L. n. crawfurdi\" should be regarded as subspecies of the kalij pheasant.\n\nWith these two as subspecies of the kalij pheasant, the silver pheasant has 15 subspecies. However, while some subspecies are relatively distinctive, several others (at least \"L. n. rufipes\", \"L. n. occidentalis\", \"L. n. ripponi\", \"L. n. jonesi\", \"L. n. beaulieui\", \"L. n. nycthemera\", and \"L. n. fokiensis\") are likely part of a cline, which if confirmed, would result in them being junior synonyms of the nominate subspecies. Several other taxa, for example \"L. n. andersoni\", are now considered invalid by all major authorities.\n\nOnce considered a very rare species, the imperial pheasant is actually a naturally occurring hybrid between the silver pheasant and the Vietnamese pheasant.\n\nThe 15 recognized subspecies of the silver pheasant are, in taxonomic order:\n\n\nThis is a relatively large pheasant, with males of the largest subspecies having a total length of , including a tail up to , while the males of the smallest subspecies barely reach in total length, including a tail around . The body mass of males can range from . Females of all subspecies are notably smaller than their respective males, with a size range of in total length, including a tail of . The body mass of females can range from .\n\nMales of the northern subspecies, which are the largest, have white upperparts and tail (most feathers with some black markings), while their underparts and crest are glossy bluish-black. The males of the southern subspecies have greyer upperparts and tail with extensive black markings, making them appear far darker than the northern subspecies. The adult male plumage is reached in the second year.\n\nFemales are brown and shorter-tailed than the males. Females of some subspecies have whitish underparts strongly patterned with black, and in \"L. n. whiteheadi\" this extends to the upper mantle.\n"}
{"id": "2120718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120718", "title": "Borzești Church", "text": "Borzești Church\n\nThe Borzeşti church is located in Onești, Bacău County, Romania and it was ordered by Ştefan cel Mare to be built in 1493, with construction lasting from July 9, 1493, to October 12, 1494. Legend has it that the church was dedicated to a child killed during the invasions of the Tatars.\n\nThe church is designed in a Moldavian style, just as the Războieni Church and the Piatra Neamţ Church (1497–1498). The murals of the church were restored in 2004. The Gothic windows are partially destroyed.\n"}
{"id": "2120720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120720", "title": "1932–33 in Swedish football", "text": "1932–33 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1932–33 season in Swedish football, starting August 1932 and ending July 1933:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2120733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120733", "title": "Khan Abdul Wali Khan", "text": "Khan Abdul Wali Khan\n\nKhan Abdul Wali Khan (, born: 11 January 1917 – 26 January 2006) was a British Indian and later Pakistani secular democratic socialist and Pashtun leader, and served as president of National Awami Party. Son of the prominent Pashtun nationalist leader Bacha Khan, Wali Khan was an activist and a writer against the British Raj like his father.\n\nHis early years were marked by his involvement in his father's non-violent resistance movement, the \"red shirts\" against the British Raj. He narrowly escaped an assassination in his early years and was later sent to school at Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehra Dun. In his late teens, he became active in the Indian National Congress. After the formation of Pakistan in 1947, Wali Khan became a controversial figure in Pakistani politics during his political career because of his association to the Congress which opposed the creation of Pakistan.\n\nA respected politician in his later years, he contributed to Pakistan's third constitution and led protests for the restoration of democracy in the 1960s and 1980s. In the 1970s, he also served as the parliamentary leader of opposition in Pakistan's first directly elected parliament.\n\nWali Khan was born on 11 January 1917, to a family of local landlords in the town of Utmanzai in Charsadda district of the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of undivided India. His father, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan (Bacha Khan), was a prominent Pashtun Nationalist and founder of the pacifist Khudai Khidmatgar (\"\"Volunteer\"\" in Pashto) movement. His mother, \"Mehar Qanda Khan\", belonged to the nearby Razar village, and married Bacha Khan in 1912; she died during the flu pandemic after World War I.\n\nWali Khan, the second of three sons, received his early education from the \"Azad Islamia School\" in Utmanzai. In 1922, this school became part of a chain of schools his father had formed during his social reform activities. It was from this network of schools that the Khudai Khidmatgar movement developed, eventually challenging British authority in the North-West Frontier Province (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) through non-violent protests and posing one of the most serious challenges to British rule in the region.\n\nIn May 1930, Wali Khan narrowly escaped being killed at the hands of a British soldier during a military crackdown in his home village. In 1933, he attended the famous Colonel Brown Cambridge School in Dehra Dun. He did not pursue further education because of recurring problems with his eyesight, which led to him wearing glasses for the rest of his life.\n\nDespite his pacifist upbringing, as a young freedom fighter, Wali Khan seemed exasperated with the pacifism advocated by his father. He was to later explain his frustration to Gandhi, in a story he told Muklaika Bannerjee, \"If the cook comes to slaughter this chicken's baby, is non-violence on the part of the chicken likely to save the younger life?\" The story ended with a twinkle in his eye when he remembered Gandhiji's reply, \"Wali, you seem to have done more research on violence than I have on non-violence.\" His first wife died in 1949 while Wali Khan was in prison. In 1954, he married Nasim Wali Khan, the daughter of an old Khudai Khidmatgar activist.\n\nIn 1942, Wali Khan while still in his teens, joined the Khudai Khidmatgar movement. Soon after, he formally stepped into politics by joining the Indian National Congress where he eventually served as a provincial joint secretary of the party. He was arrested and charged under the Frontier Crimes Regulations, in 1943, at the height of the crackdown against the Quit India Movement.\nHe opposed the 1947 division of the India and criticised the decision.\n\nHis decision to serve in a more prominent political role was said to have been influenced by his elder brother, Ghani Khan's, decision to withdraw from politics. With his father in jail, Khan took over leading his father's supporters.\n\nDespite his father's efforts against division and a brief attempt to instead create a new nation called Pakhtunistan, on 14 August 1947, Pakistan came into being. The new nation was divided into two wings (West and East Pakistan), separated by a thousand miles (1500 km) of Indian territory.\n\nLike his father after the creation of Pakistan, Wali Khan agitated for Pashtun autonomy within a Pakistani Federal system, which placed him at odds with government authorities. Imprisoned without charge in 1948, he was freed in 1953; he immediately started negotiations with the central government to allay apprehensions about the Khudai Khidmatgar. He held talks with then NWFP Chief Minister Sardar Abdul Rashid and Prime Minister Muhammad Ali Bogra. He also held a series of meetings with then Governor General Ghulam Mohammed. These negotiations proved successful and led to the release of hundreds of imprisoned activists belonging to the Khudai Khidmatgar movement. Wali Khan next joined the National Awami Party (NAP) in 1956, a new political party formed by his father along with other progressive and leftist leaders from both wings of Pakistan.\n\nThe National Awami Party seemed to be on its way to victory in the 1959 elections, when the civilian President Iskandar Mirza was ousted in a coup by the military, under Commander-in-Chief Ayub Khan. One of Ayub Khan's first decisions after he came to power was to outlaw political activity and imprison politicians. Khan Abdul Wali Khan, along with many other politicians at the time, was imprisoned and disqualified from contesting elections or participating in politics as part of this purge.\n\nBy 1962, Ayub Khan introduced a new constitution and announced he would run in the next Presidential election. The opposition parties got united under the Combined Opposition Party alliance and fielded a joint candidate against Ayub Khan in the Presidential elections. As an opposition leader, Wali Khan supported the consensus candidate Fatima Jinnah, sister of Pakistan's founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Wali Khan assisted Fatima Jinnah in her election campaign and served as her election agent.\n\nThe opposition's election campaign however proved a failure and Ayub Khan was re-elected in 1964, in part due to alleged vote rigging by the central government, and also because of divisions within the opposition. These divisions were particularly sharp between Wali Khan and National Awami Party President Maulana Bhashani, as the Pro-Mao Bhashani was alleged to have unofficially supported Ayub Khan because of the government's pro-China policy.\n\nThese divisions came to the surface in 1967, when the National Awami Party formally split into Wali Khan and Bhashani factions. Wali Khan was elected President of his own faction of the National Awami Party in June 1968. In the same year, popular unrest broke out against Ayub Khan's rule in Pakistan, due to increasing corruption and inflation. Wali Khan, along with most of the opposition parties, including future Bangladeshi President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and others, formed the Democratic Action Committee to negotiate with Ayub Khan for the restoration of democracy.\nAttempting to provide Ayub Khan with an honourable exit from power, negotiations between Ayub Khan and the opposition continued between 9 and 10 May 1969. However, despite a compromise agreement on some issues, it was alleged that the military leadership and its political allies did not want Ayub Khan to succeed. Wali Khan held a separate meeting with Ayub Khan on 11 May to convince him to compromise. Ayub refused, and shortly afterwards Ayub resigned under pressure from the military.\n\nThe new military leader, Yahya Khan, called for general and provincial elections in 1970, promising to transfer power to the majority party. In the elections, Sheikh Mujeeb-ur Rehman, Bengali nationalist and leader of the Awami League, won a majority of seats nationally and all the seats from the East wing of the country. (See Elections in Pakistan.) In West Pakistan, the charismatic populist Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto won the second largest number of seats in the assembly, almost solely from the Punjab and Sindh provinces. Wali Khan was elected to both the provincial Assembly as a member of the Provincial Assembly and the National Assembly from his home constituency of Charsadda.\n\nDespite the results, the military government rejected the Awami League's victory. Shocked on hearing the news that the military junta would not transfer power to the majority Bengalis, Khan was to later tell A.P. journalist Zeitlin, \"I remember Bhutto said that it had been arranged with the 'powers that are' that in East Pakistan Sheikh Mujibur Rahman would rule, and in West Pakistan, Mr. Bhutto would be the Prime Minister.\"\n\nIn 1971, in an attempt to avert a possible showdown between the Military and the people of East Pakistan, on 23 March 1971, Khan, along with other Pakistani politicians, jointly met Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. They offered support to Mujib in the formation of a government, but it was already too late to break the impasse as Yahya Khan had already decided on a full-scale military crackdown. Pakistan's increasing vulnerability and widespread international outrage against the military crackdown eventually created a situation that led to war between Pakistan and India. This war proved disastrous and culminated in Pakistan's armed forces being defeated in East Pakistan and the creation of the new state of Bangladesh. Shocked by the defeat, Yahya Khan resigned from office and the military. Under General Gul Hassan Khan, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was brought back from America and appointed the Civilian Chief Marshal Law Administrator and President.\n\nDuring the martial law crackdown against East Pakistan, the National Awami Party under Wali Khan was one of a handful of parties that protested the military operation. In one case, Khan helped a senior East Pakistani diplomat's son escape to Afghanistan from possible internment in West Pakistan. The military government, in retaliation against the protests, banned the party and launched mass arrests of party activists.\n\nIn 1972, as the opposition leader, Wali Khan was contacted by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, who wanted to lift martial law and set up a new constitution. Wali Khan's negotiations with Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto led to the signing of an agreement with the government in 1972, called the Tripartite Agreement. The agreement led to the lifting of martial law and removal of the ban on the National Awami Party. This led to the formation of National Awami Party coalition provincial governments in the NWFP and Baluchistan. Despite the initial positive start, the agreement rapidly began to unravel due to the growing animosity between Khan and Bhutto.\n\nOn 23 March 1973, the Federal Security Force, a paramilitary force under the alleged orders of Bhutto, attacked a public opposition rally at the Liaquat Bagh in the town of Rawalpindi and killed a dozen people; many more were wounded by their automatic gunfire. Wali Khan narrowly escaped a bullet during the attack. Public anger amongst ethnic Pashtuns ran high, as almost all the dead and most of the wounded were from the NWFP and were mostly members of the National Awami Party. The enraged party workers and followers wanted to parade the dead bodies on the streets in Peshawar and other cities of the province, and provoke a full scale confrontation. Wali Khan rejected this notion and held back his infuriated party cadres, escorting the dead bodies to Peshawar; he had them buried quietly and solemnly with their bereaved families.\n\nDespite the massacre, Wali Khan continued to support talks with Bhutto over a new constitution. Shortly afterwards, he was appointed the leader of the opposition by joint agreement of all the opposition parties. He then led negotiations with Bhutto for the passage, in August 1973, of Pakistan's only unanimous constitution.\n\nLast minute disagreements over issues ranging from provincial rights to the renaming of NWFP, according to federal negotiator Abdul Hafiz Pirzada, despite reservations, Wali Khan agreed to a compromise with the precondition that issues of Judicial independence and provincial rights would be granted by the federal government after transition periods of five and ten years, respectively.\nHowever, he succeeded in incorporating Hydel and gas royalties for NWFP and Baluchistan as well as having obligated the Federal government to ensure equal improvements for all regions in Pakistan. Due to Bhutto's party's large majority in Parliament and opposition divisions, Khan was critically unable to stop Bhutto from concentrating greater power in his office.\n\nIt was during this period that Wali Khan supported Bhutto's move toward the release of prisoners of war captured by India in the 1971 war and full normalisation of relations through the Simla peace agreement.\n\nIn 1974, after Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's close ally and governor of the North-West Frontier Province Hayat Sherpao was killed in a bomb blast, Bhutto was convinced that Khan Abdul Wali Khan, Khan Amirzadah Khan and the National Awami Party were responsible, and in retaliation the federal government banned the National Awami Party. It also ordered the arrest and imprisonment of most of its senior leadership, including Wali Khan. The widely discredited Hyderabad tribunal subsequently put Wali Khan and his colleagues on trial.\n\nRefusing to participate in what he felt was a farcical trial, Wali Khan did not take part in his own legal defence. In response to one of the charges before the Hyderabad Tribunal, that he had been sent Rs 20 million by Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi through a certain emissary, Wali Khan sarcastically filed a civil suit against the emissary for the recovery of the Rs 20 million. He argued that, although he could not imagine why Indira Gandhi would send him such a large sum of money, he had never received the money, and obviously the emissary had embezzled the money. As civil unrest was widely spread the country, the power struggle between PNA, Pakistan Armed Forces and Bhutto, including his colleagues, was triggered and, Wali Khan saw Bhutto's actions as his last stand. In an open public seminar, Wali Khan quoted that \"\"There is one possible grave for two people ... let us see who gets in first\"\".\n\nAlthough not widely known, Wali Khan had previously written a book in Pashto on his father's non-violent movement, \"The Khudai Khidmatgar\". In 1986, he published another book called \"Facts Are Facts\". This book was written gradually over many years and included critical and declassified British Imperial documents before the creation of Pakistan. Wali Khan, citing those documents, alleged that Pakistan's formation was done as part of a deliberate \"divide and rule\" policy of the British and that Muhammad Ali Jinnah (Pakistan's founder), along with various religious leaders and feudal landlords, acted on their behalf.\n\nIn July 1986, Wali Khan and other former National Awami Party members formed the Awami National Party (ANP). Wali Khan was elected its first President and Sindhi Nationalist Rasool Baksh Palijo became the first Secretary General of the party.\n\nThe ANP, under Wali Khan's presidency, contested the 1988 national elections in alliance with former rivals the Pakistan Peoples' Party of Benazir Bhutto (Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's daughter). The ANP's success in the elections was limited to the NWFP and even then only certain regions of that province. In addition, Wali Khan lost his provincial seat to a PPP candidate, a sign of the decline in the ANP's popularity. The ANP-PPP alliance collapsed in 1989 after a perceived snub by PPP Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and a dispute over ministerial posts and the governorship of NWFP. After joining the opposition, Wali Khan started talks with the Army backed IJI (Islamic Democratic Alliance) and joined the alliance before the 1990 general elections.\n\nAfter his defeat in the 1990 elections at the hands of opposition candidate Maulana Hassan Jan (a close confidante of the Afghan Pashtun leader Gulbadin Hekmatyar), Wali Khan opted to retire from electoral politics and turned down a senate ticket from his party and the offer from Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of contesting Lahore. When asked his reason for retirement, he said that he had no place in politics \"when the mullahs and ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence) decide our destiny and politics\".\n\nAs Wali Khan withdrew from politics, his contact with the press and public became limited. This period in the 1990s would be marked by his party's assumption of power in alliance with former army-backed opponents, a focus only on provincial politics, the increasing influence of his wife in party affairs, corruption scandals hitting the once clean image of his supporters and in particular the focus on renaming the NWFP \"Pakhtunkhwa\" ('The Pashtun side/ territory').\nThe exception was in 1998, when in response to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's announcement of the construction of Kalabagh Dam, Pashtun and Sindhi nationalists opposed construction of the dam because they believed it would give control of Pakistan's water resources to the majority Punjabis. In response to the announcement, Wali Khan led a massive rally against the dam in the town of Nowshera.\nThe rally spurred other parties, in particular Benazir Bhutto's PPP, into leading a campaign against the construction of the dam. The campaign was successful and Sharif dropped the plan.\n\nIn another press conference in 2001, Wali Khan supported the US attack on the Taliban and said that had the US not attacked Afghanistan, the country would have turned into an Arab colony since Osama Bin Laden had a well-equipped army of 16,000 people, which far outnumbered the trained soldiers in the Afghan army.\n\nWali Khan's final press conference was in 2003, when he announced his close friend and colleague Ajmal Khattak's return to the ANP, along with many other colleagues, who had briefly led a splinter faction of the party between 2000 and 2002.\n\nHis relationship with PPP leader and Pakistani Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto was characterised by a fierce rivalry and a powerful clash of egos. He used to criticise the Prime Minister for his \"fascist tendencies\" by calling him \"\"Adolph Bhutto\"\" and \"\"Raja Dahir\".\" In exchange Bhutto would accuse Khan of collusion with India and Afghanistan in an attempt to break up Pakistan.\n\nWali Khan accused Zulfiqar Bhutto of attempting his assassination on the floor of Pakistan's parliament. During Bhutto's time in office, Khan survived four assassination attempts. The attempts occurred in Malakand, Dir, Rawalpindi and Gujranwala. He survived the first attack when the vehicle he was travelling in, from Jandol to Timergara in Dir, came under fire. One of his bodyguards was killed in the attack. He survived a grenade attack at the Gujranwala railway station when he, along with Pir Pagara and Chaudhry Zahur Elahi, was on a visit to Punjab under the banner of the opposition alliance United Democratic Front (UDF).\n\nThe fourth attack was carried out when he was about to address a public meeting in Liaquat Bagh Rawalpindi, a stray bullet killed a youth standing close to Wali Khan on the stage. Convinced that Bhutto had orchestrated the attacks with the collusion of Khan's old rival Abdul Qayyum Khan Kashmiri, and after one particularly narrow escape, he warned Bhutto on the floor of the National Assembly that he would trade bullet for bullet with Bhutto, after that speech Bhutto's trips to the North-West Frontier Province were heavily guarded.\n\nDebates between the two rivals remained bitter, in one case Bhutto had just returned from a successful trip abroad, and in a confrontational mood he lashed out at the opposition and Khan for slowing him down. When Bhutto was done, Wali Khan responded: \"Mr. Bhutto, you stop telling lies about me and I will stop telling the truth about you.\n\nThe brutality he and his family experienced at the hands of Bhutto's government led to little sympathy from Wali Khan in 1979 when Bhutto faced execution.\n\nWali Khan served several stints in prison, and survived several assassination attempts during his 48-year political career. His first arrest was under the Frontier Crimes Regulations (FCR) by the British Raj in 1943 for his role in the Khudai Khidmatgar movement. On 15 June 1948, he was arrested again, this time by the new Pakistani government, for the Khudai Khidmatgar's opposition to the creation of Pakistan, and placed behind bars in Haripur jail in Haripur, NWFP. In 1953, after serving more than five years in various jails without being charged, he was released by the central government. During this stint in prison, in February 1949, his first wife Taj Bibi and their second son died in a Mardan hospital. Wali Khan was not allowed to attend her funeral. In February 1949, Wali Khan was moved from Haripur jail to Mach jail in Balochistan, then to Quetta jail in May 1951, and to Dera Ismail Khan jail in 1952. He was brought back to Haripur jail in March 1952 and then released on 14 October 1953.\n\nHis third stint in prison was after Pakistani President Iskandar Mirza was ousted in a military coup by General Ayub Khan. The new military regime sought to purge political opponents, which led to Khan and hundreds of other politicians being disqualified from participating in politics. Wali Khan commented about his imprisonment to Ayub Khan's Information secretary in 1969 shortly after the Democratic Action Committee's conference with Ayub Khan had finished. Gauhar writes that, \"Wali Khan narrated how Khawaja Shahabuddin asked him on three occasions during the conference, 'how is it that I never met a bright and able person like you when I was Governor of NWFP for three years.' Wali Khan let it pass on the first two occasions but on the third occasion he could not restrain himself and rejoined, 'Because all those three years you kept me in prison!'\" This was followed by another brief arrest in 1969 after another military ruler, Yahya Khan, assumed power after Ayub Khan resigned.\n\nHis final stint in prison was under Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's government. Khan considered this period his most difficult experience. His party was banned and a brutal crackdown was launched against his family and friends. As part of the crackdown, his brother-in-law was forced into exile and his son was tortured. In his book \"Facts Are Sacred\", he wrote of this stint in prison with some bitterness.\n\nThis difficult experience prompted Wali Khan to be often ambivalent in his criticism of military dictator Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq who in 1977 ousted Bhutto and in 1979 had him executed.\n\nAfter a long illness, Wali Khan died of a heart attack on 26 January 2006 in Peshawar, Pakistan. He was buried in his ancestral village in Uthmanzai, Charsadda. His funeral was widely attended by members of the public and senior political leaders including Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz; condolence messages were sent from Pakistani President Pervaiz Musharraf,Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Afghan President Hamid Karzai. He is survived by his wife Nasim Wali Khan, three daughters and two sons. Asfandyar Wali Khan, his eldest son, true to the political traditions of Wali Khan's family, is a politician in Pakistan and the current President of the Awami National Party.\n\nCritics argue that Wali Khan made limited contributions to Pakistan's polarised and corrupt political system. They challenged his claim that he was the major or sole spokesperson for Pashtuns, discounted the benefits of the 1973 constitution and the Simla agreement, and disagreed with his principles of not compromising with dictators. Others argue that if he had compromised with Pakistan's military establishment he may well have ended up Pakistan's Prime Minister, but that his principles proved to be his undoing.\n\nSome Pashtun nationalists were also critical of Wali Khan, as many felt that he squandered a chance to unite all Pashtuns in NWFP (now Khyber Pukhtunkhwa), Baluchistan and Federally Administered Tribal Areas into one large province that could be named Pakhtunkhwa or Pakhtunistan. Khan also faced criticism for his \"betrayal of his language\" because of his, and the National Awami Party, support for Urdu as the provincial language of instruction in NWFP (now Khyber Pukhtunkhwa) and Baluchistan (declared in 1972) rather than the majority languages of Pashto and Balochi.\n\nWali Khan struggled for most of his life with the twin legacies of his influential father Ghaffar Khan and the perception of his \"Anti-Pakistani activities\". As a result, he has been criticised for backing separatist ideals as well as causing social unrest in Pakistan. His critics blamed him for alienation of Pashtuns from the rest of Pakistan and for supporting \"anti-Pakistani forces.\" He remained tagged with the title of traitor by the state run media and Pakistan's ruling establishment for much of his political career. Paradoxically he is criticised by democrats for his alleged lukewarm opposition to Zia-ul Haq, who allegedly offered him the Prime Ministership of the country.\n\nHowever writers like Lawrence Ziring have rejected the charges against him. Syed went a step further, arguing that the clash between the National Awami Party under Wali Khan, \"was not a contest between the state of Pakistan and a secessionist force..but was more like a clash of rival political wills\".\n\nHis supporters disagree, and believe he promoted left of centre progressive and secular politics in Pakistan. Before his arrest in 1975, he was in fact striving for a more national role more in line with his position as Leader of the Opposition in government and he had started campaigning heavily in Punjab and Sind, where he was attracting large crowds.\n\nIn his statements he left an ambiguity in his policies, exemplified in 1972 when a journalist questioned his loyalty and his first allegiance, to which his reply was, \"I have been a Pashtun for six thousand years, a Muslim for thirteen hundred years, and a Pakistani for twenty-five.\" However at the same time, before the 1990 general elections, he stated \"The survival of the federation is the main issue in this election. Everyone considers themselves a Sindhi or Pashtun or Punjabi first. Nobody considers themselves a Pakistani. There has to be greater provincial autonomy\".\n\nHe also worked well with many politicians from Punjab including prominent Muslim Leaguers like Sardar Shaukat Hayat Khan and Chaudhry Zahoor Elahi (father of former Prime Minister Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain) and with Baloch politicians especially Sardar Ataullah Mengal and Sherbaz Khan Mazari.\n\nHe was also accused of being a communist, or a secular Pashtun nationalist. Khan's falling out with Baloch leader Ghous Bizenjo in the late 1970s can be traced to his disillusionment with Communism.\n\nKhan, and by extension his party and family, maintained a long association with senior leaders in the Congress Party of India because of his father's close association with Mohandas Gandhi. His preference for dialogue over conflict with India and his links to India also strengthened the impression that he was anti-Pakistan amongst the more strident anti-India elements in Punjab. His opposition to the Pakistan-United States backed Afghan jihad and support for Afghan communist President Mohammad Najibullah damaged his standing amongst many conservative Pashtuns and Pakistanis.\"\nAbdul Wali Khan University Mardan has been established in respect to him by Awami National Party government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120734", "title": "Alexander Hill Everett", "text": "Alexander Hill Everett\n\nAlexander Hill Everett (March 19, 1792 – June 28, 1847) was an American diplomatist, politician, and Boston man of letters. Everett held diplomatic posts in the Netherlands, Spain, Cuba, and China. His translations of European literature, published in the \"North American Review\", were influential for the Transcendentalism movement.\n\nEverett was born in Boston, Massachusetts to Lucy Hill and Oliver Everett, who was at that time the minister of the New South Church. The Everetts were a prominent Massachusetts family: through his father, Alexander was a descendant of Richard Everett (1597 – 1682), one of the earliest settlers of Dedham, Massachusetts. Alexander's younger brother, Edward Everett, would go on to serve as the 15th Governor of Massachusetts and Secretary of State. Alexander graduated from Harvard College in 1806, the youngest and best in his class. After leaving College he was an assistant teacher in Phillips Exeter Academy for one year, then studied law in the office of John Quincy Adams. In 1809 he accompanied Adams to Russia, where he lived for two years as Adam's personal secretary in the legation.\n\nAt the close of the War of 1812, Governor of Massachusetts William Eustis was appointed minister to the Netherlands, and Everett accompanied him as secretary of legation, but after a year of service returned home. On the retirement of Governor Eustis from the legation, however, Everett was appointed his successor, with the rank of chargé d'affaires to The Hague, which post he held from 1818 till 1824. Everett used his time to write a book on European affairs, published in 1821 as \"Europe; or, A General Survey of the Present Situation of the Principal Powers; with Conjectures on Their Future Prospects\". In it Everett described the Netherlands as \"a decayed and decaying nation\" whose creation had been an error and predicted that it would eventually disappear in the sea. After Adams became president in 1825, he appointed Everett minister to Spain, from 1825–1829.\n\nAfter his service in Spain, he returned to Boston and obtained a controlling interest in \"North American Review\" (to which he had been an active contributor while his brother was editor) and shortly afterward succeeded Jared Sparks as principal editor. The venture was not financially rewarding. Everett was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1824.\n\nEverett's government service was not yet over, though, and he sat in the legislature of Massachusetts from 1830 till 1835. His political fortunes in Massachusetts plummeted when, after serving in the state legislature, Everett switched parties from Whig to Democrat and was blamed for his brother Edward's loss in his bid for reelection as governor in 1839. In 1840 Everett served in Cuba as a Special Diplomatic Agent of the United States. While in Cuba he was appointed president of Jefferson College, Louisiana, but was soon obliged by failing health to return to New England.\n\nOn the return of Caleb Cushing from his mission to China, Everett was appointed the next commissioner and sailed for Canton on July 4, 1845. He was detained by illness at Rio de Janeiro, and returned home. In the summer of 1846 he made a second and more successful attempt to reach his destination, but died in Canton shortly after his arrival, on June 28, 1847. He was buried at the foreigners' cemetery on Changzhou Island, in Guangzhou, China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120741", "title": "Pylon (band)", "text": "Pylon (band)\n\nPylon was an American rock band from Athens, Georgia. The band's danceable sound, a blend of new wave, post-punk, jangle pop, alternative rock and funk rock, influenced the Athens music scene and the 1980s American pop underground. AllMusic wrote that Pylon's \"role as elder statesmen of the alternative rock explosion is unassailable\".\n\nThe four members of Pylon were art students at the University of Georgia in Athens. Guitarist Randall Bewley and bass guitarist Michael Lachowski began playing music and attempting to form a band in 1978. They practiced in a studio in downtown Athens that Lachowski rented from Curtis Crowe, upstairs from the later location of the Grill on College Avenue. The room was lit by a single 40-watt light bulb, so the band referred to it as the \"40 Watt Club\". Crowe soon joined the band as a drummer. On February 14, 1979, the three held auditions for a singer. Vanessa Briscoe (now Vanessa Briscoe Hay) was chosen.\n\nContrary to some accounts, Pylon did not name themselves after William Faulkner's 1935 novel of the same name. As Hay later explained to \"Nashville Scene\" writer Edd Hurt, the band was unaware of the Faulkner novel when they began playing, and instead were inspired by traffic cones. Their musical influences included Cabaret Voltaire, Suicide, the \"No New York\" compilation and the soundtrack to \"Eraserhead\".\nPylon played their first live show at a party on March 9, 1979. Members of the B-52's attended Pylon's third show. Fred Schneider and Kate Pierson of the B-52's were particularly supportive and helped promote Pylon's music in New York City, getting them a gig at Hurrah. Soon after, Pylon opened for Gang of Four in New York.\n\nPylon's debut single, \"Cool\", backed by \"Dub\", was released on DB Records in 1979, and received many positive critical reviews. It was followed by their first full-length album, \"Gyrate\", in 1980.\n\nThe \"!!\" 10\" EP, released in 1980 on the UK label Armageddon Records, included both sides of the debut single plus \"Driving School\" and \"Danger!!\" from the album. Two further singles followed, \"Crazy\" (1981), which charted at No. 61 for club play in \"Billboard\", and \"Beep\" (1982).\n\nFrom 1980 to 1983, Pylon toured parts of the U.S., Canada and the UK, playing with groups such as the B-52's, Gang of Four, Mission of Burma, Love Tractor, R.E.M., Talking Heads and U2.\n\nTheir second album, \"Chomp\", was released in 1983. By that time, the members of Pylon were beginning to feel that playing together was becoming less fun and more like a business, and after turning down an offer to open for a major U2 tour, they decided to break up the band in late 1983, their final show being at Athens' Mad Hatter club on December 1. Hay later said, \"For whatever reason it was our decision. We were like, 'Let's just quit while we're having fun.' That was kind of the idea in the first place. We were just going to perform as long as it was fun. So we broke up and it was a decision we all made together\".\n\nWith some help from the members of R.E.M., Pylon's reputation as one of the great underground bands of the new wave era was solidified in 1987. Numerous musicians from the Athens rock scene publicly attested to their deep reverence for Pylon in the film \"\", released in February 1987. In April, R.E.M. released the compilation album \"Dead Letter Office\", which opened with a cover version of Pylon's \"Crazy\", previously issued as the B-side of their 1985 single \"Driver 8\".\n\nWhen \"Rolling Stone\" named R.E.M. \"America's Best Band\" in November 1987, R.E.M. drummer Bill Berry said, \"We're not the best rock 'n' roll band in America\", declaring that Pylon was instead the best. \"That was (R.E.M.) just being gracious and honoring the scene that they came out of and the scene that they obviously contributed to,\" said Lachowski in a 2016 interview in \"New York Observer\". \"R.E.M. became so successful and successful in a different way. They were true musicians and had all kinds of historical knowledge about musical forms and different kinds of music. They were just very adept and confident and had so much more range. We were truly just art students assembling things with sound and instruments\".\n\nAfter a six-year hiatus punctuated with a smattering of reunion shows, Pylon officially reformed in 1989, coinciding with the release of a compilation of the band's work from 1979–83, \"Hits\" (1989).\nThey opened for the final leg of R.E.M.'s \"Green\" tour.\n\nIn 1990, the group released a new album, \"Chain\", on Sky Records. They played several more shows, including the South by Southwest Festival in 1990 and 1991, but when guitarist Bewley decided to leave in 1991, the band broke up again.\n\nPylon came out of retirement again in 2004, and played their first set in more than a decade in August 2004 at the then-fledgling Little King's Shuffle Club in Athens. They played the 2004 New Year's Eve show at the 40 Watt Club, headlined the first night of the Athens music festival AthFest in June 2005, and recorded an untelevised segment for \"Pancake Mountain\" in 2006.\n\nOn April 4, 2007, Pylon performed an impromptu show at Little King's to announce the reissue of \"Gyrate\" on DFA Records. Expanded with extra tracks and retitled \"Gyrate Plus\", it was released on October 16, 2007. They performed several key shows in 2008, including the Part Time Punks Festival in Los Angeles, a show taped for Georgia Public Broadcasting in Athens, and the Revolve Film and Music Festival in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.\n\nOn February 25, 2009, Bewley died, two days after suffering a heart attack while driving his van.\n\nBewley's death brought the band's career to a close; Hay said, \"Pylon died when Randy died\".\n\nDFA reissued the band's second album in expanded form as \"Chomp More\" in 2009.\n\nIn October 2011, DFA issued a two-track 7\" split single called \"Cover + Remix\". The A-side featured a cover of Pylon's \"Cool\" by Deerhunter, while the B-side consisted of a remix of \"Yo-Yo\" by Calvinist.\n\nOn July 25, 2016, Chunklet Industries released the double album \"Pylon Live\", which had been recorded at Athens club The Mad Hatter on December 1, 1983, before they disbanded for the first time. Pitchfork called it \"an all-business, no-banter set that sees them streamroll through 20 songs in 70 minutes with assembly-line precision: bassist Michael Lachowski and drummer Curtis Crowe lay the foundation, Bewley sculpts it into strange shapes with his surgical guitar lines, and singer Vanessa Briscoe-Hay splatters her mantric messaging on the walls like a spraycan-wielding prophet\"\n. It was previewed by Chunklet's April 20 release of a 7\" single, \"Gravity\", taken from the live album.\n\nPylon's 1979 song \"Cool\" was used in a TV commercial for the 2016 Lexus RX.\n\nHay is a member of the Athens band Supercluster, formed in 2007, as was Bewley prior to his death.\n\nSince 2014, Hay has fronted the Pylon Reenactment Society, a Pylon tribute act featuring members of more recent Athens bands like the Glands and Casper & the Cookies. In a 2016 \"Portland Mercury\" interview, Hay said, \"It's been inspirational, if that's the right word, to be able to play this music again. I really don't want people to forget Pylon. These are different people and we are re-enacting this experience, so it's not exactly Pylon, but it's fresh and done in the same spirit\". In October 2017, Pylon Reenactment Society self-released an EP initially recorded on December 11, 2016 for broadcast in Los Angeles, California for DJ Michael Stock's \"Part Time Punks\" KXLU show, titled \"Part Time Punks Session\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120748", "title": "Lapping", "text": "Lapping\n\nLapping is a machining process in which two surfaces are rubbed together with an abrasive between them, by hand movement or using a machine.\n\nThis can take two forms. The first type of lapping (traditionally called grinding), involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself (also known as the \"lap\" or grinding tool) with an abrasive such as aluminum oxide, jeweller's rouge, optician's rouge, emery, silicon carbide, diamond, etc., between them. This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the two surfaces and removes material from both.\n\nThe other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the lap, which is \"charged\" with the abrasive. The lap is then used to cut a harder material—the workpiece. The abrasive embeds within the softer material, which holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder material. Taken to a finer limit, this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile, or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel.\n\nTaken to the ultimate limit, with the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized polishing machines or skilled hand polishing, lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers. This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source. Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded (optically contacted) by bringing them together under the right conditions. (This is not the same as the wringing effect of Johansson blocks, although it is similar).\n\nA piece of lead may be used as the lap, charged with emery, and used to cut a piece of hardened steel. The small plate shown in the first picture is a hand lapping plate. That particular plate is made of cast iron. In use, a slurry of emery powder would be spread on the plate and the workpiece simply rubbed against the plate, usually in a \"figure-eight\" pattern.\n\nThe second picture is of a commercially available lapping machine. The lap or lapping plate in this machine is in diameter, about the smallest size available commercially. At the other end of the size spectrum, machines with plates are not uncommon, and systems with tables in diameter have been constructed. Referring to the second picture again, the lap is the large circular disk on the top of the machine. On top of the lap are two rings. The workpiece would be placed inside one of these rings. A weight would then be placed on top of the workpiece. The weights can also be seen in the picture along with two fiber spacer disks that are used to even the load.\n\nIn operation, the rings stay in one location as the lapping plate rotates beneath them. In this machine, a small slurry pump can be seen at the side, this pump feeds abrasive slurry onto the rotating lapping plate.\n\nWhen there is a requirement to lap very small specimens (from down to a few millimetres), a lapping jig can be used to hold the material while it is lapped (see Image 3, Lapping machine and retention jig). A jig allows precise control of the orientation of the specimen to the lapping plate and fine adjustment of the load applied to the specimen during the material removal process. Due to the dimensions of such small samples, traditional loads and weights are too heavy as they would destroy delicate materials. The jig sits in a cradle on top of the lapping plate and the dial on the front of the jig indicates the amount of material removed from the specimen.\n\nWhere the mating of the two surfaces is more important than the flatness, the two pieces can be lapped together. The principle is that the protrusions on one surface will both abrade and be abraded by the protrusions on the other, resulting in two surfaces evolving towards some common shape (not necessarily perfectly flat), separated by a distance determined by the average size of the abrasive particles, with a surface roughness determined by the variation in the abrasive size. This yields closeness-of-fit results comparable to that of two accurately-flat pieces, without quite the same degree of testing required for the latter.\n\nOne complication in two-piece lapping is the need to ensure that neither piece flexes or is deformed during the process. As the pieces are moved past each other, part of each (some area near the edge) will be unsupported for some fraction of the rubbing movement. If one piece flexes due to this lack of support, the edges of the opposite piece will tend to dig depressions into it a short distance in from the edge, and the edges of the opposite piece are heavily abraded by the same action - the lapping procedure assumes roughly equal pressure distribution across the whole surface at all times, and will fail in this manner if the workpiece itself deforms under that pressure.\n\nLapping can be used to obtain a specific surface roughness; it is also used to obtain very accurate surfaces, usually very flat surfaces. Surface roughness and surface flatness are two quite different concepts.\n\nA typical range of surface roughness that can be obtained without resorting to special equipment would fall in the range of 1 to 30 units Ra (average roughness), usually microinches.\n\nSurface accuracy or flatness is usually measured in helium light bands (HLB), one HLB measuring about . Again, without resort to special equipment accuracies of 1 to 3 HLB are typical. Though flatness is the most common goal of lapping, the process is also used to obtain other configurations such as a concave or convex surface.\n\nThe easiest method for measuring flatness is with a height gauge positioned on a surface plate. Note that you must set up the part on three stands and find the minimum variation while adjusting them, just placing the part on the surface plate and using a dial indicator to find TIR on the opposite side of the part measures parallelism. Flatness is more easily measured with a co-ordinate measuring machine. But neither of these methods can measure flatness more accurately than about .\n\nAnother method that is commonly used with lapped parts is the reflection and interference of monochromatic light. A monochromatic light source and an optical flat are all that are needed. The optical flat – which is a piece of transparent glass that has itself been lapped and polished on one or both sides – is placed on the lapped surface. The monochromatic light is then shone down through the glass. The light will pass through the glass and reflect off the workpiece. As the light reflects in the gap between the workpiece and the polished surface of the glass, the light will interfere with itself creating light and dark fringes called Newton's rings. Each fringe – or band – represents a change of one half wavelength in the width of the gap between the glass and the workpiece. The light bands display a contour map of the surface of the workpiece and can be readily interpreted for flatness. In the past the light source would have been provided by a helium lamp or tube, but nowadays a more common source of monochromatic light is the low pressure sodium lamp.\n\nFor a more thorough description of the physics behind this measurement technique, see interference.\n\nSurface roughness is defined by the minute variations in height of the surface of a given material or workpiece. The individual variances of the peaks and valleys are averaged (Ra value), or quantified by the largest difference from peak-to-valley (Rz). Roughness is usually expressed in microns. A surface that exhibits an Ra of 8 consists of peaks and valleys that average no more than 8 µm over a given distance. Roughness may be also measured by comparing the surface of the workpiece to a known sample. Calibration samples are available usually sold in a set and usually covering the typical range of machining operations from about 125 µm Ra to 1 µm Ra.\n\nSurface roughness is measured with a profilometer, an instrument that measures the minute variations in height of the surface of a workpiece.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120750", "title": "Harry Freedman", "text": "Harry Freedman\n\nHarry Freedman (\"Henryk Frydmann\"), (April 5, 1922 – September 16, 2005) was a Canadian composer, English hornist, and music educator of Polish birth. He wrote a significant amount of symphonic works, including the scores to films such as \"The Bloody Brood\" (1959), \"Isabel\" (1968), \"The Act of the Heart\" (1970), \"The Pyx\" (1973) and \"The Courage of Kavik the Wolf Dog\" (1980), and composed a substantial amount of chamber music. He also composed music for six ballets, an opera, some incidental music for the theatre, and a few vocal art songs and choral works. He was awarded a Juno Award in 1996 for his symphonic work \"Touchings\", which was recorded by the Esprit Orchestra on the Nexus label. He won the 1998 composition prize at the International Rostrum of Composers for \"Borealis\", a symphonic work co-commissioned by the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, Soundstreams Canada, and CBC Radio. In 2002 the Canadian Music Centre released a commercial recording dedicated to his music, \"Canadian Composers Portraits: Harry Freedman\".\n\nAt the age of three, Freedman immigrated with his family from Poland to Canada where the family settled in Medicine Hat, Alberta. His father worked in the fur trade. At the age of 9, Freedman and his family relocated to Winnipeg where he enrolled at the Winnipeg School of Art at the age of 13 to study the art of painting.\n\nFreedman's musical training began relatively late. He was an admirer of big band music and began taking his first music lessons in the clarinet in 1940 at the age of 18. His teacher, Arthur Hart, would eventually become the principal clarinetist of the Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra and it is from him that Freedman got his first exposure to symphonic music. His musical training was interrupted for several years with the outbreak of World War II, and he spent 1941–1945 as a member of the Royal Canadian Air Force. In 1945 he entered The Royal Conservatory of Music, where he studied from 1945 to 1951. His most influential teachers at the school were his music composition professor, John Weinzweig, and his oboe instructor, Perry Bauman. He also studied in the summers at the Tanglewood Music Center where he was a pupil of Olivier Messiaen and Aaron Copland.\n\nIn 1946 Freedman became a member of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra as an english hornist, remaining with the orchestra through 1971. In 1951 he helped co-found the Canadian League of Composers, later serving as the organization president from 1975 to 1978. From 1972 to 1981, he taught at the Courtenay Youth Music Centre where he was also the composer-in-residence. Among his notable pupil there was Gilles Bellemare. In 1977 he was the subject of a radio documentary made by Norma Beecroft for the CBC. From 1979 to 1981, he was the president of the Guild of Canadian Film Composers and, from 1985 to 1990, he was music officer for the Toronto Arts Council. In 1980 the Canadian Music Council named him composer of the year, and he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1984. From 1989 to 1991, he served on the music faculty of the University of Toronto, where he taught classes in music composition and orchestration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120756", "title": "Wolf Tracks and Peter and the Wolf", "text": "Wolf Tracks and Peter and the Wolf\n\nWolf Tracks and Peter and the Wolf was a 2003 album that combined the orchestral composition \"Peter and the Wolf\" by Sergei Prokofiev with a 2002 composition, \"Wolf Tracks\", which had its score written by French composer Jean-Pascal Beintus and text written by Walt Kraemer. The project was conceived and commissioned by the Russian National Orchestra, under the artistic direction of Kent Nagano.\n\n\"Wolf Tracks\", which has the alternate title \"The Wolf and Peter\", is meant to be both a sequel to and a retelling of \"Peter and the Wolf\". In the story, Peter's grandson, also named Peter, hears his grandfather describe his encounter with the wolf, and decides that he too should track and hunt down a wolf just as his grandfather did. His grandfather protests, saying that wolves should be left alone, because, \"with their forests nearly gone, they've become hungry, desperate animals,\" but Peter ignores his grandfather's advice and goes off into the woods. There, Peter sees \"a thin gray Wolf\", out to find prey for his family, then chases it and captures it. Peter then hears the wolf's whimpering, and sees \"the slate-blue beauty of his captive's eyes\", and realizes that his grandfather was correct about the wolves being endangered; he realizes that \"It wasn't really Peter's wolf at all. Wolves belong to the world... their world, our world of wonder, of nature’s splendor.\" He lets the wolf go free, and goes home to his grandfather. In the final scene, this Peter is now an old man, retelling the story of his adventure to his granddaughter.\n\nRecordings were made in several languages. The main version, in English, had \"Peter and the Wolf\" narrated by Sophia Loren, and \"Wolf Tracks\" narrated by Bill Clinton. Three spoken-word sections, \"Introduction\", \"Intermezzo\" and \"Epilogue\", were recorded by Mikhail Gorbachev, who spoke in Russian, with a translation that followed in English. Each of three designated a charity to receive their royalties: Loren to the Magic of Music, an arts program for youth; Clinton to the International AIDS Trust; and Gorbachev to Green Cross International, an environmental charity. \n\nA Spanish language version was released in 2005, with narration by Antonio Banderas and Sophia Loren. Versions were also released in Russian, narrated by actors Oleg Tabakov and Sergey Bezrukov and Mandarin Chinese, narrated by actor Pu Cunxin and television anchor Xiao Lu.\n\nThe art on the CD's cover and booklet was drawn by several orphans and disabled children from Moscow. The drawings were selected from the hundreds shown at the \"How I See Music\" Exhibition, an annual event sponsored by the RNO at the Moscow Conservatory.\n\nThe recording received a Grammy in 2004, the first one ever awarded to either a former U.S. President or a Russian orchestra.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120760", "title": "Haslar Marina", "text": "Haslar Marina\n\nHaslar Marina is located inside Portsmouth Harbour, on the south coast of England, just to the west of the entrance. It can be easily identified by the bright green lightvessel \"Mary Mouse II\" permanently moored to the outside of its breakwater. The lightship contains a small bar and restaurant, as well as one set of shower, toilet and laundry facilities. (Others are located elsewhere in the marina.) Visitors' berths are near the entrance by the lightship.\n"}
{"id": "2120768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120768", "title": "Counthill School", "text": "Counthill School\n\nCounthill School formerly a high-achieving Grammar School, was a mixed gender secondary school for 11- to 16-year-olds in the Moorside area of Oldham in Greater Manchester, England. The school had approximately 900 pupils on roll and its motto was \"Animo Atque Fide\". Although sometimes mistakenly thought to be the highest secondary school above sea level in the country, the site sits between 280 and 285 metres, which is lower than others such as Buxton Community School at 320 metres.\n\nCounthill Grammar School was planned in the 1930s but construction was delayed by World War II and it opened in September 1951. In 1966 it accepted its first comprehensive school intake. Problems with the school were later identified and in November 2004 it was placed in special measures. A year later it was rated as satisfactory, but Oldham Borough Council decided to reshape secondary schooling under the UK government's Building Schools for the Future project. Counthill, along with four other failing schools at the time (Breeze Hill, Kaskenmoor, Grange, South Chadderton) were earmarked for closure to form two new Academies. It closed at the end of July 2010 as part of the New Oldham Academies Project, merging with Breezehill School to form Waterhead Academy. Initially the school site was used as the Moorside campus of the new academy; however, after Waterhead relocated its main campus to a third site in November 2012, the old Counthill site is now the sports campus of the academy.\n\nDavid J. Clifford resigned as head teacher in March 2005 after Ofsted criticised him as lacking a clear strategic vision for improving his pupils' quality of education.\n\nMargaret Ryan, who got the school out of special measures, after replacing Clifford, retired from her post on 12 September 2008.\n\nDavid Lack was appointed headteacher in 2008 and has a record for transforming struggling school. He left when the school merged.\n\nAlthough the school did require Special Measures in 2004 on 23 November 2006 the special measures tag was removed. GCSE exam results improved from 27% in 2004 to 51% passes at A-C in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120769", "title": "Barber's pole", "text": "Barber's pole\n\nA barber's pole is a type of sign used by barbers to signify the place or shop where they perform their craft. The trade sign is, by a tradition dating back to the Middle Ages, a staff or pole with a helix of colored stripes (often red and white in many countries, but usually red, white and blue in the United States). The pole may be stationary or may revolve, often with the aid of an electric motor.\n\nA \"barber's pole\" with a helical stripe is a familiar sight, and is used as a secondary metaphor to describe objects in many other contexts. For example, if the shaft or tower of a lighthouse has been painted with a helical stripe as a daymark, the lighthouse could be described as having been painted in \"barber's pole\" colors. Likewise, borders may be marked and warnings.\n\nDuring medieval times, barbers performed surgery on customers, as well as tooth extractions. The original pole had a brass wash basin at the top (representing the vessel in which leeches were kept) and bottom (representing the basin that received the blood). The pole itself represents the staff that the patient gripped during the procedure to encourage blood flow.\n\nAt the Council of Tours in 1163, the clergy was banned from the practice of surgery. From then, physicians were clearly separated from the surgeons and barbers. Later, the role of the barbers was defined by the , established by Jean Pitard in Paris circa 1210, as academic surgeons of the long robe and barber surgeons of the short robe.\n\nIn Renaissance-era Amsterdam, the surgeons used the colored stripes to indicate that they were prepared to bleed their patients (red), set bones or pull teeth (white), or give a shave if nothing more urgent was needed (blue).\n\nAfter the formation of the United Barber Surgeon's Company in England, a statute required the barber to use a red and white pole and the surgeon to use a red pole. In France, surgeons used a red pole with a basin attached to identify their offices. Blue often appears on poles in the United States, possibly as a homage to its national colors. Another, more fanciful interpretation of these barber pole colors is that red represents arterial blood, blue is symbolic of venous blood, and white depicts the bandage.\n\nPrior to 1950, there were four manufacturers of barber poles in the United States. In 1950, William Marvy of St. Paul, Minnesota, started manufacturing barber poles. Marvy made his 50,000th barber pole in 1967, and, by 2010, over 82,000 had been produced. The William Marvy Company is now the sole manufacturer of barber poles in North America, and sells only 500 per year (compared to 5,100 in the 1960s). In recent years, the sale of spinning barber poles has dropped considerably, since few barber shops are opening, and many jurisdictions prohibit moving signs. Koken of St. Louis, Missouri, manufactured barber equipment such as chairs and assorted poles in the 19th century.\n\nAs early as 1905, use of the poles was reported to be \"diminishing\" in the United States.\n\nIn Forest Grove, Oregon, the \"World's Tallest Barber Shop Pole\" measures .\n\nThe consistent use of this symbol for advertising was analogous to an apothecary's show globe, a tobacconist's cigar store Indian and a pawn broker's three gold balls.\n\nPossibly as early as the later Roman Empire, and certainly continuing through the Renaissance into Industrialization (maybe even until the 1700s in some places) a \"barber-surgeon\" also performed tooth extraction, cupping, leeching, bloodletting, enemas, amputations, etc. However, today's barber poles represent little more than being a barber shop that cuts hair and does shaves. Barber poles have actually become a topic of controversy in the hairstyling business. In some states, such as Michigan in March 2012, legislation has emerged proposing that barber poles should only be permitted outside barbershops, but not traditional beauty salons. Barbers and cosmetologists have engaged in several legal battles claiming the right to use the barber pole symbol to indicate to potential customers that the business offers haircutting services. Barbers claim that they are entitled to exclusive rights to use the barber pole because of the tradition tied to the craft, whereas cosmetologists think that they are equally capable of cutting men's hair (though many cosmetologists are not permitted to use razors, depending on their state's laws).\n\nIn South Korea, barber's poles are used both for actual barbershops and for brothels. Brothels disguised as barbershops, referred to as 이발소 (\"ibalso\") or 미용실 (\"miyongsil\"), are more likely to use two poles next to each other, often spinning in opposite directions, though the use of a single pole for the same reason is also quite common. Actual barbershops, or 미용실 (\"miyongsil\"), are more likely to be hair salons; to avoid confusion, they will usually use a pole that shows a picture of a woman with flowing hair on it with the words \"hair salon\" written on the pole.\n\nA spinning barber pole creates a visual illusion, in which the stripes appear to be traveling up or down the length of the pole, rather than around it.\n\n\n\"Haemonchus contortus\", or \"barber's pole worm\", is the parasitic nematode responsible for anemia, bottle jaw, and death of infected sheep and goats, mainly during summer months in warm, humid climates. Humans may become infected by the worms.\n\n\"Stenopus hispidus\" is a shrimp-like popcorn kernel decapod crustacean sometimes called the \"barber pole shrimp\". See also Stenopodidea.\n\nIn the insect world, there is the barber pole grasshopper, \"Dactylotum bicolor\". It is also known as the \"painted grasshopper\" and is said to be the \"most beautiful\" grasshopper.\n\nBecause of its bright bands and colors, the redbanded rockfish \"Sebastes babcocki\" is referred to as \"barber pole\". Other pseudonyms include bandit, convict, canary, Hollywood, and Spanish flag.\n\nThe old-fashioned American stick candy is sometimes also referred to as \"barber pole candy\" due to its colorful, swirled appearance. (See also candy cane.) \"Candy stripe\" is a generic description of the candy cane color scheme. Among many other names, the candy has been called Polkagris.\n\nIn UI design, a barber pole-like pattern is used in progress bars when the wait time is indefinite. It is intended to be used like a throbber to tell the user that processing is continuing, although it is not known when the processing will complete.\n\n\"Barber pole\" is also sometimes used to describe a text pattern where a line of text is rolled left or right one character on the line below. The CHARGEN service generates a form of this pattern. It is used to test RAM, hard disks and printers. A similar pattern is also used in secure erasure of media. \n\nThe strength and direction of magnetic fields and electric currents can be measured using a \"magnetoresistive barber-pole sensor\" (also called a \"hermetic proximity sensor\"), and its performance can be depicted using a mathematical formula. Such a sensor interleaves a series of permanent magnet strips with a series of magnetoresistive strips. The \"conductive barberpole strips are canted across the sensor and connect one magnetoresistive strip, over a permanent magnet strip, to another magnetoresistive strip.\" This is said to provide a \"uniform magnetic field throughout the sensor\" thereby enhancing its resistance to external magnetic fields. The technology is used in wireless sensor networks which \"have gathered a lot of attention as an important research domain\" and were \"deployed in many applications, e.g., navigation, military, ambient intelligence, medical, and industrial tasks. Context-based processing and services, in particular location-context, are of key interest ...\" (See Music (acoustic illusion), infra.)\n\nThe term \"on the barber pole\" is pilot jargon that refers to flying an aircraft at the maximum safe velocity. The airspeed Indicator on aircraft capable of flying at altitude features a red/white striped needle resembling a barber pole. This needle displays the V (Maximum Operating Velocity) or—at altitude—the M (Mach Limit Maximum Operating Speed) of the aircraft. This needle also indicates the maximum operating Mach number above the VMO/MMO changeover level. As the aircraft increases in altitude and the air decreases in density and temperature, the speed of sound also decreases. Close to the speed of sound, an aircraft becomes susceptible to buffeting caused by shock waves produced by flying at transonic speeds. Thus, as the speed of sound decreases, so the maximum safe operating speed of the aircraft is reduced. The \"barber pole\" needle moves to indicate this speed. Flying \"on the barber pole\" therefore means to be flying the aircraft as fast as is safe to do so in the current conditions.\n\n\"Barberpole\" is a phrase used to describe the striped output of indicators used during the Apollo and Shuttle programs. Typically an indicator was positioned below a switch. When the switch was activated and the activation indeed performed, the resulted activation was talked back via a separated electrical line to the barberpole indicator to show a grey and white striped pattern, thus verifying the action to the astronaut. Such switches with barberpole indicators were called \"talkback switches\". Various indicators in the Apollo Command Modules indicated barberpole when the corresponding system was inactive. Astronaut Jim Lovell can also be found describing system indications as \"barber poled\" in the transcript of radio transmissions during the Apollo 13 accident.\n\nThe phrase \"barberpole\" continues to be found in many subsystem descriptions in the \"Space Shuttle News Reference Manual\", as well as the NASA/KSC Acronym List.\n\nDuring World War I and World War II, the pattern has also been used as an insignia for aircraft identification. Spad XIIIs of the 94th Aero Squadron USAS in early 1919 used variations on barber pole patterns including: 'Barber Pole' of Lt Dudley 'Red' Outcault; S.16546 'Flag Bus' of Captain Reed Chambers; and 'Rising Sun' of Lt John Jeffers.\n\nUsed in flyfishing, Au Sable River guide Earl Madsen's \"Madsen's Barber pole\" is a traditional Michigan fly in the form of a \"Stonefly\" imitation \"with grizzly hackle tip wings tied in a downwing fashion\". Photo of Madsen's Barber Pole Fly, parachute form.\n\nThe phrase \"barber pole\" is derisive jargon in craps, and refers to the commingling of \"gaming cheques of different denominations\". Wagers that combine different denominations are \"supposed to be stacked with the highest denomination at the bottom\".\n\n\n\nRed or rubric posts were sometimes used by booksellers in England prior to 1800. William Roberts reports in \"The Book Hunter in London\" that certain 18th-century bookshops in the Little Britain district of London sported such poles:\nA few years before Nichols published [in 1816] his \"Literary Anecdotes\", two booksellers used to sport their rubric posts close to each other here in Little Britain, and these rubric posts were once as much the type of a bookseller's shop as the pole is of a barber's ... Sewell, Cornhill, and Kecket and De Hondt, Strand, were among the last to use these curious trade signs.\n\n\nThe famous Barber Pole Group was originally a group of 120 Flower-class corvettes built in Canada during World War II, and charged primarily with protecting freighter convoys. The original group was Escort Group C-3. This group of ships, with its red and white barber pole stripes painted on the funnel, is still represented in the current Royal Canadian Navy: all Atlantic fleet ships wear this insignia. is the last remaining Flower-class corvette.\n\n\n\nThe \"Barberpole Cat\" group, a/k/a \"Polecats\"—perhaps a portmanteau of \"barber's pole\" and \"catalogue\"—is an essential repertoire of 12 songs that every barber shop quartet should know. The Barberpole Cat Program was created many years ago and features popular Barbershop songs arranged and voiced so \"all\" singers can learn and participate. For decades these have been the standard arrangements where singers can meet at conventions and sing together having never met before.\n\nThe songs in this collection are:\n\nThe Polecats have had a version 2.0 with additional songs added.\n\nSee also Buchla 200 series Electric Music Box and Buchla 200e.\n\nBarbasol cans use a barber pole motif. The can's motif is a registered trademark of Barbasol.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120770", "title": "Bernardino Drovetti", "text": "Bernardino Drovetti\n\nBernardino Michele Maria Drovetti (January 7, 1776 – March 5, 1852) was an Italian antiquities collector, diplomat, and politician. He is best remembered for having acquired the Turin Royal Canon and for his questionable behavior in collecting ancient Egyptian antiquities.\n\nBorn in Barbania, a \"comune\" near Turin in the kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia, Drovetti later obtained the French nationality and joined the \"Grande Armée\". As an official, during the French campaign in Egypt (1798–99) he distinguished himself by saving the life of Joachim Murat, and later he became the French Consul-General of Egypt during both the Empire (until 1814) and the Bourbon Restoration, between 1820 and 1829. He also earned Wāli Muhammad Ali's trust and had a role in some of the latter's administrative reforms. In 1820 he was awarded the title of \"Chevalier dans l'Ordre de la Legion d'Honneur\".\n\nDuring his stay in Egypt, Drovetti became a passionate and avid collector of Egyptian antiquities. He engaged several agents and was particularly active in Luxor; shortly he gathered huge amounts of findings which he managed to sell in Europe. His first collection was refused by France, but was acquired by King Charles Felix of Sardinia in 1824 and carried to Turin, where it became the first core of the future Museo Egizio. Another collection was purchased by King Charles X of France and is now stored at the Louvre. A third one was acquired by Karl Richard Lepsius in 1836 and carried in Prussia in order of being accommodated in the Egyptian Museum of Berlin. Among the antiquities sold to the King of Sardinia there was the invaluable Turin Royal Canon, a papyrus bearing a list of several pharaohs which is datable to the reign of Ramesses II and which was found by Drovetti at Luxor in 1820.\n\nLater in his life, Drovetti lost his mind and was confined in a lunatic asylum at Turin. He died there in March 5, 1852.\n\nWhile he contributed significantly to the creation of three of the largest Egyptological collections in Europe and substantially increased the European interest in ancient Egypt, Drovetti is also remembered for his ruthlessness towards other collectors and excavators. He was particularly hostile against Henry Salt, Giovanni Battista Belzoni and Jean-François Champollion: for example, during his excavations at Luxor around 1818 and later, Belzoni reported to have been harassed by two of Drovetti's agents, Antonio Lebolo and a certain Rosignani; Drovetti also tried several times to hinder Champollion's expedition in Egypt (1827–28), likely to prevent a competitor in his affairs. Drovetti and his agents were also deemed careless and unscrupulous in their conduct towards their discoveries, and it is believed that the fragmentary state of the Turin Royal Canon is at least partially due to this behavior.\n\nDrovetti was portrayed by Joseph Long in the 2005 BBC docudrama \"Egypt\".\n"}
{"id": "2120780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120780", "title": "Fudōshin", "text": "Fudōshin\n\nFudōshin () is a state of equanimity or imperturbability (literally and metaphorically, \"immovable mind\", \"immovable heart\" or \"unmoving heart\"). It is a philosophical or mental dimension to Japanese martial arts which contributes to the effectiveness of the advanced practitioner.\n\nFudo myōō is found in Shingon Buddhism as a guardian deity, (and patron of martial arts) who is portrayed as carrying a sword in his right hand (to cut through delusions and ignorance) and a rope in his left (to bind \"evil forces\" and violent or uncontrolled passions and emotions). Despite a fearsome appearance, his attributes of benevolence and servitude to living beings are symbolized by a hairstyle associated with the servant class.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120787", "title": "Regina's Song", "text": "Regina's Song\n\nRegina's Song, written by David and Leigh Eddings, is a murder mystery novel, with some fantasy themes present as well. The story takes place in Seattle, Washington.\n\nThe story involves the murder of an identical twin. Regina and Renata are so identical that after their infant footprint records are lost, no one is certain which twin is which—even their own parents. Thus, when one of the twins is raped and killed, the authorities simply assume that it was the 'dominant' one: Regina. After years of psychotherapy, the surviving twin Renata tries to lead a normal life. She attends the same college as Mark, a family friend and surrogate big brother, who juggles his own course schedule and teaching responsibilities. While Mark keeps an eye on Renata, a series of petty criminals are found murdered in the area. Mark and his friends (Sylvia, Erika, Trish, James, and Charlie) eventually realize that Renata is responsible for the murders and is hunting down her sister's killer. Once she accomplishes her goal, Renata has a complete psychological breakdown; she does not know who or where she is, and she speaks exclusively in a secret language that the twins had invented when they were young. Renata is not taken to the police. Instead, she is stealthily placed into the care of a secretive abbey for the rest of her life.\n"}
{"id": "2120793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120793", "title": "Rebetes", "text": "Rebetes\n\nA rebetis (Greek: ρεμπέτης ; pl. \"rebetes\" ρεμπέτες ) is a musician involved in the scene of the Greek musical genre of rebetiko, which flourished between 1920 and 1955.\n\nProminent \"rebetes\" include:\n\n\"Note\": Sometimes (not without controversy) this definition is extended to include modern day performers of this kind of music, such as Babis Goles and Agathonas Iakovidis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120798", "title": "Lithium economy", "text": "Lithium economy\n\nThe lithium economy is a concept analogous to other element-based economies, such as the hydrogen economy, methanol economy, ethanol economy, electron economy, vegetable oil economy, or liquid nitrogen economy but where the energy storage medium is lithium. Analogous \"economies\" are the \"aluminium economy\" where the energy storage medium (fuel) is aluminium (typically aluminium-gallium).\n\nThe hydrogen economy as a low-carbon solution to land transport has problems in generation, distribution (infrastructure), on-board storage and cost of power converter (fuel cell). The lithium economy has analogous problems in all four areas, but considered separately, the routes to their solution have different absolute limits and different timescales for their solutions.\n\nThe lithium economy concept is used primarily as a political argument to prevent over-domination of the post-carbon energy future by oil companies; and as a post-carbon economy on which action can be taken now instead of deferred to some future date (see FreedomCAR project).\n\nThe lithium economy differs from the other proposed future fuel economies in that the transition roadmap begins with convencional recreable batteries using conventional Li-ion or Lithium polymer cell batteries and progressing to chemistries (such as Li-S and Li-iron-phosphate) and cell types with higher energy densities. Eventually, anode replacement Li-air or Li-water cells are envisaged where only anodes (lithium metal) are replaced.\n\nThe energy is stored in unoxidised lithium atoms, which release energy when oxidised. A lithium atom is seven times as heavy as a hydrogen atom, and at room temperature, hydrogen is a gas, while lithium is solid. This means energy per mass is much worse, but since lithium is much more compact, it has more energy per volume. In fact, storing hydrogen requires so much ancillary equipment or material that lithium is also competitive in energy per mass when the whole system is considered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120802", "title": "Lulworth skipper", "text": "Lulworth skipper\n\nThe Lulworth skipper (\"Thymelicus acteon\") is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. Its name is derived from Lulworth Cove in the county of Dorset, England, where the first specimens in Great Britain were collected in 1832 by English naturalist James Charles Dale.\n\nThe species occurs locally across Central Europe, Asia Minor and North Africa, where its population is considered stable. Its numbers have declined in Northern Europe, leading to its European status of \"vulnerable\". Its range in Britain is restricted to the south coast of Dorset, however it is locally abundant and its numbers currently are perhaps at their greatest since its discovery there.\n\nWith a wingspan of 24 to 28 millimetres, females being larger than males, the Lulworth skipper is a small butterfly, the smallest member of the genus \"Thymelicus\" in Europe and among the smallest butterflies in Britain. Aside from the size difference, the sexes are distinguished by females having a distinct circle of golden marks on each forewing. Due to their likeness to the rays around the eye of a peacock's feather, these are often known as \"sun-ray\" markings, and they can faintly appear on males.\n\nThe Lulworth skipper was first described by German entomologist S. A. von Rottemburg in 1775. The butterfly was first discovered in Britain on 15 August 1832, when specimens were taken from Lulworth Cove in Dorset by English naturalist James Charles Dale It was introduced the following year as the Lulworth skipper (\"Thymelicus acteon\"), a name that has remained unchanged; it is the only one of Britain's vernacular butterfly names for which there has never been a proposed substitute.\n\nThe male Lulworth skipper has a wingspan of , and the female 25 to 28 mm. This makes it one of Britain's smallest butterflies and, in Europe, the smallest member of the \"Thymelicus\" genus. Of Britain's five \"golden\" skippers—the others being the silver-spotted skipper (\"Hesperia comma\"), large skipper (\"Ochlodes sylvanus\"), small skipper (\"Thymelicus sylvestris\") and Essex skipper (\"Thymelicus lineola\")—the Lulworth is both the smallest and darkest. Beyond its small size, it is distinguished particularly by its dark, dun-coloured wings that appear with tinges of olive-brown; this darkening especially apparent in males.\n\nVariations are known to occur; in north-west Africa, the uppersides of the forewing and hindwing are darker, with hints of greenish or greyish brown. Similarly-coloured races occur in Spain, Elba, Crete, and other eastern Mediterranean islands. \"T. acteon christi\", endemic to the Canary Islands, displays colour variations, with the uppersides of the forewing showing defined yellow–orange markings.\n\nThe butterfly is sexually dimorphic; females have a distinct circle of golden marks on each forewing, often called \"sun-ray\" markings due to their likeness to the rays around the eye of a peacock's feather. Males sometimes have these markings, though they are noticeably fainter (see \"Illustration 1\").\n\nThe Lulworth skipper is found locally across southern and central Europe, Asia Minor and North Africa, where its population is considered stable. In northern Europe, its numbers and range have severely declined, most notably in the Netherlands where it is now extinct. This decline has led to the butterfly's European status of \"vulnerable\". Isolated populations of the species in Armenia are also threatened, although not yet included in the National Red List. It is also listed as threatened under the United Kingdom Biodiversity Action Plan.\n\nIn Great Britain, where the butterfly reaches the northern limit of its range, its distribution is restricted to the southern coastline of the county of Dorset. Here, both the population and range have changed little in recent decades; it is locally abundant, with the majority of colonies found on the coast between Weymouth and Swanage and on the Purbeck Ridge, a line of inland chalk hills. Two outlying colonies also exist, at Burton Bradstock and on the Isle of Portland; the cause of the colony on Portland is unknown, but has been put down to either natural colonisation or released specimens. There is evidence to suggest that the Lulworth skipper is now more abundant in Dorset than at any other time since its discovery in 1832.\n\nAlthough colonies of Lulworth skippers existed in Devon, the species has, beyond single records, not be seen in the county since the 1930s. Similarly, records of occurrences exist for Cornwall, but they have not been verified as native colonies.\n\nHabitats are primarily on unfertilised calcareous grassland; this includes chalk download, coastal grassland and undercliffs in Britain. In all of these habits Tor-grass (\"Illustration 2\"), the butterfly's sole food plant and that on which it lays eggs, is widespread. Tall, ungrazed grass is a favoured habitat due to oviposition and larval development; Lulworth skippers have benefited from the move away from tight grazing by sheep in the last century and recently outbreaks of myxomatosis among rabbit populations, which otherwise maintain a lower grass height. However, there is evidence to suggest that minimal grazing is not detrimental to the species, and may in fact be beneficial in that it encourages the growth of flowers that act as adult nectar sources.\n\nThe females lay their eggs in rows of 5 to 6 (although as many as 15 have been recorded) on the flower-sheath of Tor-grass (\"Brachypodium pinnatum\"), preferring the dead sheaths of tall plants. The care taken by females over where to lay their eggs is considered the only remarkable part of the Lulworth skipper breeding process, otherwise it is considered common.\n\nUpon hatching, the 2.5 cm (1 in) long larva spins a compact cocoon on the site of the eggshell. In this, it will overwinter until around the third week of April, at which point it will eat its way out by making a small hole in the side of the sheath. The caterpillar will then search for tender Tor-grass blades and feed upon them by chewing out notches from the margin. During this time, it will live separately, within a tube composed of the two edges of a blade bound by cords of silk. Fresh tubes will be made as the caterpillar grows larger. Lulworth skipper caterpillars live in the warmest zone of a grass clump, at a height of .\n\nThe pupal stage lasts for about two weeks, from the beginning of June onwards, until late July. It is formed inside a loose \"nest\" of silk and grass that is spun deep inside a tussock of tor grass. Imago begin to emerge in the early middle of July and finish emerging in the middle of September. Typically, they will live for five to ten days—the normal lifespan for a non-hibernating butterfly of the Lulworth's seasonal stage. They fly only in strong sunshine and tend to form discrete colonies, with the largest containing up to 100,000 individuals.\n\nIn the novel \"The Return of the Native\", by Thomas Hardy, a possible reference is made to Lulworth skippers in the \"strange amber-coloured butterflies\" which \"were never seen elsewhere.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120812", "title": "Corrosion inhibitor", "text": "Corrosion inhibitor\n\nA corrosion inhibitor is a chemical compound that, when added to a liquid or gas, decreases the corrosion rate of a material, typically a metal or an alloy, that comes into contact with the fluid. The effectiveness of a corrosion inhibitor depends on fluid composition, quantity of water, and flow regime. Corrosion inhibitors are common in industry, and also found in over-the-counter products, typically in spray form in combination with a lubricant and sometimes a penetrating oil. They may be added to water to prevent leaching of lead or copper from pipes.\n\nA common mechanism for inhibiting corrosion involves formation of a coating, often a passivation layer, which prevents access of the corrosive substance to the metal. Permanent treatments such as chrome plating are not generally considered inhibitors, however: corrosion inhibitors are additives to the fluids that surround the metal or related object.\n\nThe nature of the corrosive inhibitor depends on (i) the material being protected, which are most commonly metal objects, and (ii) on the corrosive agent(s) to be neutralized. The corrosive agents are generally oxygen, hydrogen sulfide, and carbon dioxide. Oxygen is generally removed by reductive inhibitors such as amines and hydrazines:\nIn this example, hydrazine converts oxygen, a common corrosive agent, to water, which is generally benign. Related inhibitors of oxygen corrosion are hexamine, phenylenediamine, and dimethylethanolamine, and their derivatives. Antioxidants such as sulfite and ascorbic acid are sometimes used. Some corrosion inhibitors form a passivating coating on the surface by chemisorption. Benzotriazole is one such species used to protect copper. For lubrication, zinc dithiophosphates are common - they deposit sulfide on surfaces.\n\nThe suitability of any given chemical for a task in hand depends on many factors, including their operating temperature.\n\n\nCorrosion inhibitors are commonly added to coolants, fuels, hydraulic fluids, boiler water, engine oil, and many other fluids used in industry. For fuels, various corrosion inhibitors can be used. Some components include zinc dithiophosphates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120813", "title": "Nymphalinae", "text": "Nymphalinae\n\nThe Nymphalinae are a subfamily of brush-footed butterflies (family Nymphalidae). Sometimes, the subfamilies Limenitidinae, and Biblidinae are included here as subordinate tribe(s), while the tribe Melitaeini is occasionally regarded as a distinct subfamily.\n\nThe traditionally recognized tribes of Nymphalinae are here listed in the presumed phylogenetic sequence:\n\n\nGenera \"incertae sedis\" are:\n\n\nIn addition to these, \"Crenidomimas\" is sometimes placed here, but may belong in the Limenitidinae, genus \"Euryphura\".\n\nThe Late Eocene fossil genus \"Lithodryas\" might belong here, but it is generally assigned to the Lycaenidae.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120827", "title": "Junonia coenia", "text": "Junonia coenia\n\nJunonia coenia, known as the common buckeye or buckeye, is a butterfly in the family Nymphalidae. Its original ancestry has been traced to Africa, which then experiences divergence in Asia.\n\nCaterpillars of these butterflies appear to prefer plants that produce iridoid glycosides, which are bitter compounds that release a hormone called gastrin that activates the digestive system (i.e. hunger); therefore, iridoid glycoside producing plants stimulate and attract their appetites particularly when found in plants like \"Plantago lanceolata\". In fact, the presence of these metabolites may trigger oviposition behaviors in female butterflies so that descendant larval bodies may better incorporate iridoid glycosides. Iridoid glycolyside metabolites appear to have a growth-stimulating effect on caterpillars but a growth-reducing effect on predators. Predators like ants, wasps, birds, and small animals prefer to feed on iridoid glycoside poor caterpillars rather than iridoid glycoside rich larvae, potentially due to these effects. Therefore, immunity of \"J. coenia\" larvae to predators like ants appears to be strongly related to the concentration of iridoid glycosides sequestered in their bodies. However, too much iridoid glycosides in the diet can negatively affect the immune response of these larvae and lead to increased susceptibility to parasitism.\n\nAdult butterflies feed on flowers with certain pollinator cues: yellow flowers that are 'pre-change', or flowers whose color has not been changed due to insect visitation or other factors. Common buckeye caterpillars feed in isolation rather than relying upon grouping behaviors. Vulnerability to the \"Junonia coenia\" densovirus is another concern for survivorship of common buckeye larvae.\n\nCommon buckeye butterflies are colored mostly brown with some orange, black, white, blue, and magenta. The forewing features two proximal orange bars and a postmedian white band, which surrounds a prominent black eyespot and borders a smaller, more distal eyespot; both eyespots have a bluish center and each border a distal orange mark. The hindwing is mostly brown with an orange band towards the edge and a brown and white margin. It also has two eyespots, one larger and one smaller, each with a black and white outline, and a center consisting of black, blue, magenta, and orange. They also exhibit blue-green overtones on their front and sometimes hind wings. Their wingspan is typically between 2 and 2.5 inches (5 - 6.5 cm).\n\nThese caterpillars have a beautiful and complex color pattern. Their backs are mostly black with light-colored markings (white, gray, beige, or brownish, varying among individuals -- see picture below), their sides have white markings and red-orange spots, and they have a brown underside. They have a mostly red-orange head with black markings on the face. They have spines running lengthwise along their back and sides, as many as 7 per segment. There is also a pair of small spines on the top of their head. These spines branch out (have smaller spines coming out of them) and appear a bit shiny-blue at the base. They also have 2 pairs of tiny white spines on each segment, near the bottom. The color patterns and spine forms are less pronounced in earlier instars. There are several other species that resemble these caterpillars in appearance, such as the painted lady, the Glanville fritillary, and the red admiral, which can be easily confused by an untrained observer. They can reach 4 cm (1 5/8 inches) in length.\n\nLike the more familiar monarchs, these caterpillars pupate by spinning a silk pad on a downward facing horizontal surface, attaching themselves with their rear end, and hanging in the form of the letter J for a day or so before shedding their skin to reveal the chrysalis. The chrysalis is mostly brown with beige markings, and has a prickly texture. It has a beige band near the top, another one at the \"waist\" (border between thorax and abdomen), and 4 pairs of beige dots running down its dorsal side. It is 18 mm long and 8 mm wide. When touched or handled excessively, it has a habit of wiggling its abdomen.\n\n\"Junio\" probably arose from one African colonizing ancestor. In Asia, this diverged into \"J. atlites\", \"J. iphita\", and \"J. hedonia\" that resembled the African ancestor. These species then diverged into \"J. almanac\", \"J. lemonias\", and \"J. villida\" that began to differ morphologically from African ancestors. The Taxon Pulse Hypothesis is invoked to explain the vicariance as well as dispersal exhibited by this species where there is dispersal as the species expands until they find appropriate habitats. This then allows for speciation to occur in several isolated habitats. In \"Junonia\" the species may have expanded from Africa into Asia and then from Asia throughout “Australasia, Africa, and South America.”\n\nCaterpillars feed on a variety of plants including the narrowleaf plantain (\"Plantago lanceolata\"), the common greater plantain (\"Plantago major\"), blue toadflax, false foxglove, Mexican petunia (Ruellia species), the firecracker plant, and Cudweed. \n\nIridoid glycosides trigger feeding behaviors of \"J. coenia\" larvae in northern California, serving as attractants and as stimulants. It also allows for higher growth and survival rates that appear to be best promoted in the plant \"Plantago lanceolata\", an invasive plant in California. In fact, leaves from this plant were preferred over artificial diets with just the iridoid glycosides, indicating the presence of additional sources in \"P. lanceolata\" that might play a role in food preferences. Naturally, \"J. coenia\" consider iridoid glycosides in the host plant selection for larvae. This inclination for iridoid glycosides may also reflect its role in oviposition and microhabitat selection. Aucubin and catalpol are two other chemicals that can be stimulants aiforniand attractants for larval feeding behaviors.\n\nIn the case of \"Lantana camara\" flowers, \"J. coenia\" preferentially feed on flowers in the yellow stage at a significantly higher rate that suggests associative learning. During early life stages, the butterfly feeds upon yellow and red flowers almost equally but over time focuses only on those flowers that are yellow and 'pre-change.' This is especially advantageous because the flower’s color can be linked to its viability as well as the nectar reward that it can provide the pollinator. With this signal the pollinator can visit the right plant at the right time maximizing both its reproductive advantage as well as that of the flower. Moreover, the amount of nectar found within the flower can also influence the duration of a pollinator’s visit to the plant.\n\nIn the process of oviposition, contact chemoreception is an important sense used to detect allelochemicals on individual leaves that promote or discourage oviposition. Females detect iridoid glycosides found in plants like \"P. lanceolata\" as oviposition cues. Similarly, a mix of catalpol and aucubin, as well as catalpol alone, also promotes oviposition. In addition, the quantity of catalpol also seems to play a role in oviposition because females choose to lay eggs in regions that are most concentrated with catalpol. Just one iridoid glycoside molecule is enough to promote oviposition to the same degree that would be seen on a hostplant leaf. However, with that said, females did prefer plants with more iridoid glycosides. Larvae concentrate large amounts of iridoid glycosides, and theoretical explanations for this include protection from predators. Therefore, evolution would favor female \"J. coenia\" that can detect more iridoid glycosides on host plants so that larvae can incorporate that into their diet and thus gain better protective mechanisms for survival.\n\nCaterpillars tend to feed individually and in isolation. For example, even in the case that multiple caterpillars are feeding upon the same plant, they will not be doing so cooperatively or based in a group dynamic.Caterpillars are generally not aggressive: they do not mind each others' presence and tend to abstain from fighting when running into one another.\n\nCommon buckeyes move to the south along with tailwinds directed to the north or northwest after the cold fronts from September or October. They are sensitive to the cold and cannot spend the winter in northern regions that will experience extreme cold temperatures. However, they will migrate back from the south during the spring.\n\n\"J. coenia\" appears to readily migrate on a local scale between patches that are connected by corridors over those that are not connected by corridors. They could also affect large scale immigration by making patches more accessible to immigrating butterflies if they are connected by corridors as opposed to if they are unconnected. As a result, this would play a role in increasing the population densities of these habitats, which would then affect resource availability for affected individuals.\n\nPredators for these organisms include ants, wasps, birds, and small animals. Predators appear to select larvae that feed on artificial diets deprived of iridoid glycoside (iridoid glycoside poor) rather than those that consume organic leaf material (iridoid glycoside rich larvae), which may indicate the role of iridoid glycoside consumption. This selection then favors larvae that have diets including iridoid glycosides as well as females who oviposition on those sites by providing offspring with necessary defense mechanisms.\n\nPrey which contain iridoid glycosides can affect invertebrate predators differently. Chemical differences as a result of leaf age can affect the development of these butterflies, which can then affect the quality of these butterflies as food sources for spiders. One such observation indicated that iridoid glycosides may diminish growth of predators so that predators select for caterpillars that do not feed on iridoid glycoside-rich substrates. Iridoid glycosides have been shown to stimulate growth in prey while decreasing growth in predators, which may then be responsible for its role in providing chemical protection to butterflies.\n\nThe densovirus \"Junonia coenia\" infects the common buckeye larvae by focusing on targeting dividing cells in order to propagate. It consists of single stranded DNA genomes with a smooth, sphere-shaped capsid. It is from the family Parvoviridae and has been considered a potential insecticide, as is hypothesized for other one-species densoviruses. The \"Junonia coenia\" densovirus is unique in its separation of DNA strands for structural proteins versus nonstructural proteins.\n\nHigh intake of iridoid glycosides by \"J. coenia\" can have a negative effect on their immune response. This can then lead to higher susceptibility to parasitoids as well as a decreased ability to resist parasitism. Therefore, it is necessary to balance the chemical defense provided by these secondary metabolites with their immunological cost that correlates with increased risk of parasitism. Specifically, secondary metabolites may be hindering the immune response by operating through decreased melanization. This becomes even more problematic since parasitism is a prominent cause of mortality for caterpillars. This relationship exemplifies the vulnerable host hypothesis.\n\nCommon predators of \"J. coenia\" larvae are ants, and chemical defense appears to be a strong survival mechanism for these organisms against predation. The concentration of iridoid glycoside sequestered by larvae seems to be a strong predictor for the decreased likelihood that they will be predated.\n\nIn order to find a host plant for oviposition, females search for appropriate concentrations of catalpol or iridoid glycosides. Therefore, they practice drumming, which allows them to pierce the plant exterior and ‘taste’ the variety of allelochemicals that are present within its structure. This can be detected through the female \"J. coenia\" foretarse chemoreceptors.\n\nLarvae also appear to weakly adopt automimicry as a survival strategy. In the presence of caterpillars that have sequestered iridoids (making them unpalatable to predators) and those that have not sequestered iridoids (making them palatable to predators), palatable caterpillars are able to escape predation. However, this trend is a weak example because it also may be the consequence of predators entirely avoiding this species of caterpillars rather than predators rejecting caterpillars.\n\nThe common buckeye was featured on the 2006 United States Postal Service 24-cent postage stamp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120828", "title": "Harold Peary", "text": "Harold Peary\n\nHarold (Hal) Peary (July 25, 1908 – March 30, 1985) was an American actor, comedian and singer in radio, films, television, and animation. His most memorable role is as Throckmorton P. Gildersleeve, which began as a supporting character on radio's \"Fibber McGee and Molly\" in 1938. The character proved to be so popular with audiences by 1941 that Peary got his own radio comedy show, \"The Great Gildersleeve\", the first known spin-off hit in American broadcasting history.\n\nBorn as José Pereira de Faria in San Leandro, California, to Portuguese parents, Harold Peary (pronounced \"Perry\") began working in local radio as early as 1923, according to his own memory, and had his own show as a singer, \"The Spanish Serenader\", in San Francisco, but moved to Chicago, Illinois in 1937. While in San Francisco, he also had \"several parts\" in \"Wheatenaville\", a program broadcast on NBC's Pacific network beginning September 26, 1932.\n\nIn Chicago he became a regular on \"Fibber McGee and Molly\", where he originated the Gildersleeve character as a McGee neighbor and nemesis in 1938. (\"You're a \"haaa-aa-aard\" man, McGee\" was a famous catch-phrase.) The character actually went through several first names and occupations before settling on Throckmorton Philharmonic Gildersleeve and his ownership of the Gildersleeve Girdleworks. He also worked on the horror series \"Lights Out\" and other radio programs, but his success and popularity as Gildersleeve set the stage for the character's own program, which became the peak of his career.\n\nPeary's Gildersleeve proved popular enough that it was thought to try the character in his own show. Johnson's Wax, which sponsored \"Fibber McGee & Molly\", sponsored an audition recording for \"The Great Gildersleeve\", and the Kraft Cheese Company signed on as the show's regular sponsor. Gildersleeve was transplanted from Wistful Vista to Summerfield with more than just a locale change—now a bachelor (his character had a never-heard wife on \"Fibber McGee & Molly\"), and now the water commissioner instead of the owner of the Gildersleeve's Girlish Girdles company. With much of his pomposity and cantankerousness toned down, he was also newly domesticated and appointed guardian of his orphan niece Marjorie and nephew Leroy. Implicitly well-off though by no means wealthy, Gildersleeve was depicted winding up his lingerie-making company and taking up a new life as Summerfield's water commissioner.\n\n\"The Great Gildersleeve\" premiered August 31, 1941, and became a steady hit for the rest of the decade, Peary's sonorous voice and flustered catchphrases (\"You're a \"brii-iii-iight\" boy, Leroy!\" was a modification of his famous \"McGee\" catchphrase) among radio's most familiar sounds. Lurene Tuttle played Marjorie; Walter Tetley, a veteran of Fred Allen's \"Town Hall Tonight\" cast and other shows, played Leroy; and, Lillian Randolph played Gildersleeve's ego-puncturing maid and housekeeper, Birdie.\n\nThe show's humor, like that of \"McGee\", was drawn through clever word-play and phrasemaking as well as Gildersleeve's earnest stumbling and basically warmhearted nature. His new nemesis was Judge Horace Hooker (Earle Ross) (\"That crook of a Hooker has hooked our cook!\"), who oversaw his guardianship of Marjorie and Leroy and became a friend and periodic rival in various schemes. Periodically, storylines were serialized, such as some of Gildersleeve's romantic interests (especially his aborted marriage plans with Leila Ransom) and political aspirations (he once ran for Summerfield mayor); in time, some of the clever word playing was toned down.\n\nPeary also found occasion to weave his singing voice into show episodes, such as \"Mystery Voice\" [5/10/1942] in which he referenced his former Spanish Serenader radio persona in a plot involving a Brazilian singer on a local radio show (Mel Blanc guested as the station manager), concurrently referencing his Portuguese heritage. But his best-remembered vocalism would be what radio historians have called his \"dirty laugh,\" a descending giggle that could start from sarcasm and finish in embarrassment or substitute for being at a schoolboy-like loss for words.\n\nOther characters in and out of the Gildersleeve orbit included Richard LeGrand as Peavey the druggist (his dry, almost mumbled \"Well, now, I wouldn't say \"that\"\" also became a familiar catch-phrase), Arthur Q. Bryan (making a name as sarcastic Doc Gamble on \"Fibber McGee & Molly\") as Floyd the barber, Ken Christy as police chief Gates, Shirley Mitchell as Leila Ransom, Bea Benaderet as another Gildersleeve paramour Eve Goodwin, and occasionally Gale Gordon (Mayor La Trivia on \"McGee\") as Rumson Bullard, a neighbor who served Gildersleeve the way Gildersleeve had once served Fibber McGee—an equal for obnoxiousness.\n\nPeary also featured in four \"Great Gildersleeve\" feature films during the 1940s.\n\nWith CBS in the middle of a talent raid that had already tempted away Jack Benny and other NBC stars, Peary was offered a lucrative CBS deal of his own in 1950, after he chafed over NBC's and Kraft's reluctance to let him use his singing voice more often on \"Gildersleeve\" and to give him more part in the show's ownership than he already had. Radio historian Gerald Nachman, in \"Raised on Radio\", said Peary and his agents at MCA had negotiated fruitlessly to get Peary a bigger stake in the show's ownership. When CBS began luring Benny (also an MCA client) and others away from NBC, mostly by offering the performers better capital-gains terms against the still-high postwar U.S. taxes than NBC was willing to do, Peary signed with the network.\n\nKraft Foods, who sponsored \"The Great Gildersleeve\" and owned the intellectual properties, refused to move the program to CBS. \"Gildersleeve\" remained on NBC with Willard Waterman, whose voice strongly resembled Peary's and who had known Peary since their radio days in Chicago, replaced Peary in the title role. Waterman refused to appropriate the famous Gildersleeve laugh however, believing Peary alone should have rights to that trademark, but otherwise slipped easily into the role; Peary himself approved of Waterman's approach, at least on radio. When the series briefly moved to television in 1955, Peary remarked that Waterman, who was much taller than Peary, was too large to pull off the role (Peary imagined Gildersleeve as a small man with delusions of grandeur) successfully on-screen.\n\nAt CBS, Peary began a new situation comedy, \"The Harold Peary Show\", sometimes known as \"Honest Harold\", a title that was actually the name of the fictitious radio show the new character hosted. Radio veteran Joseph Kearns (later best-known as Mr. Wilson on TV's \"Dennis the Menace\") played veterinarian Dr. Yancey, known better as Doc Yak-Yak and similar to former \"Gildersleeve\" foil Judge Hooker. The new show also borrowed a few \"Gildersleeve\" plot devices, such as running for mayor and engagements to two women. In what was probably a desperate attempt to recreate the \"Gildersleeve\" magic, actress Shirley Mitchell, virtually reprised her \"Gildersleeve\" role of Leila Ransom, under the name of Florabelle Breckenridge. Additionally, Honest Harold's secretary at the radio station, Glory, bears a more than passing resemblance to Gildersleeve's Water Department secretary, Bessie: both are stereotypical ditzy blondes. Despite these efforts to recreate the quality and ratings of \"The Great Gildersleeve\", \"The Harold Peary Show\" lasted only one season of 38 episodes.\n\nOn the March 21,1951 broadcast of \"The Harold Peary Show\", California governor, Earl Warren (later to become Chief Justice of the United States) honored native son, Harold Peary, on live radio, with the only award ever issued up to that time, for having completed his ten thousandth (10,000th) radio broadcast. Peary's record remains unsurpassed in the annals of radio.\n\nIn addition to the four \"Gildersleeve\" films, Peary appeared in the Walt Disney movie \"A Tiger Walks\" (1964) and the Elvis Presley film \"Clambake\" (1967). He also worked in television, playing murderer Freddy Fell in the 1965 \"Perry Mason\" episode, \"The Case of the Lover's Gamble.\" That same year he played Peabody in the Rod Serling-scripted \"Sheriff of Fetterman's Crossing\" episode of Lloyd Bridges' Western series \"The Loner.\" He also appeared in recurring roles in several sitcoms, such as Herb Woodley in the TV version of \"Blondie\", and as Mayor LaTrivia in the TV version of \"Fibber McGee and Molly\", Peary also made guest appearances in numerous sitcoms during the 1960s, including \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", \"My Three Sons\", \"The Addams Family,\" \"My Mother the Car,\" \"Petticoat Junction,\" \"That Girl,\" \"The Brady Bunch\" and \"Love, American Style.\" In the 1960s and '70s, Peary was also featured in a series of popular television ads for Faygo pop.\n\nIn the 1970s, Peary found work as a voice actor, most memorably as Big Ben, the whale with a clock in its tail, in two Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer productions, \"Rudolph's Shiny New Year\" (1976) and \"Rudolph and Frosty's Christmas in July\" (1979), the latter being Peary's final acting credit.\n\nPeary worked as a disc jockey at radio station WMGM in New York City. Beginning in 1953, he had a one-hour program Monday-Saturday.\n\nPeary spent most of the rest of his life voice-acting in animated work by Rankin-Bass and Hanna-Barbera and others. He appeared in numerous commercials for products such as: Gibraltar Savings and Loan, Charmin, Faygo, Red Goose Shoes, and Challenge Dairy.\n\nIn March 1985, at age 76, Peary died in California at Torrance Memorial Hospital after suffering a heart attack. His ashes were scattered into the Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120830", "title": "Permatemp", "text": "Permatemp\n\nA permatemp is a temporary employee who works for an extended period for a single staffing client. The word is a portmanteau of the words \"permanent\" and \"temporary\".\n\nThere are two types of permatemp employment relationships. In the first form, a public or private employer hires employees as \"temporary\" or \"seasonal\" employees, but retains them, often full-time for year after year, often with less pay and without any benefits. These employees often do the same work as permanent employees, but without the same pay, benefits, and labor rights. The second kind of permatemp is an employee of a staffing service provider, payroll agency or Professional Employer Organization, which sends workers to work in a long-term, on-site position for a private company or public employer. The employee is paid by the staffing service provider or agency rather than by the primary employer.\n\nIn the United States these agencies are required by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to pay the employer portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes (FICA) and Federal Unemployment Tax (FUTA) in accordance with IRS Publication 15A. U.S. leasing organizations are also required to provide employees with health coverage by the United States Department of Labor, the requirements of the health care offered will change in 2014 to comply with the Affordable Care Act (ObamaCare). Long-term full-time leased employees in the U.S. may also be offered a retirement benefit package with a minimum (leasing) company contribution of at least 10%, IRS Form7003.\n\nTraditionally, a temporary employee is hired to substitute for an employee who is on leave or vacation or to staff a project for which there are insufficient permanent employees to carry out the task. A seasonal employee is hired for the limited time because the work is necessary only for a certain part or season of the year. The normal practice of temporary employment for an agency is one in which the employees have a close relationship with the agency from which they receive their pay. Their work may range from day labor to high-priced consulting. The employee may work for one or several companies, and the working periods may be for days or months at a time, but the working periods often come about irregularly.\n\n\"Permatemps\" are often distinguished from temporary employees by working for the same company for a long, possibly indefinite amount of time, working the same schedules and hours of regular employees, and by requirements such as \"company\" training or required attendance at \"company\" meetings. This is where many Leasing Agencies in the U.S. run afoul of the IRS and US Department of Labor. The IRS, in an effort to close loop holes which allow companies to hire temporary employees and thus avoid federal employee taxes have created a very clear definition of a \"Common Law Employee\" versus a \"permatemp\". The IRS definition of a common law employee rests on who actually controls the work done by the leased employee. IRS Publication 15A explains \"Under Common Law Rules anyone who performs services for you is generally your employee if you have the right to control what will be done and how it will be done...What matters is you have the right to control the details of how the services are performed\". IRS 15A also defines the role of staffing services with \"The staffing service has the right to control and direct the worker's services for the client, including the right to discharge or reassign the worker. The Staffing Service hires the workers, provides them with unemployment insurance and other benefits, and is the employer for employment tax purposes.\" Further clarification for U.S. employees can be found in IRS Publication 15A Section 2. Misclassification of employees can lead to severe tax liabilities (IRS PUB 15 Circular E) and civil penalties as in the case of Vizcaino v Microsoft. Furthermore, if a \"permatemp\" actually qualifies as a common law employee, they are entitled to the same fringe benefits their co-workers receive either after one year or after the qualification standard set for regular employees, IRS Publication 15B. IRS Publication 7003 goes so far as to say \"An individual who is actually a common law employee of the recipient (the worksite company) will not become an employee of another entity merely because the recipient enters into a formal \"leasing agreement' with another entity.\"\n\nRegular, permanent employees work for a single employer and are paid directly by that employer. In addition to their wages, they may receive benefits, such as subsidized health care, paid vacations, holidays, sick time, or contributions to a retirement plan. Regular employees are sometimes eligible to switch job positions within their companies. Even when employment is \"at will,\" regular employees of large outfits are sometimes protected from abrupt job termination by severance policies, like advance notice in case of layoffs, or formal discipline procedures. They may be eligible to join a union, and may enjoy both social and financial benefits of their employment.\n\nIn order to pay the employee, the staffing firm is paid by the worksite company at an agreed upon bill rate, which can be many percentage points higher than the pay rate.\n\nArguments have been made that when a worker is actually employed full-time, year round, but called a temporary or seasonal employee, the employee is being exploited by being denied the wages, benefits, and employment rights enjoyed by other employees. While it is unknown how common this kind of situation is, class action lawsuits have been decided against Seattle, Washington and King County, Washington. These public sector cases generally involve violation of ordinances or rules limiting the length of service of such workers.\n\nTwo California cases address the issues of public employees who were improperly considered \"temporary\" when they were actually employed as regular, permanent employees. The first case involves the Los Angeles County Fire Department; the second such case concerns the employment practices of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. These cases are both class action lawsuits that have been litigated over a number of years. Both cases are near, or in the process of, being settled.\n\nIn an Albuquerque, New Mexico, case a federal district judge ruled that an employee who worked full-time for the City of Albuquerque for more than ten years as a \"seasonal\" supervisor and recreation leader (never earning more than $7.00 per hour and with no benefits) might have had a \"property interest\" in his employment such that he could not be terminated without a hearing. The judge also certified a conditional class of \"similarly situated\" city employees employed as temporary or seasonal employees in violation of City ordinances, which limited temporary employees to two years and limited seasonal employees to nine months or less each year.\n\nStaffing through temporary agencies became common in the Silicon Valley technology companies. Permatemping came into vogue simultaneously with the economic bubble of the 1990s. Most recently, General Motors and its subsidiary, Delphi, announced plans to rely on temporary employees. Whether these will be long-term temps, or permatemps, remains to be seen.\n\nGeneral Motors has used \"permatemps\" for a long time in its lowest management level, Level 6 Supervisor, under a national contract with Kelly Services.\n\nOne legal issue and one tax issue, both having to do with permatemps at Microsoft, defined permatemping and also changed it.\n\nIn 1996, a class action lawsuit was brought against Microsoft representing thousands of current and former employees that had been classified as temporary and freelance. The monetary value of the suit was determined by how much the misclassified employees could have made if they had been correctly classified and been able to participate in Microsoft's employee stock purchase plan. The case was decided on the basis that the temporary employees had had their jobs defined by Microsoft, worked alongside regular employees doing the same work, and worked for long terms (years, in many cases).\n\nThe Microsoft case centered on the language found in Microsoft's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). In that plan, Microsoft defined plan participants (those eligible to participate in the plan) as all \"common law employees\" on the company's payroll. The only employees specifically excluded under the language of the ESPP were employees who worked less than five months per year or less than half-time. In reference to the independent contractors, the court held that because Microsoft conceded they were common-law employees and not independent contractors, Microsoft had no legitimate basis for rejecting their benefit claims. With regard to the individuals provided by temporary staffing agencies, the court used the following five factor test in determining whether they were truly \"common law employees\" and therefore eligible to participate in the plan:\n\nEmployees are not entitled to benefits unless they are \"eligible\" employees under a plan, regardless of whether they meet the common-law test for \"employee\" status. In other words, a plan need not adopt or incorporate the common law definition of an employee in delineating the scope of its coverage. Employers are free to draft employee benefit plans that leave out certain groups of workers. For example, a plan can exclude contingent workers or workers hired through a third party agency. It can also exclude workers who do not elect to participate in the plan.\n\nThe case and subsequent appeals were heard in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Before a final ruling could be issued, Microsoft settled the case for US$97 million. The Microsoft permatemps collected their money almost 10 years later.\nSimultaneous with \"Vizcaino\", the United States Internal Revenue Service issued a ruling that Microsoft owed millions of dollars in payroll taxes. The IRS determined that permatemp employees were common law employees of Microsoft and the staffing firm's role was simply that of payroll processor.\n\nAs a result of the legal and tax rulings, human resources organizations at many companies changed their policies towards temporary employees. Microsoft, for example, decreed that an individual could not be a temp for more than 364 days, and that individuals must be separated from Microsoft for more than 100 days between temporary assignments with the company. Other companies have created policies stating that temporary workers can be assigned to only specific projects that last just a few months. Individuals are often prohibited from taking back-to-back assignments within an agency client company.\n\nWhen a company requires a break in service of its permatemps, the result is often that those employees regularly cycle between two companies instead of having back-to-back assignments. Other permatemps plan for personal breaks and simply use the time as vacation. In most cases, they are eligible for unemployment insurance as long as they nominally look for work. This form of permatemping may be attractive to those not wanting a steady, full-time, or year-round position, or not wanting to be committed to one position or one employer.\n\nAnother arrangement to avoid long-term serial temporary assignments is to \"in-source\" the work to be done, and not the position that does the work. In this arrangement, a company does not hire a staffing firm to fill a position, but rather hires it to do the work. The staffing firm still must hire the permatemp to do the work, still on-site at the corporation.\n\nSome of these alternative arrangements barely differ from the pre-\"Vizcaino\" format for permatemping. Laws and legal rulings continue to define the permatemp-employee relationship. The IRS continues to warn many companies they may owe employment taxes for their temporary workers and employee lawsuits over temping repeat the same arguments.\n\nDue to the 365-day rule, high value contractors (typically in IT) who choose to accept the risk of not receiving benefits and of contract termination in exchange for higher hourly rates are forced out of standard business relationships. This causes problems for both the contractor, who must continually move to new companies, and for the company, which must retrain and familiarize a new contractor with business rules and infrastructure.\n\nSome permatemps also disagree on the effectiveness of lawsuits and new laws to regulate hiring.\n\nOther critics note that the constant job turnover mandated by human resources department policies has the effect of increasing the unemployment rate, which has led to wage deflation in fields with large numbers of permatemps.\n\nIn the wake of employee lawsuits, most companies have not increased hiring of staff in positions typically held by permatemps. In fact, rather than risk lawsuits, many firms have decided not to hire within their own country at all, instead turning work formerly done by their pools of permatemps over to outsourcing firms in other countries.\n\nIn Microsoft's corporate culture, the presence of permatemps created a caste-like system. \n\nMany corporations hire temporary employees to do work they deem low-skilled or unimportant. Permatemps hired to do that work may not get the resources that a regular employee would. Permatemps might be forced to share office space, cubicles or phones when regular employees have their own. Employee badges for permatemps might be a different color, and permatemps may be recognized in the corporate e-mail system by dashes or other identifiers appended to their login ID. By declaring positions filled by permatemps to be low-skilled and making it easier for regular employees to identify their co-workers who are permatemps, companies create a sense of elitism in their regular employees. Permatemps, as a group, might be known by epithets such as \"dash trash\" (referring to an identifier and a dash prepended to an email user account) and Microsoft employees were referred to as \"Blue Badges\".\n\nFrequently permatemps are highly skilled, excellent workers, particularly in the IT field, but are still not allowed to participate in company events or receive bonuses for work well done. If they earn over the United States Department of Labor minimum for overtime exemption, they may be asked to put in similar overtime hours to benefitted, salaried employees without overtime compensation. Depending on the staffing firm and corporation policies, permatemps may discover themselves in one of several positions, all of which require the same level of work from them as from their coworkers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120837", "title": "Frank Bellamy", "text": "Frank Bellamy\n\nFrank Bellamy (21 May 1917 – 5 July 1976) was a British comics artist, best known for his work on the \"Eagle\" comic, for which he illustrated \"Heros the Spartan\" and \"Fraser of Africa\". He reworked its flagship \"Dan Dare\" strip. \n\nHe also drew \"Thunderbirds\" in a dramatic two-page format for the weekly comic \"TV Century 21\". He drew the newspaper strip \"Garth\" for the \"Daily Mirror\". His work was innovative in its graphic effects and sophisticated use of colour, and in the dynamic manner in which it broke out of the then-traditional grid system.\n\nBorn in Kettering, Northamptonshire, He started work at William Blamire's studio, in Kettering in 1933. Bellamy met his wife Nancy whilst he was stationed near Bishop Auckland during World War II and was married in 1942. In 1944 their son David was born to the couple. After the war, they lived in Kettering until 1949, when they moved to Morden in south London to be closer to publishers, most of whom were based in London. Bellamy worked freelance from home from the time he left Norfolk Studios in 1953. In 1975 the couple moved back to Kettering.\n\nWhilst in the army, Bellamy had a weekly illustration published by the \"Kettering Evening Telegraph\". Later, he worked in advertising (for Gibbs Dentifrice). In 1953, he began his first comic strip, called \"Monty Carstairs\" in \"Mickey Mouse Weekly\". Shortly after he moved to \"Swift\" where his work included \"Swiss Family Robinson\", \"King Arthur\" and \"Robin Hood\". \n\nIn 1957, he moved to \"Eagle\" and began working in colour on their back page biography strips: \"The Happy Warrior\" (the life of Winston Churchill), \"The Shepherd King\" (the life of the biblical King David), and \"The Travels of Marco Polo\" for which Bellamy only did eight episodes before moving to \"Dan Dare\". \n\nBellamy took over \"Dan Dare\" part way through the \"Terra Nova\" storyline, replacing creator Frank Hampson. It was an awkward set-up: the new owners of \"Eagle\" thought the strip looked dated, so gave Bellamy the brief of redesigning everything, from the costumes and spacecraft to the page layouts. Bellamy was left to draw the title page unaided (in contrast to Hampson's many-hands approach, where the drawing, inking, lettering and colouring were all separately completed by a team of artists), while two of Hampson's former assistants, Keith Watson and Don Harley, had to do the second page. Bellamy's redesigns were somewhat controversial and, after he left the strip a year later, the next artist was instructed to reintroduce the original designs. \n\nBellamy then went on to draw two of his most celebrated strips, \"Fraser of Africa\" and \"Heros the Spartan\". He also drew \"Montgomery of Alamein\" (the life of Field Marshal Bernard Law Montgomery) and did some work for \"Look and Learn\".\n\n\"Fraser of Africa\", one of Bellamy's artistic high-water marks, was not his idea but, as he was obsessed with Africa, he was the perfect choice to draw it. Bellamy used a monochromatic sepia colour palette to reflect the sun and desert locale, with occasional bursts of bright colour. It was a challenging and unusual approach and \"Fraser of Africa\" became the \"Eagle\"'s most popular strip. Bellamy insisted on proper research and even had a reader living in East Africa supplying reference material.\n\n\"Heros the Spartan\", a sword and sorcery adventure set in Roman times was another artistic triumph. Drawn as a two-page spread and usually organized around a complicated splash in the centre of the two pages, \"Heros\" was a bravura display of skill. The battle scenes displayed a vividness and complex layout rarely seen in comics and it won Bellamy an award (for 'Best Foreign Artist') from the American Academy of Comic Book Arts in 1972.\n\nIn November 1965, Bellamy left the fading \"Eagle\" to work for \"TV Century 21\", where he drew the centrespread \"Thunderbirds\" strip. Rather than faithfully draw puppets, he took the artistic licence of rendering the characters as real people for a more exciting strip, as was already being done by the comic's other artists (including Ron Embleton and Mike Noble) in their strips. Apart from one short break, Bellamy drew \"Thunderbirds\" throughout its run in \"TV Century 21\" and \"TV21\", leaving shortly after the comic merged with \"Joe 90 Top Secret\" to become \"TV21 & Joe 90\" in 1969. He also drew the colour splash pages for five \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" strips.\n\nBellamy's break from the \"Thunderbirds\" strip in the autumn of 1966 enabled him to work on an episode of the British TV series \"The Avengers\" entitled \"The Winged Avenger\". The story featured a villainous strip cartoonist and Bellamy was asked to create all the illustrations used in the episode. He also designed the artist's studio set and the costume of the Winged Avenger himself. Filmed in December 1966, the episode aired in February 1967.\n\nIn June 1971, Bellamy began drawing the newspaper comic strip \"Garth\" which appeared in the \"Daily Mirror\". This was the period in which intense competition with the new tabloid \"The Sun\" encouraged large helpings of nudity to be seen in British tabloids, and the strip reflected this. Bellamy's style was much more vivid than that of the original artist John Allard, and he was probably brought in to spice up the strip. Jim Edgar had been writing the strip since 1966 and shared the by-line credit with Bellamy. Bellamy applied all the graphic tricks in his arsenal from stippling and crosshatching to chiaroscuro inking to create a modern and eye-catching look for Garth unlike anything else appearing in newspapers at the time.\n\nBellamy worked continuously on \"Garth\" for the next five years, although drawing in black and white rather than colour gave him time to maintain a number of other regular commissions. During this period he drew the first comic strips \"The Sunday Times\" had ever run in its magazine as non-fiction journalism. He also regularly produced illustrations for the BBC's \"Radio Times\" television listings magazine, in particular for the \"Doctor Who\" television programme.\n\nFrank Bellamy died suddenly in 1976, at the height of his powers. He had plans for many projects, including a Western strip he was to write himself, inspired by the spaghetti westerns of Sergio Leone, three silent pages of which appeared in issue 1 of the Denis Gifford edited \"Ally Sloper\" comics magazine, but no others were completed..\n\nEagle:\n\nTV21:\n\nJoe 90 Top Secret:\n\nGarth:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120839", "title": "Nik Borrow", "text": "Nik Borrow\n\nNik Borrow is a bird artist, ornithologist and tour leader.\n\nHe is co-author and illustrator of the \"Birds of Western Africa\", in the Helm Identification Guides series (first published 2001), featuring over 1300 species and the first guide to cover all 23 West African countries. \"Birdwatch Magazine\" described the revised addition as \"essential for anyone visiting western Africa\".\n\nBorrow studied at Wimbledon School of Art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120840", "title": "Point Judith Light", "text": "Point Judith Light\n\nThe Point Judith Light is located on the west side of the entrance to Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island as well as the north side of the eastern entrance to Block Island Sound. The confluence of two waterways make this area busy with water traffic and the waters around Point Judith are very cold and dangerous. Historically, even with active lighthouses, there have been many shipwrecks off these coasts.\n\nThree light structures have been built on this site. The original tower, built in 1810, was destroyed by a hurricane in 1815. It was replaced in 1816, by another 35-foot stone tower with a revolving light and ten lamps. The present octagonal granite tower was built in 1856. The upper half of the tower is painted brown and the lower half white to make the light structure a more effective daymark for maritime traffic. In 1871, ship captains asked that Point Judith's fog signal be changed from a horn to whistle. This change distinguished the Point Judith light from the Beavertail Lighthouse, which used a siren to announce fog. A whistle could also be heard more distinctly over the sounds of the surf in the area. Point Judith Light was automated in 1954, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120842", "title": "Attack (political party)", "text": "Attack (political party)\n\nAttack () is a Bulgarian nationalist party, founded in 2005 by Volen Siderov, who was at the time presenter of the homonymous TV show \"Attack\" on SKAT TV. There are different opinions on where to place the party in the political spectrum: according to most scholars it is extreme right, according to others extreme left, or a synthesis of left- and right-wing. The leadership of the party asserts that their party is \"neither left nor right, but Bulgarian\". The party is considered ultranationalist and racist, especially anti-Roma, as well as being anti-Muslim and anti-Turkish. The party opposes Bulgarian membership in NATO and requires revision for what it calls the 'double standards' for the membership in the European Union, while members visit international Orthodox and anti-globalization congresses and the party is closely tied with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. It advocates the re-nationalisation of privatised companies and seeks to prioritize spending on education, healthcare and welfare.\n\nIn the Bulgarian parliamentary elections of 2005, 2009, and 2013 Attack was consistently the fourth-strongest party. In the 2014 European Parliament election, the party won no seats. Attack was a member of the former Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty European parliamentary group.\n\nThe Attack Party is oriented towards nationalism. Its political program consists of two documents, some 20 principles and a program schedule with 10 articles. They define Bulgaria as a one-nation state and assert the supremacy of the state and the Bulgarian nation above ethnic and religious diversity. The party program contains some radical proposals for changes in the constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, such as institutionalization of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and recognition of Orthodoxy as the official religion, as well as participation of the Church in legislative work, all important government decisions and teaching of the Church's doctrine in primary school. The 20 Principles envisage sanctions for defamation of the Bulgarian national sacraments and for slurs against Bulgaria. They require investigation of criminals grown rich and of all transactions involving politicians and foreign debt transactions, confiscation of illegally acquired property and the creation of a fund for free medical care from the confiscated property. Attack has so far called most of the present-day politicians national traitors.\n\nAccording to the 20 principles, the health, social security, education, spiritual and material prosperity of the Bulgarian nation must be priority number one for the Bulgarian government. A legal minimum wage would be introduced, corresponding to the average European wage, as the Bulgarian living standard is below the average European standard and many Bulgarians live in poverty. Another statement in the 20 Principles is that Bulgarian manufacture is mostly stolen by foreigners, and therefore trade and banks must be in Bulgarian hands, and Bulgarian business, whether public or private, must be assisted by the state both inside and outside its boundaries. Another principle states that incomes and taxes should be tailored to the needs of the Bulgarian population and \"not by the IMF and the World Bank\". The party demands general revision of the budget in favor of Bulgarian citizens as opposed to the management elite, and reduction of useless administration. Referendums are required on all issues affecting the lives of more than 10 percent of the nation. Another principle demands Bulgaria leave NATO, full neutrality, and no foreign military bases on Bulgarian territory.\n\nAttack's founder, Volen Siderov, had written many manifestos based on a groundwork of nationalism since the 1990s. His five books are dedicated to global conspiracy theories and to exposing what he calls the anti-Bulgarian policies of certain political circles in Bulgaria and abroad. According to Siderov, a small group of freemasons control the world with the help of puppet heads of state and international organizations.\n\nSiderov started an evening show named \"Attack\" on Skat TV in 2003, from where he became known in the general audience and from where the party's name comes, before officially establishing the party for the parliamentary election in June 2005. Gaining a parliamentary presence for the first time in 2005, the party remained a constant opponent of the government of Sergei Stanishev (2005–2009) and carried out numerous actions against it.\n\nOn 3 March 2006, party leader Siderov called for a meeting to be held in Sofia, and around 30,000 people came to hear speeches by him and other members of the party. During this rally, Siderov declared \"Bulgaria is not yet free. Bulgaria is still under Turkish rule\". Party speakers protested against the ruling government in Bulgaria for forming an alliance with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and allegedly ignoring ethnic Bulgarian interests. Earlier in 2006, Siderov organized a petition against a decision by the Bulgarian government to set up US military bases in Bulgaria.\n\nIn 2006, Siderov was second in the presidential election according to the exit polls. According to Siderov himself, the elections had been rigged. He claimed that the Bulgarian mafia reappointed Parvanov for a second term, and that there had been numerous violations in the voting process, that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms electorate had made numerous documented unpunished violations, including double voting and discriminatory repressive media pressure. This last referred to the lack of any television debate between Parvanov and Siderov. Skat TV – a broadcaster broadly sympathetic to Attack's position – has been dropped from some cable TV providers in Bulgaria. Attack claims this is a pre-election trick by the government, in order to silence one of its main competitors in the election; however, Clive Leviev-Sawyer, a Bulgarian Jewish journalist, cites \"consumer complaints and hate speech\" as the reasons for the channel being dropped by some providers. After personal conflict between Siderov and the owner of Skat TV, Valeri Simeonov, the owner of Skat TV left Attack and created his own new party – National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria— and will be a competitor of Siderov for the nationalist electorate in the parliamentary election. Attack has its own television program – alfa TV, but its broadcasting is limited only to some digital suppliers. The party contends that there is a blackout against them by the \"anti\" Bulgarian media, because the major Bulgarian television programmes, such as bTV, Nova TV and TV7 are corrupted and fraudulent. \n\nOn 3 March 2009, Attack organized a rally, attended by about 10,000, to celebrate the liberation of Bulgaria from \"500 years of enslavement by the Ottomans\". Some political formations in Bulgaria have avoided contact and debate with the party – the party claim this is because \"[they have] been scared from being involved in any debates with Attack, as they know they would never win\".\n\nAt the 2009 parliamentary election, Attack gained 21 seats, but later 11 left the party to become independent deputies, and the party remained at the minimum with 10 deputies. Siderov claims that the cabinet's leader Boyko Borisov bought his 11 deputies. Following the 2009 election, Borisov offered to implement some of Attack's proposals such as the referendum they had proposed against the Turkish-language news on BNT. Attack agreed to support the cabinet of the new party without demanding any ministerial posts, but when later the government declared against fulfilling Attack's proposals, Attack joined the opposition. Siderov has stated that the owner of SKAT TV, Valeri Simeonov, advised him to support the government of Borisov. Attack has accused Borisov's party and previous governments of being pawns of the oligarchy, only implementing directives and orders to the Turkish, American, Israeli and other sides and involving Bulgaria in a war in Syria.\n\nIn 2011, Attack and less demonstratively also the Bulgarian Socialist Party accused Borisov's party of buying and falsifying the elections. They have also claimed that Borisov has prepared election fraud in the 2013 parliamentary election. Attack proposed introducing scanners and cameras in the polls, a proposal rejected by Borisov.\n\nIn 2012, Attack started a process for consolidation and future electoral cooperation of all nationalist forces on the Bulgarian political landscape, including IMRO – Bulgarian National Movement, the Union of Patriotic Forces etc. On 3 March 2012, the party prеsented the leftist Plan \"Siderov – Bulgaria's new way\". The plan demands a radical increase of the minimum wage and the breakup of what it calls the 'colonial' neoliberal economic model through immediate termination of gold mining concessions, nationalization of the electricity distribution companies, fight against corruption and programs in support of the small and medium-sized businesses. The plan also advocates removal of the flat tax and development of a progressive tax system. The minimum pension and salary in Bulgaria are below 100 euro and the lowest in the European Union. Attack proposes increasing the minimum pension to 250 euro and the salary to 500. Siderov has accused Borisov's party of hindering the people from living as Europeans even though Borisov's party is named Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria, and of treating the Bulgarian people as worth ten times less than for example Germans.\n\nAccording to Volen Siderov, the number of brutal murders is increasing, most of them committed by what he calls \"Gypsy bandits and marauders\". The party has denied being either racist or nor xenophobic. Attack opposes the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, claiming that it is part of political mafia and that their leader, Ahmed Dogan, derides Bulgarian parliamentarism. The peak of the conflict between Attack and the Movement came in 2012, when the majority of the Movement in the town council of the ethnically-mixed city of Kardzhali refused to make General Vasil Delov an honorary citizen and said that the Balkan Wars were ethnic cleansing. Siderov attempted to get parliament to judge Dogan for his \"perverse disrespect\" in challenging the liberation of Bulgaria. All other parliamentary groups abstained in the following vote, except the Muslim Movement, which voted against. Following this, Attack are attempting to proceed to the constitutional court for elimination of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but for this they need signatures of 48 deputies from the parliament. A little later, Siderov proposed to the constitutional court that Kardzhali, named after the Ottoman Turkish soldier Kardzha Ali, be renamed \"Delovgrad\", after Vasil Delov, liberator of the city from Ottoman Turkish rule, and renaming the highest Musala Peak to \"Saint John of Rila Peak\", because its name is Muslim from the Ottoman Rule.\n\nAttack supports nuclear power in Bulgaria and as such it opposes the closing of blocks in the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant and supports a second nuclear power plant of Belene. Attack supported the Bulgarian Orthodox Church against the 2012 Sofia Pride gay parade and protested in the previous ones, organizing an anti-gay parade with newlyweds at the front.\n\nIts 3 MEPs participated in the short-lived Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty group (2007), which was a political group in the European Parliament composed of 23 members from European parties variously described as right-wing and nationalist.\n\nSiderov reportedly espouses anti-Masonic conspiracy theories, claiming that Masons control the world through puppet regimes, international organizations, and the press. According to Siderov, these forces seek to commit genocide against Bulgarian people. Attack opposes NATO the membership, claiming that, despite Minister of Foreign Affairs Solomon Pasi's assurances that Bulgaria would be the safest place in Europe, the reduction in strength of the Bulgarian army to 20,000 made the nation defenseless, serving Turkish interests. Siderov compared the accession of Bulgaria to NATO as a new signing of the Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine, considered as humiliating treaty for Bulgaria, signed after World War I. Although the party is ambivalent on Bulgaria's European Union membership, it has demanded a revision of some of the previous agreements (e.g. the resolution on shutting down the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant near the Danube), it claims that those who signed the EU membership, referring to Meglena Kuneva and others, are national traitors, not because of the EU membership itself, but because of the \"anti-Bulgarian\" agreements, on which it is signed. Siderov expressed respect to the Russian president Vladimir Putin, by visiting him on foot for his 60th birthday on 7 October 2012. On 8 March 2013 Siderov paid tribute to the deceased president of Venezuela Hugo Chavez at the Bolivarian republic's embassy in Sofia, where he called the deceased president an 'example for the Bulgarian patriots as a statesman'.\n\nAttack claims that the Turkish government has an hidden plan for a \"new colonization\" of the Balkan region, accusing them of erecting over a thousand mosques in the last 20 years in Bulgaria and with further plans of colonization. Bulgaria is currently the country with the most mosques in Europe per capita. Attack asked from the Turkish Prime Minister, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan $10 billion for the massacres and displacement of Thracian Bulgarians in 1913 and once, members of the party entered the parliament wearing shirts on which was written \"Erdoğan, you owe us $10 billion\"; another time with an inscription \"ATTACK says: No to Turkey in the EU\", Siderov on numerous occasions accused Turkey of genocide. Borisov's government expressed full support for the accession of Turkey to the European Union, while Attack boycotted this and insisted on a national referendum on the matter.\n\nAttack insists on the cancellation of Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine and the returning of the Western Outlands to Bulgaria, annexed by Yugoslavia after the First World War, which consists of the regions of Dimitrovgrad and Bosilegrad in Serbia, whose population according to the Serbian national census is predominantly ethnic Bulgarian, and of the region of Strumica in Republic of Macedonia. Siderov said that the treaty is invalid, because it was signed with Yugoslavia in 1919, a vanished state, and does not refer to the present-day Serbia or to the Republic of Macedonia and should be cancelled.\n\nThe first statement ever of Volen Siderov from the parliamentary tribune, for a plan for a giant genocide of the Bulgarian nation, coming from abroad: \n\nIn September 2018, Siderov apologised for his previous anti-Semitic rhetoric during a private meeting with Israeli Likud politician Oren Hazan.\n\nFollowing the Bulgarian parliamentary election in 2005, the party entered the 240-seater parliament with 21 seats and 8.1% of the vote (296,848 votes) and became the fourth largest party. At the 2006 Bulgarian presidential election, the leader of the party – Volen Siderov came second behind the incumbent president Parvanov by winning 21.5% of the vote (597,175 votes) and in the subsequent runoff between the two Siderov failed to defeat the president, having received 24.0% of the vote (649,387 votes). At the 2007 European Parliament election, the party won 3 seats and 14.2% of the vote (275,237 votes) out of 18 seats, given for Bulgarian parties.\n\nAt the parliamentary election in 2009, it remained with 21 seats and increased to 9.4% of the vote (395,707 votes). Later 11 members from the parliamentary group left and became independents and the deputies of the party decreased to 10. At the 2009 European Parliament election, it decreased to 12.0% of the vote (308,052 votes) and its seats decreased to 2. The two MEPs, which entered with the votes of the party – Dimitar Stoyanov and Slavcho Binev, left the party, the last one even founded his own new party – People for Real, Open and United Democracy (PROUD). At the 2011 presidential election, Siderov was fourth by winning 122,466 votes and 3.6% of the vote, thus not qualifying for the runoff. At the parliamentary election in 2013, the party increased its seats to 23 with 7% of the vote – making it the fourth largest party. However, the 2014 elections saw the party reduced to 11 seats.\n\nFor the 2017 election, the party joined the United Patriots electoral alliance with the IMRO – Bulgarian National Movement and the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria (NFSB). The alliance achieved third place and won 27 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120845", "title": "Topoisomerase IV", "text": "Topoisomerase IV\n\nTopoisomerase IV is one of two Type II topoisomerases in bacteria, the other being DNA gyrase. Like gyrase, topoisomerase IV is able to pass one double-strand of DNA through another double-strand of DNA, thereby changing the linking number of DNA by two in each enzymatic step. Both share a hetero-4-mer structure formed by a symmetric homodimer of A/B heterodimers, usually named \"ParC\" and \"ParE\".\n\nTopoisomerase IV has two functions in the cell. \n\nWhile topoisomerase IV does relax positive supercoils like DNA gyrase, it does not introduce further negative supercoiling like the latter enzyme.\n\nTopoisomerase IV can unknot right-handed knots and decatenate right-handed catenanes without acting on right-handed plectonemes in negatively supercoiled DNA molecules, based on geometrical specificity of juxtapositions.\n\nTopoisomerase IV is also a target of antibiotics, such as the quinolone drugs, which include ciprofloxacin.\n"}
{"id": "2120849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120849", "title": "Mézières-en-Brenne", "text": "Mézières-en-Brenne\n\nMézières-en-Brenne is a commune in the Indre department in central France.\n\nIt is located is at the heart of the Brenne regional natural park. The Brenne is one of France's most important wetlands. A large diversity of natural habitats is responsible for an abundance of wildlife of which the best known are the birds: purple heron, black-necked grebe, bittern, marsh harrier, whiskered tern, short-toed eagle. The Brenne is also Europe's most important site for the European pond tortoise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120856", "title": "Robert Adamson (photographer)", "text": "Robert Adamson (photographer)\n\nRobert Adamson (26 April 1821 – 14 January 1848) was a Scottish chemist and pioneer photographer at Hill & Adamson. He is best known for his pioneering photographic work with David Octavius Hill and producing some 2500 calotypes, mostly portraits, within 5 years after being hired by Hill in 1843, before his life was cut short.\n\nAdamson was born in St Andrews, one of ten children, and grew up in Burnside, the son of Alexander Adamson, a Fife farmer and his wife, Rachael Melville. He was educated at Madras College in St Andrews where he showed exceptional talents in mathematics and mechanics, twice winning the prize for mathematics. He became employed at an engineering shop from a young age, and apprenticed as a millwright for several months.\n\nAdamson was keen on becoming an engineer, but ill health led to him pursuing photography. He was taught calotype by his brother, John, and by the physicist David Brewster of the University of St Andrews in the late 1830s. As early as April 1839, Adamson's talents were recognized, and Fox Talbot, the inventor of the calotype, would call his pictures \"Rembrandtish\". Adamson's brother John, a general practitioner, lecturer, and curator of the University Museum, produced the first calotype in Scotland in 1841. \n\nThe young chemist, Adamson, established his photographic studio at Rock House, Calton Hill Stairs in Edinburgh, on 10 May 1843. In June, Brewster recommended Adamson to David Octavius Hill (1802–1870), a painter of romantic Scottish landscapes, who hired him; and they were commissioned in 1843 to make a group portrait of the 470 clergymen who founded the Free Church of Scotland. Hill had desired to make photographic portraits of the founders purely as reference material. This painting, however, would not be completed until 1866, long after his death.\n\nThe first studio specialising in calotypes in Edinburgh, Adamson's studio practice was said to have been \"confidential to the point of secrecy\". Hill required calotypes from which he would paint. Distinguished persons from many fields came to be photographed by the partners and within a few years they had taken the art scene by storm in Scotland. Together they made around 2500 portraits, some say 3000 or more, and numerous views of Edinburgh between 1843 and 1848, exhibiting in 1844, 1845 and 1846. Their prints were sold at the Princes Street gallery of Alexander Hill. After Hill and Adamson decided to publish their work, they purchased a specialised camera in 1844, but their plans to produce albums, paid by subscription, did not gain traction.\n\nTheir depictions, in soft reddish-brown or sepia, included local and Fife landscapes and urban scenes, including images of the Scott Monument, under construction in Edinburgh. They produced several groundbreaking \"action\" photographs of soldiers and – perhaps their most famous photograph – two priests walking side by side. Their depictions of groups and children were unrivaled. As well as the great and the good, they photographed ordinary working folk, particularly the fishermen of Newhaven and their wives. Their social documentary series on Newhaven fishing families, which depicted living conditions and community relationships, was to be the most notable work of the partnership. \n\nBy mid-1847, the studio stopped production due to the failing health of Adamson. Thinking to recuperate amidst his family, Adamson returned to St. Andrews. He died on 14 January 1848, at the age of 26.\n\nIn 1851, the works of Hill & Adamson's appeared at The Great Exhibition. Hill returned to painting, but it wasn't until 1872 that their work was rediscovered. In 1905, 1912, and 1914, some of their works appeared in \"Camera Work\". There were also several New York City exhibits at Alfred Stieglitz's 291 Art Gallery and at the National Arts Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120866", "title": "Delaware Route 1", "text": "Delaware Route 1\n\nDelaware Route 1 (DE 1) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Delaware. The route runs from the Maryland border in Fenwick Island, Sussex County, where it continues south into that state as Maryland Route 528 (MD 528), north to an interchange with DE 58 in Christiana, New Castle County, where the road continues north as DE 7. Between Fenwick Island and Dover Air Force Base in Dover, Kent County, DE 1 is a four- to six-lane surface divided highway with occasional interchanges. The route heads north past the Delaware Beaches along the Atlantic Ocean before it runs northwest through rural areas, turning north at Milford to continue to Dover. Upon reaching Dover, DE 1 becomes the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway, a four- to six-lane freeway that is tolled. Between Dover and Tybouts Corner, DE 1 parallels U.S. Route 13 (US 13), crossing over and featuring interchanges with it multiple times. Past Tybouts Corner, the freeway heads north to Christiana, reaching an interchange with Interstate 95 (I-95) a short distance before its terminus. DE 1 serves as the main north-south state route in Delaware, connecting the Delaware Beaches with the Dover and Wilmington areas.\n\nDE 1 was first designated in the 1970s between Fenwick Island and US 113 in Milford, replacing a portion of DE 14 and following the newly constructed Milford Bypass. DE 14 between Fenwick Island and Milford had been built as a state highway in the 1920s and 1930s and was widened into a divided highway between the 1950s and 1970s. In the 1980s, a limited-access \"Relief Route\" for US 13 was proposed between Dover and the Wilmington area in order to relieve that route of beach traffic. This proposed highway would be incorporated into DE 1 in 1988, with the route extended up US 113 between Milford and Dover to connect to the Relief Route. The tolled DE 1 freeway between Dover Air Force Base and Christiana opened in multiple stages between 1991 and 2003, and at a cost of $900 million was the largest public works project in Delaware history. The concurrent US 113 designation north of Milford was removed in 2004. Upgrades continue to be made to DE 1 such as the construction and improvement of interchanges as well as widening portions of the road.\n\nDE 1 begins at MD 528 at the Maryland border in Fenwick Island, where it heads north along a divided highway called Coastal Highway through the Delaware Beaches along the Atlantic Ocean, crossing the Indian River Inlet on the Indian River Inlet Bridge. In Dewey Beach, the route turns northwest away from the ocean, running through commercial development from Rehoboth Beach to Nassau. Past Nassau, DE 1 leaves the Delaware Beaches and runs northwest through rural areas in northern Sussex County. The route bypasses Milford to the east along the Milford Bypass, crossing into Kent County. After an interchange with US 113, DE 1 becomes Bay Road and heads north through more rural areas, passing east of Frederica. The route becomes a freeway near Magnolia and becomes a toll road called the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway while passing Dover Air Force Base. DE 1 bypasses the city of Dover to the east and becomes parallel to US 13. The route passes east of Smyrna and enters New Castle County, where it crosses US 13 several times. The toll road section of the DE 1 freeway ends in Biddles Corner and the route crosses the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal on the Senator William V. Roth Jr. Bridge. DE 1 becomes concurrent with US 13 from Wrangle Hill to Tybouts Corner, where US 13 splits to the northeast. The DE 1 freeway continues north to Christiana, where DE 7 joins the route. The road has an interchange with I-95 before DE 1 ends at an interchange with DE 58, with DE 7 continuing north as an at-grade divided highway.\n\nDE 1 serves as a major route connecting northern Delaware to the Delaware Beaches and sees heavy traffic in the summer months. The peak travel periods in the summer are southbound on Friday evenings, Saturday afternoons, and northbound on Sunday afternoons. DE 1 serves as a primary hurricane evacuation route from the Delaware Beaches and points along the Delaware Bay to inland locations in northern Delaware. The sections of DE 1 between DE 12 in Frederica and Clapham Road in Little Heaven and Trap Shooters Road in Magnolia and DE 9 near Dover Air Force Base are designated as part of the Delaware's Bayshore Byway, a Delaware Byway. The section of DE 1 between the south end of the DE 7 concurrency and the northern terminus at DE 58 in Christiana is part of the Washington–Rochambeau Revolutionary Route, a National Historic Trail. DE 1 has an annual average daily traffic count ranging from a high of 116,110 vehicles at the US 13 interchange north of Smyrna to a low of 10,590 vehicles at the southern boundary of South Bethany. The entire length of DE 1 is part of the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nDE 1 begins at the Maryland border in the Delaware Beaches town of Fenwick Island in Sussex County, where the road continues south into the town of Ocean City as MD 528. From this point, DE 1 heads north on four-lane divided Coastal Highway. A block after the state line, the route intersects the eastern terminus of DE 54. The road continues north through business areas with some residences a short distance to the west of the Atlantic Ocean. DE 1 passes west of the Bethany-Fenwick Area Chamber of Commerce Information Center as it leaves Fenwick Island and heads into Fenwick Island State Park, running along a narrow strip of land with the Little Assawoman Bay to the west and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. The route passes a small area of residential development before it goes through more of the state park. The road runs through York Beach and enters the town of South Bethany, where it passes through residential areas. DE 1 heads into commercial areas in Middlesex Beach and briefly curves northwest before turning north again and continuing into the town of Bethany Beach, where the road name changes to Delaware Avenue. The route runs past residences and comes to an intersection with DE 26, which heads east into the commercial center of Bethany Beach. The road curves northeast and leaves Bethany Beach as it passes to the east of a Delaware National Guard training site. Continuing north, DE 1 becomes Coastal Highway again and heads past the community of Sussex Shores, running between wooded areas to the west and beachfront homes to the east. Farther north, the route crosses into Delaware Seashore State Park, where it travels along a strip of land between the Indian River Bay to the west and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. DE 1 comes to a right-in/right-out access point to the South Inlet area of the park before it crosses over the Indian River Inlet on the cable-stayed Indian River Inlet Bridge.\nPast the bridge, the road passes to the east of a United States Coast Guard station and continues north through more of the state park between the Rehoboth Bay to the west and the Atlantic Ocean to the east. The route travels near the Indian River Life-Saving Station and two fire control towers from World War II before it leaves Delaware Seashore State Park and enters the town of Dewey Beach. At this point, DE 1 passes homes prior to running through business areas. The route comes to an intersection with the southern terminus of DE 1A, which heads north towards the city of Rehoboth Beach. At this intersection, DE 1 turns northwest away from the Atlantic Ocean and passes through residential areas with some commercial development. The road leaves Dewey Beach and continues to a right-in/right-out interchange with DE 1B, which heads north into Rehoboth Beach. Immediately after, the route crosses over the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal on a high-level, twin span crossing and enters commercial areas. After the bridge, the road has a southbound ramp and a northbound right-in/right-out serving Oyster House Road, which allows U-turns from the southbound direction to the northbound direction, and gains a southbound combined right turn, bus, and bicycle lane.\n\nDE 1 intersects the northern terminus of DE 1A, which serves as an access road to Rehoboth Beach, at which point it widens to eight lanes with six travel lanes and a combined right turn, bus, and bicycle lane in each direction. The road passes more businesses, with the Rehoboth Avenue Extension service road running parallel to the northbound lanes to the Shuttle Road/Sea Blossom Boulevard intersection. Shuttle Road heads south to the Rehoboth Beach Park and Ride, a park and ride facility serving DART First State buses. Following this, the roadway passes between two sections of the Tanger Outlets Rehoboth Beach outlet mall. Farther northwest, the route passes northeast of the Rehoboth Mall and comes to an intersection with the eastern terminus of DE 24 and the southern terminus of DE 1D in Midway. DE 1 passes to the northeast of another part of the Tanger Outlets as it is lined with more businesses. In Carpenters Corner, the route intersects US 9, which travels northeast to provide access to the city of Lewes, Cape Henlopen State Park, and the Cape May–Lewes Ferry across the Delaware Bay. At this point, DE 1 becomes concurrent with US 9, and the two routes run through woods before curving west past businesses and passing north of the Lewes Transit Center park and ride serving DART First State buses. In Five Points, US 9 splits from DE 1 by heading west concurrent with DE 404, with access to the northern termini of DE 23 and DE 1D, while US 9 Bus. heads northeast towards Lewes. At this intersection, access from eastbound US 9/DE 404 to northbound DE 1 is provided by a reverse jughandle. Past Five Points, DE 1 narrows back to four lanes and heads south of a park and pool lot located at a church before it bypasses Nassau to the southwest, curving northwest to pass over the Lewes-to-Georgetown Trail on a bridge.\n\nAfter the bridge over the trail, DE 1 leaves the Delaware Beaches area and heads into a mix of farm fields and residential and commercial development, traveling to the northeast of Red Mill Pond. The road intersects Cave Neck Road in the community of Overbrook and passes northeast of Eagle Crest Aerodrome and Hudson Fields as it continues through more agricultural areas with some residential subdivisions and woods. The route crosses over the Broadkill River and passes to the southwest of a golf course before it comes to a junction with DE 16, which heads west to the town of Milton and east to Broadkill Beach along the Delaware Bay. Following this, DE 1 continues through farmland and woodland to the southwest of the Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge, reaching an intersection with the northern terminus of DE 5. Immediately after this intersection, the road travels across Waples Mill Pond along the Primehook Creek and runs north-northwest through more agricultural areas, crossing Slaughter Creek. The route curves northwest as it bypasses the community of Argos Corner to the southwest. Past here, DE 1 crosses Cedar Creek and passes near a couple residential subdivisions before intersecting Johnson Road. A short distance later, the road reaches an interchange connecting to DE 30 near Bayhealth Hospital, Sussex Campus. After this interchange, the route comes to a northbound exit and southbound entrance with the southern terminus of DE 1 Bus., which heads northwest into the city of Milford. At this point, DE 1 curves north and becomes the Milford Bypass, which heads around the eastern part of the city. The route passes between residential development to the west and farmland to the east before turning northwest into wooded areas and coming to a diamond interchange with DE 36.\nPast this interchange, DE 1 crosses the Mispillion River into Kent County and continues northwest to an interchange with the eastern terminus of DE 14. The road runs between commercial development to the southwest and a wooded residential neighborhood to the northeast, coming to a southbound exit and a northbound exit and entrance with Northeast 10th Street; there is no access across DE 1 at this interchange. The route passes near more development before it comes to a southbound exit and northbound entrance with the northern terminus of US 113 and DE 1 Bus. at the northern end of Milford. Past this interchange, DE 1 becomes Bay Road and crosses Swan Creek to the east of Tub Mill Pond before it runs through a mix of farmland and residential and commercial areas. The route intersects Thompsonville Road at a partial cloverleaf interchange and continues through farmland with some woods and development, crossing Old Baptist Church Branch. The road curves northwest and comes to an interchange with Frederica Road, which heads northwest to the town of Frederica, as it passes southwest of the DE Turf Sports Complex that is served by the interchange. DE 1 bends to the north and bypasses Frederica to the east, crossing over the Murderkill River. The route has an interchange with the eastern terminus of DE 12, which heads south into Frederica. The road runs north through agricultural areas, passing to the west of Barratt's Chapel, before it reaches the community of Little Heaven. Here, DE 1 comes to an interchange that connects to Bowers Beach Road, which travels east to the town of Bowers Beach along the Delaware Bay, and Clapham Road, which heads northwest towards the town of Magnolia and Rising Sun; at this interchange, Old Beach Road serves as a service road to the west while Little Heaven Road serves as a service road to the east. Following this, the road runs through farmland with some woods before coming to a right-in/right-out interchange with Trap Shooters Road, a road that connects to Barkers Landing Road, which provides access to Magnolia. At this point, the route transitions from a four-lane divided surface road to a freeway. DE 1 crosses over the St. Jones River in marshland on the Barkers Landing Bridge and continues north to a diamond interchange with the southern terminus of DE 9, at which point it enters the city limits of Dover. At this interchange, the route turns northwest and passes between an asphalt plant to the southwest and the runways of Dover Air Force Base to the northeast, with a southbound right-in/right-out serving the asphalt plant.\n\nAlong the Dover Air Force Base boundary, DE 1 becomes the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway. The first interchange is a northbound exit and entrance which serves the Commercial Gate of Dover Air Force Base. The freeway passes between the air base golf course to the southwest and various base buildings to the northeast before it reaches a diamond interchange with Old Lebanon Road serving the Main Gate to the northeast and base housing to the southwest. After this, the route continues between base residences and the main part of the base prior to reaching a northbound exit and southbound entrance at the eastern terminus of DE 10 and Bay Road that also serves the North Gate of Dover Air Force Base; the route becomes a toll road at this interchange. DE 1 runs north along the west side of Bay Road before it passes over it, where there is a southbound exit and entrance and a northbound entrance that serves to provide access to DE 10 from southbound DE 1 and to northbound DE 1 from DE 10. Immediately after this is a southbound exit and northbound entrance with the Puncheon Run Connector freeway, which heads west towards US 13. The freeway continues north along the eastern edge of Dover and comes to a southbound exit and northbound entrance at DE 8, which provides access to downtown Dover to the west and the town of Little Creek to the east. Past this interchange, the highway turns northwest through rural areas, crossing the Little River before it comes to the Dover mainline toll plaza. DE 1 passes to the northeast of Dover International Speedway, running between campgrounds belonging to the race track, and comes to a trumpet interchange that provides access to US 13 and Scarborough Road, serving the northern part of Dover. This interchange has a toll plaza on the southbound exit and northbound entrance. Following this interchange, the toll road leaves Dover and crosses Dyke Branch as it continues through wooded areas with some fields and nearby development. The route heads to the east of the town of Cheswold, passing under DE 42 without an interchange and crossing Alston Branch. The freeway curves north and heads across the Leipsic River. DE 1 continues thorough rural areas a short distance to the east of US 13 before it reaches the town of Smyrna. Here, the freeway comes to a trumpet interchange serving US 13 at the southern edge of town, with tolls on the southbound exit and northbound entrance. The highway runs to the east of Smyrna and crosses Mill Creek, heading between residential development to the west and rural land to the east and passing under DE 6 with no access.\nDE 1 curves northwest and crosses the Duck Creek into New Castle County, where it heads through farmland with some woods. The road features a virtual weigh station for trucks in the northbound direction, where trucks can be weighed at highway speeds. The route crosses US 13 at an interchange to the north of Smyrna, with access to the Smyrna Rest Area along US 13. The tollway continues northwest through rural areas to the west of US 13, curving north and crossing over Sandom Branch and the highway once to briefly travel along its east side. The freeway crosses the Blackbird Creek prior to another bridge over US 13 to again run to the west of it as it passes to the east of the town of Townsend, crossing Herring Run along this stretch. DE 1 heads north and closely follows along the west side of US 13 as it runs through more rural areas with residential development to the east. The freeway turns northwest away from US 13 and crosses the Appoquinimink River, passing to the northeast of a residential neighborhood before coming to a diamond interchange with DE 299, which provides access to the town of Middletown to the west and the town of Odessa and US 13 to the east. Past this interchange, DE 1 curves northeast and passes over US 13 again before it turns north and crosses Drawyer Creek. The freeway continues north a short distance to the east of US 13 past residential subdivisions as it comes to a diamond interchange with Pole Bridge Road, which heads west to intersect US 13 and the southern terminus of DE 896 in Boyds Corner. This interchange has tolls on the northbound exit and southbound entrance. After this interchange, DE 1 curves northwest and crosses over US 13, turning north and reaching the Biddles Corner mainline toll plaza, which marks the north end of tolling along DE 1.\nAfter the toll plaza, DE 1 widens to six lanes and comes to a southbound exit and northbound entrance with the northern terminus of the US 301 toll road. Immediately after, the route has a southbound exit and northbound entrance providing access to US 13 in St. Georges; the southbound exit connects to US 13 by way of Lorewood Grove Road while the northbound entrance consists of a direct ramp from US 13 starting from that route's intersection with Port Penn Road that merges into the ramp from US 301. The freeway turns northwest and crosses the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal and the Michael N. Castle Trail on the north bank of the canal on the cable-stayed Senator William V. Roth Jr. Bridge. The highway passes through a mix of fields and residential subdivisions and curves north, crossing Dragon Creek before coming to a diverging diamond interchange with US 13 and DE 72 to the west of the city of Delaware City. At this point, US 13 becomes concurrent with DE 1, with the freeway running through farmland and passing over Norfolk Southern's Reybold Industrial Track railroad line and DE 7 to the west of PBF Energy's Delaware City Refinery. US 13 and DE 1 cross Red Lion Creek and continue concurrent to Tybouts Corner, where DE 1 splits at an interchange to continue as a freeway and US 13 heads northeast as a surface divided highway. Within this interchange is the northern terminus of DE 71, which southbound DE 1 has a direct ramp to. Past Tybouts Corner, DE 1 narrows to four lanes and travels north past residential subdivisions, passing over Norfolk Southern's New Castle Secondary railroad line prior to the US 40 interchange in Bear. The highway continues north and reaches a diamond interchange with DE 273 in Christiana. The freeway runs through wooded areas and crosses the Christina River before it comes to an interchange with DE 7 and Mall Road that serves the Christiana Mall to the east of the road. At this point, DE 7 joins DE 1 on the freeway, passing to the west of the mall before coming to a modified cloverleaf interchange with I-95 (Delaware Turnpike) that has flyover ramps from northbound DE 1/DE 7 to northbound I-95 and from southbound I-95 to southbound DE 1/DE 7. Past I-95, the freeway heads through commercial areas prior to an interchange with DE 58. At this point, DE 1 and the freeway end while DE 7 continues north as a divided highway with at-grade intersections.\n\nThe Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway portion of DE 1 is a toll road, with mainline toll plazas at Dover and Biddles Corner and ramp tolls at exit 104 for US 13 in North Dover (southbound off, northbound on), exit 114 for US 13 in South Smyrna (southbound off, northbound on), and exit 142 for DE 896 in Boyds Corner (northbound off, southbound on). As of August 1, 2014, the Delaware Department of Transportation (DelDOT) charges a total of $2 on weekdays ($6 on weekends) for passenger vehicles to travel the entire length of the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway, with the mainline toll plazas at Dover and Biddles Corner charging passenger vehicles $1 on weekdays ($3 on weekends). Weekend tolls are in effect from 7:00 pm Friday until 11:00 pm Sunday. DelDOT charges passenger vehicles $0.50 for the ramp tolls at exit 104 and exit 142 and $0.25 for the ramp tolls at exit 114. Tolls may be paid with cash or E-ZPass. A discount is available for motorists with E-ZPass exiting northbound and entering southbound at exits 104 and 114 north of the Dover toll plaza as well as entering northbound and exiting southbound at exit 142 south of the Biddles Corner toll plaza. This discount is $0.50 for passenger vehicles at exits 104 and 142 and $0.25 for passenger vehicles at exit 114. There is also a frequent user plan in which E-ZPass users who make at least 30 trips in 30 days receive a 50% discount on tolls.\n\nTolls at the Dover and Biddles Corner mainline toll plazas were originally $1 for passenger vehicles the whole week. E-ZPass became operational along DE 1 on April 6, 1999. The Biddles Corner mainline toll plaza opened with high-speed E-ZPass lanes in 1999. On May 24, 2004, a dedication ceremony was held marking the completion of construction of high-speed E-ZPass lanes at the Dover mainline toll plaza, with DelDOT secretary Nathan Hayward III and Dover Mayor Stephen Speed in attendance; the lanes opened to traffic on May 27. On October 1, 2007, tolls on weekends at the Dover and Biddles Corner mainline toll plazas were increased to $2 for passenger vehicles in order to fund statewide transportation projects. Commercial vehicle tolls also increased by $1 on weekdays and $2 on weekends at this time. On August 1, 2014, the weekend tolls at Dover and Biddles Corner increased to $3 for passenger vehicles in order to again provide funding to transportation projects across the state.\n\nThe portion of DE 1 between Milford and Little Heaven was initially built as part of the DuPont Highway, a highway that spanned the state from Selbyville to Wilmington. The highway was proposed as a modern road that was part of a philanthropic measure. This roadway was planned to improve travel and bring economic development to Kent and Sussex counties. The DuPont Highway was to be modeled after the great boulevards of Europe and was to have a wide right-of-way consisting of a wide roadway for automobiles flanked by dual trolley lines, wide roadways for heavy vehicles, wide unpaved roadways for horses, and sidewalks. Utilities were to be buried underground below the horse roadways. The highway was also to include agricultural experimental stations and monuments for future surveying. Trolley revenues would help pay for the construction of the roadway. After portions of the DuPont Highway were built, these portions were planned to be turned over to the state at no charge.\n\nIn 1911, the Coleman DuPont Road, Inc. was established and construction on the highway began. By 1912, construction was interrupted by litigation challenging both the constitutionality of the law establishing the road building corporation and the need for DuPont to acquire such a large right-of-way. DuPont would narrow the proposed right-of-way to in order to compromise with opponents of the highway in addition to offering landowers whose properties were affected by the highway five times the assessed value of the land five years after the highway was completed. The DuPont Highway would end up being built on a alignment with a wide roadway. The DuPont Highway north of Milford would be both designed and constructed by Delaware State Highway Department (DSHD). A portion of the road north of Milford and from Frederica to Little Heaven were completed by 1920. The portion of the DuPont Highway from north of Milford to Frederica was under construction in 1920 and completed by 1923, the same year the last section of the entire Selbyville–Wilmington highway was completed near Odessa. When the U.S. Highway System was designated in 1926, this portion of the DuPont Highway became a part of US 113.\n\nThe portion of DE 1 between Little Heaven and Dover Air Force Base was built as part of a Dover bypass for US 113. This bypass was built atop existing Bay Road north of the present-day DE 9 interchange and on a new alignment south of there. The new highway between Little Heaven and Bay Road would cross the St. Jones River at a site called Barkers Landing. Between December 1931 and the end of 1933, DSHD constructed a causeway across of the marsh on the east bank of the river, a process that required multiple applications of fill dirt and dynamite to create a stable surface for a modern highway. A Scherzer rolling lift bascule bridge was constructed across the St. Jones River in 1934. Bay Road was widened and the new sections of highway were built with wide concrete pavement starting in 1934. US 113 was relocated to the bypass when the new highway opened for Memorial Day in 1935.\n\nUS 113 was widened into a divided highway from north of Milford to south of Frederica and around Dover Air Force Base in 1959. A four-lane divided bypass to the east of Frederica was constructed in 1965, with the former alignment of US 113 through Frederica now Frederica Road. US 113 between Frederica and Little Heaven was expanded in 1975. US 113 between Little Heaven and Dover Air Force Base was expanded to a divided highway in 1984 and 1985; this project included replacing the two-lane drawbridge over the St. Jones River with a four-lane girder bridge.\nWhat would become DE 1 between Milford and Rehoboth Beach was originally a county road by 1920. By 1924, the road was proposed as a state highway between Nassau and Rehoboth Beach. A year later, the state highway was completed between Milford and Cedar Creek and from Nassau to just west of Rehoboth Beach, with the sections between Cedar Creek and Nassau and into Rehoboth Beach under proposal. In 1927, the state highway between Milford and Rehoboth Beach was completed with the construction of a bascule bridge over the Broadkill River. In 1931, a state gravel road was extended from Bethany Beach to the Indian River Inlet, providing access to the inlet for recreational purposes. In January 1933, bids were made for construction of a gravel road from Dewey Beach south to the Indian River Inlet as well as for a timber bridge across the inlet, connecting with the gravel road between the Indian River Inlet and Bethany Beach. This gravel road would provide a direct connection between Bethany Beach and Rehoboth Beach and would provide better access to the Atlantic coast for recreation. The Ocean Highway between Bethany Beach and Rehoboth Beach was completed in 1933. Towards the end of that year, the roadway between Bethany Beach and Indian River Inlet was paved, with recommendations to pave the road north from the Indian River Inlet toward Rehoboth Beach. In 1934, the Ocean Highway between the Indian River Inlet and Rehoboth Beach was paved. The same year, recommendations were made to extend the Ocean Highway south from Bethany Beach to Fenwick Island, where it would lead to a Maryland state highway continuing to Ocean City.\n\nWhen Delaware designated its state highway system by 1936, the state highway between Milford and Bethany Beach became a part of DE 14, which continued west from Milford to the Maryland border near Burrsville, Maryland. In 1939, a southern extension of DE 14 was built between Bethany Beach and the Maryland border in Fenwick Island as a gravel road. In 1940, a swing bridge opened across the Indian River Inlet. The same year, work began for a bypass of the route between Dewey Beach and west of Rehoboth Beach, which included a bascule bridge over the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal. In 1942, the Rehoboth Beach bypass for DE 14 was completed. In addition, the roadway was paved between Fenwick Island and Bethany Beach by that year. In 1952, a new swing bridge opened across the Indian River Inlet after the previous bridge was destroyed by ice and tides in 1948.\nThe route was widened into a divided highway between DE 18 (now US 9/DE 404) in Nassau and Rehoboth Beach in 1954 in order to provide relief to traffic heading to the beaches. Channelized intersections were built at DE 18 in Nassau and Rehoboth Avenue in Rehoboth Beach. As part of this widening, DE 14 was moved to a new alignment to bypass Wescoats Corner, removing a concurrency with DE 18; the bypassed alignment of DE 14 is now US 9 Bus. (which replaced DE 18) and Wescoats Road. In 1965, a new dual bridge was constructed across the Indian River Inlet. By 1966, DE 14A was designated onto the former alignment of DE 14 through Rehoboth Beach. The divided highway portion of DE 14 was extended north to DE 16, which included a bypass of Nassau, and between the Indian River Inlet and South Bethany in 1967. The former alignment of DE 14 through Nassau is now Nassau Road. By 1967, a divided bypass of Milford running from DE 14 southeast of Milford to US 113 north of Milford was under proposal. Structural design on the Milford Bypass began in 1968. In 1969, design work began on widening DE 14 into a divided highway between DE 16 and the Milford Bypass. The route was widened into a divided highway between Dewey Beach and the Indian River Inlet the same year. In 1971, the divided Miford Bypass between DE 14 southeast of Milford and US 113 north of Milford was completed. In 1971, a contract was awarded to widen DE 14 to a divided highway between Fenwick Island and South Bethany. This widening project was completed a year later. In 1973, construction was underway to make DE 14 a divided highway from the Milford Bypass to DE 16, which included a bypass of Argos Corner; this was completed in 1974. The former alignment of DE 14 through Argos Corner is now Argos Corner Road.\n\nIn 1974, DE 1 was signed concurrent with DE 14 east of Milford and on the Milford Bypass. Work began in 1975 to widen the portion of DE 14 bypassing Rehoboth Beach, which included a new bridge over the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal. In 1977, DE 14 was truncated to Milford, with DE 1 replacing the route between Fenwick Island and the south end of the Milford Bypass. As a result of this, DE 14A was renumbered to DE 1A. A new high-level bridge carrying DE 1 over the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal opened in 1978. By 1981, DE 1 was widened to a divided highway between Dewey Beach and southwest of Rehoboth Beach except for the crossing of the canal. In 1985, the crossing over the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal was dualized with a high-level bridge constructed for northbound traffic. DE 1 was designated along US 113 between Milford and Dover in 1988. In 1991, DelDOT enacted corridor preservation measures on DE 1, including its concurrency with US 113, from Dover Air Force Base to Nassau to prevent excessive development along the corridor so it can gradually be transformed into a freeway. The same year, a jughandle was built between eastbound US 9/DE 404 and northbound DE 1 as part of an reconfiguration of the Five Points intersection that separated the DE 23 and Plantation Road intersection from US 9/DE 404.\n\nIn 2004, the concurrent US 113 designation along DE 1 between Milford and Dover Air Force Base was removed. Between September 2003 and May 2004, a $5 million improvement project took place on DE 1 between Dewey Beach and the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal bridge that added sidewalks on both sides of the road, median modifications, improvements to pavement, drainage, and intersections, and installed new pedestrian and traffic signals. In 2004, DelDOT began a study on converting the Five Points intersection into an interchange in addition to constructing the Western Parkway. The Western Parkway would have provided a road corridor from DE 1 north of Five Points south to DE 24, running to the west of DE 1. The parkway, which was intended to provide another north-south corridor in the area, would have had partial control of access, featuring intersections with existing roads but no private driveways or access to new development. Alternatives for these projects were presented at public workshops between 2004 and 2008, although the projects were cancelled due to lack of support and financial limitations. On September 11, 2006, work began on a $9.7 million project to widen DE 1 between DE 24 in Midway and US 9 in Five Points by adding a third southbound lane and a multi-use lane in both directions. The project was completed on June 9, 2008.\nIn 2009, work began to replace the steel-girder Indian River Inlet Bridge with a cable-stayed span due to scouring that had occurred to the steel girder bridge. The new Indian River Inlet Bridge opened to southbound traffic on January 20, 2012. Delaware Governor Jack Markell, U.S. Senator Tom Carper, and DelDOT Secretary Shailen Bhatt rode in the first car across the bridge. On January 30, 2012, one northbound lane of the new bridge opened. All four lanes of the bridge as well as the pedestrian and bicycle walkway opened in early 2012. Demolition of the 1965 bridge began in early 2012 and was completed in early 2013.\n\nIn September 2014, a $7.2 million project began for pedestrian improvements to the stretch of DE 1 between the bridge over the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal in Rehoboth Beach and Nassau, which sees heavy pedestrian and bicycle traffic during the summer months. The project added a continuous sidewalk along this segment of road, multiple new crosswalks, and new and improved bus stops. The pedestrian improvement project was completed on June 13, 2016, with Governor Markell, DelDOT secretary Jennifer Cohan, State Representative Peter Schwartzkopf, and State Senator Ernesto Lopez in attendance at a ceremony to mark the completion of the project.\n\nDelDOT has replaced several at-grade intersections along DE 1 south of Dover with grade-separated interchanges in order to improve traffic flow and safety, particularly in the summer months when the route sees heavy beach traffic. On October 27, 2008, construction began on an interchange at DE 9 near Dover Air Force Base, with Governor Ruth Ann Minner in attendance at the groundbreaking ceremony. Construction of the interchange at DE 9 was completed in 2009. In November 2009, construction began for a grade-separated interchange with DE 12 in Frederica; the interchange was completed in June 2011. In September 2011, the median crossover at the Wilkins Road intersection near the northern terminus of DE 30 was permanently closed ahead of a project to construct an interchange with DE 30. The median crossover at DE 30 Alt. (Johnson Road) was modified to prohibit left turns from northbound DE 30 Alt. to northbound DE 1; only allowing motorists to turn from northbound DE 30 Alt. to southbound DE 1 and to access southbound DE 30 Alt. from both directions of DE 1. In November 2012, construction began on an interchange at DE 30 southeast of Milford. The interchange between DE 1 and DE 30 was completed in July 2014. On January 31, 2015, groundbreaking took place for an interchange at Thompsonville Road north of Milford, with Governor Markell and DelDOT secretary Bhatt in attendance. Construction of this interchange involved extending Thompsonville Road west from DE 1 to an intersection with Church Hill Road and Tub Mill Pond Road. The interchange at Thompsonville Road opened in November 2016.\n\nOn November 9, 2015, construction began on an interchange at Bowers Beach Road and Clapham Road in Little Heaven, with Governor Markell, DelDOT secretary Cohan, U.S. Senators Carper and Chris Coons, and Speaker of the Delaware House of Representatives Peter Schwartzkopf in attendance at the groundbreaking ceremony. Work on the interchange at Bowers Beach Road and Clapham Road built service roads on both sides of the route with a bridge carrying DE 1 over Bowers Beach Road. On December 20, 2017, the ramps connecting southbound DE 1 and Clapham Road opened. The east service road, called Little Heaven Road, was opened on February 27, 2018 and served as the temporary northbound lanes of DE 1 while the bridges over Bowers Beach Road were being built. The new alignment carrying DE 1 over Bowers Beach Road opened to traffic on March 4, 2019; at the same time, access to Bowers Beach Road and Clapham Road transitioned to the ramps and service roads. Two-way traffic was implemented on the Old Beach Road service road to the west on June 14, 2019 and on the Little Heaven Road service road to the east on July 12, 2019. The Little Heaven interchange project cost $44 million and eliminated the last traffic signals along DE 1 in Kent County. A ribbon-cutting ceremony for the interchange took place on August 13, 2019, with Governor John Carney, Lieutenant Governor Bethany Hall-Long, members of the Delaware General Assembly, and DelDOT secretary Cohan in attendance.\n\nOn March 18, 2016, a groundbreaking ceremony took place to build an interchange at Frederica Road south of Frederica, with Governor Markell, Senator Carper, and Kent County Administrator Michael J. Petit de Mange present at the ceremony. The Frederica Road interchange south of Frederica opened to traffic on July 10, 2018. A ribbon-cutting ceremony for this interchange was held on August 10, 2018, with Governor Carney, Senator Carper, U.S. Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester, and DelDOT secretary Cohan in attendance. On March 26, 2018, a groundbreaking ceremony was held to construct an interchange at DE 14 in Milford; Governor Carney, Senator Carper, U.S. Representative Blunt Rochester, and DelDOT secretary Cohan attended the ceremony. Construction of the interchange at DE 14 in Milford eliminated the at-grade intersections with DE 14 and Northeast 10th Street and also built a connector road from DE 14 to Northeast 10th Street. A ribbon-cutting ceremony for the DE 14 interchange took place on May 18, 2019, with DelDOT secretary Cohan, Senator Carper, and State Representative Bryan Shupe in attendance.\n\nThere are plans to replace three more at-grade intersections along the route with grade separated interchanges. The three intersections to be upgraded to interchanges are DE 16 east of Milton, Cave Neck Road east of Milton, and Minos Conaway Road in Nassau. The proposed interchange at DE 16 is in the semi-final design stage with construction planned to begin in mid-2021 and be completed in the early part of 2024. Construction of the interchange at Cave Neck Road is planned to start in 2025 and be finished in 2026. In August 2019, the median crossover at Cave Neck Road was modified to prohibit left turns from Cave Neck Road to northbound DE 1 along with U-turns from southbound DE 1; only allowing motorists to turn from Cave Neck Road to southbound DE 1 and to access Cave Neck Road from both directions of DE 1. Project development on the interchange at Minos Conaway Road began in 2018 and is slated to end in 2022, with construction beginning in early 2023 and ending in the later part of 2025. As part of constructing the interchange at Minos Conaway Road, nine median crossovers will be eliminated along DE 1 and traffic will be directed to the interchange. There are also plans to modify the median crossovers at Oyster Rocks Road, Hudson Road, and DE 5 by restricting turning movements, with modifications to be completed in 2020.\n\nThere are plans to build a direct ramp from southbound DE 1 to US 9/DE 404 at the DE 1D/DE 23 intersection as part of a reconfiguration of the intersection between US 9/DE 404 and DE 1D/DE 23. This project is currently in the design phase with construction planned to begin in 2024.\n\nBetween 1958 and 1971, studies were conducted for a bypass of the segment of US 13 through Dover along with a connector between Dover and Frederica. The proposed routing began at US 113 and DE 12 north of Frederica and continued northwest to Woodside, where it was planned to cross US 13. From here, the bypass was to run to the west of Dover and head north to its terminus at US 13 north of Cheswold. As part of planning of the Dover Bypass, an archaeological survey had to be conducted along part of the proposed route between 1972 and 1975. By 1976, construction of the Dover Bypass was postponed indefinitely. From 1971 to 1978, a north-south extension of the Delaware Turnpike between Wilmington and Dover was studied. This extension was proposed to run from north of I-95 in Ogletown south to US 13 near Camden. The toll road would head south from Ogletown and cross the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal on the Summit Bridge to reach a connector to US 301 near the Maryland border. From here, the turnpike would bypass Middletown, Clayton, Smyrna, and Dover to the west before coming to US 13. Intermediate interchanges were to be located west of Dover, at DE 6 west of Smyrna, west of Middletown, at DE 896 south of the Summit Bridge, DE 71 north of the Summit Bridge, US 40, and I-95. The north-south extension of the Delaware Turnpike was to have a combination of ramp tolls and mainline toll barriers. Three mainline toll barriers were to be located between I-95 and US 40, between Middletown and Smyrna, and north of Camden. The projected cost of the project in 1972 was $107 million.\n\nIn 1983, studies began for a \"Relief Route\" of US 13 between Dover and Wilmington. The new highway was proposed in order to relieve US 13 of traffic heading to the Delaware Beaches in the summer. The Relief Route for US 13 was planned as a toll road in order to help pay for the cost of the construction of the highway. Prior to the beginning of construction, an archaeological survey was conducted along the proposed route of the freeway in 1986. The same year, plans were unveiled for the route, which would begin at US 113 south of Dover and head north to US 13 in Tybouts Corner. The Relief Route would cross US 13 several times, passing to the east of Dover and Smyrna and to the west of Odessa. The section of DE 1 between Tybouts Corner and Christiana had originally been planned as a relief route for DE 7, a two-lane road that connected US 13 to I-95 that saw a lot of congestion.\n\nIn July 1987, construction began on the first segment of the freeway between US 40 in Bear and DE 273 in Christiana. In 1988, the US 13 Relief Route was given the DE 1 designation. DE 1 was extended from its northern terminus in Milford to follow US 113 between Milford and Dover and US 13 between Dover and Tybouts Corner. Construction on the freeway between US 13 in Tybouts Corner and US 40 in Bear began in March 1988. In August of that year, groundbreaking took place for the section of the DE 1 toll road between Dover and Smyrna. Construction commenced on DE 1 between DE 273 and I-95 in Christiana in August 1990. The first section of the DE 1 freeway opened in August 1991 between US 13 in Tybouts Corner and US 40 in Bear. Three months later, the freeway opened north to DE 273 in Christiana.\n\nIn April 1992, groundbreaking took place for the section of DE 1 across the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal. It was decided that the highway would cross the canal on a cable-stayed bridge. The section of DE 1 between DE 273 and I-95 in Christiana opened in April 1993. In August of that year, southbound DE 1 between US 113 at Lafferty Lane in Dover and US 113 south of DE 10 at Dover Air Force Base was opened to traffic. In September 1993, bicyclists were allowed on a section of the under-construction DE 1. The portion of the route bypassing Smyrna was finished in November of that year. The section of the tollway between US 113 at Dover Air Force Base and US 13 south of Smyrna opened on December 21, 1993, with Governor Tom Carper in attendance at the opening ceremony. This section opened with a mainline toll barrier and ramp tolls. Following the completion of this section, DE 1 was rerouted off US 113 and US 13 between Dover and Smyrna.\n\nWhen the portion of DE 1 between Dover and Smyrna opened, road signs, with the exception of speed limit signs, were in metric units in anticipation of the United States converting to the metric system. The section of DE 1 between Dover and Smyrna had exit numbers based on kilometerposts while the section between Tybouts Corner and Christiana originally had exit numbers based on mileposts. In 1997, the exit numbers along the portion of the route between Tybouts Corner and Christiana were changed to reflect kilometerposts.\nIn December 1995, the section of DE 1 between US 13 in St. Georges and US 13 in Tybouts Corner opened, which included the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal Bridge (now called the Senator William V. Roth Jr. Bridge). Prior to the opening of this section, a bridge walk was held over the canal. Following the completion of this segment, DE 1 was rerouted off the surface alignment of US 13 that crossed the St. Georges Bridge. Subsequently, US 13 was rerouted to follow the new DE 1 between the DE 72 interchange and Tybouts Corner. Construction of the new DE 1 had severed US 13 south of Tybouts Corner, with part of the former alignment north of the DE 7 intersection becoming a two-lane road while the section south of there became an extended DE 7 to the intersection with US 13 and DE 72. In building DE 1 across the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal, there were initially plans to demolish the aging St. Georges Bridge that carried US 13 over the canal. The plan drew concerns from residents in St. Georges who feared the community would be split in half. The St. Georges Bridge was instead kept and was refurbished. A southbound exit and northbound entrance at US 13 south of the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal Bridge along DE 1 was built as required by federal legislation that gave the state $115 million toward construction of the new canal bridge.\n\nThe extension of the DE 1 freeway south through Dover Air Force Base was constructed later than the Dover to Smyrna segment due to the need to coordinate negotiations with the military installation and to allow the base to remediate hazardous material sites, maintain security and access restrictions with construction of a new Main Gate, and reconstruct base housing on the west side of the highway. Construction of an interchange at the Dover Air Force Base Main Gate commenced in February 1996. This project resulted in the relocation of the Main Gate further back in order to build the interchange and the overpass linking the Main Gate to base housing. This construction resulted in facilities having to be constructed at the North Gate in order to be able to handle base traffic. In May of that year, groundbreaking took place for the DE 1 toll road between Odessa and St. Georges. The first contract of the Dover Air Force Base Main Gate interchange was completed in December 1998, with the second contract beginning in March 1999. The segment of DE 1 between US 13 south of Odessa and US 13 in St. Georges opened in November 1999. DE 1 was subsequently rerouted off US 13 between those two points. DE 7 from I-95 to north of DE 58 became an extension of the DE 1 freeway in 1999 with an interchange built at DE 58 in a $25 million construction project.\nIn March 2000, groundbreaking took place for the final segment of the DE 1 freeway between Smyrna and Odessa. The interchange at the Dover Air Force Base Main Gate was completed in July of that year. The construction of the final segment resulted in a portion of US 13 south of Odessa being shifted further east as DE 1 would be built on top of the road. A service road would serve properties on the southbound side of US 13. In October 2001, northbound US 13 was realigned to the new alignment south of Odessa in order to build DE 1 in that area. In May 2002, US 13 was shifted to a new southbound alignment south of Odessa, with the former portion of the route in that area becoming a service road known as Harris Road. On September 5, 2002, a partial interchange opened at DE 8 in Dover, utilizing existing emergency vehicle ramps. This interchange was included in the initial plans for the highway but was dropped due to low traffic volumes. As part of building the interchange, DelDOT purchased development rights to adjacent land parcels in order to prevent additional development in the area of the interchange.\n\nOn May 19, 2003, Governor Minner cut the ribbon for the final section of the DE 1 toll road between US 13 north of Smyrna and US 13 south of Odessa. This section opened to traffic two days later. As a result, DE 1 was moved off US 13 between Smyrna and Odessa. The total cost to build the toll road was $900 million and it was the largest public works project in Delaware history. As part of building DE 1, DelDOT created new wetlands to replace the ones that were lost in construction of the highway. As a result of the completion of the final section, the northbound exit and southbound entrance with US 13 south of Odessa was removed.\n\nTraffic congestion at the cloverleaf interchange with I-95 in Christiana led to DelDOT to improve the interchange. The project included adding flyover connecting ramps from northbound DE 1 to northbound I-95 and from southbound I-95 to southbound DE 1 which allowed for easier merging patterns and the elimination of lengthy backups on the former ramp design. Construction began in February 2011 with work to replace the bridge over DE 1/DE 7 leading to the Christiana Mall in order to allow room for the flyover ramps; this bridge was completed in March 2012. The ramp from southbound I-95 to southbound DE 1/DE 7 opened on August 27, 2013 and the ramp from northbound DE 1/DE 7 to northbound I-95 opened on October 17, 2013, with a ribbon-cutting ceremony attended by Governor Markell and DelDOT secretary Bhatt.\n\nDelDOT has plans to widen DE 1 by an additional lane in each direction between the Senator William V. Roth Jr. Bridge and the DE 273 interchange in Christiana. The project will involve widening bridges and reconfiguring interchanges. Construction is currently delayed due to funding issues. A project began on September 21, 2015 to construct a northbound auxiliary lane between the US 40 and DE 273 interchanges in order to reduce congestion, which was completed shortly before Thanksgiving 2015. On April 29, 2016, Governor Markell, DelDOT secretary Cohan, and local officials attended a groundbreaking ceremony for a $7 million project that rebuilt the DE 72 interchange into a diverging diamond interchange, the first such interchange in Delaware. The diverging diamond interchange configuration was put into place on November 19, 2016.\n\nOn April 19, 2017, a virtual weigh station opened along northbound DE 1 south of the interchange with US 13 north of Smyrna. This weigh station allows trucks to be weighed at highway speeds; trucks with possible violations are instructed by signs to exit and follow US 13 north to a weigh station in Blackbird for additional screening and assessment while trucks with no issues are allowed to remain on DE 1. The virtual weigh station was constructed to ensure trucks traveling north through Delaware were being weighed after the completion of DE 1 in 2003 allowed truck traffic to bypass the weigh station along US 13.\n\nOn December 24, 2018, the ramp from US 13 to northbound DE 1 in St. Georges moved further south to the Biddles Corner mainline toll plaza as part of the project constructing the US 301 toll road. The interchange with the northern terminus of the US 301 toll road opened to traffic on January 10, 2019.\n\nDelaware Route 1A (DE 1A) is a state highway in Sussex County. The route runs from DE 1 in the town of Dewey Beach to another intersection with DE 1 west of the city of Rehoboth Beach. The route provides access to Rehoboth Beach from DE 1, heading north before turning to the west. DE 1A follows King Charles Avenue, Bayard Avenue, 2nd Street (southbound), Christian Street (northbound), and Rehoboth Avenue.\n\nWhat is now DE 1A was originally a part of DE 14 between 1936 and 1942. The road was designated DE 14A by 1966. In the 1970s, DE 1A was designated along DE 14A for a few years before DE 14A was decommissioned in favor of DE 1A. Between 2002 and 2006, a streetscape project revitalized the Rehoboth Avenue portion of the route and a roundabout was added at the entrance to Rehoboth Beach. \nDelaware Route 1B (DE 1B) is a state highway spur of DE 1 that allows access to and from the city of Rehoboth Beach. DE 1B starts at the southern approach to the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal bridge on DE 1, with right-in/right-out ramps providing access to both directions of DE 1. From this point, DE 1B heads southwest from the southbound lanes of DE 1 as two-lane undivided Washington Street, soon turning northwest onto Roosevelt Street. The road curves north and passes under the DE 1 bridge over the canal. The route intersects State Road, which provides access to and from the northbound lanes of DE 1, at which point it heads northeast away from the canal on State Road. DE 1B continues into Rehoboth Beach and passes homes before reaching its terminus at DE 1A. At this intersection, left turns are prohibited from DE 1B to DE 1A northbound. DE 1B has an annual average daily traffic count ranging from a high of 2,485 vehicles at the DE 1A intersection to a low of 1,588 vehicles on the connector to northbound DE 1. None of DE 1B is part of the National Highway System.\n\nMajor intersections\n\nDelaware Route 1D (DE 1D) is an auxiliary route of DE 1 in Sussex County. The route begins at DE 1 in Midway, where it heads southwest concurrent with DE 24 on four-lane divided John J. Williams Highway, soon becoming undivided. The road passes homes and businesses as it transitions into a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane. DE 1D splits from DE 24 by heading northwest onto two-lane undivided Plantation Road concurrent with DE 24 Alt. The road heads through a mix of farmland and residential development. Upon reaching Five Points, the road curves southwest and comes to an intersection with DE 23. At this point, DE 1D ends while the road continues southwest as DE 23 and DE 24 Alt. DE 23 heads north at this point to immediately intersect US 9/DE 404, which head east to provide access to DE 1. Plantation Road serves as an alternate to DE 1, which sees heavy traffic in the summer months.\n\nIn 1991, the Five Points intersection was reconfigured to separate the DE 23 and Plantation Road intersection from US 9/DE 404, with a short connector road linking US 9/DE 404 to the two roads. In addition, a jughandle was constructed from eastbound US 9/DE 404 to northbound DE 1. DE 1D was designated by 1996. The portion of the route along Plantation Road became concurrent with DE 24 Alt. by 2006. There are plans to reconfigure the intersection between US 9/DE 404 and DE 1D/DE 23 that would realign DE 1D and DE 23 to intersect a longer connector road linking to US 9/DE 404 and build a direct ramp from southbound DE 1 to US 9/DE 404 at the DE 1D/DE 23 intersection. This project is currently in the design phase with construction planned to begin in 2024.\n\nMajor intersections\n\nDelaware Route 1 Business (DE 1 Bus.) is a business route of DE 1 that runs through the city of Milford. DE 1 Bus. starts at a partial interchange with DE 1 southeast of Milford in Sussex County, with access to southbound DE 1 and from northbound DE 1. At this interchange, the business route intersects the northern terminus of DE 30, with access from southbound DE 1 Bus. to DE 30 and access from DE 30 to northbound DE 1 Bus. From this interchange, the route heads northwest into Milford as two-lane undivided South Rehoboth Boulevard, passing residential subdivisions. The road continues past homes and some businesses, passing to the east of Marshalls Pond before reaching an intersection with DE 36. DE 1 Bus. curves north before it heads northwest into wooded areas and passes over the Mispillion River on a drawbridge, at which point it enters Kent County and becomes North Rehoboth Boulevard. The route heads into business areas and crosses DE 14. The road continues past commercial establishments and turns north onto North Walnut Street. DE 1 Bus. passes to the west of Milford High School and heads north to an intersection with US 113, at which point it becomes concurrent with that route on four-lane divided Dupont Boulevard. US 113 and DE 1 Bus. continue north for a short distance and end at which point the road merges onto northbound DE 1 at a partial interchange at the north end of Milford. The section of the route between DE 30 and DE 36 is designated as part of the Delaware's Bayshore Byway, a Delaware Byway. DE 1 Bus. has an annual average daily traffic count ranging from a high of 30,038 vehicles along the US 113 concurrency at the northern border of Milford to a low of 3,863 vehicles at the intersection with US 113 along North Walnut Street. The portion of DE 1 Bus. concurrent with US 113 is part of the National Highway System.\n\nWhat is now DE 1 Bus. south of DE 36 and along North Walnut Street and US 113 was completed as a state highway by 1925. In 1926, suggestions were made to build a bypass east of Milford connecting DuPont Boulevard (US 113) north of town to the state highway leading southeast to Rehoboth Beach in order to provide a better route to the beaches and reduce traffic congestion in Milford during the summer months. In 1928, plans were made to build the bypass, which included a drawbridge over the Mispillion River. Construction on the drawbridge was underway in 1929. The bypass to the east of Milford, along with the drawbridge, were completed in 1930. When Delaware designated its state highways by 1936, DE 14 was designated along Rehoboth Boulevard south of Northeast Front Street, where the route turned to the west. The divided Milford Bypass to the east of the city was completed in 1971. In 1977, DE 1 Bus. was designated onto its current alignment, running concurrent with DE 14 southeast of Northeast Front Street. The DE 14 concurrency was removed by 1984 when that route was realigned to follow Northeast Front Street to DE 1.\n\nMajor intersections\n"}
{"id": "2120869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120869", "title": "H. A. L. Fisher", "text": "H. A. L. Fisher\n\nHerbert Albert Laurens Fisher (21 March 1865 – 18 April 1940) was an English historian, educator, and Liberal politician. He served as President of the Board of Education in David Lloyd George's 1916 to 1922 coalition government.\n\nFisher was born in London, the eldest son of Herbert William Fisher (1826–1903), author of \"Considerations on the Origin of the American War\" and his wife Mary Louisa Jackson (1841–1916). His sister Adeline Maria Fisher was the first wife of the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams, another sister Florence Henrietta Fisher married both Frederic William Maitland and Francis Darwin. Fisher was a first cousin of Virginia Woolf and her sister Vanessa Bell (the children of his mother's sister Julia). He was educated at Winchester and New College, Oxford, where he graduated with a first class degree in 1888 and was awarded a fellowship.\n\nFisher was a tutor in modern history at the University of Oxford. His publications include \"Bonapartism\" (1908), \"The Republican Tradition in Europe\" (1911) and \"Napoleon\" (1913). In September 1912, he was appointed (with Lord Islington, Lord Ronaldshay, Justice Abdur Rahim, and others) as a member of the Royal Commission on the Public Services in India of 1912–1915. Between 1913 and 1917 he was Vice-Chancellor of the University of Sheffield.\n\nIn December 1916 Fisher was elected Member of Parliament for Sheffield Hallam and joined the government of David Lloyd George as President of the Board of Education. He was sworn of the Privy Council the same month. In this post he was instrumental in the formulation of the Education Act 1918, which made school attendance compulsory for children up to the age of 14. Fisher was also responsible for the School Teachers (Superannuation) Act 1918, which provided pension provision for all teachers.\n\nIn 1918 he became MP for the Combined English Universities.\n\nFisher resigned his seat in parliament through appointment as Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds on 15 February 1926, retiring from politics to take up the post of warden of New College, Oxford, which he held until his death. There he published a three-volume \"History of Europe\" () in 1935. He served on the British Academy, the British Museum, the Rhodes Trustees, the National Trust, the Governing Body of Winchester, the London Library and the BBC. He was awarded the 1927 James Tait Black Memorial Prize for his biography \"James Bryce, Viscount Bryce of Dechmont, O.M.\" and received the Order of Merit in 1937.\n\nIn 1939 he was appointed first Chairman of the Appellate Tribunal for Conscientious Objectors in England and Wales.\n\nFisher died in St Thomas's Hospital, London, on 18 April 1940 after having been knocked down by a lorry and seriously injured the previous week, while on his way to sit on a Conscientious Objectors' Tribunal during the blackout. Some of his possessions, including his library and some of his clothing, remained at New College.\n\nIn 1943, Operation Mincemeat, a British Intelligence operation to deceive enemy forces, undertook the invention of a false Royal Marines officer, whose body was to be dropped at sea in the hope the false intelligence it carried would be believed. As the fictitious Major Martin was to be a man of some means, he required quality underwear, but with rationing this was difficult to obtain, and the intelligence officers were unwilling to donate their own. Fisher's was obtained, and the corpse used in the deception, dressed in Fisher's quality woollen underpants, succeeded in misleading German Intelligence.\n\nFisher married the economist and historian Lettice Ilbert (1875–1956) in 1899. Their only child was the British academic Mary Bennett.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120871", "title": "Roy McMillan", "text": "Roy McMillan\n\nRoy David McMillan (July 17, 1929 – November 2, 1997) was a shortstop, coach and manager in Major League Baseball. From 1951 through 1966, McMillan played for the Cincinnati Reds, Milwaukee Braves, and New York Mets. He batted and threw right-handed. Following his retirement as a player, McMillan managed the Milwaukee Brewers and New York Mets. He was born in Bonham, Texas.\n\nIn a 16-season career, McMillan posted a .243 batting average with 68 home runs and 594 runs batted in in 2,093 games played.\n\nMcMillan, who spent 10 seasons with the Cincinnati Reds, was his team's glue between the infield and outfield in the 1950s. He won the first three Gold Gloves for the shortstop position (1957 in MLB, 1958-59 in the National League), and in 1954, he set a since-surpassed major league record of 129 double plays.\n\nTwice named to the NL All-Star team (1956–57), McMillan also played with the Milwaukee Braves and New York Mets and finished his career in 1966. In 1970 he returned to Milwaukee as first-base coach with the Brewers, served as interim skipper in 1972 between Dave Bristol and Del Crandall, then coached for the New York Mets. In 1975, he replaced Yogi Berra as the Mets' interim manager. Late in his career, he was a scout for the Montreal Expos based in Bonham.\n\nMcMillan was inducted into the Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame in 1971. He died in Bonham in 1997.\n\nIn 1957, McMillan and six of his Redleg teammates—Ed Bailey, Johnny Temple, Don Hoak, Gus Bell, Wally Post and Frank Robinson—were voted into the National League All-Star starting lineup, the result of a ballot stuffing campaign by Reds fans. Bell remained on the team as a reserve, but Post was taken off altogether. Bell and Post were replaced as starters by Hank Aaron and Willie Mays.\n"}
{"id": "2120873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120873", "title": "Gerald Gainous", "text": "Gerald Gainous\n\nGerald B. Gainous was a resident of Washington D.C. who climbed the fence surrounding the White House four times in 1975 and 1976 during the Ford administration. \n\nIn the first incident, which occurred November 26, 1975, he was able to walk about the grounds without being stopped for about 90 minutes. He approached the President's daughter, Susan Ford, as she was unloading camera equipment from her car, before carrying on. He was freed on probation after that incident.\n\nGainous claimed he was trying to gain the President's attention in order to obtain a pardon for his father who had been convicted of conspiring to import heroin.\n"}
{"id": "2120877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120877", "title": "Play: The B Sides", "text": "Play: The B Sides\n\nPlay: The B Sides is a compilation album by American electronica musician Moby. It was released on October 24, 2000. The album's songs are outtakes from his 1999 album \"Play\" which were subsequently released as B-sides across various singles from the album.\n\nMoby explains: \"\"The B Sides\" is a collection of songs that weren't quite appropriate for \"Play\", but that I still love enough to release as B-sides. Some of these songs might not be instantly accessible, but I (immodestly) think they are all quite special.\" In the liner notes, Moby admits that the songs would not have been given a wide release if not for the overwhelming success of \"Play\".\n\nThe song \"Flower\" was featured on the soundtrack for the 2000 film \"Gone in 60 Seconds\" and is also used for the Bring Sally Up exercise challenge, with participants doing squats or push-ups up or down along with the lyrics of the song.\nThe song \"Memory Gospel\" was used on the soundtracks for the films \"40 Days and 40 Nights\" and \"Southland Tales\".\n\nAllMusic's John Bush wrote that the B-sides are \"distinctly inferior to what was heard on \"Play\" — which proves nothing much more than the fact that Moby is a good editor as well as a great producer.\" Neva Chonin from \"Rolling Stone\" said it was \"more of a meditative tone poem\" than the \"millennial time signature\" that was \"Play\".\n\nCredits for \"Play: The B Sides\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120879", "title": "Mather Brown", "text": "Mather Brown\n\nMather Brown (baptized October 11, 1761 – May 25, 1831) was a portrait and historical painter, born in Boston, Massachusetts, but active in England.\n\nBrown was the son of Gawen and Elizabeth (Byles) Brown, and descended from the Rev. Increase Mather on his mother's side. He was taught by his aunt and around 1773 (age 12) became a pupil of Gilbert Stuart. He arrived in London in 1781 to further his training in Benjamin West's studio, entered the Royal Academy schools in 1782 with plans to be a miniature painter, and began to exhibit a year later.\n\nIn 1784, he painted two religious paintings for the church of St. Mary’s-in-the-Strand, which led Brown to found a partnership with the painter Daniel Orme for the commercialization of these and other works through exhibition and the sale of engravings. Among these were large paintings of scenes from English history, as well as scenes from Shakespeare's plays. However, despite their success he began to concentrate on portraiture. His first successes were with American sitters, among others his patron John Adams and family in 1784–85; this painting is now in the Boston Athenæum. In the spring of 1786, he began painting the earliest known portrait of Thomas Jefferson, who was visiting London. He also painted Charles Bulfinch the same year. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1798.\n\nHis 1788 full-length portrait of Prince Frederick Augustus in the uniform of Colonel of the Coldstream Guards led to appointment as History and Portrait Painter to the Prince, later the Duke of York and Albany. Other paintings include the Prince of Wales, later George IV (about 1789), Queen Charlotte, and Cornwallis. A self-portrait now belongs to the American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Massachusetts.\n\nA falling off of patronage in the mid-1790s, and failure to be elected to the Royal Academy, led Brown to leave London in 1808 for Bath, Bristol, and Liverpool. He settled in Manchester, returning to London almost two decades later, in 1824, where, even after West's death, he continued to imitate his teacher's style of painting. Unable to secure commissions, Brown eventually died in poverty in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120889", "title": "Joseph Duffey", "text": "Joseph Duffey\n\nJoseph Daniel Duffey (born July 1, 1932) is an American academic, educator and political appointee.\n\nDuffey was born in Huntington, West Virginia. He received an A.B. from Marshall University in 1954, a B.D. from Andover Theological School in 1957, an S.T.M. from Yale University in 1963, and a Ph.D. from Hartford Seminary Foundation in 1969. From 1960 to 1970, Duffey was an assistant professor and then acting dean and associate professor, at Hartford Seminary. He was also founder and director of the Center for Urban Studies there. \n\nDuffey ran for the U.S. Senate in 1970 as a prominent anti-Vietnam War candidate; he had just turned 35 years old. The campaign became notable because several of Duffey's young supporters went on to prominent careers in Democratic politics, including future president Bill Clinton, a Yale Law School student at the time.\n\nThe incumbent in that race, Thomas J. Dodd, was the father of future Connecticut Senator Christopher Dodd. Dodd, who had been censured by the Senate for corruption, was not re-nominated by the Democratic Party. Instead, Duffey joined Stamford businessman Alphonse Donahue and State Senate President Edward Marcus in a race to win the party endorsement. Donahue won the Democratic convention, but Duffey went on to win the primary. He finished second in a three-way general election race to Lowell Weicker, with Senator Dodd running as an independent. \n\nAnne Wexler ran his 1970 campaign, and the two married in September 1974 after they had both divorced their respective spouses.\n\nIn 1971 he was a fellow at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. Duffey was an adjunct professor at Yale University and a fellow at Calhoon College from 1971 to 1973. From 1974 to 1976, he was chief administrative officer and spokesman for the American Association of University Professors. He worked on the Carter-Mondale transition team in 1976 and 1977 and has been Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs since early 1977.\n\nDr. Duffey was the former chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities (1977–1982), and former assistant Secretary of State for education and cultural affairs. In 1993 he was appointed as Director of the U.S. Information Agency and held the position until June 30, 1999, shortly before USIA was incorporated into the State Department on October 1, 1999.\n\nHe was president of American University (1991–1993) and chancellor of the University of Massachusetts Amherst (1982–1991). In 1990, the position of President of the entire University of Massachusetts system was added to his responsibilities.\n\nIn 1978 and 1980, Duffey was a delegate to the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) meetings in Paris and Belgrade. In 1991, he was joint head of the U.S. Delegation observing national elections in Ethiopia.\n\nDr. Duffey has written extensively on issues relating to higher education and social and economic policy. He holds 14 honorary degrees from American colleges and universities and in 1993 was awarded the honorary Doctor of Letter by Ritsumeikan University in Japan. In 1980, he was named Commander of the Order of the Crown by the King of Belgium. He has been a member of the Council on Foreign Relations since 1979.\n\nDr. Duffey joined Laureate Education, Inc. as Senior Vice President in 1999 and is responsible for education and academic quality and coordinates the development of Laureate International Universities network programs and partnerships worldwide.\n\nHis second wife, Anne Wexler (1930–2009), was a lobbyist.They each had two sons from previous marriages. She died of cancer on August 7, 2009 at age 79.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120893", "title": "Spits (newspaper)", "text": "Spits (newspaper)\n\nSpits (; ; stylized as Sp!ts) was a tabloid format newspaper freely distributed in trains, trams and buses in the Netherlands from 1999 to 2014. Its competitor was \"Metro\".\n"}
{"id": "2120894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120894", "title": "Baron Fraser of Allander", "text": "Baron Fraser of Allander\n\nBaron Fraser of Allander, of Dineiddwg in the County of Stirling, was a title in the United Kingdom. It was created on 30 December 1964 for the Scottish busnet, of Dineiddwg in the County of Stirling, in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom on 19 January 1961. He was the grandson of Hugh Fraser. Lord Fraser of Allander's son, the second Baron, disclaimed the peerage for life in 1966. The only son of the first baron, he only sired daughters, so both the baronetcy and peerage are now extinct.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120895", "title": "Social Labour Party", "text": "Social Labour Party\n\nThe Social Labour Party (, PST) was a political party in Brazil.\n\nThe PST was founded by dissidents of the Brazilian Labor Party in 1947. Abolished by the military regime in 1965, it was re-organized in 1988 before merging with another party to form the Progressive Party (PP) in 1993. It was finally recreated in 1996, and co-operated electorally with the small Liberal Party until 2003.\n\nAt the legislative elections held on 6 October 2002, the party won 3 out of 513 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and no seats in the Senate.\n"}
{"id": "2120896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120896", "title": "Nylon riots", "text": "Nylon riots\n\nThe nylon riots were a series of disturbances at American stores created by a nylon stocking shortage.\n\nNylon was first introduced by DuPont around 1939 and was in extremely high demand in the United States, with up to 4 million pairs of stockings bought in one day. The riots occurred between August 1945 and March 1946, when the War Production Board announced that the creation of Du Pont's nylon would shift its manufacturing from wartime material to nylon stockings, at the same time launching a promotional campaign. In one of the worst disturbances, in Pittsburgh, 40,000 women queued up for 13,000 pairs of stockings, leading to fights breaking out. It took several months before Du Pont was able to ramp up production to meet demand, but until they did many women went without nylon stockings for months.\n\nRipstop nylon, which was more effective than silk and canvas, was used for parachutes and other war materials, such as airplane cords and ropes. At first, canvas was used to create parachute canopies, and silk was much more effective (stronger and thinner). However, there were many other materials used for parachute canopies, such as Dacron. These materials did not compare to nylon, as nylon was a more practical and developed material.\n\nDuring World War II, Japan stopped using supplies made out of silk, and so the United States had difficulty importing silk from Japan. Eventually, the U.S was unable to import any silk. So, Du Pont thought of an idea to convince the army that nylon is a much more effective material than silk. Du Pont was able to convince the army, and nylon fabric became increasingly popular because of its elasticity and shrink-proof, moth-proof material.\n\nNylon stockings became increasingly popular on the black market, and sold for up to $20 per pair. Women who could not get their hands on nylons resorted to lotions, creams, stick cakes and painting seam lines down their legs to give the illusion of nylons. Because nylon stockings were so widely sought-after, they also became the target of crime. In Louisiana, one household was robbed of 18 pairs of nylons. Similarly, robbery was ruled out as the motive of a murder in Chicago because the nylons were untouched.\n\nWomen everywhere yearned for the end of war and a time when nylons would be commonly available again. George Marion, Jr. and Fats Waller's song \"When the Nylons Bloom Again\" captured the wistful sentiments of these American women:\n\nIn August 1945, eight days after Japan's surrender, Du Pont announced that it would resume producing stockings and newspaper headlines cheered \"Peace, It's Here! Nylons on Sale!\" Du Pont's announcement indicated that nylons would be available in September and the motto \"Nylons by Christmas\" was sung everywhere. Du Pont originally forecast that it would be able to produce 360 million pairs per year but this estimate turned out to be over-aggressive. The resulting production delays led to shortage and as a result, riots broke out.\n\nThe first riot occurred in September when a small post-war shipment of stockings went on limited sale around the country. Stores were flooded with mobs of women, clamoring to get their hands on a pair of nylons. The riots then grew in severity. In November, 30,000 women reportedly lined up in New York; 40,000 women in Pittsburgh queued up for a mere 13,000 pairs. A headline in Augusta, Georgia, read \"Women Risk Life and Limb in Bitter Battle for Nylons\" and went on to detail how crowds clamored into the store, knocking down shelves and displays along the way.\n\nNews of the riots was all over the papers and magazines. It was declared that no other commodity had ever received as much free advertising in the history of the newspaper industry. The press reported outrageous instances of hair-pulling, hysterical women fighting tooth and nail for a pair of the prized stockings.\n\nThe shortage persisted into 1946 but by March, Du Pont was finally able to ramp up production and began churning out 30 million pairs of stockings a month. Widespread availability of the stockings ended the period of 'nylon riots'.\n\nDuring the shortage, many people began to suspect that Du Pont was deliberately delaying production. Du Pont's factories were actually operating at full capacity but nonetheless, public discontent remained high. Reporters suggested the company was being greedy and unpatriotic for maintaining exclusive patent and production rights to a substance in such popular demand. In 1945, an ad appeared in \"Knit Goods Weekly\" that called on readers and other retailers to write to their congressmen in protest.\n\nIn light of the public scandal, Du Pont tried to shift the blame to selfish housewives who had nothing better to do than stand in line and hoard stock. The public remained unconvinced. In 1951, after the riots had long subsided, Du Pont was threatened with an antitrust suit. In response, they agreed to share nylon licensing with the Chemstrand Corporation. They soon allowed other licenses as well. \n\n"}
{"id": "2120898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120898", "title": "Gibraltar International Airport", "text": "Gibraltar International Airport\n\nGibraltar International Airport or North Front Airport is the civilian airport that serves the British overseas territory of Gibraltar. The runway is owned by the Ministry of Defence for use by the Royal Air Force as RAF Gibraltar. Civilian operators use the civilian-operated terminal. National Air Traffic Services hold the contract for provision of air navigation services at the airport.\n\nIn 2017, the airport handled 571,184 passengers and 302,094 kg of cargo on 4,888 total flights. Winston Churchill Avenue (the main road heading towards the land border with Spain) intersects the airport runway, and consequently has to be closed every time a plane lands or departs. The History Channel programme \"Most Extreme Airports\" ranked the airport the fifth most extreme airport in the world, ahead of the now-defunct Kai Tak Airport with its infamous right-hand turn approach over central Hong Kong before landing, but behind Princess Juliana International Airport, famous for its low-altitude approaches over a public beach. It is exposed to strong cross winds around the rock and across the Bay of Algeciras, making landings in winter particularly uncomfortable.\n\nMonarch Airlines was the largest operator at Gibraltar International, operating flights to Birmingham, London Gatwick, London Luton, and Manchester. All routes were operated by an Airbus A320-200. Monarch entered administration at 4:30am on 2 October 2017, ceasing operations with immediate effect around a year after rumours of its imminent demise became widespread. EasyJet operates seven weekly flights to London Gatwick operated by Airbus A320 family aircraft, as well as three flights per week to Bristol Airport and two flights a week to Manchester Airport. British Airways also operates nine weekly flights to London Heathrow being operated by an Airbus A320-200. Royal Air Maroc Express also operate twice weekly flights to Tangier Ibn Battouta Airport, which continue on to Casablanca Airport.\n\nAlthough located in Gibraltar, the airport is also used by people travelling to or from neighbouring parts of southern Spain such as the Costa del Sol or the Campo de Gibraltar.\n\nThe airport was constructed during World War II upon the territory's race course (introduced by the Maltese), when Gibraltar was an important naval base for the British. Opened in 1939, it was only an emergency airfield for the Royal Navy's Fleet Air Arm. However, the runway was later extended by reclaiming some land from the Bay of Gibraltar using rock blasted from the Rock of Gibraltar while carrying out works on . This last major extension of the runway allowed larger aircraft to land at Gibraltar.\n\nOn 3 November 2003, Monarch announced a new route from Gibraltar to Manchester Airport. It was the first route from Gibraltar to operate to the North of England. However, on 19 July 2006, Monarch withdrew the route due to the cost. On 21 April 2008, Monarch announced it would resume the services to Manchester from 12 September 2008. The route operated three to five times a week: every Monday, Wednesday and Friday in winter season, as well as on Thursdays and Sundays in the summer season.\n\nBy late 2005 and early 2006, the implementation of a new agreement was one of the main topics of the Gibraltar Trilateral Forum being held between the Governments of Gibraltar, Spain and the United Kingdom. As a result, the Córdoba Accord was signed on 18 September 2006 by all parties. This ended all discriminatory restrictions on civilian flights to Gibraltar International, including the prohibition of flights over Spanish soil, and exclusion of Gibraltar from all EU agreements on air transport, allowing civilian flights from all nations into Gibraltar International.\n\nOn 17 November 2006 Iberia announced that it would start flights from Madrid to Gibraltar using an Airbus A319 aircraft. This was a landmark move as no Spanish airline had flown to Gibraltar since 1979, because of its disputed status. Iberia began flights to Gibraltar International on 16 December 2006 with a flight from Madrid that included some members of the Spanish Government on board. GB Airways flew a one-off flight in the other direction with a group of children from the Gibraltar area making up the passengers. In May 2007 GB Airways (flying as a British Airways franchisee) also began operating the route between Madrid and Gibraltar, however, this was discontinued on 30 September, leaving Iberia to work the route alone. On 22 September 2008 Iberia announced that it would cease its flights to Madrid by 28 September due to \"economic reasons\", namely, lack of demand. This left Gibraltar, once again, without any air links with Spain.\n\nIn April 2009, Ándalus Líneas Aéreas restored Gibraltar's air link with the Spanish capital. In July 2009 Ándalus also began scheduled flights to Barcelona, increasing the destinations in Spain to two. However, the airline ceased to serve this route in September 2009 due to a lack of demand. In April 2010, it was confirmed that Ándalus flights to and from Gibraltar had been indefinitely suspended. And now yet again, Gibraltar has no direct air links to Spain. Ándalus Líneas Aéreas ceased operations on 13 August 2010.\n\nIn 2009, British Airways moved its flights from Gatwick to its main base at London Heathrow.\n\nFrom 2011 until October 2012, easyJet offered thrice-weekly service from Gibraltar to Liverpool, but it was eventually cancelled due to lack of demand.\n\nOn 18 May 2011, Bmibaby announced that it would launch flights from Gibraltar to East Midlands from 31 March 2012. This was the first time that an airline has operated that route. The route operated on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, using a Boeing 737-300. However, on 3 May 2012 it was announced that Bmibaby was to be closed by the International Airlines Group after the group failed to find a buyer for the airline. Bmibaby operated its last service to Gibraltar on 8 September 2012 and the airline operated its last flight on 9 September 2012.\n\nOn 10 January 2012, Gibraltar was selected as one of the 'World's Scariest Airport Landings and Take-offs' in the travel section of the \"Daily Telegraph\" due to its runway which extends into the sea.\n\nOn 14 August 2012, Monarch announced it would launch a new route to Birmingham, operating three times a week; every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The route began on 23 March 2013 but changed to running on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.\n\nIn the summer of 2014 services between Gibraltar and Marrakech were operated by Royal Air Maroc Express on behalf of a local travel company, Your Flight. However, the services, which were operated on a charter basis, and could not be booked via global distribution system channels or on a connection basis, terminated after just three months due to insufficient demand.\n\nIn November 2014, easyJet announced that it would begin a new route to Bristol Airport which commenced on 19 April 2015.\n\nRoyal Air Maroc announced in November 2014 that after many years, it would restore the short intercontinental air connection between Gibraltar and Tangier in March 2015 on a twice weekly basis. Unlike the previous Marrakech flights these would be operated by RAM for themselves, and offer connecting flights to their Casablanca hub and onwards, and be available via normal sales channels.\n\nOvernight work to resurface the runway started on the evening of September 4, 2015, and the work was completed in January 2016.\n\nIn November 2015, easyJet announced that it would begin a new route to Manchester Airport twice weekly, making this the first time two airlines have competed against each other on the Manchester-Gibraltar route. The new route commenced on 3 July 2016. During the same month, Monarch announced a new route from Gibraltar to London Gatwick, beginning on 1 May running four times a week.\n\nOn 2 October 2017, the CAA confirmed that Monarch Airlines had ceased operations with immediate effect and had entered administration. All flights were cancelled. Monarch operated about a third of the airports movements prior to shutting down.\n\nOn 12 July 2018, easyJet announced a twice-weekly new route to London-Luton restoring the link between the two airports. The restored route started in December 2018.\n\nOn 11 December 2019, easyJet announced a new twice-weekly service to Edinburgh, making it the first time that Gibraltar has had a direct link to Scotland. The route will start on 31 March 2020.\n\nThe airport is located on the isthmus that connects Gibraltar with the rest of the Iberian Peninsula. Whether or not the airport's territory was ceded by the Treaty of Utrecht is disputed by Spain and Britain.\nIn the spring of 1815, Spain claims an epidemic of yellow fever struck Gibraltar, so that the British authorities built several barracks as field isolation in the neutral zone. On 20 April 1815 Lt. Governor of Gibraltar, George Don agreed with the general commander of the Campo de Gibraltar, General Don José María de Alós, that \"a large proportion of the inhabitants [of Gibraltar] to [..] not [have] they suffered fever, temporarily established on the neutral ground, as close as circumstances permit, in front of this fortress\".\n\nSpain's continuing sovereignty dispute with the United Kingdom over the territory where the airport stands (different from the generic one on Gibraltar itself) has seriously affected the airport's operations. On 2 December 1987, an was signed between the governments of the United Kingdom and Spain to allow the joint civil use of the airport. The agreement foresaw the building of a new terminal in the neighbouring Spanish municipality of La Línea de la Concepción adjacent to the northern side of the existing frontier. However, the agreement was blocked by the Government of Gibraltar, led from 1988 by Joe Bossano. As a result, the agreement was never implemented.\n\nSince then, Spain successfully excluded Gibraltar from European-wide de-regulation initiatives, such as the Single European Sky programme preventing direct links from Gibraltar to the rest of the European Union (except the United Kingdom), on the grounds that no regulation that somehow recognises the sovereignty of the United Kingdom over the Gibraltar peninsula may be implemented without a previous agreement on the airport.\n\nAs part of Brexit negotiations, Spain has got a veto over coverage over Gibraltar on deals between UK and EU. For the airport, flights between Gibraltar and the EU can be blocked in a no-deal Brexit. On the other hand there are as of 2019 no flights between Gibraltar and EU outside UK. See also Effect of Brexit on Gibraltar#Air travel\n\nThere is one terminal at Gibraltar International.\n\nThe old terminal at the airport was built in 1959 and refurbished in the late 1990s. For many years, it had been too small to cope with the number of passengers when two flights were scheduled to arrive/depart within a short space of time. The size of the terminal was , and had 10 check-in desks, one baggage carousel, one security gate and two departure gates. On 26 November 2011, arriving flights switched to the new terminal as the first phase of the new terminal opened. On 25 September 2012, the old terminal closed its doors as flight departures moved into the new terminal on 26 September 2012. The last flight to use it was easyJet flight EZY8904 to London-Gatwick. The old terminal building was demolished in February 2014.\n\nA new terminal was constructed at Gibraltar International due to increasing numbers of passengers. Planning permission was announced in 2007 with construction of the new terminal beginning in 2009 and completed in 2011. The first phase of the new terminal opened on 26 November 2011 for arriving flights only. The second phase of the new terminal opened on 26 September 2012 when flight departures moved. The first flight to use the first phase was EasyJet flight EZY7295 from Liverpool and the first flight to use the second phase was British Airways flight BA491 to London Heathrow. The terminal's terrace was inaugurated by the Earl of Wessex, Prince Edward on 13 June 2012.\n\nThe terminal is , which is bigger than the old terminal. It has two baggage carousels and three departure gates, none of which are equipped with jet bridges. It has a passenger capacity of up to 1.5 million passengers per year. Retail services are also available in the terminal and these include WH Smith, 36 North Bar and Gibraltar Duty Free Stores. A new general aviation area has also been built inside the terminal to handle private aircraft.\n\nThe road across the runway is constraining operations at the airport, especially with the increase in operations since the Córdoba Agreement. Prior to this agreement, only three flights operated daily to Gatwick and Luton, and three flights a week to Manchester. On busy days, at present, some seven flights now arrive and depart. If the average time the road is closed for an aircraft to land or depart is ten minutes, then on certain days the road can be closed for over two hours.\n\nBecause of this, a new four-lane diversion road and tunnel section was planned. The new runway tunnel will reduce delays and tailbacks caused by aircraft taking off and landing. Construction of the new road was due to begin in January 2008 and be completed by the beginning of 2009, but as of 2016 it remained incomplete. Although the road across the runway is to remain in place, for exceptional, specific, or emergency use, it will not be available for routine day-to-day use by private vehicular traffic. Pedestrians will not be required to travel via the new road/tunnel, and will continue to cross the runway at the present location. A prolonged litigation between the Government of Gibraltar and contractor OHL over the delay was resolved in June 2016 with an agreement for OHL to complete the works at a price of £24 million and a projected finish date of November 2018.\n\nA new dual-carriageway is also being built. It will pass under the new terminal and towards the eastern edge of the runway at which point it will pass through a tunnel under it and connect via a roundabout with Devil's Tower Road on the opposite side of the runway. After the road tunnel on the north side of the runway the new road will run parallel to the frontier, passing under the air terminal fly-over section. The road will then branch into two, with one road leading to the loop and the frontier, and another leading to the Air Terminal, North Front and Winston Churchill Avenue.\n\nA number of car parks are being built at Gibraltar International during its expansion, including a new 220-space, three-story car park located at the east of the new terminal. Another new car park is to be built by Eastern Beach, and two multi-storey facilities will also be built on \"Devil's Tower Road\".\n\n\nThe runway featured in a BBC \"Top Gear\" special and was also used by Jaguar in the launch of a new range. A custom painted Boeing 737 was used in conjunction with a fleet of the cars. The airport appeared on Channel 5's series, \"\" which was broadcast from June to July 2013.\n\nThe airstrip and the Four Corners Border crossing feature at the end of Carol Reed's 1963 production of \"The Running Man\". Several 'takes' were shot as Remick and Harvey chase each other, firstly through the Border and later as the light aircraft took off from the Eastern end of the runway, narrowly missing an RAF Halifax aircraft which was supposed to be taking off too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120900", "title": "Heliconius charithonia", "text": "Heliconius charithonia\n\nHeliconius charithonia, the zebra longwing or zebra heliconian, is a species of butterfly belonging to the subfamily Heliconiinae of the family Nymphalidae. It was first described by Carl Linnaeus in his 1767 12th edition of \"Systema Naturae\". The boldly striped black and white wing pattern is aposematic, warning off predators.\n\nThe species is distributed across South and Central America and as far north as southern Texas and peninsular Florida; there are migrations north into other American states in the warmer months.\n\nZebra longwing adults roost communally at night in groups of up to 60 adults for safety from predators. The adult butterflies are unusual in feeding on pollen as well as on nectar; the pollen enables them to synthesize cyanogenic glycosides that make their bodies toxic to potential predators. Caterpillars feed on various species of passionflower, evading the plants' defensive trichomes by biting them off or laying silk mats over them.\n\nMass spraying of naled has decimated the zebra longwing population in Miami-Dade County, Florida. There has been mass collapse of the colonies with impacts on the balance of the ecosystem. Further studies are needed to evaluate any potential for recolonization.\nThe caterpillars are white with black spots and have numerous black spikes along their body. Adult butterflies are monomorphic of medium size with long wings. On the dorsal side, the wings are black with narrow white and yellow stripes, with a similar pattern on the ventral side, but paler and with red spots. The wingspan ranges from 72 to 100 mm.\n\n\"H. charithonia\" is found in South America, Central America, the West Indies, Mexico, south Texas and peninsular Florida. Adults sometimes migrate north to New Mexico, South Carolina, and Nebraska during the warmer months. The geographic distribution of \"H. charithonia\" overlaps with the ranges of other butterflies which sometimes leads to conflict. For example, the ranges of \"H. charithonia\" and the gulf fritillary overlap; in some cases, gulf fritillaries can sometimes be subjected to competition and fighting from \"Heliconius charithonia vazquezae\" when those species have breeding populations in similar areas and within the same geographic range. It was declared the official butterfly for the state of Florida in the United States in 1996. The species frequents tropical hammocks, moist forests, edges, or fields.\n\n\nAlthough \"H. charithonia\" is to some extent static, maintaining a home range, adults do move between territories. Butterflies with Mexican origins migrate north into Texas, following the retracting temperature gradient. Rainfall has no effect on migration patterns. Arrival dates and duration of stay depend on the distance traveled: the longer the distance traveled, the shorter the duration of stay.\n\nAdults roost in groups of up to 60 individuals on a nightly basis, returning to the same roost every night. These roosts provide protection to adults, the large groups deterring predators and retaining warmth. Solitary individuals, or very small roosts, avoid exhibiting proper warning signals so as not to attract predators. Pre-roosting interactions, which consist of sitting near one another, chasing each other briefly while fluttering, or basking, occur between butterflies from separate roosts, indicating that the butterflies are aware of other roosts in their home range. Despite this, the zebra longwing chooses to form smaller aggregations. The optimal roost size for predator deterrence is five individuals; roost size is also influenced by resource availability and foraging. \"H. charithonia\" roosts to display collective aposematism, deterring predators by conspicuously advertising their unpalatable taste.\n\n\"H. charithonia\" adults form communal roosts nightly. Communal roosting occurs when individuals aggregate at a particular site for more than a few hours. Roosting begins as early as three hours before sunset and usually ends within two hours after sunrise. Since roosting is at night, adults need to be able to see at low light levels to locate roost sites, either when looking for twigs, tendrils, and dry leaves to land on to start a roost, or when searching for conspecifics that are already roosting. Their eyes also help them to recognize color patterns in conspecifics. UV rhodopsins in the eye help them to distinguish between 3-OHK yellow pigments, or ultraviolet colors, and other yellow pigments, which to the human eye is indistinguishable. At shorter distances, the butterflies recognize conspecifics via chemical cues. These chemical cues include volatile and nonvolatile substances. The significance of this chemical communication remains largely unknown for \"Heliconius\" in general. However, in \"H. melpomene\", (E)-?-ocimene was found to attract males and females in diurnal situations.\n\nThe adults are unusual among butterflies in that they eat pollen as well as sip nectar. This ability contributes to their longevity—they can live up to 3 months as adults in the wild and 4–5 months in the lab. The behavior facilitated the evolution of aposematism and mimicry among \"Heliconius\" species. Butterflies that feed on pollen are more distasteful to predators, more brightly colored, and show superior mimetic diversity to those that do not.\n\nAdult butterflies choose their home ranges based on collections of pollen plants. An adult collects pollen by inserting its proboscis into the flower while making particular movements to secure adhesion to the pollen grains. Digestion occurs immediately after ingestion when the pollen makes contact with saliva, and amino acids are dissolved. Optimal amino acid intake occurs through abundant saliva production and gentle and slow mastication. During the night, the butterflies digest pollen since optimal nutritional resources are obtained while resting or sleeping.\n\nPollen feeding is correlated with higher overall fitness. Individuals that feed on pollen live longer than those that feed only on nectar or sugar water. Females carry more pollen than males since nutrients such as amino acids from pollen are needed for egg production. Oogenesis is greatly affected by pollen intake. When pollen is absent in the diet, oviposition rates decrease and lifetime fecundity, or the number of eggs produced, drops significantly.\n\nPollen feeding also correlates with unpalatibility to predators. Amino acids from pollen are used as precursors to synthesize cyanogenic glycosides that are stored in larval and adult tissues, accounting for their toxicity. When pollen availability is low, adult butterflies recycle cyanogenic glycosides they synthesized previously. With less expectation of pollen quality, females reallocate their cyanogens to reproductive input, as larvae benefit the most from cyanogenesis; a lack of amino acids in adult diet does not necessarily correlate with reduced cyanogenic defense.\n\nThe caterpillar feeds on yellow passionflower (\"Passiflora lutea\"), corky-stemmed passionflower (\"Passiflora suberosa\"), and two-flower passionflower (\"Passiflora biflora\"). Larvae regulate their nutritional input to an equal protein-carbohydrate ratio. They feed on the \"Passiflora\" plants on which their mother laid their eggs. \"Passiflora\" plants have trichomes, structures that reduce herbivore attack physically or chemically. \"H. charithonia\" larvae can avoid the effects of trichomes, being able to free themselves from the entrapment of a trichome by pulling their legs from the hold of the trichome hook, and laying silk mats on the trichomes, providing a surface to walk on more easily, and they remove the tips of the trichomes by biting them. Trichome tips are found in the faeces of these individuals. Larvae often try to avoid areas where trichome density is highest by staying on the under surface of the leaves.\n\nMale butterflies seek visual, olfactory, tactile, and auditory cues from females during mating. In \"H. charithonia\", certain host plants provide these cues to males, thereby influencing the time and location of reproduction. This happens because as larvae damage the plant upon eating it, green-leaf volatiles, six carbon alcohols, aldehydes, and acetates, are released. They give olfactory cues to the male, thereby indicating the location of the pupae (mate). Since these pupae are camouflaged and lack strong sexual pheromones, males rely on the olfactory cue from the damaged plant to find mates. The odors also trigger the males to learn the location of the plant for future copulations. The butterfly's spatial memory is good enough to enable them to return regularly to roosts and mating sites.\n\nA common problem among all butterflies is to avoid mating with other butterfly species. Mistakes are rare as males can distinguish between the emissions produced when the larvae and other herbivores eat the plant. The larvae release volatiles similar chemically to those emitted by the plant. \"H. charithonia\" mating cues are controlled by multiple genes (they are pleiotropic), particularly in regards to Müllerian mimicry.\n\nAdults exhibit pupal mating in which males wait for a female to emerge from her pupa. Upon emergence, two or more males may fight to win a copulation. The winner mates with the females and prevents other males from doing so through a chemical transfer, passing a nutrient-rich spermatophore to the female that reduces her attractiveness to other potential mates.\n\nPupal mating arose exactly once during the evolution of \"Heliconius\", and these species form a clade on the evolutionary tree. Although pupal mating is observed quite frequently in insectaries, it is rarely seen in nature. Males perform precopulatory mate guarding behavior, in which males find and perch on pupae, followed by copulation with the female.\n\nUpon reaching the pupae, males often have to compete to copulate with the female, who is teneral (freshly emerged). Typically, a male visits the same pupa for at least a week, during which time he periodically swarms it, fighting with other males over positioning. Fights consist of males fending off other males that attempt to land on the same pupa by opening their wings. If this does not work, the male tries to throw the intruder off with the pressure of his head and antennae. If more males attempt to swarm the pupa, the two original males work together to fend off the others by simultaneously opening their wings, momentarily forgetting that they were originally competitors. Fights usually last one or two hours, but continue throughout the pupa's development.\n\nThe act of pupal mating consists of the male inserting his abdomen into the pupa. If a second male appears, he fends off other males by opening his wings while he copulates, rather than attempting to mate with the female himself by inserting his abdomen. After two or three hours of mating, the female comes out, and copulation continues for another hour. During the process, females remain relatively still, except for spreading their wings and discharging meconium. As copulation proceeds, fewer males attempt to approach the female. However, if this does occur, the copulating male continues to fend them off by opening his wings. After copulation is done, the male and female sit side by side for some time. During this brief period, no other males attempt to mate with the female.\n\nMales transfer a protein-rich spermatophore to females upon mating. Spermatophores are nuptial gifts which serve different functions, one of which is to provide chemicals (cyanogens) that protect the mother and future offspring from predators. For females, this is beneficial because egg laying depletes her defensive chemicals. Among nine \"Heliconius\" species studied, \"H. chartihonia\" had the highest average cyanide concentration in its spermatophores.\n\nIn most species of butterflies, pheromones play a role in courtship and mate recognition, and can play a role in deterring mates. Spermatophores contain anaphrodisiacs, pheromones that reduce the attractiveness of the females to subsequent males, indicating evolution driven by intrasexual selection between males. These reduce male harassment of mated females. Spermatophores contain nonfertile sperm (apyrene) to increase the anaphrodisiac effect. The transfer of anaphrodisiacs thus reduces female mating choice.\n\nComplete spermatophore degradation to an orange or yellow substance occurs in a two-week period. Pupal-mating butterflies like \"H. charatonia\" are thought to be monandrous; females rarely participate in more than one mating per lifetime.\n\nAt eclosion, the ratio is highly female biased, but the rest of the year the sex ratio is overall male biased (68% males). This is because males typically stay near their natal sites to find a mate, while females move around to find oviposition or feeding sites on \"Passiflora\" plants. Because females are very mobile, males rarely mate with relatives, and inbreeding rates are very low.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120902", "title": "FreedomCAR and Vehicle Technologies", "text": "FreedomCAR and Vehicle Technologies\n\nThe FreedomCAR and Vehicle Technologies (FCVT) is a U.S. national Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy program developing more energy efficient and environmentally friendly highway transportation technologies that will enable the U.S to use less petroleum. It is currently run by Michael Berube. The long-term aim is to develop \"leap frog\" technologies that will provide Americans with greater freedom of mobility and energy security, while lowering costs and reducing impacts on the environment.\n\nThe Office of FreedomCAR and Vehicle Technologies (FCVT) is in the Department of Energy (DoE).\n\nThe Clean Cities Program is part of the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy's FreedomCAR & Vehicle Technologies Program.\n\nThe mission of Clean Cities is to advance the nation's economic, environmental, and energy security by supporting local decisions to adopt practices that contribute to the reduction of petroleum consumption. Clean Cities carries out this mission through a network of more than 80 volunteer coalitions, which develop public and private partnerships to promote alternative fuels and vehicles, fuel blends, fuel economy, hybrid vehicles, and idle reduction.\n\nThe goal of the FreedomCAR and Fuel Partnership is the development of emission- and petroleum-free cars and light trucks. The Partnership focuses on the high-risk research needed to develop the necessary technologies, such as fuel cells and advanced hybrid propulsion systems, to provide a full range of affordable cars and light trucks that are free of foreign oil and harmful emissions — and that do not sacrifice freedom of mobility and freedom of vehicle choice.\n\nTo address the research and development needs of commercial vehicles, the goal of the 21st Century Truck Partnership is for USA trucks and buses to safely and cost-effectively move larger volumes of freight and greater numbers of passengers while emitting little or no pollution, with dramatic reduction in dependence on imported petroleum.\n\nIn 2007 DoE announced that it will invest nearly $20 million in plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV) research. PHEVs have the potential to displace a large amount of gasoline by delivering up to 40 miles of electric range without recharging—a distance that includes most daily roundtrip commutes. Five projects will be cost-shared with the United States Advanced Battery Consortium (USABC), allowing up to $38 million for battery research and development. The five lithium ion battery companies selected for the projects include:\n\n\nThe projects will focus on developing batteries and cells for 10- and 40-mile range PHEVs and building small cells to test new cathode materials.\n\nIn addition, the University of Michigan will receive nearly $2 million to explore the future of PHEVs in a two-year study conducted with DOE's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), General Motors, Ford Motor Company, and DTE Energy. The study will evaluate how PHEVs would share the power grid with other energy needs; monitor the American public's view of PHEVs and their driving behavior in such vehicles; assess the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; and identify how automakers can optimize PHEV design to increase performance and reduce cost. See the DOE press release, the PNNL press Release, and the Draft Plug-In Hybrid Electric Vehicle R&D Plan on the FreedomCAR and Vehicle Technologies Program Web site.\n\nA number of other efforts are also aiming to advance PHEV technologies. In early September, Google.org—the philanthropic arm of Google Inc.—offered $10 million to for-profit companies that are working to advance PHEV technologies. Meanwhile, California's Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) announced that it is working with Tesla Motors to study the remote control of the charging of electric vehicles. Such \"smart charging\" could allow a utility to vary the electric charging load on its system in response to intermittent energy sources. In effect, electric vehicles would serve as a large energy storage system that utilities could direct energy to at times when ample supplies are available and the load on the electrical grid is low.\n\nAlso DoE and China's Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) signed a five-year agreement in September 2007 to support the large-scale deployment of electric and hybrid-electric vehicles in both countries.\n\nWith the hydrogen-focused FCVT, whose goal is decades away, the Bush Administration was criticized for ignoring any intermediate-term solutions, while funding it largely with monies redirected from other renewable-energy and energy-efficiency programs. As Ashok Gupta, the lead energy economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, put it, \"The FreedomCAR is really about Bush's freedom to do nothing about cars today.\"\n\nThe Department of Energy's congressional budget request for 2010 budget cuts funding for fuel cell technologies by 60% to US$70 million. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu's presentation portrays this as \"moving away from funding vehicular hydrogen fuel cells to technologies with more immediate promise.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120906", "title": "Social Christian Party (Brazil)", "text": "Social Christian Party (Brazil)\n\nThe Social Christian Party (, PSC) is a Christian-conservative political party in Brazil.\n\nIn the 2018 election, the party elected 2 Governors, 1 Senator, 9 Federal Deputies and 30 State Deputies.\n\nThe party was founded in 1985, as a Christian democratic party. The party supported Fernando Collor de Mello in the presidential election of 1989, and in 1990, the party won first place in the state election for Alagoas, the home state of then-President Collor. However, from 1994, the party declined: its candidates repeatedly lost votes, surpassing only those from far-left parties, who originated from rebel wings of the Workers Party without popular support. The PSC did not elect more than 3 representatives in the three subsequent elections.\n\nIncumbent President Jair Bolsonaro is a former member of the party.\n\nThe party is often associated with conservative evangelicalism because the leadership of the Pastor Everaldo Pereira, a national leader of Assemblies of God in Brazil, over the party. Despite this, the party does not have any affiliation with any church and many of the officials elected by the party, like the incumbents Governor and Vice Governor of Rio de Janeiro Wilson Witzel and Claudio Castro being practising catholics, with the latter being a well-known catholic music singer and activist.\n\nThe party is a vocal supporter of social conservatism, harshly opposing abortion, LGBT rights, gender theory and the legalization of marijuana. On economics, the party is more moderate, supporting a free-market system with privatization of many of the Brazilian government-owned companies like Petrobrás with an extensive social safety net.\n\nThe party adopted a hard-line stance against organized crime and drug trafficking in the governorship of Rio de Janeiro. Under Witzel's government, the number of police operations substantially grew, and the number of members of police which died on-duty has fallen, together with the number of manslaughters, shootings and robberies in the state of Rio de Janeiro, although civilian and criminal deaths in police-related incidents has increased. Nevertheless, Witzel has been criticized by the high number of civilian victims of the confrontational politics which he implemented, which includes poor children and elders.\n\nAt the legislative elections of 6 October 2002, the party won 1 out of 513 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and no seats in the Senate. At the legislative elections of 1 October 2006, the party won 9 seats in the Chamber of Deputies. At the legislative elections of 3 October 2010, the party won 17 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 1 seat in the Senate. At the legislative elections of 5 October 2014, the party won 13 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 1 seat in the Senate. At the legislative elections of 7 October 2014, the party won 9 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 1 seat in the Senate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120907", "title": "Doctor of Audiology", "text": "Doctor of Audiology\n\nThe Doctor of Audiology (Au.D.) is a professional degree for an audiologist. The Au.D. program is designed to produce audiologists who are skilled in providing diagnostic, rehabilitative, and other services associated with hearing, balance, tinnitus management, and related audiological fields. These individuals help patients with hearing problems primarily by diagnosing hearing loss and fitting hearing assistive devices.\nThere is an emphasis on the clinical learning experience, though most programs also have a research component. As of 2007, the Au.D. has replaced Masters-level audiology programs as the entry-level degree in the United States. Other countries, such as Canada and India, still offer the master's degree. In the United States, after an Au.D. is obtained, some states may require a license before practicing audiology clinically. The majority of Au.D. programs include three years of didactic and clinical instruction and a one-year externship, similar to a medical residency. A few schools offer accelerated three-year programs. Programs differ in their prerequisite requirements for admission, though broadly applicants must have some background in the natural and social sciences, mathematics, and humanities. While it may be helpful for applicants to have a background in the communication sciences, this is not generally required for admission to an Au.D. program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120910", "title": "Canisius High School", "text": "Canisius High School\n\nCanisius High School is a Roman Catholic, Jesuit, private high school for young men, located at 1180 Delaware Avenue in Buffalo, New York, United States, just north of the Delaware Avenue Historic District. Founded in 1870, the school has historical ties to Canisius College. Canisius operates independently from the New York State guidelines established by the Board of Regents. It has the largest high school student population among private schools in Western New York.\n\nIn 1850, a group of Jesuits left Europe in response to Bishop John Timon's call for a Catholic institution to serve European immigrants settling in Western New York. The Jesuits founded Buffalo's first Catholic college and named it after St. Peter Canisius, a 16th-century Jesuit theologian, scholar, evangelist, and educator.\n\nAs part of Canisius College, the high school was first located on Ellicott Street in downtown Buffalo; it quickly outgrew that location and moved to a building on Washington Street in 1872. In 1883, Canisius High School “was incorporated by the State of New York as the Academic Department of Canisius College”. In 1908, the boarding portion of the school was closed, and by September 1912 the high school served 379 boys. In December 1912, as Canisius College moved into new facilities at Main and Jefferson Streets in Buffalo, the Washington Street building was turned over to the exclusive use of the high school. In 1919, Fr. Robert Johnson “became the first rector of the separate high school community.” In September 1928, the high school received an independent charter, completing its separation from the College.\n\nThe current Canisius site is notable in many ways. Located at 1180 Delaware Avenue, just north of the Delaware Avenue Historic District, the facility is at home among the many architecturally-and historically-significant residences in the area. The school sits just south of Gates Circle, with tree-lined parkways designed and built by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux leading to Delaware Park. Canisius is also located just east of the Elmwood Village, recently ranked the third-best neighborhood in America by the American Planning Association.\n\nConstruction on the present-day Koessler Academic Center, also known as Berchmans' Hall, was started in 1918 by George F. Rand, Sr., founder and former president of Marine Midland Bank. The facility was originally built as a private residence in the Jacobethan style, with gables, steep green slate roofs, chimney pots, and mullioned windows.\n\nThe building was sold in 1924 to the Masons, who converted it into the Buffalo Masonic Consistory. The Masons made several additions to the building, including a large marble foyer, a pool, Turkish baths, bowling alleys, and locker rooms. This new construction was designed by Buffalo City Hall chief architect John Wade.\n\nThe Masons are also responsible for Canisius' unique auditorium, which boasted, at the time of its construction, the largest continuous, free-spanning balcony in the United States, custom-made French chandeliers, and an advanced electrical lighting system, part of which is currently stored in the Smithsonian archives. This lighting system included a stained glass sun built into the ceiling, with hundreds of individual \"stars\" mimicking the night sky, and a blue band representing the Milky Way.\n\nThe Jesuits purchased the building from the City of Buffalo in 1944 for $92,000. Soon after, the Beecher Classroom Wing was added to the south of the structure, opening in 1948. A Jesuit residence (Frauenheim Hall) was added to the northwest side of the building. In about 1956, the adjacent Milburn House, site of the death of President William McKinley, was demolished to make way for a parking lot. It had been an apartment building since 1919 but had fallen into a state of significant disrepair by the time of its demolition.\n\nIn November 2007, the school unveiled a $14 million plan to upgrade its campus. Frauenheim Hall was demolished and replaced by the state-of-the-art Bernard J. Kennedy Field House, with a seating capacity of over 1,000 for basketball games and other indoor sporting events. A new Math and Science center, the Montante Academic Wing, stands connected to the Beecher Classroom Wing, adjoining West Ferry Street. Additionally, administrative offices have moved east across Delaware Avenue. In 2008, the Robert J. Stransky Memorial Athletic Complex opened in the suburb of West Seneca.\n\nThe campus has continued to expand in recent years. The school's weight room underwent a six-figure, extensive renovation in 2012, and in May 2017, the school announced it had acquired the Conners Mansion, located next to the main campus on the opposite side of West Ferry Street. The Delaware Avenue campus now includes in excess of 100,000 square footage of educational space via three mansions - the Rand Mansion (1180 Delaware Avenue), Welch Mansion (1193 Delaware Avenue), and Conners Mansion (1140 Delaware Avenue) - as well as the Auditorium, Kennedy Field House, and Montante Academic Wing.\n\nAs of 2013-14, Canisius enrolls approximately 885 students from Western New York and Southern Ontario, representing 4 counties, 42 cities and towns, and 147 grammar and middle schools. While the Catholic education system in Buffalo and the United States has declined since the start of the 21st Century, the Canisius student population has actually increased almost 20%, and today's student population is made of a mix of students from both Catholic and public grammar school backgrounds. The Class of 2009 produced 3 National Merit Finalists and 13 National Merit Commended Students, more than any other private high school in Western New York.\n\nCanisius offers a wide variety of extracurricular activities, including Mock Trial, \"The Citadel\" newspaper, the \"Chanticleer\" literary magazine, the \"Arena\" yearbook, the National Honor Society, Students Against Destructive Decisions, Coding Club, Ski Club, Donate Life, Foursquare Club, the Gamers' Guild, Stage Crew, Speech and Debate, Wall Street Club, Writers' Club, The Meditators (Meditation Club), Chess Club, Innovative Thinking & Entrepreneurial Club (ITEC), and a league-champion Masterminds (Quiz Bowl) team.\n\nCanisius students also participate in a number of interscholastic sports; the school is a founding member of the Monsignor Martin Athletic Association. The Crusaders field teams in baseball, basketball, bowling, crew, cross country, football, golf, hockey, lacrosse, sailing, squash, soccer, swimming, tennis, track and field, volleyball, Rugby, and wrestling. Given the Crusaders' dominance in athletics in Western New York and New York State since 2000, Canisius has won the Monsignor Martin Association's \"Supremacy Cup\" (recognizing Catholic League's top athletic school through the aggregate of each varsity team's regular and postseason results) in all but two years this century.\n\nThe Canisius football team has become one of the most recognized programs in the United States over the last few years thanks in part to the successes of recent graduates like John Urschel '09 and Jimmy Gaines '10 as well as several other high-profile Division 1 recruits. The program, ranked in the top 5 in the northeast USA, was nationally profiled by Rivals in the summer of 2013. \nThe Canisius rowing team has achieved significant national success in recent years. The Crusaders captured the Youth National Lightweight Eight Championship in 2006 and 2007, the Scholastic National Freshman Eight Championship in 2006 and 2008, the Scholastic Lightweight Eight Championship in 2009 and 2010, and the Scholastic National Junior Eight Championship in 2008. In 2019 the Senior Lightweight 4+ won all three major national championships including, the Scholastic National Championship, Canadian Secondary School Championship, and the Youth National Championship. The four also broke the record for the event at the Youth National Championship.\n\nTraditionally, Canisius' biggest rival in sports has been St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute. Contests between the two institutions in any sport are well-attended and well-covered. The varsity football games between the two have annually been featured as part of the Great American Rivalry Series, which broadcasts high school games to U.S. troops around the world. Canisius has won seven straight and twelve of sixteen recent games against St. Joe's in football, a streak that matches Canisius' longest winning streak in the rivalry series that dates back to 1921.\n\nEvery student at Canisius is involved in a rigorous college-preparatory curriculum. Students are required to take seven college-preparatory courses per semester; over four years, the credit requirement is 29.5 credits. Honors and Advanced Placement sections exist in each of the curricular disciplines. Admissions are based on grades, an entrance exam, and various other criteria.\n\nBecause of its academic rigor and the fact that its diploma requirements exceed those of the state of New York, Canisius is one of only four Western New York secondary schools (with Buffalo Seminary, Nichols School, and The Park School of Buffalo) in which students are exempt from taking New York State's Regents Examinations. Instead, Canisius is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools and is a member of the New York State Association of Independent Schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120932", "title": "Shigella dysenteriae", "text": "Shigella dysenteriae\n\nShigella dysenteriae is a species of the rod-shaped bacterial genus \"Shigella\". \"Shigella\" species can cause shigellosis (bacillary dysentery). Shigellae are Gram-negative, non-spore-forming, facultatively anaerobic, nonmotile bacteria. \"S. dysenteriae\" has the ability to invade and replicate in various species of epithelial cells and enterocytes. \n\nShigella infections may be contracted by a lack of monitoring of water and food quality, unsanitary cooking conditions and improper hygiene practices.. \n\"S. dysenteriae\" spreads through contaminated water and food, causes minor dysentery because of its Shiga toxin, but other species may also be dysentery agents. \"S. dysenteriae\" releases an exotoxin that compromises the gut and central nervous system. If acting as an enterotoxin, diarrhea will occur. When acting as a neurotoxin, severe cases of shigellosis are developed, inducing comas and meningismus.\n\nContamination is often caused by bacteria on unwashed hands during food preparation, or soiled hands reaching the mouth.\n\nThe most commonly observed signs associated with \"Shigella\" dysentery include colitis, malnutrition, rectal prolapse, tenesmus, reactive arthritis, and central nervous system problems. Further, \"S. dysenteriae\" is associated with the development of hemolytic-uremic syndrome, which includes anemia, thrombocytopenia, and kidney failure. If infected with \"S. dysenteriae\", an individual will experience a severe case of Shigellosis.\nMortality is higher with \"S. dysenteriae\" type 1. Most cases of shigellosis are in developing countries. Shigellosis outbreaks in Asia, Latin America and Africa have had mortality rates of up to 20%.\n\nSince the typical fecal specimen is not sterile, the use of selective plates is mandatory. XLD agar, DCA agar, or Hektoen enteric agar are inoculated; all give colorless colonies as the organism is not a lactose fermenter. Inoculation of a TSI slant shows an alkaline slant and acidic, but with no gas, or production. Following incubation on SIM, the culture appears nonmotile with no production. Addition of Kovac's reagent to the SIM tube following growth typically indicates no indole formation (serotypes 2, 7, and 8 produce indole). \nMannitol tests yields negative results. Ornithine Decarboxylase tests yield negative results.\n\nTreatment for shigellosis, independent of the subspecies, requires an antibiotic. Commonly used antibiotics include ampicillin, ciprofloxacin, ceftriaxone, among others. Opioids should be avoided for treatment of Shigellosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120933", "title": "An Innocent Man (film)", "text": "An Innocent Man (film)\n\nAn Innocent Man is a 1989 American crime drama thriller film directed by Peter Yates, and starring Tom Selleck. The film follows James Rainwood, an airline mechanic sent to prison when framed by crooked police officers.\n\nJames \"Jimmie\" Rainwood (Tom Selleck) is an ordinary and model citizen. Happily married to his beautiful wife Kate (Laila Robins), they have a modest home in Long Beach, California. Jimmie works as an expert American Airlines aeronautics engineer, supporting his wife while she's in college.\n\nDetectives Mike Parnell (David Rasche) and Danny Scalise (Richard Young) are crooked narcotics cops who steal the drugs they seize at busts for their own recreational drug use and to sell to dealers, brutalizing or framing anyone who gets in their way. One of their regular customers for stolen drugs is Joseph Donatelli (J.J. Johnston), a high-level mobster. \n\nOne day Parnell takes a large hit of cocaine and gets confused about the address for the next drug bust, and they break into the wrong house. Just as Jimmie walks out of the bathroom with a hair dryer in hand, Parnell shoots, thinking it's a weapon. Jimmie is shot in the shoulder and knocked unconscious. Realizing that they could both be tested for taking drugs and charged, they decide to cover up their mistake. They plant drugs in the house and place a firearm in the hand of Jimmies's unconscious body, framing him as a drug dealer. Jimmie is pegged as a user, having a prior record of marijuana possession while in college, and his only defense is his word against two decorated cops. He claims the two cops framed him, but no evidence proves the men are corrupt. He gets a 6-year prison sentence. Internal Affairs detective John Fitzgerald (Badja Djola) takes an interest in the situation, though he can't do anything due to the only evidence against the corrupt officers being hearsay.\n\nJimmie is completely unprepared for prison life. Early in his term he sees his cellmate murdered with a screwdriver and set on fire in the prison yard. Later he has a run in with the Black Guerrilla Family run by Jingles, who grabs his commissary purchases, daring him to resist. The gang beats Jimmie senseless and he spends several weeks recuperating. Jimmie knows he can't expect help from anyone, least of all the prison authorities, who punish him for not naming his assailants. Shrewd and respected inmate Virgil Cane (F. Murray Abraham) tells him he needs to \"take care of his problem\" with Jingles, but Jimmie resists the pressure to kill as long as he can. After Jingles forces him to witness the gang rape of another inmate, Jimmie knows he has no choice but to act.\n\nJimmie gets a plexiglas shank and stabs Jingles to death, with Virgil acting as lookout. The authorities know Jimmie did the killing but since they can't prove it, he spends three months in a windowless, subterranean solitary confinement. When he's released to the general population he is received as a minor hero for ridding the prison of Jingles. On the outside, Kate is causing trouble by pleading for a review of the case from anyone who might be able to help and is subsequently threatened by Parnell and Scalise. A visit with Fitzgerald goes nowhere, but when she angrily insults him, saying the two crooked cops are laughing at him, he's irritated and suspicious enough to confront Parnell and Scalise and demand that they leave her alone.\n\nBefore being paroled after three years served, Virgil suggests to Jimmie that he should take advantage of his prison contacts to get even with the detectives that framed him. But Jimmie just wants to regain his life on the outside and joyfully reunites with Kate. Prison life has hardened him and he warns Kate that in some ways, she no longer knows him. When he comes home to find Scalaise and Parnell in his living room, threatening him and Kate, Jimmie realizes their lives will never be their own while the detectives continue to hound them. Jimmie hates that his wife has been dragged into this violent world but she insists that she does know him, a good man who is only doing what he must. Kate visits Virgil in prison and asks for his help in getting evidence on the corrupt cops that the police can't ignore.\n\nVirgil's outside contacts scam Parnell and Scalise into busting some \"competition\" that are in reality protected dealers of Donatelli. Fearing both Donatelli and Fitzgerald, the two cops only turn in a fraction of the seized drugs and decide to take the remaining huge haul out of state to start new lives, away from the threat of the mob and the law. Before they can leave town, they are robbed by masked \"thieves\", Jimmie and Malcolm (M.C. Gainey), another friend of Virgil. Malcolm calls the detectives and says he will swap the drugs for cash, Fitzgerald having finally been convinced to wire Jimmie and Malcolm to record the sting. In the middle of the handoff, Parnell attacks Malcolm and Jimmie is forced to hand over the drugs. Malcolm is shot and killed by Parnell. Fitzgerald then informs Parnell and Scalise that they have been busted and that they are about to be apprehended, however neither of them go down without a fight. Scalise attempts to run down Fitzgerald and Fitgerald fires his weapon to defend himself. Scalise dies after crashing his car while trying to escape. Fitzgerald is injured in the confrontation and Jimmie chases Parnell, beating him bloody until Parnell pulls a knife. Jimmie wrests the knife away from Parnell and has the blade at his throat until Kate, who has been acting as the driver, begs Jimmie not to kill him and let the law take over. Jimmie eventually walks away from Parnell, who is then placed under arrest by his soon-to-be former colleagues. \n\nThe movie ends with Kate and Jimmie returning to a life they both deserve. Parnell, now a convict, is put into the general prison population. On entry to the prison tiers, Virgil calls attention to Parnel by yelling, \"Hey, officer!\" for all the other inmates to hear. Parnell, his face frozen in fear, looks up to the balcony where Virgil is smirking down at him. Jimmie is seen suited up and working again for the airline, finally getting his life back.\n\n\nPeter Yates later recalled, he \"wasn't sure at all\" about the script when he first read it. \"I was worried about the violence. But what struck me was the quality of the writing in the prison scenes and the accurate observation of prison life. This seemed to me to be something I hadn't seen on the screen in a lot of prison movies.\" He said he also loved \"what I call 'experience films.' By that I mean films that are about somebody caught up in one of those situations where you're left feeling, 'there but for the grace of God go I'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2120935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120935", "title": "Lake Michigan–Huron", "text": "Lake Michigan–Huron\n\nLake Michigan–Huron (also Huron–Michigan) is the combined waters of Lake Michigan and Lake Huron, which are joined through the , , open-water Straits of Mackinac. Huron and Michigan are hydrologically a single lake because the flow of water through the straits keeps their water levels in near-equilibrium. Although the flow is generally eastward, the water moves in either direction depending on local conditions. Combined, Lake Michigan–Huron is the largest freshwater lake by area in the world. However, if Lake Huron and Lake Michigan are considered two separate lakes Lake Superior is larger than either.\n\nDuring the last ice age, the sizes and connectivity of the two lake basins varied dramatically over time. Sequential advances and retreats of the Laurentian ice sheet repeatedly opened and dammed various possible outlets from the area, as well as providing dramatically varying amounts of meltwater to the system. Numerous proglacial lakes formed in various places and configurations as the ice sheet advanced and retreated. At various times, what is now Michigan–Huron was clearly separated into two or more lakes, and at other times was part of a single, deeper lake.\n\nAround 9,000 years BC, as the ice sheet retreated, the modern Lakes Huron, Michigan, and much of Superior, were a single lake known to geologists as Lake Algonquin. Ice sheets dammed Lake Algonquin to the northeast. Before that, Lake Chicago occupied the southern tip of the Lake Michigan basin, at the southern end of the ice sheet. Lake Algonquin and Lake Chicago both drained south into the Mississippi River watershed. Around 9,500 years ago, new pathways draining the system to the east were opened by the retreat of the ice, and proglacial Lake Stanley (precursor of Lake Huron) was separated from proglacial Lake Chippewa (precursor of Lake Michigan), with Lake Chippewa at a slightly higher level. They were connected by the now-submerged Mackinac Channel, which discharged into Lake Stanley over Mackinac Falls. Ongoing warping of the land by post-glacial rebound due to the retreat of the glacial ice continued to modify the drainage structure of the region, allowing the reunification of all three basins (Superior, Michigan, and Huron) as the Nipissing Great Lakes. This arrangement was probably stable for more than 1,000 years, ending only when lake outlets other than the St. Clair River were cut off around 4,000 years ago. The current configuration of the lakes reflects the latest step in a long history of their post-glacial evolution.\n\nThe connection between Lake Michigan and Lake Huron through the Straits of Mackinac is wide and deep. This depth compares with the maximum depths of in Lake Huron and in Lake Michigan. Although the Straits create a pronounced bottleneck in the contours of the shoreline and a major constriction in the local bathymetry, defining two distinct basins, they are still deep and wide enough to allow the free exchange of water between the two sides. Because of the link through the Straits, Lakes Michigan and Huron have the same mean water level (in June 2015 it was ).\n\nThe largest inflow to the system is the St. Mary's River from Lake Superior, and the main outflow is the St. Clair River to Lake Erie; both lie in the Lake Huron basin. The combined effects of seiches (resonant standing waves) and of differing weather conditions (atmospheric pressure, wind) over each basin act to drive water either way through the Straits on a variety of characteristic timescales, at amounts sometimes exceeding for several hours in either direction. However, the long-term average flow through the Straits is eastwards at . Flows into the system from Lake Superior are controlled by the bi-national Lake Superior Board of Control through the operation of locks and canals.\n\nBecause of the relatively small depth and width of the Straits of Mackinac compared to the water bodies it connects, the distinct basins that these occupy, and historical naming convention, Lake Michigan and Lake Huron are usually considered distinct. For instance, these two lakes are typically recorded as separate entries in lists of the largest lakes in the world by area and volume. In the context of hydrology, however, the two are considered one body of water. Because of the hydrologic connectivity through the Straits, some sources have considered the total area and volume of Lake Michigan–Huron when placing this system in a global or regional context.\n\nWhen Lake Michigan–Huron is treated as a single entity, it is the largest freshwater lake by surface area in the world.\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "2120937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120937", "title": "Natalia Hadjiloizou", "text": "Natalia Hadjiloizou\n\nNatalia Hadjiloizou (; born 23 March 1979 in Vitebsk, Belarus as Natalya Baranovskaya; ; ) is a professional Cypriot swimmer.\n\nShe made her Olympic debut at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta for Belarus.\n\nHadjiloizou also competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney for Belarus, where she placed 6th in the 200 m freestyle and did not advance out of the preliminary heats in the 400 m freestyle.\n\nShe won the 'Open' 1999 British Championship in the 400 metres freestyle.\n\nAfter deciding to retire aged 22 in 2001, she moved to Cyprus where she married her coach Giorgios, and later competed for Cyprus at the 2008 Summer Olympics where she ranked 45th in the 100 metre butterfly event.\n"}
{"id": "2120946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120946", "title": "Vlie", "text": "Vlie\n\nThe Vlie or Vliestroom is the seaway between the Dutch islands of Vlieland, to its southwest, and Terschelling, to its northeast. The Vlie was the estuary of the river IJssel in medieval times. In 1666 the English Admiral Robert Holmes burnt a Dutch merchant fleet of 130 ships (Holmes's Bonfire), that had taken refuge in the Vlie, mistakenly supposing the English could never find their way through the treacherous shoals along its coastline. Today it's still possible to reach the port of Harlingen by way of the Vlie.\n\nIt is often supposed that the old Roman name for the lake that later would become the Zuiderzee: \"Lacus Flevo\", is etymologically related to the name \"Vlie\" and that perhaps Vlie was once the name of the entire lake and the big river that flowed out of it. In the 13th century large floods widened the estuary and destroyed much of the peat land behind, creating a continuous area of sand and mudflats connecting the sea to the enlarged inland lake and obscuring the flow of the river. When the Afsluitdijk was created, the old streambed from the river to the sea was obstructed. The construction of the Afsluitdijk caused a 19% increase of current velocity in Vliestroom.\n"}
{"id": "2120962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120962", "title": "Meteoritics", "text": "Meteoritics\n\nMeteoritics is the science that deals with meteors, meteorites, and meteoroids. It is closely connected to cosmochemistry, mineralogy and geochemistry. A specialist who studies meteoritics is known as a \"meteoriticist\".\n\nScientific research in meteoritics includes the collection, identification, and classification of meteorites and the analysis of samples taken from them in a laboratory. Typical analyses include investigation of the minerals that make up the meteorite, their relative locations, orientations, and chemical compositions; analysis of isotope ratios; and radiometric dating. These techniques are used to determine the age, formation process, and subsequent history of the material forming the meteorite. This provides information on the history of the Solar System, how it formed and evolved, and the process of planet formation.\n\nBefore the documentation of L'Aigle it was generally believed that meteorites were a type of superstition and those who claimed to see them fall from space were lying.\n\nIn 1960 John Reynolds discovered that some meteorites have an excess of Xe, a result of the presence of I in the solar nebula.\n\nThe presence or absence of certain minerals is indicative of physical and chemical processes. Impacts on the parent body are recorded by impact-breccias and high-pressure mineral phases (e.g. coesite, akimotoite, majorite, ringwoodite, stishovite, wadsleyite). Water bearing minerals, and samples of liquid water (e.g., Zag, Monahans) are an indicator for hydrothermal activity on the parent body (e.g. clay minerals).\n\nRadiometric methods can be used to date different stages of the history of a meteorite. Condensation from the solar nebula is recorded by calcium–aluminium-rich inclusions and chondrules. These can be dated by using radionuclides that were present in the solar nebula (e.g. Al/Mg, Mn/Cr, U/Pb, I/Xe). After the condensed material accretes to planetesimals of sufficient size melting and differentiation take place. These processes can be dated with the U/Pb, Rb/Sr, \nSm/Nd and Lu/Hf methods. Metallic core formation and cooling can be dated by applying the Re/Os method to iron meteorites. Large scale impact events or even the destruction of the parent body can be dated using the Ar/Ar method and the Pu fission track method. After breakup of the parent body meteoroids are exposed to cosmic radiation. The length of this exposure can be dated using the H/He method, Na/Ne, Kr/Kr. After impact on earth (or any other planet with sufficient cosmic ray shielding) cosmogenic radionuclides decay and can be used to date the time since the meteorite fell. Methods to date this terrestrial exposure are Cl, C, Kr.\n\n"}
{"id": "2120966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120966", "title": "Samuel O. Freedman", "text": "Samuel O. Freedman\n\nSamuel Orkin Freedman, (born May 8, 1928) is a Canadian clinical immunologist, professor and academic administrator. In 1965, he co-discovered with Phil Gold the carcinoembryonic antigen, the basis of a blood test used in the diagnosis and management of people with colorectal cancer.\n\nBorn in Montreal, Freedman received a Bachelor of Science in 1948 and a Doctor of Medicine in 1953 from McGill University. \n\nFrom 1977 to 1981, he was the Dean of the McGill University Faculty of Medicine. From 1981 to 1991, he served as McGill's chief academic officer with the title of Vice-Principal, Academic (equivalent to Provost at U.S. universities). Freedman received an honorary degree from McGill in 1992. He was named Professor Emeritus in 2000. Until January 1, 2008, Freedman was senior advisor to the Sir Mortimer B. Davis Jewish General Hospital in Montreal, where he was previously research director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120975", "title": "Stanislava Komarova", "text": "Stanislava Komarova\n\nStanislava Stanislavovna Komarova (; born 12 June 1986 in Moscow) is a retired Russian swimmer. She won the silver medal in the 200 m backstroke at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. Komarova was one of the few modern swimmers who competed without goggles.\n\nIn 2006, having parted with her long-time coach Alexey Krasikov, she moved to Tenero, Switzerland, where for a while she trained with Guennadi Touretski. She retired in 2008, aged 22, after a conflict with the Russian Swimming Federation. In 2012-2015 she worked as a sports commentator for NTV (Russia) and hosted the programme \"Football Haute Couture\". As of 2018 she works as a trainer, for her own Stanislava Komarova Swimming Group (SKSG) which she started in 2014 in Moscow.\n\nKomarova is the recipient of the Medal of the Order \"For Merit to the Fatherland\" (2005). She is decorated with the title Meritorious Master of Sports in Russia.\n\nIn 2009 she married the volleyball player Aleksey Ostapenko, they divorced in 2011. Her second husband Andrey is a grandson of the tennis player and later commentator Anna Dmitrieva. \n\n"}
{"id": "2120984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120984", "title": "Benjamin Ladner", "text": "Benjamin Ladner\n\nBenjamin Mance Ladner (born October 30, 1941) is an academic expert in the fields of philosophy and religion. He was president of American University from 1994 to 2005, when he was ousted.\n\nHis areas of professional interest and research are international relations and the role of higher education; education administration; religion and contemporary culture; and NCAA collegiate athletics.\n\nHe was previously married to Carolyn Cooper, with whom he had two sons, David and Mark, and later remarried to Nancy Bullard.\n\nLadner was born in Mobile, Alabama. He attended Murphy High School in Mobile followed by undergraduate study at Baylor University, receiving his Bachelor of Arts in 1963. Ladner earned a Bachelor of Divinity from Southern Seminary in 1966 and his Doctor of Philosophy from Duke University in 1970. His dissertation was on \"Elizabeth Sewell: Poetic Method As An Instrument of Thinking and Knowing\".\n\nLadner has also been awarded doctorates from Elizabethtown College, Sookmyung Women's University (South Korea) and Tashkent State Economic University (Uzbekistan).\n\nLadner began his academic career as a professor of philosophy and religion at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro where he taught for more than a decade. While there, Ladner won the University Teaching Excellence Award and was elected to the National Faculty of Arts, Humanities, and Sciences in 1975, an association of university professors founded by Phi Beta Kappa. He served as its president from 1980 to 1994.\n\nLadner was appointed President of, and professor of philosophy and religion at, American University in 1994. His appointment is credited with bringing stability to the university after a period of turmoil and rapid turnover of presidents. During his tenure, the university experienced financial and academic growth, along with recognition as a leading international university, that partnered with and helped found new universities around the world. The main thrust of Ladner's leadership was defined in a \"15 point plan\" in 2001, which was approved by faculty, staff and the board.\n\nDuring his tenure as president at American University, Ladner chaired the Board of Trustees of the Consortium of Universities of the Washington Metropolitan Area, the Patriot League Council of Presidents, and served on numerous other boards and commissions including the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the Washington Board of Trade, and the Committee for Economic Development, the Commission on International Education for the American Council on Education, among others.\n\nHe was also a member of the Federal Election Reform Commission, co-chaired by Jimmy Carter and James Baker; the NCAA Presidential Task Force on the Future of Intercollegiate Athletics; and a United Nations Advisory Group Member and Manuscript Reviewer for the ground-breaking \"Arab Human Development Report, 2002\".\n\nIn 2003, Ladner fired Susan Clampitt as the head of university-owned WAMU, due to donor and staff outrage at fiscal mismanagement of the NPR affiliate. Clampitt later sued both Ladner and the university, claiming that Ladner had approved all of her financial decisions, which depleted a $4 million endowment for the station. The Court of Appeals subsequently denied Clampitt's employment-related claims.\n\nLadner helped secure the release of individuals jailed for human rights protests and activities in the Palestinian Terrortories (West Bank) and Burma (Myanmar). Additionally, he led a series of face-to-face talks between Israeli and Palestinian leaders in Ramallah, Jerusalem, and Washington, DC in 2003–2004.\n\nIn 2001, Ladner negotiated with the Chinese government for the release of Gao Zhan, after she was held while being charged as a spy for the United States. Later, it was discovered that Zhan was actually a spy for the People's Republic of China, and she was charged with tax fraud and espionage by the United States but charges were dismissed and she was placed in protective custody after she participated in a CIA operation.\n\nUnder Ladner's leadership, American University expanded its reach abroad after being selected as the primary contracting institution to develop and manage two new universities, on in the United Arab Emirates UAE and the other in Nigeria.\n\nThe Nigerian university, originally known as ABTI-American University (AAUN) and now called the American University of Nigeria (AUN), attracts students from all over Africa and around the world seeking an American style education. Unlike most universities in the country, AAUN offers a four-year undergraduate degree program divided among two years of general study followed by two of concentrated study in a major. This differs from most Nigerian universities which follow the British model in which students take classes only in their major.\n\nIn the UAE, American University established the American University of Sharjah.\n\nLadner came under increasing criticism for his high salary, lavish lifestyle, and his frequent travels to visit partnering universities throughout the world.\n\nThe website BenLadner.com was created by students at the university in 2002 to highlight these criticisms, specifically Ladner's salary. In September 2004, Ladner filed a complaint with ICANN, alleging that the website's prominent use of his name caused confusion for visitors, causing them to believe it to be his own personal website. ICANN ruled against Ladner, refusing to remove the domain name because Ladner's name had no commercial value.\n\nIn August 2005, \"The Washington Post\" reported on the opening of an investigation by the American University Board of Trustees into Ladner's expenses. An anonymous letter to the board, later revealed to be from Ladner's fired driver Reginald Green, alleged that Ladner had improperly used university funds for personal expenses. Ladner was placed on administrative leave by the board pending the outcome of the investigation. On August 25, he was suspended from his post. On October 10, 2005, AU's Board of Trustees dismissed Ladner as university president. Ladner was a controversial figure. Following his ouster, the \"Washington Post\" noted that friends described him \"as an honorable, charismatic leader\" while a growing number of critics viewed him as \"unethical, manipulative and imperious,\" citing the university investigation that found that Ladners and his wife spent university funds \"on foie gras, limousines, French wine and family parties.\"\n\nLadner was given a $3.75 million severance package, causing two trustees to resign.\n\nOn April 1, 2006, Harry Jaffe wrote an article published in the Washingtonian summarizing Ladner's reign and fall at American University, detailing expenses and the board of trustees' tussle in support and against the president, including attorneys advice that there was no enforceable contract and that Ladner was terminated for \"cause or dishonesty\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2120990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120990", "title": "Mercator Telescope", "text": "Mercator Telescope\n\nThe Mercator Telescope is a 1.2 m telescope at the Observatorio del Roque de Los Muchachos on La Palma. It is operated by the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Leuven University), Belgium, in collaboration with the Observatory of the University of Geneva and named after Gerard Mercator, famous cartographer.\n\nThe telescope was completed in the year 2000 for an exoplanet research program.\n\nThe telescope contains two different measuring devices. First of all, there is the \"MeropeII\" CCD camera. This camera has a size of 2k by 6k pixels Frame Transfer detector originally designed for ESA's canceled Eddington space mission. The filters used together with this camera are according to the so-called \"geneva photometric system\". The second instrument on the Mercator Telescope is the \"HERMES\" echelle spectrograph. It covers a wavelength range between 380 and 875 nm with a spectral resolution of R∼85000.\n\nThe \"P7\" photometer was active from May 2001 until July 2008. The photometer measured in the 7 band Geneva photometric system. It measured the star in one channel and the sky in another so that the sky can be subtracted. The filter wheel is turning at a rate of 4 Hz, changing between the filters of the photometric system.\n\nThe Swiss Euler 1.2m Telescope and the Mercator Telescope were part of the Southern Sky extrasolar Planet search Programme which has discovered numerous extrasolar planets. \n\nThe Hermes spectrograph was used to monitor the Star Delta Cephei in the 2010s. The data seemed to suggest a previously unknown stellar companion. The Hermes spectrograph for Mercator was in development from at least 2004, and is a \"high-resolution fiber-fed echelle spectrograph\" type of design.\n\nIn 2012, the MAIA instrument for astroseismology was installed. MAIA, also called the Mercator Advanced Imager for Astroseismology uses CCD to image in three passbands. Some of the technology was developed for a space telescope called the Eddington mission, which was however cancelled and thus not sent into space at that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2120997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2120997", "title": "Shagrath", "text": "Shagrath\n\nStian Tomt Thoresen (born 18 November 1976), known professionally as Shagrath, is a Norwegian musician best known as the vocalist, founding member and multi-instrumentalist of the band Dimmu Borgir.\n\nStian Thoresen was born on 18 November 1976 in Jessheim. He is a founding member, with Silenoz and Tjodalv, of Dimmu Borgir. When the band formed in 1993, Shagrath played drums, but switched to vocals before the release of the album \"Stormblåst\" in 1996. He has also played keyboards, guitar, and bass guitar. Shagrath played guitar in Fimbulwinter until the band split up in 1992. Fimbulwinter released one album, \"Servants of Sorcery\", through Hot Records (Shagrath's record label) in 1994. Shagrath is the rhythm guitarist/songwriter and founding member of the hard rock band Chrome Division, which formed in 2004.\n\nIn late 2009, Shagrath and King ov Hell formed the black metal supergroup Ov Hell. In February 2010 the band released an album entitled \"The Underworld Regime\". Shagrath has also played guest keyboards in the black metal band Ragnarok, and had a solo project named Starkness.\n\nShagrath has said this about his stage name: \"Shagrath is an orc demon from the book \"Lord of the Rings\". I chose the name thirteen years ago, so it's kinda crappy that \"Lord of the Rings\" has become so big now. Fortunately it [the name] didn't get that much attention in the movie, so it turned out all OK.\" The Tolkien character Shagrat, an orc commander over Cirith Ungol, is however not a demon in Tolkien lore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121002", "title": "Oliver Jovanovic", "text": "Oliver Jovanovic\n\nOliver Jovanovic is an instructor at Columbia University's Department of Microbiology and Immunology. He has worked as a game designer primarily on role-playing games. He was involved in the high-profile New York case \"People v. Jovanovic\".\n\nOliver Jovanovic was developing a new version of the role-playing game \"RuneQuest\" for Avalon Hill, and was the lead author of the \"RuneQuest: Adventures in Glorantha\" line in 1996. Eric Dott, chairman of Avalon Hill, noted that Jovanovic's version of \"RuneQuest\" had not been published because the developers repeatedly missed deadlines.\n\nJovanovic graduated from the University of Chicago, and then obtained a Ph.D. in microbiology from Columbia in May 2002. He works at Columbia's Department of Microbiology and Immunology as Instructor and Director of Bioinformatics & Information Technology.\n\nIn 1996, Oliver Jovanovic was accused of sadomasochistic torture of a woman whom he had met shortly before on the Internet. He was convicted but later freed on appeal. On December 20, 1999, Jovanovic was released from prison when the New York appeals court ruled in a 3-to-1 decision, and in a 40-page majority opinion by Appellate Justice David Saxe, that the state's rape shield law had been misapplied by the judge in charge of the case. The case was dismissed with prejudice. Jovanovic sued the City of New York for $10 million for prosecutorial misconduct, but the case was dismissed in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2121010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121010", "title": "Olympia Fields Country Club", "text": "Olympia Fields Country Club\n\nOlympia Fields Country Club is a private golf club in the central United States, located in Olympia Fields, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, about south of The Loop.\n\nIt contains two eighteen-hole courses, North and South. The North Course is considered one of the top three courses in the Chicago area, and is generally ranked in the top 50 courses in the United States. The South Course is regularly ranked in the top ten in Illinois. Olympia Fields is one of the few private clubs in the U.S. with multiple courses ranked, and it is on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe club was founded in 1915. The North Course was designed by two-time British Open champion Willie Park, Jnr, and was lengthened prior to hosting the U.S. Open in 2003. It features some significant elevation changes, a meandering creek and hundreds of native oak trees. At one time it was one of four courses at the club, but after the club fell into financial difficulties during World War II, it was forced to sell off half of its land. Course No. 4 became the North Course, and the remaining holes from the other three courses were reconfigured to make the South Course.\n\nOlympia Fields has hosted four major championships: two U.S. Opens (1928, 2003) and two PGA Championships (1925, 1961). It has also been the site of the U.S. Senior Open (1997) and the U.S. Amateur (2015); the Women's PGA Championship is scheduled for mid-2017. In addition, the Western Open on the PGA Tour was played at the club \n\nOlympia Fields is famous for its enormous clubhouse, which was finished in 1925 at a cost of $1.3 million. It is a half-timbered English Tudor-style building with an , four-faced clock tower that has become the trademark of the club. The western boundary of the property is bordered by a commuter rail line, Metra Electric District, and its Olympia Fields station is just west of the clubhouse; the line was previously the Illinois Central Railroad.\n\nIn 2005, the club began a $9.5 million renovation project to improve the practice facilities, revamp some of the bunkers, and make other improvements.\n\n\"Includes amateur and professional major championships\"\nThe Western Open was historically an important event in golf, a near-major.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2121013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121013", "title": "Stockton Thunder", "text": "Stockton Thunder\n\nThe Stockton Thunder was a minor league professional ice hockey team that was based in Stockton, California and a member of the ECHL. The Stockton Arena was their home ice, with a capacity of 9,737. The team was an affiliate team of the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League in their final two seasons. The team was purchased by the Calgary Flames and relocated to Glens Falls, New York as the Flames relocated their American Hockey League team to Stockton to become the Stockton Heat.\n\nThe Stockton Thunder were founded as the first incarnation of the Cincinnati Cyclones, an expansion franchise that joined the East Coast Hockey League in 1990. The Cyclones would reach the Riley Cup playoffs in their first two seasons, and the semifinals in the 1991–92 season. Following the 1991–92 season, Cincinnati's owner Doug Kirchhofer was granted an expansion franchise in the International Hockey League and took all Cyclones colors, logos and monikers to be adopted by his future Cincinnati IHL franchise.\n\nThe ECHL moved the franchise to Birmingham, Alabama and renamed the Birmingham Bulls, in honor of the former World Hockey Association/Central Hockey League franchise that played in Birmingham from 1976 to 1981. The Bulls played their home games at the Birmingham–Jefferson Convention Complex from 1992 until 2001. The Bulls would make the playoffs five out of their nine seasons in Birmingham, reaching the Riley Cup semifinals during the 1993–94 season.\n\nFollowing the 2000–01 season, the Birmingham Bulls would move to Atlantic City, New Jersey and become the Atlantic City Boardwalk Bullies. The Boardwalk Bullies would find success quickly in the ECHL, reaching the Conference Finals during the 2002 Kelly Cup playoffs and winning the Northeast Division title the following season. The Boardwalk Bullies would continue their streak through the 2003 Kelly Cup playoffs, winning the Kelly Cup after defeating the Columbia Inferno, 4 games to 1. Despite winning a division crown and making playoff appearances in all of their four seasons in New Jersey, including the 2003 Kelly Cup championship, the Boardwalk Bullies were unable to maintain a large average attendance. For the 2004–05 season, the Bullies formed a partnership with the New York Islanders of the NHL and Bridgeport Sound Tigers of the American Hockey League. Following that season, they were sold to an ownership group in Stockton, California that moved the team into Stockton Arena which was due to open during the 2005–06 season.\n\nThe Atlantic City Boardwalk Bullies were relocated to Stockton following the 2004–05 season and the franchise was renamed the Stockton Thunder in May 2005 after Thunder beat out Brawlers, Fog, Skate, Spears and Stallions in a name-the-team contest. That same month, former Cyclones forward and coach Chris Cichocki was named the first head coach in Thunder history. Before the 2006–07 season, the Thunder reached an affiliation agreement with the National Hockey League's Edmonton Oilers to be their secondary affiliate after the American Hockey League's Springfield Falcons. Midway through the 2009–10 season, the Thunder would pick up a working partnership agreement with the San Jose Sharks.\n\nIn January 2007, the Thunder and Stockton Arena were chosen to host the 2008 ECHL All-Star Game. Three Thunder players, Ryan MacMurchy, Brad Farynuk and Andy Contois, were selected to the National Conference's All-Star team. The National Conference would win the exhibition, defeating the American Conference 10–7 and Victoria Salmon Kings' forward Ash Goldie was named the game's Most Valuable Player.\n\nThe 2008–09 season began with Stockton starting at 10-17-4, fourth in the Pacific Division before the hiring of Matt Thomas as new head coach on December 29. Stockton won seven games in a row and went 7-0-1 in its first eight games under Thomas, eventually clinching a Kelly Cup Playoff berth for the third straight season. The Thunder achieved its first playoff series win in club history, 4-3 in seven games with the Pacific Division champion Ontario Reign. The series featured five separate one-goal games and Stockton won game seven, 5-4 at Ontario behind Craig Valette's eventual game-winning goal. The Las Vegas Wranglers, the defending Conference champion, eliminated Stockton in another seven-game series, 4-3, in the Conference Semifinal.\n\nFollowing a start to the 2009–10 season at 5-11-3 and 1-6-3 on their own home ice, the Thunder acquired forwards J.F. Caudron, Matt Robinson, Brett Hemingway and defensemen Anthony Aiello and Justin DaCosta through a series of trades and free-agent signings in December to go 28-19-7 overall and 16-6-4 at Stockton Arena for the remainder of the regular season, at one point moving to a tie for first place in the Pacific Division with the Bakersfield Condors in the final week of the regular season. They made the playoffs for the fourth straight season.\n\nIn February 2010, Stockton Hockey Franchise Group, Inc. sold the team to SC Hockey Franchise Corp., headed by Canadian Oil executive Brad Rowbotham and the ECHL Board of Governors unanimously approved the transfer of controlling interest in April, 2010.\n\nTheir season ended by advancing to the National Conference Finals for the first time in club history. The Thunder defeated the defending conference champion Alaska Aces, 3-1 in a best-of-five first round series. Stockton then defeated the Pacific Division champion Condors, 4-1 in the best-of-seven Conference Semifinal. The Idaho Steelheads then eliminated Stockton, 4-2 in the Conference Final series.\n\nIn August 2010, The Edmonton Oilers announced that the Oklahoma City Barons would be the AHL affiliate of the Thunder for the 2010–11 season. The Thunder and San Jose Sharks also announced an affiliation partnership, aligning the two local teams and giving the Thunder a dual NHL affiliation for the first time in club history. As a result, Stockton had AHL affiliates in both Oklahoma City and Worcester.\n\nIn 2012, the Thunder announced an exclusive affiliation with the Edmonton Oilers, choosing not to renew their agreement with the San Jose Sharks.\n\nOn July 31, 2013, the Thunder announced a renewed affiliation, for the 2013–14 season, with the New York Islanders and Bridgeport Sound Tigers of the AHL.\n\nOn January 30, 2015, the Calgary Flames purchased the Thunder's ECHL franchise rights and relocated the team to Glens Falls, New York to become the Adirondack Thunder.\nThe Adirondack Flames, also owned by the Calgary Flames, relocated from Glens Falls to Stockton to become the Stockton Heat prior to the 2015–16 season.\n\nSince relocating from Atlantic City and taking up residence as the flagship tenant in the state-of-the-art, waterfront Stockton Arena venue, the Thunder built a reputation with one of the most passionate, loyal fan bases in minor league hockey.\n\nStockton led the ECHL in attendance for four straight years (from 2005–06 to 2008–09) following the Florida Everblades' five-year run from 2000 to 2005. Stockton drew over an average of 6,000 fans per game or more from 2005 to 2011, and had 14 recorded sellouts at their 9,737-seat home ice venue since 2005.\n\nSince partnering with the Edmonton Oilers as an affiliate in 2006–07 until 2012–13, eight players went on to make their debut in the National Hockey League after playing for the Thunder. They include:\n\n\nOther players who have experience with the Thunder after previously making their NHL debut include: \n\n"}
{"id": "2121038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121038", "title": "313 (number)", "text": "313 (number)\n\n313 (three hundred [and] thirteen) is the natural number following 312 and preceding 314.\n\n313 is:\n\n\nIn Twelver Shia Islam, 313 is the number of soldiers in the army of the 12th \"Imam of time\" (Mahdi).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121048", "title": "Jawhar (general)", "text": "Jawhar (general)\n\nJawhar ibn Abdallah (; died 28 April 992) was a Fatimid general who led the conquest of western North Africa, and subsequenly the conquest of Egypt, for the Fatimid Caliphate under al-Mu'izz li-Din Allah. He served as viceroy of Egypt until al-Mu'izz's arrival in Egypt in 973, consolidating Fatimid control over the country and laying the foundations of Cairo. After that, he retired from public life until his death.\n\nHe is variously known with the \"nisba\"s al-Siqilli (, , 'the Sicilian'), al-Saqlabi (, , 'the Slav'), al-Rumi (, , 'the Byzantine'), and with the titles al-Katib (, , 'the Secretary') and al-Qa'id (, , 'the General').\n\nThe birth date of Jawhar is not known, but as he died in 992, and the peak of his career was between 950 and 975, he cannot have been born earlier than the 900s. He was of Slavic origin (\"Ṣaqāliba\"). His father, Abdallah, was a slave, but Jawhar himself is attested in the sources only as a freedman.\n\nJawhar is first mentioned as a page (\"ghulām\") and possibly a secretary, to the third Fatimid caliph, al-Mansur Billah (). In 958, al-Mansur's son and successor, al-Mu'izz li-Din Allah () chose Jawhar to lead a campaign to restore Fatimid control over the central and western parts of North Africa. In this campaign, Jawhar first gave proof of his exceptional military talents. He first led the Fatimid armies to victory over the Zenata, a Berber tribe that had allied with the Fatimids' rivals, the Umayyads of the Caliphate of Cordoba, defeating and killing their leader, Ya'la ibn Muhammad al-Yafrani. He then turned southeast towards Sijilmasa, capturing and killing its ruler Muhammad ibn al-Fath ibn Maymun ibn Midrar. It was not until a year later, in October 960, that he moved north towards Fez, taking the city by storm on 13 November and capturing its Umayyad governor, Ahmad ibn Abi Bakr al-Judhami. With this victory, all of the Maghreb, apart from Tangier and Ceuta, came under Fatimid control, or recognized Fatimid suzerainty. As token of his victory, Jawhar is said to have sent jars filled with live fish from the Atlantic Ocean to the Caliph in Ifriqiya.\n\nAfter the Western borders had been secured, Jawhar Al-Saqli pushed towards Egypt and occupied the land around the Nile in 969 from the Ikhshidids after a siege at Giza. The conquest was prepared by a treaty with the Ikhshidid vizier Abu'l-Fadl Ja'far ibn al-Fadl (by which Sunnis would be guaranteed freedom of religion), so the Fatimids encountered little resistance. Afterwards Jawhar ruled Egypt until 972 as viceroy.\n\nAlthough Palestine was occupied after the conquest of Egypt, Syria could not be overcome, following a defeat at the hands of the Qarmatians at Damascus. However, when the Qarmatians overran Egypt, Jawhar was able to defeat them north of Cairo on 22 December 970, although the struggle continued until 974. To secure the southern border of Egypt a legation was sent to the Christian land of Nubia.\n\nAfter the establishment of the residence at Cairo, Jawhar fell into disfavour with al-Muizz. Under his successor al-Aziz (975-996) however, in whose accession to the throne Jawhar played an important role, he was rehabilitated. He was regent again until 979, but was finally stripped of power after a campaign against Syria was once again defeated near Damascus. \n\nJawhar died on 28 April 992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121055", "title": "Miss Shangay Lily", "text": "Miss Shangay Lily\n\nEnrique Hinojosa Vázquez (March 1, 1963 – April 11, 2016), known professionally as Miss Shangay Lily, was a Spanish drag queen, writer, actor, and director.\n\nA radical feminist, Miss Shangay Lily became a pioneer Queer activist and social agitator in Spain's incipient gay rights movement, combining entertainment and politics in a unique Tea Dance that swiftly became the toast of Madrid's then-blooming gay liberation movement. He soon cemented his credentials as a unique LGBT activist by creating Spain's first free gay magazine, \"Shangay Express\", a mixture of humor and politics.\n\nHe immediately became visible on television with his witty statements and some unprecedented and infamous appearances in A-list events. His uniqueness was due to the sociological fact that until he appeared, the only transgender presence in the country, besides transsexuals and transvestites, were female impersonators who did not take a major part in politics. This could explain why his mixture of activism and entertainment came to the fore in the 90s Spanish gay scene. His subversive performances helped collect a sense of community in Madrid, centering on Chueca, the city's well-known gay neighborhood.\n\nAnother moment was his hosting the Spanish premiere of \"The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert\", riding in an exact replica of the film's lavender bus to pick up the movie's director Stephan Elliott, then riding across the city, performing on its amazed streets, and hosting its first ever drag party. This event provoked a media frenzy.\n\nFrom this visibility stemmed his role in one of Spain's \"new comedy\" films, \"Boca a boca\" (\"Mouth to Mouth\") (1995), with Javier Bardem.\n\nBecoming the first openly gay personality on national television, where he promoted his anti-heteronormative politics during an increasingly conservative era under the Partido Popular, he came under attacks that hampered his ascent. But, although he was viewed more and more as an alternative culture or underground performer, he worked on some of the most important primetime shows and soon became a mainstream household name.\n\nHe then turned to literature and confirmed his maverick position by publishing four books with some of Spain's major publishing houses, an unheard-of feat for a drag queen. His works include the non-fiction books \"Hombres... y otros animales de compañia\" (\"Men and other pets\") and \"Mari, ¿me pasas el poppers?\" (\"Sis', could you pass me the poppers?\") and the novels \"Escuela de glamour\" (\"Glamour school\") and \"Machistófeles\" (\"Machistophele\"). His fifth book is on its way: a new novel about his years in Queer New York City and the Crystal Meth crisis.\n\nHis work in television continued with his own television show, an indie talk show about literature and art called Shangay Café, that ran for four seasons in a small TV network; he also worked in the theatre. He came to TV prominence once again by taking part in a very popular reality television show in Spain: \"La Granja de los famosos\".\n\nIn 2005, he directed his first feature film, \"Santa Miguel de Molina\", a portrait of the rise and decadence of the Spanish homosexual community, the corruption of some gay lobby groups, and the stigmatization of queers by the conservative urban gay elite. It was premiered in Spain's 2005 LesGaiCineMad (Madrid's Lesbian and Gay film festival).\n\nIn 2006, he started his vlog to cover a different point of view with irony, humour and an assortment of characters that reflect the gay community in a peculiar news report called \"Teledivario: news from the other side of the street\" .\n\nIn October 2007, he premiered in Madrid, Spain, his new theater act: \"Burgayses\". A show with music about the rising new class in the gay community, the bourGAYsies, set in a gay cruise.\n\nHe was a regular columnist for the newspaper Público, where he kept a blog in which he wrote especially on issues of homophobia and discrimination against the gay community, with a strong denunciation of \"gaypitalism\".\n\nHe died on 11th of April 2016, after suffering from pancreatic cancer detected at the end of 2014.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121057", "title": "Space mathematics", "text": "Space mathematics\n\nSpace mathematics may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2121062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121062", "title": "Fluchthorn", "text": "Fluchthorn\n\nThe Fluchthorn or Piz Fenga is a mountain of in the Silvretta Alps, located on the border between Austria and Switzerland. With a height of above sea level, it is the second highest summit of the Silvretta Alps. The Fluchthorn lies between the Jamtal (Tyrol) and the Val Fenga (Graubünden). It consists of three summits of which the southern one is the highest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121069", "title": "Triberg im Schwarzwald", "text": "Triberg im Schwarzwald\n\nTriberg im Schwarzwald is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, located in the Schwarzwald-Baar district in the Black Forest. In 2004, it had a population of 5,377. Triberg lies in the middle of the Black Forest between 500 and 1038 metres above sea level.\n\nThe Triberg Waterfalls, a series of waterfalls in the Gutach River, are among the tallest in Germany. With a total vertical drop of 151m (496 feet), the falls are shorter than the tallest waterfall in Germany, the Röthbachfall. However, the Triberg Falls are better known and have easier public access.\n\nElektrizitäts-Gesellschaft Triberg, a regional utility, was founded 1896 by Friedrich Wilhelm Schoen, Wilhelm Eduard von Schoen and the famous industrialist and inventor Carl von Linde. It is still active today and partially owned by local municipalities. Watchmaking was once a thriving local industry, but no longer plays a central role in the economy. A private hospital, Asklepios Klinik, is the town's major employer. The number of inhabitants decreased from 8,000 to 5,000.\n\nOther points of interest are:\n\nThe asteroid 619 Triberga is named after this town.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121071", "title": "Seamen's Bethel", "text": "Seamen's Bethel\n\nThe Seamen's Bethel (or Seaman's Bethel) is a chapel in New Bedford, Massachusetts, United States, located at 15 Johnny Cake Hill.\n\nBuilt by the \"New Bedford Port Society\", it was completed on May 2, 1832. It is a contributing property to the New Bedford Historic District, a National Historic Landmark.\n\nThe Seamen's Bethel was specifically constructed for the many sailors who called New Bedford their home port (mostly whalers), who considered it a matter of tradition that one visited the chapel before setting sail.\n\nThe bethel was immortalized in Herman Melville's novel \"Moby-Dick\" as the \"Whaleman's Chapel\", in a scene where a nautically themed sermon is given from a bow-shaped pulpit.\n\nThe pulpit was a Melville invention, but a replica of the one described in the book was added to the chapel in 1961 by Robert \"bob\" Baker, boat builder and naval architect from Westport, MA. Other changes were made when the structure was repaired after a fire in 1866. The names of New Bedford whalers killed, and later all area fishermen, are noted on the walls of the bethel. Also noted is the pew that Melville sat in when he visited in 1840.\n\nIn 1851, Herman Melville published his famous tale of the white whale. In it he wrote:\n\nFrom this point on, the Seamen's Bethel came to be widely seen as a symbol of the whalers, and later as a symbol of their history.\n\nShots of Seamen's Bethel appear in Down to the Sea in Ships (1922 film). In 1956, John Huston shot a scene from the movie adaptation of \"Moby-Dick\" (with Gregory Peck and Orson Welles), in front of the real Seamen's Bethel, but interior shots in the movie were not shot on-location. This revitalized tourism to the area.\n\nIn 1996 the Seamen's Bethel, along with the New Bedford Whaling Museum (located across the street), the historic district and other icons of New Bedford whaling were collectively made into the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121073", "title": "WHIP (AM)", "text": "WHIP (AM)\n\nWHIP (1350 AM) is a radio station broadcasting an oldies radio format. It is licensed in Mooresville, North Carolina, United States. The station is currently owned by Mooresville Media, Inc. WHIP has been serving Mooresville, NC and Iredell County since 1950. It has been owned and operated by Glenn and Martha Hamrick since 1976. WHIP also broadcasts Davidson Wildcats basketball and football games.\n\nAs of 2019, WHIP is also heard on W257EJ at 99.3 FM.\n"}
{"id": "2121079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121079", "title": "Birdie Kim", "text": "Birdie Kim\n\nBirdie Kim (Korean 김주연) (born Ju-Yun Kim 26 August 1981, in Iksan) is a South Korean professional golfer. Her career highlight is winning the 2005 U.S. Women's Open at Cherry Hills Country Club. In the last round, she was tied for the lead on the 18th hole with amateurs Morgan Pressel and Brittany Lang. Her second shot found a green-side bunker. She holed out from the bunker to take the lead and ultimately won by two strokes.\n\nKim won the 1998–99 Korea Junior Championship. She turned professional in November 2000 and joined the Futures Tour, which is the second-tier women's golf tour in the United States, in 2001. Her rookie season on the main LPGA Tour was 2004, and was not successful as she only made three cuts in 20 events, but she retained her tour card by finishing tied 12th at the Qualifying School. She did somewhat better in early 2005, and picked up her first top ten finish that May, but her victory at the U.S. Women's Open was totally unexpected.\n\nShe changed her first name to Birdie in 2004, in an effort to distinguish herself from the numerous other Korean golfers named Kim in the women's golf world in the minds of non-Koreans. Kim is a common surname in Korea, especially on the LPGA Tour.\n\nIn 2005, Kim earned a total of $715,006 and came in 13th for LPGA season money position. She married fellow pro golfer Bae Kyu Lee in December 2007.\n\nA 2009 car accident derailed Kim's career and she had trouble making cuts on the LPGA. In 2012, she played in 12 events on the Symetra Tour, finishing second on the money list. Kim last played an LPGA-sanctioned event in 2005. Like Janet Alex in 1982 and Hilary Lunke in 2003, the U.S. Open was her only LPGA Tour win.\n\n\n\"Results not in chronological order before 2015.\"\n\n^ The Evian Championship was added as a major in 2013.\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2121086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121086", "title": "Joaquín Ramírez y Sesma", "text": "Joaquín Ramírez y Sesma\n\nJoaquín Ramírez y Sesma (fl. 1835–1836) was a 19th-century general for the Republic of Mexico.\n\nSesma commanded the brigade sent in advance of the main body of Antonio López de Santa Anna's main body of troops that were heading to put down the rebellion in the Mexican state of Texas. His orders were to relieve Gen. Martín Perfecto de Cos in San Antonio, but news of Cos's surrender (December 1835) and retreat to Laredo (Mexico) reached Mexican authorities shortly after Ramírez's departure. Ramírez joined Cos at Laredo with 1,000 infantry and 500 cavalry.\n\nSanta Anna linked up with them at the Rio Grande. Together the troops advanced to San Antonio, where they seized the Alamo on March 6, 1836 after a thirteen-day siege. On March 11, Sesma was ordered to go with Gen. Adrián Woll to San Felipe de Austin and then to Anahuac. On March 24, his orders were changed, and he was instructed to support the left wing of José de Urrea's forces, but the resistance encountered at Beeson's Ford on the Colorado River caused Sesma and Woll to camp on the south bank of the river about two miles from the Texas forces on the opposite side. Santa Anna then proceeded with an advance detachment, and Ramírez followed at a distance.\n\nHe began crossing his troops over the Brazos River at Thompson's Ferry on April 13 with orders to continue toward Harrisburg. At the time of the Battle of San Jacinto, Sesma was encamped on the right bank of the Brazos near the Old Fort settlement. He joined Vicente Filisola and the other Mexican generals on April 25 and accompanied the troops in the general Mexican retreat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121098", "title": "Aftertaste", "text": "Aftertaste\n\nAftertaste is the taste intensity of a food or beverage that is perceived immediately after that food or beverage is removed from the mouth. The aftertastes of different foods and beverages can vary by intensity and over time, but the unifying feature of aftertaste is that it is perceived \"after\" a food or beverage is either swallowed or spat out. The neurobiological mechanisms of taste (and aftertaste) signal transduction from the taste receptors in the mouth to the brain have not yet been fully understood. However, the primary taste processing area located in the insula has been observed to be involved in aftertaste perception.\n\nCharacteristics of a food's aftertaste are quality, intensity, and duration. Quality describes the actual taste of a food and intensity conveys the magnitude of that taste. Duration describes how long a food's aftertaste sensation lasts. Foods that have lingering aftertastes typically have long sensation durations.\n\nBecause taste perception is unique to every person, descriptors for taste quality and intensity have been standardized, particularly for use in scientific studies. For taste quality, foods can be described by the commonly used terms \"sweet\", \"sour\", \"salty\", \"bitter\", \"umami\", or \"no taste\". Description of aftertaste perception relies heavily upon the use of these words to convey the taste that is being sensed after a food has been removed from the mouth.\n\nThe description of taste intensity is also subject to variability among individuals. Variations of the Borg Category Ratio Scale or other similar metrics are often used to assess the intensities of foods. The scales typically have categories that range from either zero or one through ten (or sometimes beyond ten) that describe the taste intensity of a food. A score of zero or one would correspond to unnoticeable or weak taste intensities, while a higher score would correspond to moderate or strong taste intensities. It is the prolonged moderate or strong taste intensities that persist even after a food is no longer present in the mouth that describe aftertaste sensation.\n\nFoods that have distinct aftertastes are distinguished by their temporal profiles, or how long their tastes are perceived during and after consumption. A sample testing procedure to measure a food's temporal profile would entail first recording the time of onset for initial taste perception when the food is consumed, and then recording the time at which there is no longer any perceived taste. The difference between these two values yields the total time of taste perception. Match this with intensity assessments over the same time interval and a representation of the food's taste intensity over time can be obtained. With respect to aftertaste, this type of testing would have to measure the onset of taste perception from the point after which the food was removed from the mouth.\n\nThe categorization of people into \"tasters\" or \"nontasters\" - based on their sensitivity to the bitterness of propylthiouracil and the expression of fungiform papillae on their tongues - has suggested a genetic basis for the variations observed in taste perception from person to person.\nThis might imply that the activities of specific genes that affect an individual's perception of different foods' sensations of aftertaste could also affect an individual's perception of different foods. For example, the intensity of the aftertaste sensations \"nontasters\" experienced after caffeine consumption was found to diminish faster than the sensations \"tasters\" experienced. This may imply that because of their taste-bud profiles, \"tasters\" may be more sensitive to the tastes of different foods, and thus experience a more persistent sensation of those foods' tastes.\n\nBecause a lingering taste sensation is intrinsic to aftertaste, the molecular mechanisms that underlie aftertaste are presumed to be linked to either the continued or delayed activation of receptors and signaling pathways in the mouth that are involved in taste processing. The current understanding of how a food's taste is communicated to the brain is as follows:\n\nIn the context of aftertaste, the combination of both receptor-dependent and receptor-independent processes have been proposed to explain the signal transduction mechanisms for foods with distinct aftertastes, particularly those that are bitter. The receptor-dependent process is the same as what was described above. However, the receptor-independent process involves the diffusion of bitter, amphiphilic chemicals like quinine across the taste receptor cell membranes. Once inside the taste receptor cell, these compounds have been observed to activate intracellular G-proteins and other proteins that are involved in signaling pathways routed to the brain. The bitter compounds thus activate both the taste receptors on the cell surface, as well as the signaling pathway proteins in the intracellular space. Intracellular signaling may be slower than taste cell receptor activation since more time is necessary for the bitter compounds to diffuse across the cell membrane and interact with intracellular proteins. This delayed activation of intracellular signaling proteins in response to the bitter compounds, in addition to the extracellular receptor signaling is proposed to be related to the lingering aftertaste associated with bitter foods. The combination of both mechanisms leads to an overall longer response of the taste receptor cells to the bitter foods, and aftertaste perception subsequently occurs.\n\nThe primary taste perception areas in the cerebral cortex are located in the insula and regions of the somatosensory cortex; the nucleus of the solitary tract located in the brainstem also plays a major role in taste perception. These regions were identified when human subjects were exposed to a taste stimulus and their cerebral blood flow measured with magnetic resonance imaging. Although these regions have been identified as the primary zones for taste processing in the brain, other cortical areas are also activated during eating, as other sensory inputs are being signaled to the cortex.\n\nFor aftertaste, much is unclear about the cortical processing related to its perception. The first neuroimaging study to evaluate the temporal taste profile of aspartame, an artificial sweetener, in humans was published in 2009. In it, the insula was observed to be activated for a longer period of time than other sensory processing areas in the brain when the aftertaste profile of aspartame was measured. Subjects were administered a solution of aspartame for a specific amount of time before being instructed to swallow the solution. Functional magnetic resonance images of the blood flow in the subjects' brains were recorded before and after they swallowed the aspartame solution. Before swallowing, the amygdala, somatosensory cortex, thalamus, and basal ganglia were all activated. After swallowing, only the insula remained activated and the response of the other brain regions was not evident. This suggests that the insula may be a primary region for aftertaste sensation because it was activated even after the aspartame solution was no longer present in the mouth. This finding aligns with the insula's identification as a central taste processing area and simply expands its function. An explanation for less activation of the amygdala was that because it is a reward center in the brain, less reward would be experienced by the subjects during prolonged exposure to the aspartame solution.\n\nFlavor is an emergent property that is the combination of multiple sensory systems including olfaction, taste, and somatosensation. How the flavor of a food is perceived, whether it is unpleasant or satisfying, is stored as a memory so that the next time the same (or a similar) food is encountered, the previous experience can be recalled and a decision made to consume that food. This process of multisensory inputs to the brain during eating, followed by learning from eating experiences is the central idea of flavor processing.\nRichard Stevenson mentions in \"The Psychology of Flavour\" that people often do not realize that a food's flavor can be described by the food's smell, taste, or texture. Instead, he claims, people perceive flavor as a \"unitary percept\", in which a descriptor for either taste or smell is used to describe a food's flavor. Consider the terms that are used to describe the flavors of foods. For instance, a food may \"taste\" sweet, but often its flavor is described as such while not considering its smell or other sensory characteristics. For example, honey \"tastes\" sweet so its smell is associated with that descriptor, and \"sweet\" is also used to describe its flavor. In fact, sweetness is one of the four basic taste qualities and only comprises part of a food's flavor.\n\nUnlike flavor, aftertaste is a solely gustatory event that is not considered to involve any of the other major senses. The distinction of being based on one (aftertaste) versus multiple (flavor) sensory inputs is what separates the two phenomena.\n\nLow-calorie artificial sweeteners like saccharin and acesulfame-K are known for their bitter aftertastes. Recently, GIV3727 (4-(2,2,3-trimethylcyclopentyl) butanoic acid), a chemical that blocks saccharin and acesulfame-K activation of multiple bitter taste receptors has been developed. In the study, the addition of the bitter taste receptor antagonist GIV3727 to the saccharin and acesulfame-K solutions resulted in significantly lower taste intensity ratings when compared to the solutions that were not treated with GIV3727. This suggests that GIV3727 inhibits the normal functions of the bitter taste receptors because saccharin and acesulfame-K's bitter aftertastes were not observed. The ability to inhibit activation of the bitter taste receptors can have far-reaching effects if the bitter aftertastes of not only these two artificial sweeteners but also other foods, beverages, and even pharmaceuticals can be minimized.\n\nIn wine tasting the aftertaste or \"finish\" of a wine, is an important part of the evaluation. After tasting a wine, a taster will determine the wine's aftertaste, which is a major determinant of the wine's quality. The aftertaste of a wine can be described as bitter, persistent, short, sweet, smooth, or even non-existent. Included in assessing the aftertaste of a wine is consideration of the aromas still present after swallowing. High quality wines typically have long finishes accompanied by pleasant aromas. By assessing the combination of olfactory and aftertaste sensations, wine tasting actually determines not only the aftertaste profile of a wine, but its flavor profile as well.\n"}
{"id": "2121103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121103", "title": "Spanish Harlem (song)", "text": "Spanish Harlem (song)\n\n\"Spanish Harlem\" is a song recorded by Ben E. King in 1960 for Atco Records. It was written by Jerry Leiber and Phil Spector and produced by Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller. Leiber credited Stoller with the arrangement in a 1968 interview; similarly, Leiber said in a 2009 radio interview with Leiber and Stoller on the \"Bob Edwards Weekend\" talk show that Stoller had written the key instrumental introduction to the record, although he was not credited. Stoller remarks in the team's autobiography \"Hound Dog\" that he had created this \"fill\" while doing a piano accompaniment when the song was presented to Ahmet Ertegun and Jerry Wexler at Atlantic Records, with Spector playing guitar and Leiber doing the vocal. \"Since then, I've never heard the song played without that musical figure.\"\n\nIt was originally released as the B-side to \"First Taste of Love\". The song was King's first hit away from The Drifters, a group that he had led for several years. It climbed the Billboard charts with an arrangement by Stan Applebaum featuring Spanish guitar, marimba, drum-beats, soprano saxophone, strings, and a male chorus, and peaked at number 15 for rhythm and blues and number 10 in pop music. It was ranked number 358 on Rolling Stone's list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. King's version was not a hit in the United Kingdom. The song was re-released in 1987, after Stand By Me made number one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121109", "title": "Lorenzo da Firenze", "text": "Lorenzo da Firenze\n\nLorenzo Masi, known as Lorenzo da Firenze (Magister Laurentius de Florentia) (d. December 1372 or January 1373), was an Italian composer and music teacher of the Trecento. He was closely associated with Francesco Landini in Florence, and was one of the composers of the period known as the Italian \"ars nova\".\n\nLittle is known about his life, but some details can be inferred from the music. He was active as a teacher in Florence, probably as a teacher of Landini himself. He became a canon at the church of San Lorenzo in 1348, a post which he retained for the rest of his life.\n\nLorenzo is represented in the Squarcialupi Codex, the illuminated manuscript which is the most comprehensive source of Italian music of the 14th century, with 16 pieces of music, 10 madrigals, 6 ballate and one caccia. In addition to his contribution to that collection, he wrote two mass movements which have survived (one of which is of doubtful attribution) and a pedagogical piece (the \"Antefana\"), the text of which shows that he was a teacher.\n\nHis style is progressive, sometimes experimental, but curiously conservative in other ways. While he used imitation, a relatively new musical technique, and heterophonic texture, one of the rarest textures in European music, he also still used parallel perfect intervals. Voice crossings are common, when he wrote for more than one voice (most of his music is monophonic). In addition he used chromaticism to a degree rare in the 14th century, at least prior to the activity of the composers of the ars subtilior.\n\nFrench classical music influence is evident in some of his music, for example isorhythmic passages (characteristic of Machaut, but rare in Italian music). Some of the notational quirks in his work also suggest a connection with France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121111", "title": "Vincenzo Sospiri", "text": "Vincenzo Sospiri\n\nVincenzo Sospiri (born 7 October 1966) is an Italian former racing driver.\n\nIn 1981, at the age of 15, Sospiri started racing in the Italian 100cc karting championship. In a karting career described by Michael Schumacher as 'dominating', Sospiri won several Italian and European karting championships and finished runner-up in several more, eventually winning the 100cc World Karting Championship in 1987.\n\nIn 1988 Sospiri progressed to Formula Ford, before working through to Formula 3000 in 1991, as teammate to Damon Hill in the Middlebridge Lola T91/50 Cosworth. In an uncompetitive car, he was only capable of 9 points all season, including a second place at the German round of the championship at the Hockenheimring. He stepped back down into the Italian F3 series in 1992, before making a return to Formula 3000 in 1993, driving a Reynard 93D Judd for the Mythos team. He moved to the Super Nova team for 1994 and mounted a challenge for the championship despite not winning any races, eventually finishing fourth. He stayed at Super Nova for 1995 where he won three races and beat his teammate Ricardo Rosset to the F3000 title.\n\nHe had tested for the Simtek Formula One team at Estoril in 1994, but was unable to raise enough funds to gain a race seat at the time. Despite winning the Formula 3000 title in 1995, very few options were available for Sospiri, so he chose to take the role of official Benetton test driver for the year.\n\nSospiri finally got his chance to race in Formula One with the MasterCard Lola project in . Unfortunately it was clear from the first race, where both Sospiri and his former F3000 teammate Ricardo Rosset were more than 10 seconds off the pace and failed to qualify after being well outside the 107% rule, that the car was not capable of making the grid in a world championship race. Sospiri hoped to return to the grid in Brazil, but the team was withdrawn due to the massive debts incurred by its failing Formula One effort.\n\nAfter the collapse of Mastercard-Lola, Sospiri turned his attention to the Indy Racing League IndyCar Series where he signed on with Team Scandia to race in the 1997 Indianapolis 500. Sospiri put the Scandia Dallara-Oldsmobile third on the starting grid in his first IndyCar start and finished 17th in the race. Later that season he finished second at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway. He finished 21st in the championship despite only competing in six of the ten races of the 1996-1997 season. In 1998 Sospiri was brought on to Dan Gurney's All American Racers team as a late-season replacement for P. J. Jones and drove in the final four races of the season for the team. He had a best finish of 15th at both Houston and Surfers Paradise and failed to finish in the points as the team's struggles continued. He was named to an ISM Racing entry for the 1999 Indianapolis 500 but the car was driven by Brian Tyler instead, who failed to qualify.\n\nIn 1998 and 1999, he won the Sports Racing World Cup with a Ferrari 333 SP, teaming up with Emmanuel Collard. This resulted in a drive in the lead Toyota at the 1999 24 Hours of Le Mans with Collard and Martin Brundle. Unfortunately, frequent gearbox problems and a puncture while Brundle was driving took the polesitter out of the race. He retired from racing in 2001 and is now the team manager for the Euronova team in Italian Formula 3000.\n\nSospiri was a major inspiration for Michael Schumacher. In a Q&A session with \"F1 Racing\" readers in 2012, when asked about his racing heroes, Schumacher replied: \"To start with, it was Vincenzo Sospiri. Then it was Ayrton Senna. Those two guys inspired me big time while I was karting\".\n\n() (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races \nin \"italics\" indicate fastest lap)\n\n"}
{"id": "2121115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121115", "title": "Batá drum", "text": "Batá drum\n\nA Batá drum is a double-headed drum shaped like an hourglass with one end larger than the other. The percussion instrument is used primarily for the use of religious or semi-religious purposes for and originates from the native culture land of the Yoruba and the Igbo, located in Nigeria, as well as, but not of origin, by worshippers of Santería in Cuba, Puerto Rico, and in the United States. The Batá drum's popular functions are entertainment and to convey messages. Its early function was as a drum of different gods, drum of royalty, drum of ancestors and drum of politicians. Batá drum impacted on all spheres of life in Yoruba land.\n\nSeveral different types of drums have existed throughout the world. Occasionally, natives from cultures which the drums originate, as in the case of the Yorùbá, used the drums for religious ceremonies and, since their introduction in Cuba in the 1820s, have come to be an understood and important part of the perceived culture of the southwestern Nigerian people.\n\nThe drum dates back roughly 500 years, and is believed to have been introduced by a Yoruba king named Shangó el rey del tambor. Despite the previous long history, awareness of the instrument didn't spread until the 1800s slave-trade in which close to 300,000 Africans were brought to Cuba. The religion and beliefs the Yorùbá brought with them eventually became the basis for what is known as Lukumí (or Santería in Cuba). This religion spawned the creation of the first \"sacred\" Batá in Cuba around 1830 by a Yorùbá named Añabi.\n\nThe Batá slowly became inducted into the Cuban culture after a time, and began to take on more secular uses: they were first publicly performed in 1935 in a broadcast over Cuban radio for purposes of folklore music. Uses such as this have grown as knowledge of the instrument has spread; more and more musicians not currently practising Lukumí have used versions of the drums in recordings or performances. These \"non-sacred\" Batá drums are called aberínkula—profane Batá (see Sacred-profane dichotomy). Batá drums and rhythms have started to be used in other genres, most notably in Cuban timba, jazz and hip hop. In the 1970s, for instance, a mixture of Batá drums and Big Band called Son-Batá or Batá Rock became popular, a genre highly influenced by Irakere.\n\nSkilled secular musicians made appearances in the United States throughout the twentieth century; the likes of Julito Collazo and helped the spreading of such mainstream uses in the context of Latin music.\n\nThe Lukumí (or commonly called \"santería\") religion and Batá drums are closely associated.\nThe drums are played simultaneously (often with a rattle or \"atchere\") to create polyrhythmic compositions, or \"toques\" during santería ceremonies. A ceremony with batá drums is generally known as a \"toque,\" \"tambor de santo,\" or \"bembé,\" but ceremonies can also be accompanied by shaken gourd-rattle \"\"chékere\"\" (in English \"shekere\") ensembles (usually with \"tumbadora\", also called \"conga\" drums).\n\nThere are estimated to be at least 140 different toques for the spirits (saints, or \"santos\") and their different manifestations. There are two important \"rhythm suites\" that use the sacred batá drums. The first is called \"Oru del Igbodu\" (a liturgical set of rhythms), alternatively called \"Oru Seco\" (literally \"Dry Oru\", or a sequence of rhythms without vocals), which is usually played at the beginning of a \"tambor de santo\" that includes 23 standard rhythms for all the orishas. The selections of the second suite include within them the vocal part to be performed by a vocalist/chanter (akpwon) who engages those attending the ceremony in a call-and-response (African) style musical experience in which a ritual is acted out wherein an \"initiate\" (one who through the great spirit Añá is granted the ability to perfectly play the Batá drums) plays the new Batá set, and thereafter is introduced to the old Batá set. This is said to \"transfer\" (through the initiate) the spirit or Añá of the drums from the old set into the new set.\n\nCertain long-standing rules and rituals govern the construction, handling, playing, and care of the sacred batá: traditionally only non-castrated male deer or goat hide was used—female goats along with bulls, cows, and sheep were considered unsuitable; also only an initiate was considered worthy to touch or play the batá as only they have undergone the full ritual of \"receiving Añá\" granting them the forces deemed necessary to play the drums. Also, before a ceremony, the drummers would wash themselves in omiero, a cleansing water, pray, and for some time abstain from sex.\n\nAlso traditionally in Cuba, in Havana the batá are rarely played after sundown, while in Matanzas toque ceremonies often begin at night. This apparent contradiction is not the only one reaching both adherents of Lukumí and others interested in African music, religion and culture. The Cuban style of playing the drums is similar, but in some musical contexts different rhythms may be used.\n\nIn the last few decades, the popularity of the batá drums has increased worldwide so significantly that they have begun to be produced in greater numbers both by large western drum companies and individual artisans in Africa using a variety of \"non-traditional\" materials even including fiberglass drums, some instrument builders preferring cow skins or even synthetic membranes, while some traditionalists may express disdain for this trend and insist upon strict orthodoxy (as others and newcomers embrace the unique tonal ranges of the drums purely for their abstract musical possibilities without observance of traditional rules and rituals). These seemingly conflicting points of view remain paradoxical within the musical \"landscape\", as has been the global evolution of the Indian Tabla, both families of percussion instruments finding application in often surprisingly diverse musical settings far from their roots, although batá perhaps having a closer religious affinity with Lukumí than tabla with Hinduism.\n\nThose who practise Lukumí believe that certain sacred rhythms performed on the batá contain the levels of spiritual forces required to allow such impassioned ritual music to summon Orishas, who in turn inhabit or possess (more in the sense of angelic rather than demonic possession) one or more of the followers gathered for worship and/or participating in the ritual. Followers of Lukumí believe that Orishas are responsible for control of all natural and life-related forces, however the most-frequently stated primary purpose of the batá is simply for glorification of the deified Changó, also known as \"The Great Spirit\" or less ceremoniously as thunder and lightning. Hence such ceremonies and rituals are often performed for blessing important life transitions and events like weddings, relocations, passage to the afterlife, or other events and festivities.\n\nIn Cuba, the batá consists of a set of three tapered cylinders of various sizes. Iyá, the largest, is referred to as \"mother drum\". Itótele, the middle one, and Okónkolo, the smallest, are called \"father\" and \"baby\", respectively. In Nigeria, there are five sizes of batá, which can be played either by hand, or using a leather play strap. In Matanzas, the older Batá lineages play with one hand and the sole of a shoe or other improvised strap. In Cuba, it is common to see the drums decorated with small bells and chimes, which are called Saworoide or \"Saworo\" in Yorubaland and Chaworoide or \"Chaworo\" in Cuba; such bells are attached to one or two \"igbaju\" leather straps for mounting on the Iya. The larger drum head is called the \"enu\", while the smaller is the \"chacha\".\nIn Yoruba land, Bata drum has different parts which are:\n1) Igi Ilu: This is the wooden frame work of the drum.\n2) Leather: This is the part of the drum that bring out the tone of the drum. There are two piles of leathers in a Bata drum. One is to bring out the tone of the drum, while the other is to cover the one that brings out the tone of the drum.\n3) Egi Ilu: This helps to hold the leather firm to the wooden frame. it is usually constructed with the use of small bunch of thick brooms also known as \"Igbale gbaro\". The brooms are curved to take the proper shape and size of the top and bottom of the wooden frame of the drum. After the sizes have been obtained, strong threads are used to tighten the buch of thick brooms. After that, pieces of cloths are used to cover the tighten brooms to beautify it.\n4) Osan: This is made from thick leathers. This serves as the wire work of the drum. It helps in holding both the leather and \"Egi Ilu\" in place. \n5) Iro: This is the black substance that is found on the surface of the leather of Bata drum. It primary purpose is to vary the tones from different faces of the drum. It is usually obtained from a tree. all the faces of bata have this substance apart from the face that is called \"Ako\"- this face gives the highest tone in the drum.\n6) Bulala: This is also made of thick leather. it is used to play the drum. Nowadays, flexible plastics are being cut to look like leather bulala. This flexible plastics can also be used to play the drum.\n7) Cowry: This is always inserted into Bata drums. People call it \"AYAN\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121127", "title": "Étienne Pascal", "text": "Étienne Pascal\n\nÉtienne Pascal (; 2 May 1588 – 24 September 1651) was a French chief tax officer and the father of Blaise Pascal.\n\nPascal was born in Clermont; father and mother were Martin Pascal, the treasurer of France, and Marguerite Pascal de Mons. He also had three daughters, two of whom survived past childhood: Gilberte (1620–?) and Jacqueline (1625–1661). His wife Antoinette Begon died in 1626.\n\nHe was a tax official, lawyer and wealthy member of the \"petite noblesse\", who also had an interest in science and mathematics. He was trained in the law at Paris and received his law degree in 1610. That same year, he returned to Clermont and purchased the post of counsellor for Bas-Auvergne, the area surrounding Clermont.\n\nIn 1631, five years after the death of his wife, Étienne Pascal moved with his children to Paris. The newly arrived family soon hired Louise Delfault, a maid who eventually became an instrumental member of the family. Étienne, who never remarried, decided that he alone would educate his children, for they all showed extraordinary intellectual ability, particularly his son Blaise.\n\nÉtienne Pascal served on a scientific committee (whose members included Pierre Hérigone and Claude Mydorge) set up to determine whether Jean-Baptiste Morin's scheme for determining longitude from the Moon's motion was practical.\n\nThe Limaçon was first studied and named by Étienne Pascal and so this mathematical curve is often called Pascal's Limaçon.\n\nHe died in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "2121134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121134", "title": "Global Watch", "text": "Global Watch\n\nGlobal Watch is a service of the UK Department of Trade and Industry. It helps UK businesses discover and use technologies and practices from outside the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121139", "title": "Laser snow", "text": "Laser snow\n\nLaser snow is the precipitation through a chemical reaction, condensation and coagulation process, of clustered atoms or molecules, induced by passing a laser beam through certain gasses. It was first observed by Tam, Moe and Happer in 1975, and has since been noted in a number of gases.\n"}
{"id": "2121143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121143", "title": "John Peyton, Baron Peyton of Yeovil", "text": "John Peyton, Baron Peyton of Yeovil\n\nJohn Wynne William Peyton, Baron Peyton of Yeovil, (13 February 1919 – 22 November 2006) was a British Conservative politician. He was Member of Parliament for Yeovil for 32 years, from 1951 to 1983, and an early and leading member of the Conservative Monday Club. He served as Minister of Transport (later renamed Minister of Transport Industries in the Department of the Environment) from 1970 to 1974. He was a candidate for leader of the Conservative Party in 1975, losing to Margaret Thatcher.\n\nPeyton was educated at Eton College. As a member of the Eton OTC, he was a member of the honour guard within the grounds of Windsor Castle at the state funeral of King George V in 1936. He read law at Trinity College, Oxford from 1937, but took a commission in the 15/19 Hussars in 1939 on the outbreak of World War II. He was sent to France as part of the British Expeditionary Force, but was captured in Belgium in May 1940, and spent 5 years in German prisoner of war camps, first in Laufen in Bavaria, then Warburg in Westphalia, then Eichstätt in Bavaria in mid 1942, and finally Moosburg in Bavaria from early 1945. He was liberated by American troops later in 1945. A brother was killed at St Nazaire in 1942.\n\nPeyton studied law while confined, and became a barrister, being called to the bar in 1945. He accompanied Sir Walter Monckton, advisor to the Nizam of Hyderabad, to India in 1946 and 1947, in the run up to Indian independence. He became a broker at Lloyd's of London in 1947, and then pursued a political career.\n\nPeyton was promoted to captain on 31 May 1949.\n\nHe was married twice. He married Diana, daughter of Douglas Clinch, in 1947, but was divorced in early 1966. They had two sons, one of whom died young, and a daughter. He remarried on 27 July 1966, to Mary Cobbold, daughter of Colonel Humphrey Wyndham (also her second marriage).\n\nPeyton unsuccessfully contested the safe Labour seat of Bristol Central for the Conservative Party in the 1950 general election. He was subsequently elected a Member of Parliament for Yeovil in the 1951 general election. He became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Nigel Birch, a junior defence minister, from 1952 to 1958. He supported the Suez War. He then served as Parliamentary Secretary to Richard Wood and Frederick Erroll, the Ministers of Power from 1962 to 1964. He remained opposition spokesman on power in opposition, until 1966.\n\nHe became Minister of Transport in the government of Edward Heath after the 1970 general election, one of six Monday Club MP members to achieve high office. His ministerial office was renamed Minister of Transport Industries when it was combined into the new Department of the Environment in October 1970. He remained in this position until the February 1974 general election. He was in office when the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board collapsed; he privatised British Rail's travel agency, Thomas Cook & Son, in 1972; and made helmets compulsory for motorcyclists. He also delivered a Green Paper that proposed the Channel Tunnel.\n\nHe became Shadow Leader of the House of Commons in opposition. In 1975, he sought to become leader of the Conservative Party, standing in the second ballot after Margaret Thatcher defeated Edward Heath in the first ballot. He gained only eleven votes in the election, coming bottom of the poll, and Thatcher was elected by a convincing majority. He was shadow Minister for Agriculture in Thatcher's shadow cabinet, and was offered the position of Minister of Transport after the Conservative victory in the 1979 general election, but refused to return to his old office and became the only member of the shadow cabinet not to secure a ministerial position in the new government.\n\nPeyton stood down from the House of Commons at the 1983 general election, and Yeovil was won by Paddy Ashdown for the Liberal Party. Peyton was created a life peer as Baron Peyton of Yeovil, of Yeovil in the County of Somerset on 5 October 1983.\n\nHe held right-wing views, but consistently opposed capital punishment, and he led a rebellion against the privatisation of the British rail industry under John Major in 1990. He also supported reform of the House of Lords to create a wholly directly elected second chamber.\n\nPeyton was chairman of the British subsidiary of the Texas Instruments from 1974 to 1990. He also held positions with the London and Manchester Assurance Company, Trusthouse Forte, and British Aluminium, of which he was chairman from 1987 to 1991. He was treasurer of the Zoological Society of London from 1984 to 1991.\n\nHe published an autobiography, \"Without Benefit of Laundry\" in 1997, and a biography of Solly Zuckerman in 2001.\n\nHe was survived by his second wife, Mary, and his daughter and surviving son from his first marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121149", "title": "Basis set (chemistry)", "text": "Basis set (chemistry)\n\nA basis set in theoretical and computational chemistry is a set of functions (called basis functions) that is used to represent the electronic wave function in the Hartree–Fock method or density-functional theory in order to turn the partial differential equations of the model into algebraic equations suitable for efficient implementation on a computer.\n\nThe use of basis sets is equivalent to the use of an approximate resolution of the identity. The single-particle states (molecular orbitals) are then expressed as linear combinations of the basis functions.\n\nThe basis set can either be composed of atomic orbitals (yielding the linear combination of atomic orbitals approach), which is the usual choice within the quantum chemistry community, or plane waves which are typically used within the solid state community. Several types of atomic orbitals can be used: Gaussian-type orbitals, Slater-type orbitals, or numerical atomic orbitals. Out of the three, Gaussian-type orbitals are by far the most often used, as they allow efficient implementations of Post-Hartree–Fock methods.\n\nIn modern computational chemistry, quantum chemical calculations are performed using a finite set of basis functions. When the finite basis is expanded towards an (infinite) complete set of functions, calculations using such a basis set are said to approach the complete basis set (CBS) limit. In this article, \"basis function\" and \"atomic orbital\" are sometimes used interchangeably, although the basis functions are usually not true atomic orbitals, because many basis functions are used to describe polarization effects in molecules.\n\nWithin the basis set, the wavefunction is represented as a vector, the components of which correspond to coefficients of the basis functions in the linear expansion. In such a basis, one-electron operators correspond to matrices (a.k.a. rank two tensors), whereas two-electron operators are rank four tensors.\n\nWhen molecular calculations are performed, it is common to use a basis composed of atomic orbitals, centered at each nucleus within the molecule (linear combination of atomic orbitals ansatz). The physically best motivated basis set are Slater-type orbitals (STOs),\nwhich are solutions to the Schrödinger equation of hydrogen-like atoms, and decay exponentially far away from the nucleus. It can be shown that the molecular orbitals of Hartree-Fock and density-functional theory also exhibit exponential decay. Furthermore, S-type STOs also satisfy Kato's cusp condition at the nucleus, meaning that they are able to accurately describe electron density near the nucleus. However, hydrogen-like atoms lack many-electron interactions, thus the orbitals do not accurately describe electron state correlations.\n\nUnfortunately, calculating integrals with STOs is computationally difficult and it was later realized by Frank Boys that STOs could be approximated as linear combinations of Gaussian-type orbitals (GTOs) instead. Because the product of two GTOs can be written as a linear combination of GTOs, integrals with Gaussian basis functions can be written in closed form, which leads to huge computational savings (see John Pople).\n\nDozens of Gaussian-type orbital basis sets have been published in the literature. Basis sets typically come in hierarchies of increasing size, giving a controlled way to obtain more accurate solutions, however at a higher cost.\n\nThe smallest basis sets are called \"minimal basis sets\". A minimal basis set is one in which, on each atom in the molecule, a single basis function is used for each orbital in a Hartree–Fock calculation on the free atom. For atoms such as lithium, basis functions of p type are also added to the basis functions that correspond to the 1s and 2s orbitals of the free atom, because lithium also has a 1s2p bound state. For example, each atom in the second period of the periodic system (Li - Ne) would have a basis set of five functions (two s functions and three p functions).\n\nThe minimal basis set is close to exact for the gas-phase atom. In the next level, additional functions are added to describe polarization of the electron density of the atom in molecules. These are called polarization functions. For example, while the minimal basis set for hydrogen is one function approximating the 1s atomic orbital, a simple polarized basis set typically has two s- and one p-function (which consists of three basis functions: px, py and pz). This adds flexibility to the basis set, effectively allowing molecular orbitals involving the hydrogen atom to be more asymmetric about the hydrogen nucleus. This is very important for modeling chemical bonding, because the bonds are often polarized. Similarly, d-type functions can be added to a basis set with valence p orbitals, and f-functions to a basis set with d-type orbitals, and so on.\n\nAnother common addition to basis sets is the addition of diffuse functions. These are extended Gaussian basis functions with a small exponent, which give flexibility to the \"tail\" portion of the atomic orbitals, far away from the nucleus. Diffuse basis functions are important for describing anions or dipole moments, but they can also be important for accurate modeling of intra- and intermolecular bonding.\n\nThe most common minimal basis set is STO-nG, where n is an integer. This \"n\" value represents the number of Gaussian primitive functions comprising a single basis function. In these basis sets, the same number of Gaussian primitives comprise core and valence orbitals. Minimal basis sets typically give rough results that are insufficient for research-quality publication, but are much cheaper than their larger counterparts. Commonly used minimal basis sets of this type are:\n\n\nThere are several other minimum basis sets that have been used such as the MidiX basis sets.\n\nDuring most molecular bonding, it is the valence electrons which principally take part in the bonding. In recognition of this fact, it is common to represent valence orbitals by more than one basis function (each of which can in turn be composed of a fixed linear combination of primitive Gaussian functions). Basis sets in which there are multiple basis functions corresponding to each valence atomic orbital are called valence double, triple, quadruple-zeta, and so on, basis sets (zeta, ζ, was commonly used to represent the exponent of an STO basis function). Since the different orbitals of the split have different spatial extents, the combination allows the electron density to adjust its spatial extent appropriate to the particular molecular environment. In contrast, minimal basis sets lack the flexibility to adjust to different molecular environments.\n\nThe notation for the \"split-valence\" basis sets arising from the group of John Pople is typically \"X-YZg\". In this case, \"X\" represents the number of primitive Gaussians comprising each core atomic orbital basis function. The \"Y\" and \"Z\" indicate that the valence orbitals are composed of two basis functions each, the first one composed of a linear combination of \"Y\" primitive Gaussian functions, the other composed of a linear combination of \"Z\" primitive Gaussian functions. In this case, the presence of two numbers after the hyphens implies that this basis set is a \"split-valence double-zeta\" basis set. Split-valence triple- and quadruple-zeta basis sets are also used, denoted as \"X-YZWg\", \"X-YZWVg\", etc. Here is a list of commonly used split-valence basis sets of this type:\n\nThe 6-31G* basis set (defined for the atoms H through Zn) is a valence double-zeta polarized basis set that adds to the 6-31G set five \"d\"-type Cartesian-Gaussian polarization functions on each of the atoms Li through Ca and ten \"f\"-type Cartesian Gaussian polarization functions on each of the atoms Sc through Zn.\n\nPople basis sets are somewhat outdated, as correlation-consistent or polarization-consistent basis sets typically yield better results with similar resources. Also note that some Pople basis sets have grave deficiencies that may lead to incorrect results.\n\nOnes of the most widely used basis sets are those developed by Dunning and coworkers, since they are designed for converging Post-Hartree–Fock calculations systematically to the complete basis set limit using empirical extrapolation techniques.\n\nFor first- and second-row atoms, the basis sets are cc-pVNZ where N=D,T,Q,5,6... (D=double, T=triples, etc.). The 'cc-p', stands for 'correlation-consistent polarized' and the 'V' indicates they are valence-only basis sets. They include successively larger shells of polarization (correlating) functions (\"d\", \"f\", \"g\", etc.). More recently these 'correlation-consistent polarized' basis sets have become widely used and are the current state of the art for correlated or post-Hartree–Fock calculations. Examples of these are:\n\n\nFor period-3 atoms (Al-Ar), additional functions have turned out to be necessary; these are the cc-pV(N+d)Z basis sets. Even larger atoms may employ pseudopotential basis sets, cc-pVNZ-PP, or relativistic-contracted Douglas-Kroll basis sets, cc-pVNZ-DK.\n\nWhile the usual Dunning basis sets are for valence-only calculations, the sets can be augmented with further functions that describe core electron correlation. These core-valence sets (cc-pCVXZ) can be used to approach the exact solution to the all-electron problem, and they are necessary for accurate geometric and nuclear property calculations.\n\nWeighted core-valence sets (cc-pwCVXZ) have also been recently suggested. The weighted sets aim to capture core-valence correlation, while neglecting most of core-core correlation, in order to yield accurate geometries with smaller cost than the cc-pCVXZ sets.\n\nDiffuse functions can also be added for describing anions and long-range interactions such as Van der Waals forces, or to perform electronic excited-state calculations, electric field property calculations. A recipe for constructing additional augmented functions exists; as many as five augmented functions have been used in second hyperpolarizability calculations in the literature. Because of the rigorous construction of these basis sets, extrapolation can be done for almost any energetic property. However, care must be taken when extrapolating energy differences as the individual energy components converge at different rates: the Hartree-Fock energy converges exponentially, whereas the correlation energy converges only polynomially.\nTo understand how to get the number of functions take the cc-pVDZ basis set for H:\nThere are two \"s\" (\"L\" = 0) orbitals and one \"p\" (\"L\" = 1) orbital that has 3 components along the \"z\"-axis (\"m\" = -1,0,1) corresponding to \"p\", \"p\" and \"p\". Thus, five spatial orbitals in total. Note that each orbital can hold two electrons of opposite spin.\n\nFor example, Ar [1s, 2s, 2p, 3s, 3p] has 3 s orbitals (L=0) and 2 sets of p orbitals (L=1). Using cc-pVDZ, orbitals are [1s, 2s, 2p, 3s, 3s', 3p, 3p', 3d'] (where ' represents the added in polarisation orbitals), with 4 s orbitals (4 basis functions), 3 sets of p orbitals (3 × 3 = 9 basis functions), and 1 set of d orbitals (5 basis functions). Adding up the basis functions gives a total of 18 functions for Ar with the cc-pVDZ basis-set.\n\nDensity-functional theory has recently become widely used in computational chemistry. However, the correlation-consistent basis sets described above are suboptimal for density-functional theory, because the correlation-consistent sets have been designed for Post-Hartree–Fock, while density-functional theory exhibits much more rapid basis set convergence than wave function methods.\n\nAdopting a similar methodology to the correlation-consistent series, Frank Jensen introduced polarization-consistent (pc-n) basis sets as a way to quickly converge density functional theory calculations to the complete basis set limit. Like the Dunning sets, the pc-n sets can be combined with basis set extrapolation techniques to obtain CBS values.\n\nThe pc-n sets can be augmented with diffuse functions to obtain augpc-n sets.\n\nSome of the various valence adaptations of Karlsruhe basis sets are\n\n\nGaussian-type orbital basis sets are typically optimized to reproduce the lowest possible energy for the systems used to train the basis set. However, the convergence of the energy does not imply convergence of other properties, such as nuclear magnetic shieldings, the dipole moment, or the electron momentum density, which probe different aspects of the electronic wave function.\n\nManninen and Vaara have proposed completeness-optimized basis sets, where the exponents are obtained by maximization of the one-electron completeness profile instead of minimization of the energy. Completeness-optimized basis sets are a way to easily approach the complete basis set limit of any property at any level of theory, and the procedure is simple to automatize.\n\nCompleteness-optimized basis sets are tailored to a specific property. This way, the flexibility of the basis set can be focused on the computational demands of the chosen property, typically yielding much faster convergence to the complete basis set limit than is achievable with energy-optimized basis sets.\n\nIn addition to localized basis sets, plane-wave basis sets can also be used in quantum-chemical simulations. Typically, the choice of the plane wave basis set is based on a cutoff energy. The plane waves in the simulation cell that fit below the energy criterion are then included in the calculation. These basis sets are popular in calculations involving three-dimensional periodic boundary conditions.\n\nThe main advantage of a plane-wave basis is that it is guaranteed to converge in a \"smooth, monotonic manner\" to the target wavefunction. In contrast, when localized basis sets are used, monotonic convergence to the basis set limit may be difficult due to problems with over-completeness: in a large basis set, functions on different atoms start to look alike, and many eigenvalues of the overlap matrix approach zero.\n\nIn addition, certain integrals and operations are much easier to program and carry out with plane-wave basis functions than with their localized counterparts. For example, the kinetic energy operator is diagonal in the reciprocal space. Integrals over real-space operators can be efficiently carried out using fast Fourier transforms. The properties of the Fourier Transform allow a vector representing the gradient of the total energy with respect to the plane-wave coefficients to be calculated with a computational effort that scales as NPW*ln(NPW) where NPW is the number of plane-waves. When this property is combined with separable pseudopotentials of the Kleinman-Bylander type and pre-conditioned conjugate gradient solution techniques, the dynamic simulation of periodic problems containing hundreds of atoms becomes possible.\n\nIn practice, plane-wave basis sets are often used in combination with an 'effective core potential' or pseudopotential, so that the plane waves are only used to describe the valence charge density. This is because core electrons tend to be concentrated very close to the atomic nuclei, resulting in large wavefunction and density gradients near the nuclei which are not easily described by a plane-wave basis set unless a very high energy cutoff, and therefore small wavelength, is used. This combined method of a plane-wave basis set with a core pseudopotential is often abbreviated as a \"PSPW\" calculation.\n\nFurthermore, as all functions in the basis are mutually orthogonal and are not associated with any particular atom, plane-wave basis sets do not exhibit basis-set superposition error. However, the plane-wave basis set is dependent on the size of the simulation cell, complicating cell size optimization.\n\nDue to the assumption of periodic boundary conditions, plane-wave basis sets are less well suited to gas-phase calculations than localized basis sets. Large regions of vacuum need to be added on all sides of the gas-phase molecule in order to avoid interactions with the molecule and its periodic copies. However, the plane waves use a similar accuracy to describe the vacuum region as the region where the molecule is, meaning that obtaining the truly noninteracting limit may be computationally costly.\n\nAnalogous to the plane wave basis sets, where the basis functions are eigenfunctions of the momentum operator, there are basis sets whose functions are eigenfunctions of the position operator, that is, points on a uniform mesh in real space. The actual implementation may use finite differences, finite elements or Lagrange sinc-functions, or wavelets.\n\nSince functions form an orthonormal, analytical, and complete basis set. The convergence to the complete basis set limit is systematic and relatively simple. Similarly to plane wave basis sets, the accuracy of sinc basis sets is controlled by an energy cutoff criterion.\n\nIn the case of wavelets and finite elements, it is possible to make the mesh adaptive, so that more points are used close to the nuclei. Wavelets rely on the use of localized functions that allow for the development of linear-scaling methods.\n\nIn 1974 Bardo and Ruedenberg proposed a simple scheme to generate the exponents of a basis set that spans the Hilbert space evenly by following a geometric progression of the form:\n\nformula_1\n\nfor each angular momentum formula_2, where formula_3 is the number of primitives functions. Here, only the two parameters formula_4 and formula_5 must be optimized, significantly reducing the dimension of the search space or even avoiding the exponent optimization problem. In order to properly describe electronic delocalized states, a previously optimized standard basis set can be complemented with additional delocalized Gaussian functions with small exponent values, generated by the even-tempered scheme. This approach has also been employed to generate basis sets for other types of quantum particles rather than electrons, like quantum nuclei, negative muons or positrons.\n\n\nAll the many basis sets discussed here along with others are discussed in the references below which themselves give references to the original journal articles:\n\n"}
{"id": "2121169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121169", "title": "Msida", "text": "Msida\n\nMsida () () is a harbour town in the Central Region of Malta with a population of 8,545 (March 2014). The town is located just west of Valletta on the northeast coast of Malta. The town enjoys a Mediterranean climate with hot, dry, sunny summers and short, cool winters.\n\nThe neighbouring towns of Msida are Ta' Xbiex, Gżira, San Ġwann, Birkirkara, Santa Venera, Ħamrun and Pietà. Msida is an important town for all travellers as many of the country's bus routes pass through it.\n\nThe patron saint of Msida is Saint Joseph while the protector is The Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary. For a week and a half in July, the town celebrates the feast of St. Joseph. The feast of Msida is also famous for its traditional game \"il-Ġostra\".\nPlaces of interest are the Yacht Marina, Seaside with traditional fishing boats, the University of Malta and the different gardens: the Playingfield at 5 ta’ Ottubru Square, the Garden in front of Parish Church and thePlayingfield at Ballijju Guttenberg street Swatar.\n\nIts name comes from an Arabic word meaning \"a fisherman's dwelling\". However it could also be derived from the word 'Omm Sidna' meaning 'The Mother of Our Lord' since there could have been a small chapel dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of God.\n\nMsida was previously an old fishing village. Although it is now more urbanised, some fishermen still operate in the village.\n\nMsida became a parish in 1867. Then the settlement was centered on the hovels located inward at Valley Road, and some nearby ancillary roads and pathways which led up to the quaint district of Villambrosa. This status did not last long however, as a new parish Ħamrun was hived off in 1881. Today the lowest part of Villambrosa Street remains a silent reminder of Msida's jurisdiction in this area. Msida would also eventually see parts of its territory lost to new parishes at Santa Venera in 1918, Pietà in 1968 and Ta' Xbiex in 1969.\n\nIts population, which at one time numbered 11,500, thus also dwindled to a mere 6,000. However the recent aforementioned demands as well as residential developments in the outlying suburb of Swatar, have now seen an increase to more than 7600 inhabitants. Swatar also hosts St. Martin's College, a private secondary school.\n\nToday, Msida is a bustling university town and development has been centered on an increasing student population at the University as well as various new service industries that have sprung in this town in recent years.\n\nThe city houses many university students, mostly Gozitans.\n\nThe lower part of Msida lies at the outlet of a valley and is a fulcrum for heavy traffic going to Sliema, Valletta, Birkirkara and Mater Dei Hospital. When it rains, water rushes down towards the sea from surrounding cities at higher levels and often causes floods, bringing traffic to a halt in the area opposite the Parish Church dedicated to St. Joseph. Msida also hosts an old rock hewn chapel dedicated to the Immaculate Conception, a rarity of its kind.\n\nMsida has also experienced a lot of reclamation from the sea. The town centre and surrounding areas which were located below sea-level were all reclaimed from the sea, after World War II. A new project which intends to catch more surface rainwater running should also considerably remedy a perennial flooding problem which affects this area as well as nearby towns.\n\nMsida host two local newspapers. The \"Leħen il-Misidjani\" (\"The Voice of the Misidjani\") is produced and edited by the local band club the Għaqda Melita Banda San Ġużepp Msida. The \"Leħen il-Misidjani\" gathers information on most of the communities, clubs and associations based in an around Msida.\n\nAnother newspaper is the \"Id f'Id\" (\"Hand in Hand\"), produced by the Parish and the Għaqda Armar Msida. It contains information on church activities, religious activities in Msida and the Feasts.\n\nThe University of Malta is situated in a part of Msida known as Tal-Qroqq which rests on higher ground. Msida is also home to the Giovanni Francesco Abela Junior College and a State Nursing Home.\n\nMsida is home to Msida Saint-Joseph F.C., the local football team currently playing in the Second division of Malta. The team colours are Red and White. Msida also hosts the Msida Red Stars A.F.C, a local 7-a-side team which participates in the I.A.S.C (Inter Amateur Soccer Competition), and Msida Boċċi Klabb (Club), the local \"boċċi\" team.\n\nThe Mater Dei Hospital is located in the outskirts of Msida. It was inaugurated by the prime minister of Malta Dr. Gonzi in June 2007 and has a total floor area of 232,000m and approximately 8,000 rooms. It also houses a teaching facility for the University of Malta.\n\nThe hospital has cost the Maltese people 200,000,000 Maltese liri, a considerable increase compared to its original estimate of 83,000,000 Maltese liri. It was intended to be a specialised centre but was eventually changed to a general hospital with a change in government.\n\nIn the late 19th century, a floating British navy hydraulic dock was also planned at the central part of Msida close to where the Torpedo Depot used to stand. The plan was soon aborted but instead, this area would in later years experience a booming yacht marina service, which has been growing ever since, thanks to new incentive policies issued by the central government.\n\nCurrent local council members are:\n\n\nCarmelo Bartolo k/a Lino (PL) was elected by default because he did not gather enough votes to be elected on a full quota.\n\n\nMsida traditionally celebrates the Feast of St. Joseph on the first Sunday after 16 July every year. The local football club is Msida St. Joseph F.C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121194", "title": "On the Verge (play)", "text": "On the Verge (play)\n\nOn the Verge; or, The Geography of Yearning is a play written by Eric Overmyer. It premiered in 1985 at Baltimore's Center Stage. The original cast consisted of Libby Boone, Susan Barnes, Paddi Edwards, and James McDonnell. The script makes extensive use of esoteric language and pop culture references from the late nineteenth century to 1955. The cast consist of three lady explorers and eight diverse beings they encounter on their travels, which include different times as well as different locations. The aforementioned eight beings are intended to be played by a single actor. The play is published by Broadway Play Publishing Inc., and continues to be performed. \n\nThe basic plot of the play follows the adventures of three Victorian women explorers into what they believe to be Terra Incognita, a new, unexplored land. The three are from very different exploration backgrounds but all exhibit their own form of independence. From the world in general and specifically men. The three together discuss many aspects of their pasts in exploring, with Mary and Fanny frequently trying to outdo each other. As the ladies progress on their travels it becomes apparent that they are not on an ordinary journey. Mary reaches the conclusion at the end of the first act that the three of them are in fact traveling forward through time and that, while doing so, they are beginning to absorb knowledge from the future. Alex dubs this phenomenon osmosing and from that point forward in the play, the ladies actively, and often fruitlessly try to osmose what the things they are encountering are, e.g. In the scene where Alex first encounters Cool Whip she takes several guesses at the item's identity: \"(\"Osmoses\") 'Mo hair'. No. 'Jello mold'. No. (\"Tastes\") Noxzema! Yes! Heaven!\"\n\nOften construed as the main lady explorer of the expedition, Mary Baltimore constantly cites her favorite periodical (the fictional newspaper \"The Boston Geo\") as a source of wisdom. She remains unmarried, and considers exploration her unequivocal calling. Consequently, she shuns intimate relationships (although there are subtle hints that she is a lesbian). As a result, her pent-up sexual inclinations show themselves in her work, which tends to focus on the mating behaviors of the various peoples she encounters. Mary is the oldest member of the lady explorers' expedition. She is utterly devoted to studying and experiencing the future, both from an objective and subjective perspective. Her exploration \"métier\" is Africa.\n\nAlexandra Cafuffle is the youngest of the group, and she allows her age to make up a considerable amount of her personality. She is typically forgetful, and tends to daydream. Upon encountering a new word (a frequent occurrence in their journey), she plays with it, trying to find rhymes and alternative meanings, to the endless irritation of her comrades. Alexandra is reasonably obsessed with Tibet and cites her adventures there often. She is rather inexperienced with jungles, the terrain that the ladies find themselves in upon reaching Terra Incognita, and curses the landscape to no end. Alexandra wishes to find the most enjoyable era for herself and settle down. Any new discovery enthralls her.\n\nFanny Cranberry is the most conservative of the group in all aspects: socially, politically, and morally. She is the only married member of the group. While Fanny's relationship with her husband Grover is very obviously not one of head-over-heels love, the two have a very intimate relationship nonetheless. Fanny generally disapproves of everything she sees and hears in the future, finding it immoral. Some examples of this are her distaste for the music of the 1950s and the growing trend of women to wear trousers, something that she and Mary disagree with Alex on. Her sensual side is brought out in the second act and she gradually warms up to the future. Fanny counters Mary's \"Geo\" references with those of her tabloids, which she writes for and reads religiously. Fanny is the second oldest member of the expedition.\n\nThe fact that one actor plays eight different characters is probably the \"gimmick\" of the show, an extra detail added by the author to make circumstances more interesting (There is a fifteen-second costume change at one point in the show). Almost no background is given for any of these characters, so the actor is able to take considerable artistic license with them. The nature of the characters themselves allow for more than enough over-the-top acting.\n\nAn enigmatic personality to many, Alphonse knows a smattering of German, has an accent to match, wears the uniform of a German pilot, yet is native to the jungle the ladies are navigating when they find him. The truth surfaces in their conversation at tea, when Alphonse reveals that he is not only a native, but also a cannibal. Alphonse was one of the people he devoured, but is apparently not sitting well, and his personality has been imprinted on the native's. He is fond of date bread, but not so much of tea. He becomes attracted to Fanny's wig during the scene, naturally making her feel uneasy. Mary treats him like a test subject, grilling him on his daily life, and Alex can't help but marvel at his accent.\n\nThe only character in the play with a direct connection to one of the women, Grover Cranberry is a shy banker from the American midwest who enters the play in one of his wife Fanny's dreams. Not much background is given on Grover in the script, leaving the actor to interpret his past and some personality traits. His obvious main shortcoming is his failure at self-assertion and individuality, deferring to Fanny on all decisions. It is hinted in his short dialogue that Grover may be an Alcoholic.\n\nMore comic relief than anything, the yeti has no lines except incoherent roaring, and indeed is only onstage for about two minutes. The ladies enjoy him immensely, even while he is trying to frighten them off with snowballs and guttural growls. Eventually he himself is frightened away by their advances.\n\nThe Troll can be described as a perfect cross between Fonzie and a modern beat poet. For example:\n\n\"What have we here but travelers three\"<br>\n\"Comin' cross the bridge to rap with me.\"<br>\n\"\"In Xanadu\" said Ka-u-ba-la Khan\"<br>\n\"Hey there, sweet things, what's going on?\"\n\nNear the end of the play, Alex makes mention of a date she has with the Gorge Troll to write lyrics, alluding to the possibility of a romance between the two.\n\nMr. Coffee is a gentlemen dressed in a fine white suit who talks to Fanny about her life and the demise of her husband. Fanny has previously \"osmosed\" the name Mr. Coffee in the play and describes to Mr. Coffee that she has had premonitions of meeting him. The scene that the two have together, while Alex and Mary are offstage, is an emotionally tense one in which Mr. Coffee reveals to Fanny Grover's decision to move on since his wife's disappearance to Terra Incognita in 1888. Mr. Coffee's description of his \"one and only meeting\" with Grover along with other comments he makes during the scene, identify him as the angel, or spirit, of death.\n\nMadame Nhu is a psychic of sorts who appears on stage mysteriously in her palanquin. She gives the three ladies advice with her prophecies which are a string of fortune cookie and horoscope lines, most of them confusing and irrelevant e.g. \"Praise your wife, even if it frightens her.\"\n\nGus's entrance is noted in the script as follows: \"Gus, a fresh-faced American teenager, appears, wearing a baseball cap and chewing gum. Boundless energy.\" Gus gives the ladies clues as to their current location, revealing that they are in a town called Peligrosa in the year 1955. Gus also gives the ladies directions to Nicky's, the play's final location.\n\nNicky Paradise is the owner of Nicky's Peligrosa Paradise Bar and Grill, a swinging vacation resort at which the play reaches its end. Nicky himself is a seductive lady-killer type of character who frequently bursts into song, popular songs from the era, in the middle of conversation with the three ladies. He takes an instant liking to Fanny, to whom he eventually proposes (offstage).\n\nHis relationship with Alex is one of business which forms based on his perception of her obvious talent in writing lyrics. He offers Alex a chance to use her talent making advertisements for Burma Shave, a company with whom he has just signed a contract.\n\nNicky and Mary can be described rather appropriately as rubbing each other the wrong way. Because the three women have grown rather close, Nicky and Mary are never hostile towards one another, although they are sometimes less than complimentary.\n"}
{"id": "2121213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121213", "title": "Serge Garant", "text": "Serge Garant\n\nAlbert Antonio Serge Garant, (September 22, 1929 – November 1, 1986) was a Canadian composer, conductor, music critic, professor of music at the University of Montreal and radio host of \"Musique de notre siècle\" on Radio-Canada. In 1966 he cofounded with Jean Papineau-Couture, Maryvonne Kendergi, Wilfrid Pelletier and Hugh Davidson the Société de musique contemporaine du Québec. In 1979, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. The Prix Serge-Garant was created in his honor by the Fondation Émile Nelligan. Among his notable pupils were Ginette Bellavance, Walter Boudreau, Marcelle Deschênes, Denis Gougeon, , Anne Lauber, Michel Longtin, Myke Roy, and François Tousignant.\n\nSerge had a very early musical initiation, through culture and interest for music from his mother. From a young age, he attended the Sacred Heart of Jesus Elementary School located in Quebec City, where he spent three consecutive years (1936-1939) . Upset by the events of the economic crisis from 1929 to 1939, the Garant family moved successively from Quebec to L'Ancienne-Lorette in 1940, and L'Ancienne -Lorette to Verdun in 1941, and eventually settled in Sherbrooke in 1941. Continuing his academic learning over these moves, Serge Garant finished his ninth year at St. John the Baptist school Sherbrooke in 1945. During his studies, Garant developed a particular interest in the clarinet, one of several instruments that he came to master over his life. In 1946, Garant, who displayed a flair for wind instruments, learned saxophone by himself.\n\nExploring many aspects of the music industry, Garant decided to turn to the piano, a sinuous path where he was first under the supervision of one of the founders of the Symphony Orchestra of Sherbrooke, Sylvio Lacharité. Lacharité initiated Garant to the sumptuousness of literature and its inherent link with music, a legacy that greatly influenced his writings and compositions throughout his career. Enjoying a stay in the school orchestra Pierre Monteux through his contact with Lacharité, Garant took interests in writing music. In 1946, he wrote Conte (version for strings, flute and clarinet), a work which he presented at the Youth Festival in 1949. Thereafter, Garant, while continuing to practice and write music for the saxophone and clarinet, continued his piano studies in Montreal with Yvonne Hubert . In 1951, having learned the basics of music theory and widely explored the practical field experience as an interpreter and maestro, Garant sets sail for the French capital. In Paris, Serge Garant followed lessons of Andree Vaurabourg-Honegger and Messiaen.\n\nThe first experience of teaching for Serge Garant probably went back to the summer of 1951, when he was invited to participate in the camp musical Knowlton. But it was not until 1967 that Garant was invited by the Dean of the Faculty of Music of the University of Montreal to teach the twentieth century composition analysis class. The inauguration of the famous composer of Anerca (1961) at the Faculty of Music is a matter of clabauderie for many, probably because he doesn't have a graduate degree, that he never taught at university before and that he valued a more structuralist approach to music, serial music and atonal music, in an environment where they are not particularly valued. Despite this seemingly unfavorable context, Garant was granted tenure in 1971.\n\nAs part of his academic musical education, Garant found particularly difficult the task to evaluate the work of his students. He wanted to be as objective as possible and not judge their compositions according to his own values, but rather in terms of what students wanted to do and what they did. These comments are supported by a student who attended his classes : \"You could come up with any crazy idea , [...] Read in any style , as long as we knew what we wanted. \"\n\nIn 1986, Garant ended his teaching duties, weakened by illness and exhausted to teach. However, Garant communicated by telephone from the hospital to assign grades to his students through another professor of music from the University of Montreal.\n\nSerge Garant participated in several radio programs as an expert, but his career as a host itself to CBC began in 1955 with \"Do-Mi-Sol\", and continues through \"Sur nos ondes\" (1957-1958) and \"Musique de notre siècle\" (1969-1985). The latter radio program was for him an extraordinary means of diffusion allowing him to hear and comment on works, among others, belonging to the serial and electroacoustic music. In addition to his writing in specialized periodicals and in some newspapers, speaking at a radio program was for Garant an extension of his work in pedagogy. It was a way to put forward modern music too, a style that he defended tooth and nail until the very end of his life.\n\nAccording to Garant, musical work of the early twentieth century was to be classified as \"classic\", in contrast to the more recent works of his contemporaries he defended tirelessly. He refused to settle in the ease and comfort of a predictable intellectual and lived music.\n\nGarant considered the actual transformation of contemporary musical language, focusing on instrumentation, orchestration and all electro technological methods now available to modern composers. Contextualizing his thoughts through comparisons with easily identifiable landmark works, as far back as Bach, he gave his listeners musicologically meaningful benchmarks .\n\nAmong the many styles of modern music, Serge Garant clearly identified himself as a \"serial music\" composer. He tried to explain to his audience the nature of this new musical language that swept all the old conventions of sound reference acquired in previous centuries.\n\nHe admitted the difficulty of approaching this new music, but passionately explored the renewed world of music with new musical origins. As an objective teacher, he described and analyzed some critical composers he considered dissidents, staying on position very encamped against them. In this sense, he admitted to being baffled by composing techniques and composers who created works with atypical structures that may seem sealed and inaccessible to those who refuse to supply a substantial intellectual contribution to the understand this modern music.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121216", "title": "AGM-129 ACM", "text": "AGM-129 ACM\n\nThe AGM-129 ACM (Advanced Cruise Missile) was a low-observable, subsonic, turbofan-powered, air-launched cruise missile originally designed and built by General Dynamics and eventually acquired by Raytheon Missile Systems. Prior to its withdrawal from service in 2012, the AGM-129A was carried exclusively by the US Air Force's B-52H Stratofortress bombers.\n\nIn 1982 the US Air Force began studies for a new cruise missile with low-observable characteristics after it became clear that the AGM-86B cruise missile would have difficulty penetrating future air defense systems. The AGM-86B relied on low-altitude flight to penetrate the Soviet air defense system centered on surface to air missiles. The deployment of the airborne early warning systems, together with the Zaslon PESA radar on MiG-31 and Myech radar on Su-27 interceptors, all three \"look-down/shoot-down\" radars, reduced the likelihood that the low-altitude AGM-86B would reach its target.\n\nThe solution was to incorporate various \"low-observable\" ('stealth') technologies into a new \"Advanced Cruise Missile\" system.\n\nIn 1983 General Dynamics Convair Division (GD/C) was awarded a development contract for the AGM-129A (the losing design was Lockheed Corporation's Senior Prom). The AGM-129A incorporated body shaping and forward swept wings to reduce the missile's radar cross section. The engine air intake was flush mounted on the bottom of the missile to further improve radar cross section. The jet engine exhaust was shielded by the tail and cooled by a diffuser to reduce the infrared signature of the missile. To reduce electronic emissions from the missile, the radar used in the AGM-86B was replaced with a combination of inertial navigation and terrain contour matching (TERCOM) enhanced with highly accurate speed updates provided by a Lidar Doppler velocimeter.\n\nThese changes made the AGM-129A more difficult to detect and allowed the missile to be flown at higher altitude. The newer Williams International F112-WR-100 turbofan engine increased range by about 50%. The newer guidance system, increased accuracy to a quoted figure of between 30 m (100 ft) and 90 m (300 ft).\n\nThe AGM-129A like the AGM-86B is armed with a W80-1 variable yield nuclear warhead.\n\nThe first test missile flew in July 1985 and the first production missiles were delivered to the US Air Force in 1987. The development program experienced some hardware 'quality control' problems and testing mishaps. The flight test program took place during a period of high tension between the machinist's union and GDC management, with a 3 1/2 week long strike occurring in 1987. US Congressman Les Aspin called the ACM a procurement disaster with the worst problems of any of the eight strategic weapons programs his committee had reviewed. The US Congress zeroed out funding for the ACM program in 1989. Manufacturing 'quality' problems led the US Air Force to stop missile deliveries in 1989 and 1991. McDonnell Douglas was invited to qualify as a second source for missile production. In early 1989, the United States requested and received permission to test the AGM-129A in Canada.\n\nPlans called for producing enough missiles to replace the approximately 1,461 AGM-86B's at a rate of 200 missiles per year after full-rate production was achieved in 1993. In January 1992, the end of the Cold War led US President George H.W. Bush to announce a major cutback in total ACM procurement. The President determined that only 640 missiles were needed. The ACM program was later reduced still further to 460 missiles. In August 1992 General Dynamics sold its missile business to Hughes Aircraft Corporation. Five years later in 1997, Hughes Aircraft Corporation sold its aerospace and defense business to the final production contractor Raytheon.\n\nThe US Air Force pushed for production of a AGM-129B variant for targets for which the AGM-129A was considered ineffective. The US Air Force submitted this requirement in 1985 and proposed to modify 120 missiles into the AGM-129B variant. In 1991 the US Congress denied the request and the US Air Force was forced to terminate the program. In 1992, the US Air Force was directed by the US Department of Defense to restart the program, an effort which was opposed by the General Accounting Office of the US Congress. Confusion exists as to precisely how this weapon is different from the original. The Department of Defense document DoD 4120.15-L \"Model Designation of Military Aerospace Vehicles\" states that the AGM-129B was an AGM-129A \"modified with structural and software changes and an alternate nuclear warhead for accomplishing a classified cruise missile mission.\" However, Ozu states the AGM-129B was intended to be a non-nuclear version of the ACM, much as the nuclear AGM-86B led to the conventional AGM-86C.\n\nThe B-52H bomber can carry up to six AGM-129A missiles on each of two external pylons for a total of 12 per aircraft. Originally, an additional 8 ACMs could be carried internally in the B-52 on Common Strategic Rotary Launchers, for a total of 20 per aircraft. The B-1B bomber was also slated to carry the AGM-129A, but that plan was ended after the cessation of the Cold War. The AGM-129A provides the B-52H bomber the ability to attack multiple targets without penetrating an air defense system.\n\nAn AGM-129A impacted and damaged two unoccupied trailers, part of a cosmic ray observatory operated by the University of Utah and Tokyo University, located in the \"hazardous operations\" area of the United States Army Dugway Proving Ground on December 10, 1997. The AGM-129A was released over the Utah Test and Training Range from a B-52H bomber assigned to Minot Air Force Base, North Dakota. The missile had flown for approximately 3.5 hours on its planned route and had fulfilled all test objectives prior to the mishap. The missile was carrying an inert test payload. Mission planners were unaware of the existence of the trailers.\n\nThe Air Force in 2008 maintained an arsenal of 1,140 AGM-86 ALCMs and 460 AGM-129 ACMs. The B-52 is the only platform for these missiles. The reductions also include all but 528 nuclear-armed ALCMs and are in part a result of the SORT/Moscow Treaty (2002) requirement to get below 2,200 deployed nuclear weapons by 2012, with the ACM chosen because it has reliability issues and higher maintenance costs. In March 2007, despite a Service Life Extension program (SLEP) intended to extend its operational usefulness to 2030, the USAF made the final decision to decommission its entire inventory of AGM-129s with the last missile being destroyed in April 2012.\n\nOn August 30, 2007 twelve ACMs loaded on a B-52 were flown across the US from Minot Air Force Base in North Dakota to Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana for decommissioning. The nuclear warheads which should have been removed before the flight were mistakenly left installed on six of the ACMs. For 36 hours the nuclear weapons were unaccounted for, which led to an official investigation of the incident.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121231", "title": "The Firesign Theatre's Box of Danger", "text": "The Firesign Theatre's Box of Danger\n\n\"The Firesign Theatre's Box of Danger: The Complete Nick Danger Casebook\" is a four-CD boxed set of most recorded material by comedy group the Firesign Theatre containing their fictional character Nick Danger, portrayed by Phil Austin. Danger is a parody of the hard-boiled detective genre, and is often announced as \"Nick Danger, Third Eye\", a parody of the term \"private eye\". Danger stories involve stereotypical film noir situations, including mistaken identity, betrayal, and femme fatales. Danger originally appeared on the 1969 album \"How Can You Be in Two Places at Once When You're Not Anywhere at All\", and was reprised in various live shows, radio appearances and albums, including the 1979 \"\", 1984 \"The Three Faces of Al\", and 2001 \"The Bride of Firesign\".\n\nDanger debuts in a 28:11 track on side 2 of the 1969 album \"How Can You Be in Two Places at Once When You're Not Anywhere at All\". This is an episode titled \"Cut 'Em Off at the Past\", of a mock radio program purportedly aired on December 6, 1941. Rocky Rococo comes to Danger's office and attempts to sell him the ring Danger gave Nancy back in college. Danger goes to the mansion where Nancy lives and meets her butler Catherwood. After knocking Danger unconscious, Catherwood and Nancy murder Rococo, who is blackmailing them. They attempt to frame Danger for their crime, but Danger forces Catherwood to reveal the truth, and solves his problem by some means we will never know; the show is interrupted by the news bulletin of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt (Bergman) announcing the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.\n\nOn the 1972 live album \"Not Insane or Anything You Want To\", the group presented a self-parody of Nick Danger. This has Austin playing the title role as a Japanese detective Young Guy, Proctor as his Japanese girlfriend Miki, Ossman as the detective's robotic Japanese butler Rotonoto, and Bergman as American police Lieutenant Brad Shaw.\n\nIn 1976, while Proctor and Bergman went on sabbatical from The Firesign Theatre to produce a live show, Austin and Ossman produced a two-act live show, \"Radio Laffs of 1940\". Act one pits Danger against a cabal of Nazi spies conspiring to remake America by converting its radio drama to dadaist surreal humor. Bergman's absence forced the omission of Lieutenant Bradshaw, and Ossman voiced all the non-Danger roles, including several females.\n\nIn 1979, the Firesign Theatre produced five short (2:24) episodes of a prospective comic radio serial (similar to the 1960s syndicated \"Chickenman\"). These were released by Rhino Records on a 12:00 EP record.\n\nThis 1984 album was produced without David Ossman, who had temporarily left to produce shows for National Public Radio. This story is inspired by a line in the original \"Cut 'Em Off at the Past\" where Bradshwaw tells Danger, \"You're lucky we didn't burn ya on the Anselmo pederasty case.\" Bradshaw has realized his dream to become District Attorney, and gets his chance to prosecute Danger, who is the apparent suspect in the murder of mob boss Anselmo Von Pederazzi. Nancy and Rocky Rococo also appear.\n\nAll four Firesigns reunited for their second wave in 1993 with a 25th anniversary reunion tour. On November 11, they gave a live performance of the original Nick Danger \"Cut 'Em Off At The Past\" at Keswick Theatre in Glenside, Pennsylvania. This performance was originally released on the reunion tour album in June 1994.\n\nIn October 2001, the Firesign Theatre got a series on XM Satellite Radio titled \"Fools In Space\". They produced seven serial Nick Danger episodes for this show, the first three broadcast on October 27, November 17, and December 15.\n\nThe XM Satellite show \"Fools In Space\" continued through August 2002. Four more Nick Danger episodes were broadcast on January 26, February 23, April 27, and August 24.\n\nThe Firesigns performed approximately once a month on NPR's \"All Things Considered\" news program from July 2002 to April 2003, released on a CD album in 2003. Two performances, on October 3 and December 24, featured Nick Danger. The Christmas Eve show featured a parody of the poem \"A Visit from St. Nicholas\".\n\nNick Danger also appeared on a track of the 2001 album \"Bride of Firesign\", the third installment of the \"We're Doomed\" trilogy. This was not included in the \"Box of Danger\". Nick Danger also appeared in the Sparks Media production \"Down Under Danger\" in which he tackles a case involving the missing continent of Australia.\n"}
{"id": "2121239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121239", "title": "Joseph J. Sisco", "text": "Joseph J. Sisco\n\nJoseph John Sisco (October 31, 1919 – November 23, 2004) was a diplomat who played a major role in then-Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's shuttle diplomacy in the Middle East. His career in the State Department spanned five presidential administrations.\n\nSisco had served for a year as an officer of the Central Intelligence Agency before joining the State Department in 1951, where he served as a foreign affairs officer until 1965, when he was promoted to Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs by Dean Rusk. In 1969, he was promoted to Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs. He left the government in 1976, and served as the President of American University until 1980.\n\nIn June 1980, he joined CNN as a columnist, appearing occasionally on air as an expert on Middle Eastern and Asian affairs. \n\nSisco's wife, Jean Head Sisco, whom he married in 1946 while they were students at the University of Chicago, died in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "2121240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121240", "title": "Roger Grimsby", "text": "Roger Grimsby\n\nRoger Olin Grimsby (September 23, 1928 – June 23, 1995) was an American journalist, television news anchor and actor. Grimsby, who for eighteen years was seen on ABC's flagship station WABC in New York City, is known as one of the pioneers of local television broadcast news.\n\nRoger Grimsby was an orphan who was born in Butte, Montana and raised in Duluth, Minnesota, by a Lutheran minister. After graduating from Denfeld High School in 1946, he attended St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota, before studying history at Columbia University in New York. Grimsby was a U.S. Army veteran who was stationed in Germany before serving in the Korean War. It was during his stint in the Army that the Armed Forces Radio Service (AFRS) sparked his interest in news broadcasting.\n\nGrimsby returned to his native Duluth, Minnesota, where he began his anchoring career in 1954, serving as an announcer for WEBC Radio. Shortly thereafter, he decided to switch to the growing medium of television, working as a correspondent and news director at various television stations around Minnesota and Wisconsin, including WEAU-TV Eau Claire, WISC-TV Madison, and WXIX-TV (now WVTV) Milwaukee. He then spent two years (1959–1961) at KMOX (now KMOV) in St. Louis, before becoming the anchor and news director at ABC-owned KGO-TV in San Francisco, in 1961.\n\nIn 1968 Grimsby was brought to WABC-TV in New York City. Grimsby started as anchor of WABC's 11:00 p.m. news broadcast, \"Roger Grimsby and the Noisemakers\", on June 3, 1968. Just two days later, Grimsby was thrust into the national spotlight as anchor of ABC's coverage of the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy.\n\nIn April 1969, WABC dropped John Schubeck from the anchor slot on their 6:00 p.m. broadcast, replacing him with Grimsby, who also continued in the 11:00 p.m. slot.\n\nGrimsby's initial co-anchor on the 6:00 newscast was former WCBS-TV newsman Tom Dunn, but the man who was most closely identified with him was Bill Beutel, who replaced Dunn in September 1970 and co-anchored the news with Grimsby until 1986. He started each broadcast announcing, \"Good evening, I’m Roger Grimsby, here now the news.\"\n\nA six-time Emmy Winner, Grimsby was fired from WABC in April 1986 and, in an incident recounted by several of his colleagues, including Tom Snyder (who reported the incident on \"The Late Late Show\" soon after Grimsby's death), ABC further punished Grimsby by buying a building on Columbus Avenue across from WABC's Lincoln Square studios where three bars Grimsby often frequented stood and evicting the bar owners from the building.\n\nA year after his WABC departure, Grimsby was hired by WNBC-TV in May 1987. Beginning in June, his role was almost exclusively as a commentator, as Grimsby would be featured as part of the station's daily \"Live at Five\" newscast in a brief segment where he offered his take on a news story of the day with his usual deadpan style. He also worked as an assignment reporter. When WNBC's corporate sibling, WNBC (AM), signed off the air in 1988, Grimsby was dispatched to the radio station's studio to cover the closure live. As it turned out, a late transmitter switch to WFAN (AM) meant that Grimsby's voice was the very last to be heard on WNBC AM as he declared live to TV viewers: \"You heard the countdown. It's over.\" Grimsby left WNBC in May 1989 when his contract was not renewed.\n\nIn 1990, he relocated to California where he and George Reading of KMST became the first anchor team on San Diego television station KUSI's newly-launched 10:00 p.m. newscast. After only a few months, Grimsby resigned from KUSI in February 1991.\n\nAfter his retirement, Grimsby returned to New York City and lived on Manhattan's Upper West Side with his wife Maria, whom he had married in 1989.\n\nOn June 23, 1995, Grimsby died in Lenox Hill Hospital from complications due to advanced lung cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121244", "title": "Stadtroda", "text": "Stadtroda\n\nStadtroda (Roda until 1925) is a town of 6,653 people (2017), located in Thuringia, Germany. Stadtroda lies on the river Roda, a tributary of the Saale. The former municipalities Bollberg and Quirla were merged into Stadtroda in January 2019.\n\nAccording to some sources, Faust was born in Roda in 1480. The house where he was born was torn down and sold to Chicago in 1896, where it was going to be shown in the Germany-Hall of the World's Fair. The fate of the house is unknown.\n\nWithin the German Empire (1871-1918), Roda was part of the Duchy of Saxe-Altenburg.\n\nMayors since 1886\n\n"}
{"id": "2121250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121250", "title": "Baton Rouge Refinery", "text": "Baton Rouge Refinery\n\nExxonMobil's Baton Rouge Refinery in Baton Rouge, Louisiana is the fifth-largest oil refinery in the United States and thirteenth-largest in the world, with an input capacity of per day as of January 1, 2018. The refinery is the site of the first commercial fluid catalytic cracking plant that began processing at the refinery on May 25, 1942.\n\nStandard Oil first erected the refinery in 1909. Today's facility is part of a complex made of nine individual plants across the region. The main plant is located on the east bank of the Mississippi River. There are about 6,300 workers spread across these sites, including 4,000 direct employees (the rest are contractors).\n\nGenesis Energy LP recently invested $125 million to improve ExxonMobil's existing assets in the Baton Rouge area. The investment includes plans to build an 18-mile, 20-inch diameter crude oil pipeline that connects Genesis Energy's Port Hudson terminal, to ExxonMobil's Baton Rouge refinery. The Baton Rouge refinery's tank farm has a capacity of 502,500 barrel-per-day (bpd). \n\n"}
{"id": "2121253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121253", "title": "Amon Saga", "text": "Amon Saga\n\nThe world of Amon Saga is a medieval one, filled with bizarre creatures, such as the giant turtle that holds the Valhiss fortress, home of the Emperor, on its back. The world is populated by both human and humanoid creatures. The story is set in a time where the Valhiss Empire is trying to take over the world through a map. Amon is a warrior seeking vengeance for his late mother, who was killed by the Emperor Valhiss. He enlists in the Emperor's military forces to gain entry to the fortress. On a mission he meets one of the Emperors' captives, Princess Lichia, who aids him.\n\nAmon – The title character of the movie, Amon is a young swordsman similar in appearance to Elric of Melniboné, with amazing skill. He joins the Valhiss army with the intention of avenging his mother's death, by killing the emperor.\n\nGaius – A man nearly twice Amon's height and many times his strength, Gaius also seeks to join Valhiss' army. After a brief encounter with Amon in a bar, the two men form mutual respect for each other's abilities, and work together to pass the recruitment test.\n\nAlcan – A clever, agile fighter whose tongue lashes as often as his whip. Like Gaius and Amon, he joins the Valhiss army for mysterious reasons, which are revealed later in the movie as he fights alongside both men.\n\nHo the Dragon Tailed – A quiet sniper with dark green skin and a tail, Ho doesn't say or do much during the movie. However, when he does, it has a great effect on the situation at hand, such as helping Amon defeat the giant serpent. His name and appearance suggest he may be some sort of lizard man.\n\nPrincess Lichia – The beautiful daughter of King Darai Sem, she is being held hostage by Valhiss in exchange for a map leading to the legendary Valley of Gold. While bathing in a lake, she is attacked by a giant serpent, and saved by Amon and Ho. She has the same name as her mother, the name given to all women in the Vindorana royal line.\n\nEkuna – A legendary swordsman and poet who trained Amon after his mother died. He regrets seeing Amon use his talent for revenge. He bears an uncanny resemblance to Vampire Hunter D, the title character of a similar fantasy movie released around the same time (and also featured Yoshitaka Amano as the character designer).\n\nEmperor Valhiss – The ruler of the empire bearing his name, Valhiss is an enormous man who seeks to conquer the world.\n\nMabo – An old sorcerer who serves as the advisor to the emperor. He takes great delight in opportunities to display his magic power, and to undermine Denon.\n\nDenon – The captain of the Valhiss army, Denon came up with the plan to kidnap Lichia and hold her for ransom. He's a skilled swordsman.\n\nKing Darai Sem – The king of Vindorana, who came from another land. He became king after he saved the life of Vindorana's princess Lichia. He travels in a fleet of ships that sail of grass instead of water.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121255", "title": "Arrangements between railroads", "text": "Arrangements between railroads\n\nRailway companies can interact with and control others in many ways. These relationships can be complicated by bankruptcies.\n\nOften, when a railroad first opens, it is only a short spur of a main line. The owner of the spur line may contract with the owner of the main line for operation of the contractee's trains, either as a separate line or as a branch with through service. This agreement may continue as the former railroad expands, or may be temporary until the line is completed.\n\nIf the operating company goes bankrupt, the contract ends and the operated company must operate itself.\n\nA major railroad may lease a connecting line from another company, usually the latter company's full system. A typical lease results in the former railroad (the lessee) paying the latter company (the lessor) a certain yearly rate, based on maintenance, profit, or overhead, in order to have full control of the lessor's lines, including operation.\n\nIf the lessee goes bankrupt, the lessor is released from the lease.\n\nMost railroad companies are publicly traded with stocks. As the stockholders control the company, one railroad company can buy a majority of stock of another one in order to control it. Sometimes a bridge line, a railroad that has a majority of traffic coming from points not on its line, is owned equally by the companies that use it (via trackage rights).\n\nStock ownership does not automatically cause a merger of operations, merely in friendly policies towards each other. Operating and leasing agreements typically require a more stringent approval process through the regulating body.\n\nIf the owned company goes bankrupt, its stock is worthless, and the owner no longer controls it (unless it buys it back at auction).\n\nConsolidation happens when two railroad companies are consolidated. It is often the last step in an arrangement between two railroads, and is hard to undo, except in the case of bankruptcy, when different parts of the railroad may be sold to different buyers at auction.\n\nTrackage rights (US), running rights, or running powers (UK) are an agreement between railroad companies in which the owner of tracks grants another railroad company some use of them. The deals can be long-term or short-term, do not always include the right to serve customers on the line, and may or may not be exclusive.\n\nShort-term agreements are typically made when some kind of disaster affects one railroad and a parallel railroad line is fully operational or to allow the railroad to perform maintenance on the line. The parallel railroad will often grant temporary rights to the affected railroad until the problem is resolved. Long-term agreements can be made to allow competing railroads access to potentially-profitable shippers or to act as a bridge route between otherwise disconnected sections of another railroad.\n\nA deal in which the owner grants only the right to run trains, not to stop for passengers or freight, is called overhead or incidental trackage rights.\n\nA union station or terminal railroad typically involves trackage rights. The company that owns the station and associated trackage is typically owned in part by the railroads that use it, which operate over it by trackage rights.\n\nIn some rights deals, the owner of the tracks runs no trains of its own. That kind of arrangement can be done also by a partial lease.\n\nIn the United States, all trackage rights agreements are filed with the Surface Transportation Board and are available as a matter of public record.\n\nExamples around the world include:\n\nA haulage agreement is similar to one of trackage rights, but the railroad that owns the line operates the power for the cars of the latter company.\n\nBC Iron is a small iron ore mining company which uses the railway of the larger Fortescue Metals Group to move its ore to port. The two companies have created a \"mine gate\" joint venture in which Fortescue will take BC's iron by rail to port in exchange for 50% of the deposit.\n\nOriginally, at least in the United States, it was not clear whether railroads were going to be run like turnpikes, in which any paying customer could use the road. The Seekonk Branch Railroad in East Providence, Rhode Island (then part of Seekonk, Massachusetts) tested this by in 1836 building a short branch of the Boston and Providence Railroad to their own dock and using the full line of the B&P. Massachusetts passed a law prohibiting this, and the B&P bought the branch in 1839.\n\nThe Swansea and Mumbles Railway, the world's first passenger railway service operated in the same manner as turnpike roads. When it opened in 1807 anyone with a suitable horse-drawn waggon could use the line in exchange for paying a toll. The railway operated in this manner until passenger services ceased in 1826 or 1827 due to the construction of a turnpike road parallel to the railway.\n\nThe Stockton and Darlington Railway of 1825 opened with mostly horse-drawn trains, with anyone able to operate their own trains on a turnpike basis.\n\nThe Liverpool and Manchester Railway of 1830 opened with purely steam locomotive haulage, and the need for greater co-ordination meant that the railway had to operate the trains. Private wagons hauled by company trains were tolerated. This set the pattern for the next century or more.\n\nCanals were and still are operated like turnpikes, where the canal company was prohibited for anti-monopoly reasons, from operating boats on the canal.\n\nAfter 1948 the majority of the United Kingdom railway network was nationalized as British Rail for both political and practical reasons. Internal industrial operations and some minor lines were excluded from the process. Where industrial lines met the railway network proper trains would be transferred from the industrial operator to British Rail control with non-British Rail locomotives and engineers never being permitted onto the British Rail network. Arrangements existed whereby non-British Rail operators could own rolling stock. This changed in 1986 when, in a very different political climate Foster Yeoman were able to obtain the right to run their own trains onto the British Rail network providing British Rail locomotive engineers were used.\n\nIn 1997 the British Railways network was privatized as a single company Railtrack, and after this proved a total failure as a non-profit company Network Rail. Multiple companies hold rights to operate trains on the national network either as for-profit operators or government aided passenger franchises. A formal safety process exists for gaining access along with driver and equipment requirements as well as a pricing scheme. Any organisation meeting all these requirements can become a railway operator and access the national network.\n\nAs well as holding access rights to the national network (and in some cases internationally via the Channel Tunnel) many of the freight operators have agreements permitted them to access private networks operated by industries and ports, and in some cases also onto heritage railways, several of which now also carry small amounts of commercial freight traffic.\n\nPassenger operators also have agreements with some of the heritage railways allow them to run special trains to connect with heritage railway events. Similarly heritage railway operators and railtour operators have reached arrangements to access the national network and run heritage trains, often steam powered, to and from the national rail network. As of 2007 this has extended to regular summer timetabled services on both the Stratford Upon Avon line in the Midlands and from Grosmont, North Yorkshire on the North Yorkshire Moors Railway to Whitby on the national rail network.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121259", "title": "Danny Fortson", "text": "Danny Fortson\n\nDaniel Anthony Fortson (born March 27, 1976) is an American former professional basketball player. He played the power forward and center position in the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 1997 to 2007.\n\nAlthough born in Philadelphia, Fortson grew up in Altoona, Pennsylvania in a difficult home environment. He did not get along well with his father, who spent some time in jail, while his mother spent some time in the morge. Fortson had grown up in the same neighborhood as Doug West and began pre school at the same school West attended, Altoona Area High School. Before starting there, he became friends with a family whose son played on his AAU basketball team. He spent two summers living with the family in the middle-class Pittsburgh suburb of Shaler Township, eighty five mile west of Altoona.\n\nAfter his sophomore year, he and his mother moved to Shaler and Fortson transferred to Shaler Area High School for his final two years in high school (1992–1994). He was ruled ineligible his junior year for all but two games but averaged 30 points per game his senior year. He was a member of the prestigious Back board squad for pre-college basketball prospects.\n\nFortson played for the Cincinnati Bearcats for 3 years from 1994 to 1997. In 1997 opposing coach Charlie Spoonhour complimented Fortson with: \"I could do a chin-up on his arm, and it wouldn't affect his shooting.\" \n\nIn his three years playing for the Bearcats he became the school's second highest all-time scorer by scoring 1,881 points.\n\nA physical player with a soft shooting touch, he led UC to Conference USA championships in 1996 and 1997. He was a consensus first team All-American in 1997 when he averaged 21.3 points and 9.1 rebounds while shooting 62 percent from the field.\n\nFortson began his pro career after being drafted 10th overall by the Milwaukee Bucks. He was immediately traded the same day to the Denver Nuggets. In his first year, he averaged double-digit points and the next year averaged a double-double in both points and rebounds despite being undersized playing the center position. However, he had 16.7% of his own shots blocked that season, the highest ever in the NBA as of 2012–13. Before the 1999-2000 season, he was once again traded to the Boston Celtics in a six-player deal. He missed the first 25 games of the season with a stress fracture in his right foot. He was traded to the Toronto Raptors on February 9, 2000 for Alvin Williams and Sean Marks, but the trade was rescinded two days later when Williams failed his physical.\n\nFortson did not play much with the Celtics and averaged 7.6 points and 6.7 rebounds per game. Following that season, he was traded to the Golden State Warriors in a four-team trade. He averaged 16.7 points and 16.3 rebounds per game for the Warriors in the first six games of the 2000-01 season, but those were the only games he would play due to another stress fracture injury in his right foot. He returned the following season, and had the best year of his career averaging 11.2 points and 11.7 rebounds in only 28.8 minutes as a starter for 76 games. In the 2002-03 season, Fortson mostly spent his time on the bench as most of his minutes went to Antawn Jamison and Troy Murphy. For the fourth time in his career, Fortson was again traded, this time in a nine-player deal to the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nFortson averaged only 11 minutes per game for the Mavericks, having to play behind forwards Dirk Nowitzki and Antoine Walker. Because of a need for a center who could make a jump shot, the Mavericks swapped Fortson for Calvin Booth with the Sonics in the offseason of 2004. Quickly, Fortson was back in the rotation and became a fan favorite in Seattle because of his physical play and rebounding prowess.\n\nFortson was a frequent target of foul calls by referees because of his physical play. As a result, Fortson registered the second-highest technical foul total among all active players during the 2004-05 season. During the 2005-06 season, Fortson's popularity and playing time diminished.\n\nAfter returning from a two-game suspension on January 2, 2006, Fortson called NBA senior vice president of basketball operations Stu Jackson a \"gangster\" for the nearly $200,000 in fines Fortson was docked for his latest transgression with an official.\n\nFortson's rights were renounced by the Thunder on December 22, 2009 after not playing in the NBA since 2007.\n\nEighteen years after Fortson left UC, he was recognized as one of the greatest players in UC history when he was inducted into the Bearcats’ Hall of Fame on October 29, 2015. On May 21, 2016, Fortson was inducted in the Ohio Basketball Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2121269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121269", "title": "George H. Williams (educator)", "text": "George H. Williams (educator)\n\nGeorge Howard Williams, (February 12, 1918 – May 18, 2003), was a former president of American University (1968–1976). Williams received a BA from Hofstra University (formerly Hofstra College) and a law degree from New York University, where he became an instructor of law in 1948 and eventually executive vice president. He was a lieutenant colonel in World War II in North Africa and Europe. He won a Silver Star for bravery and other decorations and was held prisoner by the Germans for eight months before escaping. He became president of American University in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "2121271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121271", "title": "Avi", "text": "Avi\n\nAvi is a given name, usually masculine, often a diminutive of Avram, Avraham, etc. It is sometimes feminine and a diminutive of the Hebrew spelling of Abigail.\n\nPeople with the given name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2121274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121274", "title": "Sliač", "text": "Sliač\n\nSliač is a small spa town located in central Slovakia, on the Hron river, between Banská Bystrica and Zvolen. The town is known for its healing hot springs and for an airport which has been used for military as well as civil purposes. Sliač has a population of less than 5,000.\n\nThe town arose through a merger of two villages, \"Hájniky\" and \"Rybáre\", in 1959 and was given the name \"Sliač\". However, both original settlements are much older. The Gothic church in Hájniky was mentioned for the first time in 1263 (when the territory belonged to the Kingdom of Hungary) and there is archaeological evidence of Slavic settlers living in the area since the 6th century. Some evidence also indicates that the history of the settlement stretches to 2000 B.C. Sliač Airport, formerly known as \"Letisko Tri Duby\" (\"The Three-Oaks Airport\") due to the name of the area it was located in, played the key strategic role during the Slovak National Uprising.\n\nIn 2018, Sliač had a population of 4,986. According to the 2001 census, 96.1% of inhabitants were Slovaks and 2.3% Czechs. The religious make-up was 46.1% Roman Catholics, 26.7% people with no religious affiliation, and 22.1% Lutherans.\n\nSliač is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2121275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121275", "title": "Guest statute", "text": "Guest statute\n\nA guest statute is a term used in the law of torts to describe a statute that makes it significantly more difficult for a passenger in an automobile to recover damages from the driver for injuries received in an accident resulting from ordinary negligence on the part of the driver. Instead, passengers are limited to suits based on gross negligence, recklessness, or intentional misconduct. The statute may also place a cap on the damages to be awarded, or limit damages to compensation for actual physical injuries.\n\nThe original purpose of the guest statute was both to protect drivers from frivolous litigation and to protect insurance companies from collusive and fraudulent suits (wherein the passenger sues the driver in order to collect from the driver's insurer). For the same reason, some states also passed aviation guest statutes, which limit the liability of non-commercial airplane passengers. Many guest statutes now appear to have been abolished. For example, Nebraska's guest statute was repealed in 2010 following a court case upholding its constitutionality. Oregon maintains a guest statute applicable to non-paying passengers in aircraft or watercraft limiting claims for injury, death or loss in case of an accident, unless the accident was intentional on the part of the owner or operator or caused by the gross negligence or intoxication of the owner or operator. \n"}
{"id": "2121277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121277", "title": "Lost Our Lisa", "text": "Lost Our Lisa\n\n\"Lost Our Lisa\" is the twenty-fourth episode in the ninth season of the American animated television series \"The Simpsons\". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 10, 1998. The episode contains the last appearance of the character Lionel Hutz. When Lisa learns that Marge cannot give her a ride to the museum and forbids her to take the bus, she tricks Homer into giving her permission. After Lisa gets lost, Homer goes looking for her and the two end up visiting the museum together. \n\nThe episode is analyzed in the books \"Planet Simpson\", \"The Psychology of the Simpsons: D'oh!\", and \"\", and received positive mention in \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\".\n\nBart and Milhouse visit a joke shop, and after Bart tries out some novelty props for his face, they visit Homer at the power plant to borrow his superglue for the props. Meanwhile, Marge and Lisa plan a trip to the Springsonian Museum so they can see the Egyptian Treasures of Isis exhibit and the Orb of Isis. However, when Bart comes home and shows off his face props, Marge orders him to take them off. However, since Bart is unable to pull them out due to the superglue, Marge is forced to take him to the hospital and is therefore unable to drive Lisa to the exhibit. She also forbids Lisa to take the bus alone, since it is too dangerous for her age.\n\nSince this is Lisa's last chance to see the exhibit, Lisa calls Homer to ask him if she can take the bus. He seems uncertain, which prompts her to trick him into letting her take the bus. However, once on the bus, Lisa realizes she is on the wrong bus; and the bus driver adds insult to injury by refusing to advise her and dropping her off in the middle of nowhere. During his lunch break at work, Homer tells Lenny and Carl that he let Lisa ride the bus alone. When they point out the error of his judgment, Homer leaves work to go look for her. He heads to the museum and ends up in downtown Springfield, where Lisa has hitched a ride to from Cletus. He uses a cherrypicker to get up higher. Homer and Lisa spot each other, but the vehicle's wheels creak backwards and it rolls down a hill. It slides off the edge of a pier at the harbor into a river. Lisa tells the drawbridge operator to close the bridge so Homer can grab on. His head is caught between the two closing halves and he survives with nothing more than a few tire marks across his forehead.\n\nMeanwhile, as Bart is examined by Dr. Hibbert, Hibbert manages to trick Bart into thinking he will give him a series of painful injections in his spine to get the props off his face. Bart sweats heavily in terror, resulting in the props falling off. Hibbert then explains that terror sweat was the key to removing the superglued props; the \"weapon\" he used is actually a button applicator. When Marge and Bart get home, she forces Bart to apologise to Lisa for mocking her and ruining her trip; as he talks to her behind her bedroom door, he is unaware that she still is not home.\n\nWith Homer and Lisa re-united, he tells her that it is all right to take risks in life. The two decide to go to the museum after all, by illegally entering since it is now closed. While there, they make a fascinating discovery that the Orb of Isis is a music box that had gone overlooked by scientists and museum staff. Lisa concludes that what her father said about risks was right – until the alarm goes off and guard dogs chase them out of the building.\n\nWriter Mike Scully came up with the idea for the plot because he used to live in West Springfield, Massachusetts and he would ask his parents if he could take the bus to Springfield, Massachusetts and they finally agreed to let him one day. The production team faced several challenges during development of this episode. The animators had to come up with a special mouth chart to draw Bart's mouth with the joke teeth in. The pile of dead animals in the back of Cletus' truck originally included dead puppies, but the animators thought it was too sad, so they removed them. Scully used to write jokes for Yakov Smirnoff so he called him up to get the signs in Russian. Dan Castellaneta had to learn proper Russian pronunciation so he could speak it during the chess scene in which he voiced the Russian chess player.\n\nIn the season 9 DVD release of the episode, \"The Simpsons\" animators use a telestrator to show similarities between Krusty and Homer in the episode. This episode contains the last showing of character Lionel Hutz. He is seen standing at the bus stop with Lisa, but does not speak. Due to Phil Hartman's death, the recurring characters of Lionel Hutz and Troy McClure were retired.\n\nIn his book \"Planet Simpson\", Chris Turner cites Lisa's experiences on the bus as an example of \"satirical laughs scored at the expense of Lisa's idealism\". \"Lost Our Lisa\" is cited in \"\" along with episodes \"Lisa the Iconoclast\", \"Lisa the Beauty Queen\", and \"Lisa's Sax\", in order to illustrate Homer's \"success bonding with Lisa\".\n\nIn \"The Psychology of the Simpsons: D'oh!\", the authors utilize statements made by Homer in the episode to analyze the difference between heuristic and algorithmic decision-making. Homer explains to Lisa, \"Stupid risks are what make life worth living. Now your mother, she's the steady type and that's fine in small doses, but me, I'm a risk-taker. That's why I have so many adventures!\" The authors of \"The Psychology of The Simpsons\" interpret this statement by Homer to mean that he \"relies on his past experiences of taking massive, death-defying risks and winding up okay to justify forging ahead in the most extreme circumstances\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Lost Our Lisa\" finished 45th in ratings for the week of May 4–10, 1998, with a Nielsen rating of 7.8, equivalent to approximately 7.6 million viewing households. It was the fourth highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\", \"Ally McBeal\", and \"King of the Hill\".\n\nWarren Martyn and Adrian Wood write positively of the episode in their book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\": \"A smashing episode, loads of good jokes and clever situations ... and best of all, Lisa working intelligently. The teaming up of father and daughter has rarely been more enjoyable and lovely. Gives you a warm feeling.\" A review of \"The Simpsons\" season 9 DVD release in the \"Daily Post\" notes that it includes \"super illustrated colour commentaries\" on \"All Singing, All Dancing\" and \"Lost Our Lisa\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121288", "title": "Tonto (Metabarons)", "text": "Tonto (Metabarons)\n\nTonto is the fictional robot servant of the Castaka family since the time of Aghnar, and the narrator of their tale in the Metabarons comic book.\n\nThe \"Metabarons Universe Guide\", a publication meant to help roleplayers get more into the Metabarons characters, gives some more insides on the personal history of Tonto. \nOnce a defective robosurgeon (showing major flaws in his less-than-accondiscendent personality) was issued by Hospital Planet's production lines, and scheduled for dismantling. Othon met him while the little robosurgeon was treating Bari, his crippled son. Unable to wait for the surgery results, Othon forced Tonto into let him see his son, and the droid, displaying his unpredictable judgment, not only agreed, but swore eternal alliance to his new master's family, gaining his protection and his safety in the process.\nHe became the caretaker of the Metabunker, the gigantic flying fortress of the Metabarons (totally attuned to his mental orders), and carried out all Metabarons surgical needs (for example implanting robotic eyes into Dona Vincenta head after she tore out hers, and giving pediatric care to all babies born in the family). Albeit his major flaws makes him sanctimonious and always insofferent to discipline, Tonto gained the trust of all Metabarons, even gaining the title of \"best and only friend\" of Nameless, the last one.\nWhen Nameless \"reprogrammed\" Steelhead, his villainous grandfather turned almost completely into a robot, into being Lothar, the mindwiped servant, Tonto took him as his personal assistant, each day telling him stories from the Metabaron's lore, both to please his ego and to quell his boredom.\n"}
{"id": "2121298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121298", "title": "David Rothkopf", "text": "David Rothkopf\n\nDavid J. Rothkopf (born 24 December 1955) is a professor of international relations, political scientist and journalist. He is the founder and CEO of The Rothkopf Group, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a visiting professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, and a prolific author. \n\nRothkopf was born to a Jewish family. His father survived the Holocaust while three dozen of his relatives did not. Rothkopf is a 1977 graduate of Columbia College and attended Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. He has two daughters, Joanna and Laura Rothkopf.\n\nRothkopf served as a senior executive and editor at Institutional Investor, Inc. and served in a similar capacity at \"Financial World\" magazine.\n\nLater, Rothkopf co-founded and served as chairman and chief executive of International Media Partners, Inc., which published \"CEO\" Magazine and \"Emerging Markets\" newspaper and organized the CEO Institutes. \n\nIn 1993, he joined the Clinton Administration as Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade Policy and Development. Rothkopf later served as Acting U.S. Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, directing the 2,400 employees of the International Trade Administration including the U.S. Commercial Service, the International Economic Policy Bureau, the Bureau of Import Administration, and the Bureau of Trade Development. \n\nHe left government service and became managing director of Kissinger Associates, the international advisory firm founded and chaired by former U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. \n\nIn 1999, he co-founded and served as chairman and CEO of Intellibridge Corporation, a provider of international analysis and open-source intelligence for the U.S. national security community and selected investors, financial organizations and other corporations. \n\nIn 2012, the Washington Post Company, then a division of Graham Holdings Company, named Rothkopf CEO of the FP Group and Editor at Large of its Foreign Policy magazine, ForeignPolicy.com, and FP Events. He served until May 2017.\n\nLater, he co-founded and served as president and CEO of Garten Rothkopf, an international advisory firm specializing in transformational global trends, notably those associated with energy, security, and emerging markets.\n\nHe is a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, where he chairs the Carnegie Economic Strategy Roundtable, and chairman of the National Strategic Investment Forum Dialogue, a forum convening leading institutional investors for discussions about critical issues of investment strategy. In addition, Rothkopf serves or has recently served as a member of the advisory boards of the U.S. Institute of Peace, the Johns Hopkins/Bloomberg School of Public Health, the Center for Global Development, and the Center for the Study of the Presidency.\n\nRothkopf is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and has taught international affairs at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Columbia University's Graduate School of International and Public Affairs, the Georgetown School of Foreign Service and has lectured at leading universities including Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, Oxford, Cambridge, Stanford, the National Defense University and the Naval War College.\n\nA Democrat, he has said he voted for President Barack Obama twice.\n\nIn 2018, Rothkopf became a registered foreign agent and media consultant for the United Arab Emirates, receiving $540,000 in 2018 alone. \n\n\nHe is the author, co-author, co-editor of and contributor to additional books including \"The Global Century: Globalization and National Security\" (National Defense University), \"Cuba: The Contours of Change\" (Lynne Rienner Publishers), \"The Price of Peace: Emergency Economic Intervention and U.S. Foreign Policy\" (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), \"The Common Market: Uniting the European Community\" (Franklin Watts) and \"The Big Emerging Markets\" (Bernan Press).\n\n"}
{"id": "2121302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121302", "title": "Herman Geiger-Torel", "text": "Herman Geiger-Torel\n\nHerman Geiger-Torel, (July 13, 1907 – October 6, 1976) was a Canadian opera director.\n\nIn 1969, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121307", "title": "Dirt road", "text": "Dirt road\n\nA dirt road or track is a type of unpaved road made from the native material of the land surface through which it passes, known to highway engineers as subgrade material. Dirt roads are suitable for vehicles; a narrower path for pedestrians, animals, and possibly small vehicles would be called a dirt track—the distinction is not well-defined. Unpaved roads with a harder surface made by the addition of material such as gravel and aggregate (stones), might be referred to as dirt roads in common usage but are distinguished as improved roads by highway engineers. (Improved unpaved roads include gravel roads, laterite roads, murram roads and macadamized roads.) \n\nCompared to a gravel road, a dirt road is not usually graded regularly to produce an enhanced to encourage rainwater to drain off the road, and drainage ditches at the sides may be absent. They are unlikely to have embankments through low-lying areas. This leads to greater waterlogging and erosion, and after heavy rain the road may be impassable even to off-road vehicles. For this reason, in some countries, such as Australia and New Zealand and Finland, they are known as \"dry-weather roads\".\n\nDirt roads take on different characteristics according to the soils and geology where they pass, and may be sandy, stony, rocky or have a bare earth surface, which could be extremely muddy and slippery when wet, and baked hard when dry. They are likely to become impassable after rain. They are common in rural areas of many countries, often very narrow and infrequently used, and are also found in metropolitan areas of many developing countries, where they may also be used as major highways and have considerable width.\n\nTerms similar to dirt road are \"dry-weather road\", \"earth road\", or the \"Class Four Highway\" designation used in the People's Republic of China. A \"track\", \"dirt track\", or \"earth track\" would normally be similar but less suitable for larger vehicles.\n\nWhile most gravel roads are all-weather roads and can be used by ordinary cars, dirt roads may only be passable by trucks or four-wheel drive vehicles, especially in wet weather, or on rocky or very sandy sections. It is as easy to become bogged in sand as it is in mud; a high clearance under the vehicle may be required for rocky sections.\n\nDriving on dirt roads requires great attention to variations in the surface and it is easier to lose control than on a gravel road. \n\nIn Africa, parts of Asia, and parts of America, laterite soils are used to build dirt roads. However laterite, called \"murram\" in East Africa, varies considerably. It ranges from a hard gravel to a softer earth embedded with small stones. Not all laterite and murram roads are therefore strictly gravel roads. Laterite and murram which contains a significant proportion of clay becomes very slippery when wet, and in the rainy season, it may be difficult even for four-wheel drive vehicles to avoid slipping off very roads into the drainage ditches at the side of the road. As it dries out, such laterite can become very hard, like sun-dried bricks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121308", "title": "James Bamford", "text": "James Bamford\n\nJames Bamford (born September 15, 1946) is an American bestselling author, journalist and documentary producer widely noted for his writing about United States intelligence agencies, especially the National Security Agency (NSA). \"The New York Times\" has called him \"the nation's premier journalist on the subject of the National Security Agency\" and in a lengthy profile \"The New Yorker\" named him \"the NSA's chief chronicler.\" Bamford has taught at the University of California, Berkeley as a distinguished visiting professor and has written for \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"The Atlantic\", \"Harper's\", and many other publications. In 2006, he won the National Magazine Award for Reporting, the highest award in the magazine industry, for his writing on the war in Iraq published in \"Rolling Stone\". He is also an Emmy nominated documentary producer for PBS and spent a decade as the Washington investigative producer for ABC's World News Tonight. In 2015 he became the national security columnist for \"Foreign Policy Magazine\" and he also writes for \"The New Republic.\" His most recent book, \"The Shadow Factory: The Ultra-Secret NSA From 9/11 to the Eavesdropping on America\", became a \"New York Times\" bestseller and was named by \"The Washington Post\" as one of \"The Best Books of the Year.\" It is the third in a trilogy by Bamford on the NSA, following \"The Puzzle Palace\" (1982) and \"Body of Secrets\" (2001), also \"New York Times\" bestsellers.\n\nBamford was born on September 15, 1946 in Atlantic City, New Jersey and raised in Natick, Massachusetts. During the Vietnam War, he spent three years in the United States Navy as an intelligence analyst assigned to a National Security Agency unit in Hawaii. Following the Navy, he earned a Juris Doctor degree in International Law from Suffolk University Law School in Boston, Massachusetts; a post graduate diploma from the Institute on International and Comparative Law, University of Paris I Panthéon Sorbonne; and was awarded a fellowship at Yale Law School.\n\nWhile in law school as a Navy reservist, Bamford blew the whistle on the NSA when he learned about a program that involved illegally eavesdropping on US citizens. He testified about the program in a closed hearing before the Church Committee, the congressional investigation that led to sweeping reforms of US intelligence abuses in the 1970s.\n\nIn 1982, following graduation, he wrote \"The Puzzle Palace: A Report on NSA, America's Most Secret Intelligence Agency\" (Houghton Mifflin) which became a national bestseller and won the top book award from Investigative Reporters and Editors, the professional association of investigative journalists. \"Washingtonian\" magazine called it \"a monument to investigative journalism\" and \"The New York Times Book Review\" said, \"Mr. Bamford has uncovered everything except the combination to the director's safe.\" \n\nDuring the course of writing the book, Bamford discovered that the Justice Department in 1976 began a secret criminal investigation into widespread illegal domestic eavesdropping by the NSA. As a result, he filed a request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) for documents dealing with the investigation and several hundred pages were eventually released to him by the Carter administration. However, when President Ronald Reagan took office, the Justice Department sought to stop publication of the book and demanded return of the documents, claiming they had been \"reclassified\" as top secret. When Bamford refused, he was threatened with prosecution under the Espionage Act. In response, Bamford cited the presidential executive order on secrecy, which stated that once a document had been declassified it \"cannot\" be reclassified. As a result, President Reagan changed the executive order to indicate that once a document has been declassified it \"can\" be reclassified. However, due to \"ex post facto\" restrictions in the \"US Constitution\", the new executive order could not be applied to Bamford and the information was subsequently published in \"The Puzzle Palace.\" \n\nFollowing publication, however, the NSA continued its efforts against Bamford. While writing The Puzzle Palace, the author made extensive use of documents from the George C. Marshall Research Library in Virginia. These included the private correspondence of William F. Friedman, one of the founders of the NSA. Although none of the documents were classified, following the book's release the NSA sent agents to the library to order their removal. The action led to a lawsuit (631 F.Supp. 416 (1986)) by the American Library Association (ALA) against the NSA, charging that the agency had no right to enter a private library and classify and remove Friedman's private papers. Although the court criticized NSA, saying it “does not condone by any means NSA’s cavalier attitude toward its classification determination,” it nevertheless found in the agency's favor and dismissed the suit. The ALA appealed the dismissal to the U.S. Court of Appeals but Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who was at that time a judge on that court, ruled that the ALA lacked standing in the case. At the library, Bamford also had access to the private papers of Marshall S. Carter, a former director of the NSA whom he had interviewed. But after the book was published, agency officials met with Carter at a secure location in Colorado, where he was in retirement, and threatened him with prosecution if he did not immediately close his collection and refrain from further interviews. Carter reluctantly agreed to the demands.\n\nIn 2001, Bamford released \"Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret NSA, From the Cold War to the Dawn of a New Century\" (Doubleday). The second in his trilogy, it also became a national bestseller. A cover review in \"The New York Times Book Review\" called it \"an extraordinary work of investigative journalism\" and it won the Investigative Reporters and Editors Gold Medal, the highest award given by the association.\n\nIn 2002, during the lead up to the war in Iraq, Bamford was one of the few journalists arguing that there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and therefore the country should not go to war. He made his arguments on the editorial pages of \"USA Today\" where he was a member of the newspaper's Board of Contributors. And in 2004 he released \"A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq. and the Abuse of America’s Intelligence Agencies\" (Doubleday), which became a bestseller. \"Time\", in a two-page review, said, “A Pretext for War is probably the best one-volume companion to the harrowing events in the war on terrorism since 1996.” \"The Washington Post\" listed the book as one of “The Best of 2004” and in a cover review said, “Bamford does a superb job of laying out and tying together threads of the Sept. 11 intelligence failures and their ongoing aftermath.” Bamford also wrote on the war in Iraq for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine and his 2005 article, “The Man Who Sold the War,” won the National Magazine Award for Reporting, the highest award in magazine writing, and was included in Columbia University's \"The Best American Magazine Writing\".\n\nIn 2006, following revelations in \"The New York Times\" that the NSA had been conducting illegal domestic eavesdropping for decades, Bamford joined writer Christopher Hitchens and several others as plaintiffs in a lawsuit (ACLU v. NSA, 493 F.3d 644) brought by the American Civil Liberties Union that challenged the constitutionality of the agency's surveillance. On August 17, 2006, District Court Judge Anna Diggs Taylor granted summary judgment for Bamford and the other plaintiffs, ruling that the surveillance was unconstitutional and illegal, and ordered that it be halted immediately. However, she stayed her order pending appeal. Later the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court ruling on the grounds that the plaintiffs could not show that they had been or would be subjected to surveillance personally, and therefore they lacked standing before the Court.\n\nIn 2008, Bamford released the third book in his trilogy, \"The Shadow Factory: The Ultra-Secret NSA From 9/11 to The Eavesdropping on America,\" which became a \"New York Times\" bestseller and was named by \"The Washington Post\" as one of \"The Best Books of the Year.\"\n\nBamford also writes and produces documentaries for PBS and in 2010 was nominated for an Emmy Award for his program, “The Spy Factory,” which was based on his book, \"The Shadow Factory\". Earlier he spent a decade as the Washington investigative producer for ABC's \"World News Tonight\", covering the White House as well as reporting from much of the world, including the Middle East during the Gulf War. Among his awards was the Overseas Press Club Award for Excellence and the Society of Professional Journalists Deadline Award for the Best Investigative Reporting in Television.\n\nBamford has served as a defense consultant in a number of espionage cases, including U.S. v. Thomas Andrews Drake. A former senior NSA official, in 2011 Drake was charged under the espionage act for allegedly leaking classified documents to the \"Baltimore Sun\". However, Bamford was able to show that all the materials the government claimed to be classified were actually freely available in the public domain, and placed there by the government itself. As a result, the government was forced to throw out the charges against Drake in exchange for a misdemeanor plea for abusing his computer, with no jail time or even a fine. It was one of the very few times the government had been forced to dismiss charges in an espionage case.\n\nAdditionally, Bamford has testified as an expert witness on intelligence issues before committees of the Senate and House of Representatives as well as the European Parliament in Brussels and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. He has also been a guest lecturer at the Central Intelligence Agency’s Senior Intelligence Fellows Program, the National Security Agency’s National Cryptologic School, the Defense Intelligence Agency’s Joint Military Intelligence College, the Pentagon’s National Defense University and the Director of National Intelligence’s National Counterintelligence Executive. And he has been an invited speaker at colleges and universities in the U.S., Europe, and the Middle East, including Oxford, Harvard, Yale, the American University of Beirut and many others.\n\nDuring the 2010s, Bamford wrote a number of cover stories for \"Wired\" magazine as a contributing editor, including “The Most Wanted Man in the World,” the result of three days in Moscow with NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, the longest any journalist has spent with him there. And in 2015 he became the national security columnist for \"Foreign Policy Magazine\" and also writes for \"The New Republic\".\n\nBamford completed a circumnavigation of the surface of the earth, crossing every meridian of longitude by land and sea. In 2017 he was elected as a member of The Explorer's Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121309", "title": "No. 143 Wing RCAF", "text": "No. 143 Wing RCAF\n\nNo. 143 Wing RCAF was a unit of the Royal Canadian Air Force which served with the Royal Air Force in Europe during the Second World War. \n\nRAF Second Tactical Air Force was established on 1 June 1943. No. 143 Wing was established on 10 January 1944. It comprised No. 438 Squadron RCAF, No. 439 Squadron RCAF, and No. 440 Squadron RCAF. As a fighter-ground attack unit, its purpose was to support the Canadian and British troops of 21st Army Group.\n\nFrom 22/23 June 1944 to 30 August 1944 the wing was located at B.5 (FRESNE CAMILLE) (for two days only) and then Lantheuil (B.9), just south of Creully, before moving forward to keep up with the ground forces. \n\nThe Typhoon aircraft has been painted by Robert Bailey, picturing F/Lt Harry Hardy, RCAF, flying the \"Pulverizer 2\".\n\nSqn Ldr Donald A. Brewster OBE was the Wing's Chief Technical Officer from April 1944 until the end of the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121318", "title": "Cius", "text": "Cius\n\nCius (; \"Kios\"), later renamed Prusias on the Sea (; ) after king Prusias I of Bithynia, was an ancient Greek city bordering the Propontis (now known as the Sea of Marmara), in Bithynia and formerly in Mysia (in modern northwestern Turkey), and had a long history, being mentioned by Herodotus, Xenophon, Aristotle, Strabo and Apollonius Rhodius.\n\nCius was strategically placed at the head of a gulf in the Propontis, called the gulf of Cius, or \"Cianus Sinus\". Herodotus calls it Cius of Mysia; and also Xenophon, from which it appears that Mysia, even in Xenophon's time, extended at least as far east as the head of the gulf of Cius. Pliny the Elder reports that Cius was a Milesian colony. It was at the foot of Mount Arganthonius, and there was a myth that Hylas, one of the companions of Heracles on the voyage to Colchis, was carried off by the nymphs when he went to get water here; and also that Cius, another companion of Heracles, on his return from Colchis, stayed here and founded the city, to which he gave his name. Pliny mentions a river Hylas and a river Cius here, one of which reminds us of the name of the youth who was stolen by the nymphs, and the other of the mythical founder. The Cius may be the channel by which the lake Ascania discharges its waters into the gulf of Cius; though Pliny speaks of the \"Ascanium flumen\" as flowing into the gulf, and we must assume that he gives this name to the channel which connects the lake and the sea. If the river Cius is not identical with this channel, it must be a small stream near Cius. As Ptolemy speaks of the outlets of the Ascanius, it has been conjectured that there may have been two, and that they may be the Hylas and Cius of Pliny; but the plural ἐκβολαί does not necessarily mean more than a single mouth; and Pliny certainly says that the Ascanius flows into the gulf. However, his geography is a constant cause of difficulty. The position of Cius made it the port for the inland parts, and it became a place of much commercial importance. Pomponius Mela calls it the most convenient emporium of Phrygia, which was at no great distance from it.\n\nCius was taken by the Persians, after the burning of Sardis, in 499 BCE. It joined the Aetolian League, and was destroyed by Philip V of Macedon in the Second Macedonian War (200-197 BCE), and given by him to Prusias I of Bithynia. Prusias, who had assisted Philip in ruining Cius, restored it under the name of Prusias (Προυσιάς). It was sometimes called Prusias ἐπιθαλασσίη, or \"on the sea,\" to distinguish it from other towns of the same name, or πρὸς θάλασσαν. In the text of Memnon the reading is \"Cierus\"; but Memnon, both in this and other passages, has confounded Cius and Cierus. But it is remarked that Cius must either have still existed by the side of the new city, or must have recovered its old name; for Pliny mentions Cius, and also Mela, Zosimus, and writers of a still later date. It was a member of the Delian League.\n\nIt was an important chain in the ancient Silk Road and became known as a wealthy town.\n\nThere are coins of Cius, with the legend Κιανων, belonging to the Roman imperial period; and there are coins of Prusias with the epigraph, Προυσιεων των προς θαλασσαν.\n\nCius became an early Christian bishopric. Its bishop, Cyrillus, took part in the First Council of Nicaea in 325, and Theosebius attended the Council of Ephesus. The names of many of his successors in the first millennium are known from extant contemporary documents. At first a suffragan of Nicomedia, it soon became an autocephalous archdiocese, being listed as such in \"Notitiae Episcopatuum\" from the 7th century onward. No longer a residential bishopric, Cius is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\nFollowing the population exchange in 1923, the Greek refugees from Cius established the village of Nea Kios, in Argolis, Greece. There are only few remnants of the ancient town and its harbour today. Somewhat more to the west, the new modern town of Gemlik, Bursa Province, Turkey is found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121329", "title": "Jūminhyō", "text": "Jūminhyō\n\nA is a registry of current residential addresses maintained by local governments in Japan. Japanese law requires each citizen to report his or her current address to the local authorities who compile the information for tax, national health insurance and census purposes. \n\nOnce a jūminhyō has been registered with the local government, one can register for various social services including the national health insurance plan. When proof of residence is required, such as for opening a bank account or registering children at a local school district, one needs to obtain a copy of this record from the local government office. Jūminhyō registration is also required in order to officially register a name seal (inkan), which functions as one's official signature. The jūminhyō is different from a koseki, which is the formal record of a family's history.\n\nIn February 2009, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications announced plans to amend the current jūminhyō system by 2012 to include non-Japanese residents, citing government efficiency for the change. The change became effective on July 9, 2012, abolishing the alien registration system. From this date onwards, residents of both Japanese and non-Japanese citizenship are recorded in the same system.\n\nOn February 12, 2002, Nishi Ward office in Yokohama issued an honorary jūminhyō to Tama-chan, an arctic bearded seal who took up residence in the rivers of Yokohama and Tokyo and became a national celebrity. This prompted a group of non-Japanese residents to paint whiskers on their faces and stage a protest march to demand their own jūminhyō.\n\nThere have been other instances where local authorities have issued honorary jūminhyō to animals, as well as to statues, snowmen, and fictional characters. For example, Niiza, Saitama issued an honorary jūminhyō for Astro Boy.\n\nUntil July 9, 2012, only Japanese citizens were allowed to be listed on a jūminhyō; residents from other countries were recorded in a separate alien registration system. This two-tier resident registration system was a source of controversy within the foreign community in Japan, particularly among international families where non-Japanese family members were not listed alongside Japanese family members as being part of the same household. It was possible, however, to add a footnote in the \"bikōran\" (remarks) section to a Japanese spouse's jūminhyō indicating that their non-Japanese spouse is the de facto head of household (事実上の世帯主, \"jijitsu-jo no setainushi\"). This however was left to local governments to decide whether to grant this request.\n\nAfter leaders of the Aum Shinrikyo sect were arrested for a Sarin gas attack, members of the group successfully complained that local authorities in several areas had refused to allow them to register, effectively preventing them from receiving government services, in order to discourage them from settling there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121332", "title": "Ocean exploration", "text": "Ocean exploration\n\nOcean exploration is a part of oceanography describing the exploration of ocean surfaces. Notable explorations were undertaken by the Greeks, the Egyptians, the Polynesians, the Phoenicians, Phytheas, Herodotus, the Vikings, the Portuguese and Muslims. Scientific investigations began with early scientists such as James Cook, Charles Darwin, and Edmund Halley. Ocean exploration itself coincided with the developments in shipbuilding, diving, navigation, depth, measurement, exploration, and cartography.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121344", "title": "Georges Moustaki", "text": "Georges Moustaki\n\nGeorges Moustaki (born Giuseppe Mustacchi; 3 May 1934 – 23 May 2013) was an Egyptian-French singer-songwriter of Jewish origin, best known for the poetic rhythm and simplicity of the romantic songs he composed and often sang. Moustaki gave France some of its best-loved music by writing about 300 songs for some of the most popular singers in that country, such as Édith Piaf, Dalida, Françoise Hardy, Yves Montand, Barbara, Brigitte Fontaine, Herbert Pagani, France Gall, Cindy Daniel, Juliette Gréco, Pia Colombo, and Tino Rossi, as well as for himself.\n\nGeorges Moustaki was born Giuseppe Mustacchi in Alexandria, Egypt, on 3 May 1934. His parents, Sarah and Nessim Mustacchi, were Francophile, Greek Jews from the ancient Romaniote Jewish community. Originally from the Greek island of Corfu, they moved to Egypt, where young Giuseppe was born and first learned French. They owned the Cité du Livre − one of the finest book shops in the Middle East – in the cosmopolitan city of Alexandria, where many ethnic communities lived together.\n\nMoustaki's father spoke five languages whereas his mother spoke six. The young Giuseppe and his two older sisters spoke Italian at home and Arabic in the streets. The parents placed Giuseppe and his sisters in a French school where they learned to speak French.\n\nAt the age of 17, after a summer holiday in Paris, Moustaki obtained his father's permission to move there, working as a door-to-door salesman of poetry books. He began playing the piano and singing in nightclubs in Paris, where he met some of the era's best-known performers. His career took off after the young singer-songwriter Georges Brassens took Moustaki under his wing. Brassens introduced him to artists and intellectuals who spent much of their time around Saint-Germain-des-Prés. Out of gratitude, Moustaki adopted the first name of the only musician he called \"master\".\n\nMoustaki said that his taste for music came from hearing various French singers – Édith Piaf, Charles Trenet, Henri Salvador, Georges Ulmer, Yves Montand, Georges Guétary and Luis Mariano – sing.\n\nMoustaki was introduced to Édith Piaf in the late 1950s by a friend whose praise of the young songwriter was so flattering that Piaf, then at the peak of her fame, requested somewhat sarcastically to hear him sing his best works. \"I picked up a guitar and I was lamentable. But something must have touched her. She asked me to go and see her perform that same evening at the Olympia music hall and to show her later the songs I had just massacred.\"\n\nHe soon began writing songs for Piaf, the most famous of which, Milord, about a lower-class girl who falls in love with an upper-class British traveller, reached number one in Germany in 1960 and number 24 in the British charts the same year. It has since been performed by numerous artists, including Bobby Darin and Cher.\n\nPiaf was captivated by Moustaki's music, as well as his great charm. Piaf liked how his musical compositions were flavored with jazz and styles that went beyond France's borders. Moustaki and Piaf became lovers and embarked on what the newspaper \"Libération\" described as a year of \"devastating, mad love\", with the newspapers following \"the 'scandal' of the 'gigolo' and his dame day after day\".\n\nAfter a decade of composing songs for various famous singers, Moustaki launched a successful career as a performer himself, singing in French, Italian, English, Greek, Portuguese, Arabic and Spanish.\n\nMoustaki's songwriting career peaked in the 1960s and 1970s with songs like \"Sarah\", performed by Serge Reggiani, and \"La Longue Dame brune\", written for the singer Barbara (Monique Serf).\n\nIn 1969 Moustaki composed the song \"Le Métèque\" — 'métèque' is a pejorative word for a shifty-looking immigrant of Mediterranean origin – in which he described himself as a \"wandering Jew\" and a \"Greek shepherd\". Serge Reggiani rejected it and the record companies refused to produce it. Moustaki then sang it himself, on a 45rpm disc, and it became a huge hit in France, spending six non-consecutive weeks at number one in the charts. \"A small, subliminal settling of scores became the hymn of anti-racism and the right to be different, the cry of revolt of all minorities,\" Moustaki said of the song.\n\nIn 1971 Moustaki adapted the Ennio Morricone/Joan Baez song \"Here's to You\" under the new title \"Marche de Sacco et Vanzetti\" for his album (\"There was a garden\").\n\nIn 1972 Moustaki popularized the translation of two songs by Mikis Theodorakis, \"l'Homme au cœur blessé\" and \"Nous sommes deux\", the latter being a French version of Imaste dio.\n\nMoustaki's philosophy was reflected in his 1973 song \"Déclaration\": \"I declare a permanent state of happiness and the right of everyone to every privilege. I say that suffering is a sacrilege when there are roses and white bread for everyone.\"\n\nMoustaki became a French citizen in 1985.\n\nIn 2008, after a 50-year career during which he performed on every continent, Moustaki recorded his last album, Solitaire. On it, he recorded two songs with China Forbes.\n\nIn 2009, in a packed concert hall in Barcelona, he told the stunned audience that he was giving his last public performance as he would no longer be capable of singing because of an irreversible bronchial illness.\n\nMoustaki married Annick \"Yannick\" Cozannec when he was twenty years old and she was twenty-five. Their daughter, Pia, was born the following year. They lived in an apartment at rue des Deux-Ponts on the Île Saint-Louis in Paris for many years, before his lung illness forced him to leave his beloved Paris to seek out warmer and cleaner air in the French Riviera.\n\nIn his last interview given to \"Nice-Matin\" newspaper in February 2013, Moustaki said, \"I regret not being able to sing in my bathroom. But singing in public, no. I've done it all... I've witnessed magical moments.\"\n\nGeorges Moustaki died on 23 May 2013 at a hospital in Nice, France, after a long battle with emphysema.\n\nThe French president, François Hollande, called Moustaki a \"hugely talented artist whose popular and committed songs have marked generations of French people\". French Culture Minister Aurélie Filippetti hailed Moustaki as an \"artist with convictions who conveyed humanist values ... and a great poet\". Paris Mayor Bertrand Delanoë remembered Moustaki as \"a citizen of the world who was in love with liberty, a true rebel until his last days\", who had given France \"unforgettable compositions and lyrics\". Juliette Gréco, one of France's biggest singers in the 1960s, grieved the loss of a \"poet\" and \"unique person\". \"He was a fine, elegant man who was infinitely kind and talented,\" she told RTL radio.\n\nMoustaki's funeral was held on 27 May 2013. It was attended by his widow Annick Cozannec and their daughter Pia, the French Culture Minister Aurélie Filippetti and numerous personalities from the entertainment world – Guy Bedos, Véronique Genest, Maxime Le Forestier, Jacques Higelin, Brigitte Fontaine, Arthur H, Valérie Mairesse, Hervé Vilard, Irène Jacob, François Corbier, Cali, Sapho, Enrico Macias, François Morel, Costa Gavras.\n\nMoustaki was buried according to Jewish rites in a family vault at the Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris a few meters from the grave of his former amour Édith Piaf.\n\n\n\nAll double albums except for \"Bobino 70\" and \"En live au Troubadour Festival 1995\" which is for download only.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121349", "title": "Kenneth Gilbert", "text": "Kenneth Gilbert\n\nKenneth Gilbert, (December 16, 1931 – April 16, 2020) was a Canadian harpsichordist, organist, musicologist, and music educator.\n\nGilbert studied at the Conservatoire de musique du Québec à Montréal under Yvonne Hubert (piano) and Gabriel Cusson (harmony and counterpoint). He also studied the organ privately with Conrad Letendre in Montréal. In 1953 he won the Prix d'Europe for organ performance, an award which enabled him to pursue studies in Paris, France with Nadia Boulanger (composition), Maurice Duruflé (organ), Ruggero Gerlin (harpsichord), Gaston Litaize (organ), and Sylvie Spicket (harpsichord) from 1953–1955. He later studied the harpsichord privately under Wanda Landowska.\n\nGilbert made his first recordings with the Canadian label Baroque Records Co. of Canada Ltd. in 1962 – an all-J. S. Bach program, followed by several more solo harpsichord recordings of music by Bach, another of Rameau, and several chamber music albums with other Canadian artists: Mario Duschenes (flute & recorder), Steven Staryk (violin), Jacques Simard (oboe), as well as French flautist Jean-Pierre Rampal. As organist, he recorded an album of works by Boehm, Buxtehude and Walther on two Casavant-built instruments in Quebec. (All of these recordings were subsequently reissued on Orion Master Recordings in the U.S.A.) In 1983 he recorded a two-CD selection from the Montreal Organ Book on the Hellmuth Wolff organ at McGill University for the Canadian label Analekta.\n\nGilbert performed for the Peabody Mason concert series in 1974. He died on April 16, 2020 at the age of 88.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121350", "title": "Anmore", "text": "Anmore\n\nAnmore (2016 population 2,210), British Columbia, Canada, is a village municipality in Metro Vancouver, north of the city of Port Moody and along the shores of the Indian Arm. It is one of three politically independent villages (municipalities with populations under 2,500) in the Greater Vancouver area, the others being its neighbour, Belcarra, and Lions Bay.\n\nAnmore got its name from a local homesteader, F. J. Lancaster, who combined the names of his wife (Annie) and his daughter (Leonore) to make \"Annore.\" This evolved into the village's current name.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census, Anmore had a population of 2,210 in that year.\n\nAnmore residents have high incomes, with an average household income of $186,134 in 2016. The median household income was $139,469, the highest in all of Metro Vancouver, compared to $69,995 for British Columbia as a whole.\n\nOften referred to as \"The Hamptons of Metro Vancouver\", Anmore is a wealthy, coveted neighbourhood, with residential properties ranging in the millions.\n\nA 1978 plan for the village to have 15,000 residents by 1988 was vocally opposed by its residents, and they have instead insisted on preserving what they call their \"semi-rural\" goal. Consistent with this earlier citizen opposition to development, in a referendum concomitant with the municipal election of 2002, 70% of the citizens of Anmore voted in favour of maintaining the existing RS-1 zoning (1 acre lot size), 70% in favour of the zoning with further enhancements, another 77% voted against half acre zoning, and 67% against a half acre every five years.\n\nAnmore is home to the Buntzen Lake recreation area, which is a popular tourist destination for its two beaches located on each end, as well as its network of hiking and biking trails that surround the lake. Managed by BC Hydro, the lake is used to power two hydroelectric stations located on Indian Arm.\n\nThere are two main streets in Anmore both of which terminate at Port Moody. Sunnyside Road runs primarily north-south from the near sea-level western entrance of the village to the entrance of Buntzen Lake at the northern end of the village. East Road enters Anmore from Heritage Mountain, and runs primarily north-south until about the mark where it turns and runs east-west until its termination at Sunnyside Road. There are several proposed plans to build another street between Port Moody and Anmore.\n\nAs part of Metro Vancouver, Anmore is connected to the TransLink public transit system and is served by the 182 Community Shuttle bus that runs down both major streets, Sunnyside Road and East Road. Supplemental summertime service to Buntzen Lake is provided by the 179 service from Coquitlam Central Station.\n\nAnmore was a long-time home for Canadian icon Margaret Lally \"Ma\" Murray, an American-Canadian newspaper editor, publisher, and columnist, an officer of the Order of Canada, and the wife of publisher and British Columbia MLA George Matheson Murray. George and \"Ma\" Murray's former home at the corner of Sunnyside and East Road was donated to the Village in 1988 by the owners at the time, and acted as Anmore's village hall until early 2018, when the 100-year-old homestead was demolished.\n\nRyan Johansen, professional ice hockey centre and alternate captain for the Nashville Predators of the National Hockey League (NHL), resides in Anmore.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121356", "title": "438 Tactical Helicopter Squadron", "text": "438 Tactical Helicopter Squadron\n\n438 \"City of Montreal\" Tactical Helicopter Squadron (French: ) is a unit of the Royal Canadian Air Force. The squadron operates the CH-146 Griffon tactical helicopter from the Hartland de Montarville Molson Hangar of CFB St. Hubert in Quebec, Canada. Its tasks include armed and unarmed tactical utility transport, training aircrew personnel in basic and advanced aviation tactics, technical training of groundcrew personnel and flight engineers and the periodic maintenance of CH-146 fleet aircraft. They also include as residual capabilities search and rescue, reconnaissance and support to federal, provincial and local law enforcement agencies. A \"total force\" unit composed of members of the Regular Force, and both full time and part time reservists, the squadron is part of 1 Wing at CFB Kingston Ontario.\n\nThe motto \"Going Down\" was adopted during the Second World War when operating on Hawker Typhoon fighter bombers over occupied Europe. This was the flight leader's instruction to begin diving attacks with bombs, cannons or both.\n\nThe unit badge is the Wildcat and described in heraldic terms as: d'Argent, the head of a wildcat affront Gules, langued Azure. The wildcat was chosen as the emblem as it represents the squadron's nickname.\n\nThe formation of the Squadron is due to the sustained efforts of Adélard Raymond, Montreal businessman and veteran pilot of the First World War, and La Presse journalist Lionel Saint-Jean who was the president of the Quebec Aviation League. These men worked closely together from May 1934 onwards to formulate a formal request aimed at the formation of a reserve aviation squadron attached to the militia, like the already existing ones in Toronto, Winnipeg and Vancouver. This official request was presented on 18 June 1934 in the form of a letter to Brigadier-General W.W.P. Gibsone, commander of Military District 4 and included the signatures of several local businessmen and politicians. It contained (translated from the original text in French):\n\n“\"We are particularly proud to declare that the group we represent is French Canadian. We, French-speaking Canadians, want to affirm once again our patriotism towards our country. We want this squadron to be made up of French Canadians ...\"”\n\nOn 27 July, Group captain G.M. Croil, senior officer of the ARC, met with Mr. St-Jean and a dozen other signatories. From a list of 31 qualified pilots, including several veterans of 1914-18, he selected 14 who would form the initial nucleus of the new unit. It was on 1 September 1934 that the unit was authorized in Montreal Quebec as No. 18 Bomber Squadron (Auxiliary). It will initially have an authorized strength of 66 members and will be under the temporary administrative command of Squadron leader C.E. Trudeau, a regular member personally recommended by Brigadier-General Gibsone.\nFollowing the recruitment and training of the cadre personnel forming the basic structure of the Squadron, flight training operations began in May 1936 from St-Hubert on the south shore of Montreal following the reception of the first two of four de Havilland DH.60 Moths. Squadron leader Marcel Dubuc, a veteran pilot with recognized qualities, was appointed its first commanding officer in May 1936. The unit was renumbered No. 118 (Bomber) Squadron on November 17, 1937 as part of a restructuring of RCAF squadrons. Two additional aircraft arrived in 1938 and the size of the squadron was increased to 114 members.\n\nThe unit was redesignated as No.118 (Coast Artillery Cooperation) Squadron on 1 September 1939, activated for voluntary wartime service on 3 September, and moved to Saint John, New Brunswick on 28 October. It was reequipped with Westland Lysanders, Armstrong Whitworth Atlases and Blackburn Sharks better suited to this new role which consisted of patrolling the Bay of Fundy for enemy naval activity and directing coastal artillery batteries when/if required. After nearly a year, the squadron was temporarily deactivated on 27 September 1940 pending redesignation.\n\nThe squadron was reactivated at Rockliffe Ontario on 13 January 1941 with the new designation No.118 (Fighter) Squadron and reequipped with the Canadian Car and Foundry Grumman Goblin. The unit moved to Dartmouth, Nova Scotia in July being at that time, the sole fighter squadron available for East Coast defense. Modernisation came in November 1941 in the form of the more capable Curtiss Kittyhawk replacing the obsolete Gobblin. The squadron code displayed on all unit aircraft was \"RE\" from January 1941 to May 1942 when it changed to \"VW\".\n\nA noteworthy event took place on January 16, 1942, when two 118 Squadron Kittyhawks spotted and attacked a surfaced German U-boat approximately 10 miles off the coast between Halifax and Sydney. Flying Officer W.P. Roberts in Kittyhawk AK851 was able to fire six bursts and obtain a number of hits around the conning tower before the submersible dove underwater and disappeared from sight.\n\nWith the entry of the United States into the war following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour, the Canadian Government of Prime Minister Mackenzie King offered military naval and air support to the then limited American capabilities facing Japanese expansion in the Aleutian Islands. Two fighter and light bomber wings were formed for service on the Pacific coast, X and Y Wings composed of Kittyhawk fighters and Bolinbroke light bombers under the RCAF Western Air Command.\n\n118 Squadron thus left Dartmouth on the morning of 6 June 1942 for their epic 4000 mile trip to Annette Island Alaska to join 115 Sqd (RCAF) forming Y Wing. Refuelling stops were Penfield Ridge New Brunswick, Saint-Hubert Quebec, North Bay Ontario, Porquis Junction Ontario, Winnipeg Manitoba, Saskatoon Saskatchewan, Edmonton Alberta and Prince George British Columbia. They arrived on 21 June with \"A Flight\" being armed and refuelled ready for action within 15 minutes of landing. The crossing of the North American continent in those days of quite limited navigational aids and support facilities is worthy of inclusion into the annals of Canadian military aviation. The squadron moved to Sea Island British Columbia on 20 August 1943 and would remain there until ordered overseas.\n\nFive pilots perished in non-combat related crashes during this period of home defense.\n\nLeaving their Kittyhawks behind, the 142 strong squadron crossed Canada by rail embarking on 2 November 1943 in Halifax for the sea voyage to the United Kingdom. The squadron was once again redesignated, this time as No.438 (Fighter Bomber) Squadron upon arriving at Royal Air Force Station Digby Lincolnshire on 18 November. RCAF squadrons were renumbered between 400 and 449 to avoid confusion with other British Empire units also operating from the United Kingdom. Its new squadron code was \"F3\", it would retain it to the end of hostilities in Europe. The squadron moved to RAF Station Ayr Scotland on 10 January 1944 learning to fly the Hawker Hurricane easing their upcoming conversion to the powerful Hawker Typhoon. 438 Squadron was now one of 3 RCAF Typhoon squadrons forming No. 143 Wing RCAF, itself part of the 2nd Tactical Air Force.\n\nIn mid March, 438 squadron began cross channel offensive operations against pre-invasion targets from RAF Hurn and RAF Funtington in the UK. After D-Day, its main task was close support to allied ground forces by dive-bombing and strafing enemy strong-points, bridges, rail and road traffic. The front lines moving further inland, on 27 June the squadron moved to forward airfield B-9 Lantheuil in France. This base was still well within the range of German artillery and on 15 July Flying Officer Ross Johnson, a young 21 year old squadron pilot was killed during a barrage directed at his motor transport. The Wildcats moved from airfield to airfield following the front lines ever deeper within the European Continent. B.24 St André on 31 August, B.48 Glisy on 3 September, B.58 Melsbroek on 6 September just in time to participate in Operation Market Garden. It moved into the airfield at Eindhoven, Netherlands on 26 September. The base had just been recently vacated by the enemy as a result of the operation. There they lost their new Commanding Officer Acting Squadron Leader Peter Wilson on the very day he took command, 1 January 1945, during the Luftwaffe's Operation Bodenplatte against allied airfields.\n\nOn 19 March 1945, after nearly 6 months in Eindhoven, with the end of the war in sight, the squadron was pulled from combat operations and sent back to RAF Warmwell for rocket firing training, ironic considering the RCAF Typhoon squadrons did not use this weapon in combat preferring bombs earning them the nickname \"Bombphoons\". It is during this Armament Practice Camp that their latest CO, Squadron Leader James Easson Hogg DFC, a seasoned veteran, failed to pull out of a dive and crashed into the channel dying instantly. The squadron returned to the fight on 3 April in Germany proper this time to B.100 Goch, to B.150 Hustedt on 21 April and finally to B.166 Flensburg on 29 May, the squadron was disbanded there on 26 August. \n\nA typical squadron action in 1944: \"September 10 produced four missions. At 1520 hours S/L Beirnes led nine Typhoons to the area of Turnhout-Venlo-Eindhoven to strafe four trains, each with 10-20 cars. In each case the locomotive was destroyed. The flight landed at 1630 and was off again at 1930, this time with 500-pounders to blast shipping at Hoedekenskerke. All bombs were on target, hitting either ships or docks. One ship, apparently carrying ammunition, blew up in spectacular fashion and another vessel was left smoking.\"\n\nIn its sixteen months of front line combat service from March 1944 to May 1945, 438 Squadron flew 4022 sorties, dropped 2070 tons of bombs and is credited with 430 rail cuts, 184 vehicles destroyed (+169 damaged), 12 tanks destroyed (+3 damaged), 5 locomotives destroyed (+73 damaged), 101 rail cars destroyed (+532 damaged), 1 barge sunk (+38 damaged), and 5 bridges destroyed. The cost for these successes was high, during the same timeframe, the squadron lost 28 aircraft, 31 pilots, of whom 17 were killed, 5 missing, 6 were captured by the enemy after bailing out and 3 successfully evaded capture after abandoning their aircraft.\n\nOn February 10, 1944, 438 Squadron pilot and veteran of Alaska, Flight Lieutenant Ross Reid DFC, wrote a letter to Walt Disney requesting a squadron emblem design that could adorn their aircraft. While serving at Annette Island alongside his USAAF colleagues, Reid had noticed the many American military aircraft bearing such intricate designs. Reid received a letter from the Disney Studios dated March 30, 1944 containing the design below that was immediately adopted and painted on the side of the squadron's Typhoons with the addition of a maple leaf as a background. At the end of the war while at Flensburg Germany awaiting repatriation, squadron members commissioned a unit pin from a local jeweler based on the Disney design (see photo below). The popular Disney design was once again chosen to adorn both aircraft and uniforms of squadron personnel in 1981 following a series of crests worn through the decades. A special CH-146 Griffon nose panel also bears the crest, to be used for special occasions. It is still the emblem of choice for the Wildcats.\n\n438 Squadron was reformed at Montreal Quebec on April 15, 1946 as an Auxiliary (reserve) unit once again operating from its old base at St-Hubert. It was equipped with North American Harvard trainers. Its main task was the retention of flying qualifications for newly repatriated aircrew and the training of new personnel. The important population of the greater Montreal area offered a great number of new potential recruits and also attracted a large number of veteran pilots wishing to remain in uniform albeit on a part time basis. The new squadron commander, Wing Commander Claude Hébert D.F.C. managed to bring in many World War 2 combat veterans to fill the ranks. As a result, like in some other newly reformed auxiliary squadrons, a great percentage of the early post war period pilots were some of the most highly decorated wartime members of the RCAF. The new squadron identifier code is \"BQ\". \n\nOn April 1, 1947, 438 Squadron regains its wartime designation as 438 (Fighter) Squadron in preparation for its soon to arrive new aircraft. The Wildcats become one of the very first units to become operational on jet fighters when they begin operations on the British designed and built de Havilland Vampire in April 1948. 1949, The Wildcats of 438 Squadron, alongside their colleagues of 401 Squadron also on Vampires, participated in OP METROPOLIS, a large scale joint USAF/RCAF air exercise where the 2 RCAF jet fighter squadrons, with the assistance of No.2 RCAF mobile radar unit were to defend the greater New York area from bomber formations composed of American B-26 bomber squadrons.\n\nOn May 1, 1950, the squadron designation was once again amended, this time to include \"City of Montreal\" making it 438 \"City of Montreal\" (Fighter) Squadron. This was in recognition of the wartime sponsorship of the Wildcats by the city. The Squadron also received the Freedom of the City of Montreal on October 1st of the same year to officialize the event with a large parade on the Field of Mars.\n\n1954 saw the arrival of the Canadair CT-133 Silver Star, the most modern jet trainer of the era, replacing the Vampires. The \"T-birds\" as they were commonly called by RCAF personnel, were retained until September 1958 and were used to train new pilots converting to jets, more precisely the Sabre which began arriving at the squadron in October 1956. The Wildcats would keep flying fighters until November 1958 when the role of the auxiliary units was once again reviewed and amended.\n\nOn November 1, 1958, 438 Squadron lost its \"Fighter\" role and received the simpler new designation 438 Squadron. With changing times causing increases in the cost of modern weapons, the complexity of their upkeep, technical advances and new air defense doctrines, Auxiliary squadrons were assigned to mostly secondary support roles. Now equipped with the Beechcraft Expeditor MK.III and relegated to light utility transport, most remaining fighter pilots simply left the service in protest giving the unit a completely new look with a membership of reserve air and ground crews mostly borne from the civilian airline and local aircraft industries.\n\nOn May 5, 1961, the unit received its Squadron Standard for 25 years of service from the Queen's representative in the person of the Honourable Gaspard Fauteux Lieutenant Governor of Quebec. This most noteworthy of events in the life of a squadron was done with a large solemn parade on the ramp at the St-Hubert airbase.\n\nThe Expeditor would be retained in squadron service until March 1964. For a few years beginning in September 1960, it would share the load with the latest aircraft type assigned to the Wildcats, the sturdy Canadian designed and built de Havilland Canada DHC-3 Otter. To the utility transport role was added Search and Rescue with this new slow but stable platform that could operate from short fields and from bodies of water when fitted with floats.\n\nOn February 1, 1968 the squadron was integrated into the new now unified Canadian Arned Forces. On January 1, 1969 it was once again redesignated, this time as 438 Air Reserve Squadron.\n\nThe squadron was heavily involved in air operations and airspace security over the greater Montreal area during the 1976 Olympic games. The main Air Operations Center was located within the unit's main hangar and under the command of Colonel Al Gamble, ex commanding officer of 438 squadron. Squadron personnel also serviced multiple fighter aircraft and helicopters also involved in security operations.\n\n438 Squadron's role radically changed when its first 4 CH-136 Kiowa light observation helicopters (LOH) arrived in January 1981. The last 438 squadron Otter was retired in February and helicopter conversion training began in earnest. The squadron would receive a further 5 Kiowas by September of that year, this number would eventually grow to 13 in 1991 with the redistribution of 444 Squadron's aircraft following its deactivation in Germany.\n\nTactical helicopters working in close relation with the Army, the squadron now mostly flew operations in support of the ground forces and as such, regularly trained with them in yearly brigage and divisional level exercises such as \"Rendez-Vous\" (RV) or \"Noble Lion\". Under the overall command of 10 Tactical Air Group and flying the same aircraft as the many Regular Force squadrons under the same command structure, 438 reserve personnel were now poised to offer an ever increasing domestic and operationally deployed support to these units. Wildcats, both aircrew and groundcrew deployed to Egypt, Honduras, and Haiti as augmentees. These opportunities to serve full time at home and abroad for predetermined time periods would multiply exponentially over the coming years.\n\nAnother visible change at the squadron was the application of the term \"tactical\", the unit had to be mobile and operate away from base. A fleet of specialised vehicles soon arrived and all personnel had to familiarize themselves with them and get used to working in the field away from its main infrastructures. These skills were developed and honed during the many exercises alongside the ground forces.\n\nInterestingly, the unit was only officially redesignated 438 Tactical Helicopter Squadron on April 1, 1993.\n\n1995 brought the new CH146 Griffon with its increased capabilities. Squadron cadre aircrews and technicians were sent to the Bell Training Academy in Forth Worth Texas to get qualified on this new platform. This training has since been received at 403 Helicopter Operational Training Squadron. The Wildcats began receiving their nine aircraft one at a time over the summer months. \n1996 brought the biggest changes to date. No.1 Tactical Aviation Support Squadron, an air maintenance unit co-located in St-Hubert, was absorbed by 438 Squadron, as was 401 Squadron which had been the CH-136 Kiowa Operational Training Unit. Although only officially disbanded on 1 January 1998, 401 Squadron only remained active on paper. With 401 Squadron came the Field Tactical Training Flight, formerly the 3 Field Tactical Training Unit moved to St-Hubert from CFB Bagotville the year before. This technical school currently located within the Ecole Nationale d'Aerotechnique also located on the St-Hubert airfield, offers all Griffon related technical training for technicians, maintenance managers and flight engineers.\n\nAll of these unit mergers changed the face of the squadron now composed of nearly as many members of the Regular Force as reservists. Simultaneously, 10 Tactical Air Group was also disbanded and all Tactical helicopter squadrons now found themselves under 1 Wing HQ at CFB Kingston.\n\nNow flying the same aircraft as other 1 Wing units and able to rely on a greater number of full-time personnel, 438 Squadron was called upon to more actively participate in many domestic and international operations, not merely as augmentees but now also as a unit. Since operating on the Griffon, in addition to exercises and their normal duties to ground forces, the Wildcats have regularly flown domestically in support of drug enforcement agencies, in the Canadian Arctic from CFS Alert, played a major role during the 1998 Ice Storm, in relief efforts following floods or forest fires in British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec and the Maritimes, in support of the 2002 royal visit to Canada, the G8 summit in Alberta, and in Search and rescue support in Quebec and Ontario, among other many missions in support to the Canadian population.\n\nAs early as 1997, 438 Squadron personnel were deployed to Haiti. 1998 saw the Wildcats begin arriving in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a co-deployment with 430 Tactical Helicopter Squadron where the Wildcats led a few of the rotations, a first for the unit. Wildcats remained present in Bosnia and Kosovo until late 2001 either with 438 or as augmentees with other 1 Wing units.\n\n2002 saw the arrival of the CU-161 Sperwer drone, a new capability within the RCAF. Cadre squadron personnel were trained in France. The Wildcats would lead 2 rotations in Afghanistan on this reconnaissance platform and would send augmentees to other units during theirs. RCAF CH-146 Griffons and CH-147 Chinooks began operating in combat over Afghanistan in support of ground troops in January 2009. Although not deployed operationally as a Griffon unit to this conflict, 438 Squadron provided both air and ground crews, operations and logistical personnel during the entire length of operations of all three platforms. In fact, Wildcats were in theatre during 16 of the 17 rotations sent to Afghanistan in Kabul and Kandahar between 2003 and 2011.\nThe aircraft maintenance echelon of 438 Squadron modified the twelve Griffons chosen for operations over Afghanistan during December 2008, prepared them for shipping and loaded them on RCAF CC-177 for the long trip. They were also responsible for the heavy maintenance and the 60 periodic inspections required over the years to keep the CH146 flying in theatre. Many unit reservists left their civilian jobs and accepted temporary full-time employment during this time period to ensure the unit met this demanding task with rigid timeframes. When taking into consideration the relatively small size of the unit, it is worthy of mention that even with personnel on duty abroad and domestic operations still running, that all deadlines were met. The end of operations in Afghanistan brought all the Wildcats back home to their normal garrison duties in St-Hubert with returning personnel manning the now almost yearly domestic operations (drug enforcement, Artic resupply, flood relief, etc).\nOn 25 June 2013, two 438 squadron Griffons operating out of Eureka, Nunavut as part of Op Nevus, were diverted to assist in what would become one of the largest Arctic rescue missions in Canadian history. Two groups, the first composed of some twenty international tourists and guides, the second composed of eleven hunters, became stranded on an ice floe in Admiralty Inlet, near Arctic Bay, Baffin Island. Aware of the peril they were in and drifting erratically on a deteriorating ice raft, both groups independently triggered their GPS rescue beacons.\nThe RCAF Joint Rescue Coordination Centre at CFB Trenton Ontario sprang into action launching a CC-130 Hercules from 424 Transport and Rescue Squadron out of 8 Wing Trenton. A CH-149 Cormorant helicopter from 103 Search and Rescue Squadron out of 9 Wing Gander Newfoundland began the trip North to assist with the extraction in the event that hoist capabilities were required. Seven hours after the initial call for help, the Hercules appeared over the group and dropped three 20-man covered life rafts, survival gear and satellite phones from its tail gate, and its crew measured the size of the shrinking ice island.\nFlying conditions, however, were poor, horizontal rain, sleet, fog, low cloud and high winds delayed any air rescue, grounding the CH-149 Cormorant helicopter at Hall Beach, and the two CH-146 Griffon helicopters at Grise Fiord. The weather cleared enough the next day for the Griffons to reach the two groups and extract all 31 safely in multiple flights. A rescue for which 438 Squadron would later receive a commendation from the commander of the Canadian Joint Operations Command.\n\n2015 brought new challenges to 438 Squadron when the Aviation Tactics Flight (ATF) was transferred from 403 Squadron. Its mandate is to conduct advanced training at different levels of air tactics preparing future Flight Commanders and Operations Officers for key flying and decision making positions during operational deployments. The academic portion of the training is followed by an extensive flying phase in the field at bases with large exercise areas. The Wildcats now coincidentally and regularly hone their fieldcraft abilities through their continued support to these successive courses.\n\nThe summer of 2016 saw yet another flight arriving from 403 Squadron, the Land Aviation Test and Evaluation Flight (LATEF). Its mandate is to conduct, on behalf of 1 Wing, operational and tactical testing of land aviation helicopter systems and support equipment, and to propose operational and tactical doctrine where applicable. It is integrally involved in the testing and improvement of CH-146 Griffon and CH-147F Chinook systems. Although still operating within the 438 Squadron infrastructure and relying on logistical and technical support from the Wildcats, LATEF was transferred to 434 Squadron reactivated as a test and evaluation unit in May 2018 and headquartered at CFB Trenton.\n\nThe fall of 2018 brought an unexpected surprise to the Wildcats. The squadron would lead and man two consecutive 6 month long operational deployments to Iraq in the form of a Tactical Aviation Detachment (TAD) composed of 3 x CH-146 Griffons as part of Operation Impact in support of the new Canadian led NATO Mission Iraq. Following an intense pre deployment training in Canada, the advanced party of the initial rotation (Roto 0) arrived at their new base of operations in early November, Camp Taji just North of Baghdad, closely followed by the main body at the end of the same month.\n\nThrough ingenuity, initiative and risk management, the Wildcats were able to begin flying operations within a mere two weeks of hitting the ground. Tactical air transport being the only safe means of travel between the multiple training areas, this Canadian asset was crucial to the initial phases and remained critical to the success of this multinational endeavor. Roto 1 took over from Roto 0 in mid June 2019 and faced the high summer desert heat. During their near 13 months in theatre, the Wildcats airlifted over 3 100 personnel and 21 000 lbs of cargo. 408 Squadron from CFB Edmonton took over the reins of the TAD from 438 in December with the last Wildcat returning home on the 21st.\n\nSince the very beginning, albeit with a lull during the war years, military music has been present in the activities of the Wildcats. From a small bugle and drum corps in the 1930s, to a brass and reed band in the 1960s, to the present full 35 piece professional military band. Their reserve status notwithstanding, the members of the 438 Squadron Band are all professional musicians with many possessing remarkable academic achievements in their field.\n\nThey have over the years, and continue to offer to this day, countless highly praised concerts and have also performed in high profile media events varying from the televised openings of professional football and hockey games to the official opening ceremony of the new Samuel de Champlain bridge in Montreal in 2019.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121367", "title": "American Crossword Puzzle Tournament", "text": "American Crossword Puzzle Tournament\n\nThe American Crossword Puzzle Tournament is a crossword-solving tournament held annually in February, March, or April. Due to the shutdown for Coronavirus, the 2020 tournament is scheduled for September 11-13, at the Stamford Marriott. Founded in 1978 by Will Shortz, who still directs the tournament, it is the oldest and largest crossword tournament held in the United States; the 2019 event set an attendance record with 741 competitors, including over 200 rookies.\n\nFor its first 30 years the contest was held at the Marriott in Stamford, Connecticut, but owing to increasing popularity, in 2008 it moved to the larger Marriott Brooklyn Bridge in Brooklyn, New York. In 2015 the tournament returned to Stamford.\n\nThe tournament traditionally begins Friday evening with social games and a wine-and-cheese reception. More games are played on Saturday evening, many of them adaptations of television game shows.\n\nAnyone can participate, although registration is limited. Participants compete as members of at least two divisions, with prizes awarded based on division. All participants are members of Division A and a regional division; those 25 years old or younger, or at least 50, are also members of an age division. Membership in Divisions B–E and the Rookie Division is based on the participant's past or present tournament status. For the purposes of prizes contestants compete simultaneously in all divisions for which they are eligible, with no more than one cash prize per contestant.\n\nThe 11 regional divisions include ten U.S. divisions and a \"Foreign\" division for the rest of the world. Geographically, three of the 10 U.S. divisions – West, Midwest, and South – span most of the country. The remaining seven divisions are in the northeastern United States, with three of the seven located in the state of New York.\n\nThe main part of the tournament consists of seven rounds, each featuring a puzzle that all competitors solve. There are three rounds in the late morning and three in the early afternoon on Saturday, and the seventh round is on Sunday. Puzzles vary in size and difficulty from round to round. The puzzles are commissioned by Shortz from the top constructors in crosswords, with the fifth puzzle the hardest of the first six. The two three-round sessions consist of puzzles with 15, 17 and 19 squares in each row and column respectively. The Sunday puzzle is appropriately 21 x 21 squares, the size of regulation Sunday puzzles in newspapers. Tournament judges score the solved puzzles on accuracy and speed, and the puzzles are scanned and ranked. Judges typically include many of the nation's most prolific and/or well known crossword constructors and editors.\n\nAfter these seven rounds, the top three solvers in the top three divisions progress to the final round, which consists of solving a very difficult crossword of 15 × 15 size on an oversize grid on a stage at the front of the tournament room. The competitors in this round wear noise-blocking headphones so that a team of commentators can remark upon the action for the spectators. The solvers hold a sheet of clues and write their answers on the grid with a dry-erase marker for all to see. Accuracy and speed are important as the competitors are ranked by fewest mistakes, then time. The winner of this round is declared the U.S. crossword tournament champion. The top three competitors in the B and C divisions also compete on the same puzzle, though with different sets of clues, for their division titles.\n\nAs of 2019, there are six multiple winners: Dan Feyer (8 tournaments), Jon Delfin (7), Douglas Hoylman (6), Tyler Hinman (5), David Rosen (4), and Trip Payne (3). Three women have won the tournament  Nancy Schuster in 1978, Miriam Raphael in 1979, and Ellen Ripstein in 2001 – and 22 of the 76 (29%) second- and third-place finishers have been female.\n\nThe 2006 documentary \"Wordplay\", directed by Patrick Creadon, focuses on Will Shortz and the 2005 American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. It includes interviews with many of the top competitors and climaxes with the final round of the 2005 tournament. The DVD release includes video from the final round of the 2006 tournament. Shortz credits the film as the main reason for the dramatically increased attendance (an increase of 200 contestants) at the 2007 event, which necessitated the subsequent move to Brooklyn.\n\nDr. Fill, a computer program, has been an unofficial competitor in every contest since 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121368", "title": "Nintendo optical discs", "text": "Nintendo optical discs\n\nNintendo optical discs are the optical disc format used to distribute video games released by Nintendo. This includes the GameCube Game Disc, Wii Optical Disc, and Wii U Optical Disc. The physical size of a GameCube Game Disc is that of a miniDVD, and the Wii and Wii U Optical Discs are the size of a DVD, a CD, and a Blu-ray. GameCube discs can be used with the original version of the Wii and Wii Optical Discs can be used in the Wii U for backward compatibility. A burst cutting area is located at the inner ring of the disc surface.\n\nIn 2017, Nintendo dropped disc-based media in favor of game cards for the Wii U's successor, the Nintendo Switch.\n\nThe GameCube Game Disc (DOL-006) is the game medium for the GameCube, created by Panasonic, and later extended for use on the Wii through backward compatibility. The GameCube Game Disc is a 1.5 GB, 8 cm miniDVD based technology which reads at a constant angular velocity (CAV). It was chosen by Nintendo to prevent copyright infringement of its games, to reduce cost and by avoiding licensing fees to the DVD Forum. This also prevents the consoles from being used as general DVD players.\n\nSome GameCube games with large amounts of data span two discs, such as \"Resident Evil 4\", \"Enter the Matrix\", and Tales of Symphonia. Multi-platform games that fit on PlayStation 2 and Xbox DVD discs occasionally saw the removal of certain features in order to fit on GameCube Game Discs. Full-motion video scenes and audio are more compressed to fit on a single disc, reducing their quality. Prior to the GameCube, Nintendo consoles traditionally used cartridge-based media.\n\nThe Wii Optical Disc (RVL-006) is the physical game medium for the Wii, created by Panasonic. Nintendo extended its proprietary technology to use a full size 12 cm, 4.7/8.54 GB DVD-based disc, enabling it to have the benefits of the GameCube Game Disc, while having the standard capacity of a double-layer DVD-ROM. Although the Wii can use double-layer discs, all titles are single-layer prior to the release of \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl\". With the release of \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl\", Nintendo admitted that some Wii systems may have trouble reading dual-layer discs due to a dirty laser lens. Nintendo repaired systems with dual-layer problems, and later released a disc cleaning kit for users to purchase.\n\nThe Wii U Optical Disc (WUP-006) is the retail physical game medium for the Wii U, with a capacity of 25 GB. The Wii U system software is backward compatible with Wii Optical Discs, but not with GameCube game discs. The optical discs used for the Wii U differ in appearance from most other optical discs in that they have soft, rounded edges.\n\nThe format was developed and supplied by Panasonic, which is one of the major patent holders in Blu-ray technology. It is not clear whether the Wii U Optical Disc is similar in physical design to the Blu-ray physical disc specification. Nintendo president Satoru Iwata stated, \"Wii U does not have DVD or Blu-ray playback capabilities. The reason for that is that we feel that enough people already have devices that are capable of playing DVDs and Blu-ray, such that it didn't warrant the cost involved to build that functionality into the Wii U console because of the patents related to those technologies\", as, like with the GameCube and Wii optical discs, was chosen by Nintendo to prevent copyright infringement of its games, to reduce cost by avoiding licensing fees to the Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA) and to reduce loading times. This also prevents the console from being used as general Blu-ray players.\n\nEach Nintendo optical disc contains a burst cutting area (BCA) mark, a type of barcode that is written to the disc with a . The data stored in this BCA mark includes an encrypted table related to the hardware-based copy-protection mechanics, in addition to 64 bytes of un-encrypted user-accessible data.\n\nA BCA mark is visible to the naked eye. It should not be confused with the IFPI mark that is on all optical discs. BCA is described in Annex K of the physical specification, and can be seen between radius and . There are also six additional evenly spaced small cuts just outside the BCA radius, which are related to the copy-protection used. These small cuts can clearly be seen if the disc is held in front of a strong light source. The BCA mark lost some of its value as a copy protection mechanism when it was noticed that a DVD could only report the BCA mark found as an ordinary data pattern.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121373", "title": "Crime Writers of Canada", "text": "Crime Writers of Canada\n\nCrime Writers of Canada (CWC) is a national, non-profit organization, founded in 1982 by Derrick Murdock and other professional crime writers. Its mandate is to promote crime writing in Canada and to raise the profile of the genre's established and aspiring authors.\n\nCrime writing, as defined by the CWC, is any fictional or factual book-length work, novella or short-story that features crime as a major or principal element, and is written for any print or electronic medium. The genre includes any written account of criminal activity, crime detection and/or crime solving, set in any historical or geographical context, and usually involves a strong element of suspense. Crime Fiction may include detective stories, mysteries, thrillers, tales of espionage and suspense, as well courtroom, police or forensic procedural dramas. Other genres such as romance or speculative fiction may also involve a strong criminal or crime-detection theme.\n\nAmong the CWC members are professional and emerging authors, publicists and literary critics, author representatives, librarians, book sellers, and fans of crime fiction.\n\nThe CWC offers several author promotion services for its members, including exposure on the national website for recent book releases, in quarterly catalogues, in newsletters, in municipal, regional and national events, and with annual award presentations.\n\nThe Arthur Ellis Awards for Excellence in Canadian Crime Writing, first established in 1984, are presented at an annual banquet. The awards are named for Arthur B. English, a British expatriate who, under the pseudonym Arthur Ellis, became Canada's official hangman in 1913. His professional successors adopted the same pseudonym.\n\nThe Arthur Ellis Award itself is an articulated wooden model of a man hanging from gallows. It is presented to the winner of each of six categories, including Best Crime Novel, Best First Crime Novel, Best Crime Book in French, Best Crime Nonfiction, Best Juvenile/Young Adult Crime Book, and Best Crime Short Story. A similar award is given to the winner in the Best Unpublished First Crime Novel (\"The Unhanged Arthur\"). The Derrick Murdoch Award is a special achievement award and is given, at the discretion of the CWC President, to a CWC Member who has contributed greatly to the advancement of the CWC and/or to crime writing in Canada.\n\nCrimeFictionCanada\n"}
{"id": "2121376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121376", "title": "Mee siam", "text": "Mee siam\n\nMee siam, which means \"Siamese noodle\" in Malay, is a dish of thin rice vermicelli, originating from Maritime Southeast Asia, popular in Singapore and Malaysia. It is said to have originated either from the Malay or Peranakan community. As the name suggests, it is inspired or adapted from Thai flavours.\n\nIn Singapore, it is served with spicy, sweet and sour light gravy. The gravy is made from a rempah spice paste, tamarind and taucheo (salted soy bean). Mee Siam is typically garnished with shredded omelette, scallions, bean sprouts, garlic chives, and lime wedges. In Malaysia a \"dry\" version is more commonly found, which is essentially stir frying the rice noodles with the same ingredients used in the Singaporean version.\n\nIn Thailand a very similar dish is known as \"mi kathi\" (noodles with coconut milk), a noodle dish popularly eaten as lunch in the Central Region. It is made by stir frying rice vermicelli noodles with a fragrant and thick sauce that has a similar taste profile as Mee Siam. The sauce is made from coconut milk mixed with minced pork, prawns, firm bean curd, salted soy bean, bean sprouts, garlic chives, and tamarind. It is served with thinly sliced egg omelet, fresh bean sprouts, fresh garlic and banana blossom.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121377", "title": "Lucio España", "text": "Lucio España\n\nLucio Fernando España López (29 October 1971 — 2 June 2005) was a Colombian footballer. The defender helped Atlético Nacional win the national league title in 1999, and also played for Atlético Bucaramanga, Real Cartagena, Atlético Junior, and Deportivo Pereira.\n\nEspaña played well for Cortuluá during 1995, but a move to Deportivo Cali fell through after he failed a physical before the 1996–97 season began.\n\nIn 1999, España joined Atlético Nacional from Atlético Bucaramanga.\n\nOn 2 June 2005, España was shot by two thieves while picking up a nephew from a football field in Jamundí. A number of Colombian footballers have been shot the last 20 years, the most notable being Andrés Escobar. Other firearms victims include former Atlético Nacional players Albeiro Usuriaga, who was killed in Cali one year earlier, Omar Cañas, Martin Zapata, Elson Becerra, Jairo Zulbarán and Felipe Pérez Urrea.\n"}
{"id": "2121384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121384", "title": "Sheila Jordan", "text": "Sheila Jordan\n\nSheila Jordan (born Sheila Jeanette Dawson; November 18, 1928) is an American jazz singer and songwriter. She has recorded as a session musician with an array of critically acclaimed artists in addition to recording her own albums. Jordan pioneered a bebop and scat jazz singing style with an upright bass as the only accompaniment. Jordan's music has earned praise from many critics, particularly for her ability to improvise lyrics; Scott Yanow describes her as \"one of the most consistently creative of all jazz singers.\" Charlie Parker often introduced Jordan as \"the singer with the million dollar ears.\"\n\nSheila Jordan grew up in Summerhill, Pennsylvania, before returning to her birthplace of Detroit, Michigan, in 1940. She sang and played piano in jazz clubs in Detroit. She was a member of the trio Skeeter, Mitch, and Jean (Skeeter Spight, Leroi Mitchell, and Jordan was \"Jean\"), which wrote lyrics to music by Charlie Parker. They went to Parker's performances in Detroit, met him, and he would ask them to sing.\n\nIn 1951, Jordan moved to New York City and studied harmony and music theory with Lennie Tristano and Charles Mingus, but she concentrated on the music of Charlie Parker. Jordan and Parker became friends before his death in 1955. She refers to him as one of her teachers. From 1952–1962, she was married to Duke Jordan, who played piano in Parker's band.\n\nIn a 2012 interview with \"JazzWax\", when asked why she moved to New York, Jordan said, \"I guess I was chasin' the Bird [Parker].\" When asked if the song \"Chasin' the Bird\" was written for her, she replied, \"No. I don't know how that rumor got started.\"\n\nIn the early 1960s, Jordan performed at the Page Three Club in Greenwich Village with pianist Herbie Nichols, and at other bars and clubs in New York City. For much of the 1960s, she withdrew from clubs to raise her daughter, and she sang in church instead. She was a typist and legal secretary for twenty years with little time to concentrate on music until the age of 58.\n\nIn 1962, she worked with George Russell, with whom she recorded the song, \"You Are My Sunshine\" on his album \"The Outer View\" (Riverside). Later that year she recorded the album \"Portrait of Sheila\" which was released by Blue Note Records. Her long working relationship with Steve Kuhn began in the early 1960s. She also played with Don Heckman (1967–68), Lee Konitz (1972), and Roswell Rudd (1972–75).\n\nIn 1974, Jordan was Artist in Residence at City College of New York and taught there from 1978–2005. In 2006, she was presented the Manhattan Association of Cabarets & Clubs (MAC) Lifetime Achievement Award and celebrated 28 years as an Adjunct Professor of Music. She has taught at University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the Vermont Jazz Center, InterplayJazz and Arts, as well as teaching international workshops.\n\nOn July 12, 1975, she recorded \"Confirmation\". One year later she did the duet album \"Sheila\", with Arild Andersen for SteepleChase. In 1979, she founded a quartet with Steve Kuhn, Harvie S, and Bob Moses. During the 1980s, she worked with Harvie S as a duo and played on several records with him. Until 1987 she worked in an advertising agency and recorded \"Lost and Found\" in 1989.\n\nJordan is a songwriter who works in bebop and free jazz. In addition to the aforementioned musicians, she has recorded with the George Gruntz Concert Jazz Band, Cameron Brown, Carla Bley, and Steve Swallow. In the UK she appeared with former John Dankworth Band vocalist Frank Holder. She has led recordings for Blue Note, Blackhawk, East Wind, ECM, Grapevine, Muse, Palo Alto, and SteepleChase\n\nIn 2012, she received the NEA Jazz Masters Award. Her biography, \"Jazz Child: A Portrait of Sheila Jordan\", written by vocalist and educator Ellen Johnson, was published in 2014.\n\n\n\nWith Carla Bley\n\nWith Cameron Brown\n\nWith Jane Bunnett\n\nWith George Gruntz\n\nWith Bob Moses\n\nWith Roswell Rudd\n\nWith Steve Swallow\n\n"}
{"id": "2121387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121387", "title": "Hurst Robins Anderson", "text": "Hurst Robins Anderson\n\nHurst Robins Anderson (September 16, 1904 – April 19, 1989) was president of American University from 1952 until 1968, during which he oversaw one of the institution's most important periods of growth and development. He was previously a faculty member of Allegheny College and president of Hamline University in Saint Paul, Minnesota. He received a BA from Ohio Wesleyan University, a law degree from the University of Michigan and master's degrees from Northwestern University and the University of Chicago.\n\nAU's largest residence hall is named after Anderson.\n"}
{"id": "2121389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121389", "title": "Rebecca's Tale", "text": "Rebecca's Tale\n\nRebecca's Tale is a 2001 novel by British author Sally Beauman. The book is a sequel to the Daphne du Maurier novel \"Rebecca\" and is officially approved by the Du Maurier estate. It continues the original plot and is also roughly consistent with the 1993 sequel \"Mrs de Winter\" by Susan Hill.\n\nThe main story is set about two decades after the death of the ravishingly beautiful yet evil Rebecca de Winter and follows the attempts of the former magistrate Colonel Julyan to uncover the truth behind her enigmatic life and death, with the help of his daughter Ellie and a mysterious young scholar. There is also a \"prequel\" section that reproduces a journal that Rebecca wrote shortly before she died.\n\nThe novel summaries the original events from \"Rebecca\" to the extent where it can be read alone, though reading it as a sequel is preferable. It has been criticized for Beauman's revisionist interpretations of characters created by du Maurier, and for certain aspects of her own invented characters. Nevertheless, it continues to be popularly read by fans of \"Rebecca\".\n\n\"Rebecca's Tale\" is set in the summer of 1951 in England. The action is centered in Kerrith and the surrounding area, including the district near Manderley. The book is narrated in the first person in the style of du Maurier; however, unlike the original book, the narrator changes with each of the four sections. Part 1 is told from the perspective of the septuagenarian Colonel Julyan, who had led the initial inquests into Rebecca’s death. Part 2 is told by Terence Gray, an original character, whose on-going investigations are driven by a mystery from his own past. Part 3 is an extract from a journal kept by Rebecca, detailing the events of her early life. The final part is told by Ellie Julyan, the Colonel's youngest daughter, who cares for her father at home.\n\nThe narrative shifts produce a very different structure from the original \"Rebecca\", as well as a more postmodern tone that emphasizes the various narrators' unreliability. Also, the book is sometimes placed in a separate genre: while \"Rebecca\" is classified as a Gothic novel (du Maurier detested its categorization as a romance), \"Rebecca’s Tale\" is often considered a mystery.\n\n\"Rebecca’s Tale\" continues twenty years after du Maurier's conclusion and begins with the same classic line: “Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again.” Most of the characters from the original novel have left the area: Maximilian de Winter died in a car accident before this sequel begins and Colonel Julyan has retired to a quiet life at home. None of the other characters from the original novel make significant appearances, although some have brief cameos. While in the original novel, Rebecca was ultimately described as a cruel and wanton woman, in this sequel she is presented as a tormented girl, haunted by her traumatic childhood and deeply sad despite her outward boldness.\n\nAlthough the connection was unknown to most of Rebecca's acquaintances in adulthood (including her eventual husband Maximilian de Winter), her mother was the younger sister of Maxim's mother. Maxim's father had seduced his young aunt before she was sent away in disgrace to France, potentially making Rebecca Maxim's half-sister as well as his first cousin. However, Rebecca's father was generally understood to be \"Black Jack\" Devlin, an Irish gambler and speculator.\n\nDuring Rebecca's early childhood in Brittany, she was raised to believe that Devlin had died while sailing to South Africa, where he was in fact alive and investing in diamond mines. She and her mother were supported by money sent from their relations in England. When she was still a young girl, she was raped by a boy in their French village, teaching her to mistrust, loathe, and manipulate men, but also to be self-sufficient, assertive, and strong in her own right.\n\nAt the end, taking partial inspiration from Rebecca's more positive ideals, Ellie Julyan rejects the conventionality of her bucolic country life to pursue her own dreams and ambitions, while Terence Gray reconciles with his own identity and opens himself to love.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121391", "title": "From the Ground Up (Collective Soul EP)", "text": "From the Ground Up (Collective Soul EP)\n\nFrom the Ground Up is an acoustic EP by Collective Soul, released on May 24, 2005. The EP peaked #129 on the \"Billboard\" 200. There is a hidden track after Satellite that plays at 4:15, about a minute after the song finishes.\n\nAll songs written by Ed Roland, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121394", "title": "Arella", "text": "Arella\n\nAngela Roth, commonly called Arella, is a fictional character from DC Comics. She is the pacifist mother of the superhero empath Raven in the \"Teen Titans\" comics and animated series. She is the reluctant lover and wife of the all-powerful inter-dimensional demon Trigon, who had cunningly seduced her, in human form, to have someone to rule beside him and bear a half-human, half-demon daughter who becomes Raven.\n\nAngela served as the basis for two separate characters in the DC Universe series \"Titans\" - Melissa Roth, played by Sherilyn Fenn, and Angela Azarath, played by Rachel Nichols.\n\nBorn in Gotham City, Angela Roth was a depressed, aimless teenager who fell in with Cultists who goaded her to participate in a secret ceremony to appeal to Trigon, who was to manifest in the Earth-plane. Although she knew Trigon was a demon by origin, she thought his handsome human form was authentic. After she married him and they made love, Arella saw Trigon's true form. He sent her back to Earth, and Arella was pregnant. Arella attempted to kill herself with sleeping pills in an abandoned alleyway. Instead of dying, however, she was taken to the Temple Azarath, located between all dimensions. It was there that she was taught pacifism and had her name changed to Arella (which meant \"Messenger Angel\" to the Azarathians).\n\nSoon after giving birth to Raven, she gave up her maternal care to Azar, the high priestess. She rarely saw Raven for quite some time, but took over guardianship of Raven upon Azar's death when Raven was about ten years old.\n\nWhen Raven was 18 years of age, she fled Azarath to seek help from Earth's superheroes to stop Trigon's invasion. This resulted in the New Teen Titans. Raven briefly returned to Azarath, asking her mother for help. Arella refused and sent her back to Earth. When Raven was being held as a prisoner by Trigon, Arella decided to leave Azarath to help her teammates rescue her. Soon after, Trigon was sealed away in another dimension. Arella agreed to go along with him in an attempt to block him from returning through the portal.\n\nSome time later, Raven finally gave in to her father's control. Arella was transported to Azarath, which was promptly destroyed by Trigon's minions. She was among the few survivors. Arella followed the Teen Titans to Earth in order to help them in their fight against Trigon and release her daughter. She watched as Raven was used to destroy her father and then vanish.\n\nArella traveled the world, trying to find her daughter. When she finally found her, they were both taken prisoner by cultists, under the control of Brother Blood. After spending some time with her daughter in Blood's fortress, they were freed by the Teen Titans.\n\nAfter this event, Arella established a ranch that would serve as a sanctuary to troubled women. She intended to make the place like a new Azarath. However, the Wildebeest Society killed all of the women and the workers, leaving only Arella alive. She was rescued by Deathstroke. She, Deathstroke, and Steve Dayton worked on to free the kidnapped Titans from Jericho's Wildebeest Society. But when Deathstroke was forced to kill his son Jericho, the corrupted souls of Azarath left him and possessed Raven, turning her evil once more. Arella and Danny Chase sacrificed themselves, merging with the souls of Azarath into Phantasm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121412", "title": "Denmead", "text": "Denmead\n\nDenmead is a village in Hampshire near Portsmouth, England. It is part of the City of Winchester district. As of 2005, it had a population of 6,457 and an electorate of 4,987. At the 2011 Census the population had increased to 6,736\n\nDenmead occupancies all have Waterlooville postal addresses (Waterlooville is in turn part of Havant) and is considered to be a village attached to Waterlooville by Hampshire County Council. Waterlooville is about 3 km away from Denmead.\n\nThe village became well known in the 19th century as a venue for cockfighting.\n\nThe church is the All Saints' Church and it also has a church hall.\n\nThe village is next to part of the Forest of Bere, and rural farm land. The 'gap' between Waterlooville is gradually being reduced, but Denmead is currently a rural village, although it has had much housing development in recent years with more to come. The majority of the development has been conducted by the company Taylor Wimpey in recent years, with McAlpine present in late 1980s/early 1990s.\n\nThere are two schools, Denmead Infant School which takes children 4–7 with approx 255 pupils (Ofsted results: Good / Grade 2) and Denmead Junior School which takes children 7–11 with approx 290 pupils (ofsted results: Good / Grade 2)\n\n1st Denmead Scout group have a scout hut and field just outside the village centre.\n\nIn the village centre there is a restaurant, deli/cafe the Co-op, post office, chemist, cashpoint, an estate agents a vets and a Hardware Store/Ironmongers, named Parkers. In recent years these have been joined by Discover Wine (an independent wine and gin shop), Hairworks, Ginos (an independent barbers) and Southern Financial Services.\n\nDenmead has four public houses within its boundary: The White Hart, The Forest of Bere, The Harvest Home and the Fox and Hounds The last of these was reopened by a cooperative in 2014 after being closed and threatened with demolition.\nIn recent years, a village skate park has also been constructed in King George's playing field to provide more leisure activities for the youth of Denmead. Along with this, a pavilion has been built alongside it.\n\nThe Pavilion is home to Denmead Day Care during the daytime, a small, local nursery. It is also the headquarters of Denmead Youth Group.\n\nThe playground on King George's Playing field was refurbished and rebuilt in 2013, creating a popular park for both locals and those from further afield who travel to the village to use it.\n\nIn 1316, Denmead was owned by the Bishop of Winchester, who leased it to various tenants. It became referred to as a manor in 1449, when it was owned by William Wayte. When Wayte's grandson died, the lands were divided amongst various other members of the family and Denmead was passed down.\n\nThe village is shown in the Hambledon Hundred on John Speed's map of Hampshire which was published in 1611.\n\nAfter some time the property became further divided as it was split between different owners because it was inherited down multiple generations. This occurred frequently until 1831 when Henry Kennett became its owner. There was no further mention of Denmead Manor until 1908, when the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were its Lords of the Manor.\n\nOriginally part of the ecclesiastical parish of Hambledon, Denmead achieved its own identity with the creation of the new parish of All Saints, Denmead in 1880. Denmead was once a widely dispersed village which included the hamlets of Worlds End, Furzeley, Anmore, Denmead Mill and Barn Green. It has become more densely packed and close as it became filled with more modern properties. The parish possesses a parish church, \"All Saints\" which is constructed of flint with brick quoins and Bath stone window surrounds. The church was extended in the 1990s to accommodate a growing congregation, and a major upgrade was carried out to the adjacent Church Hall as part of the same project.\n\nThe civil parish of Denmead in its current form was created in 1932 from the lower southern end of Hambledon Parish.\n\nIn the run up to D-Day many American and Canadian troops, including US General Dwight D. Eisenhower, camped under the cover of local forests. Nearby Creech Wood also housed a prisoner of war camp, some remains of which can still be found in the undergrowth.\n\nDenmead is twinned with St Georges Le Baillargeaux, located in the region of Poitou-Charentes, France. Saint Georges is a village with a population of 3,500 residents which is approximately half the population of Denmead located about 5 miles from Poitiers.\n\nDenmead is home to the Denmead Striders, a running club with over 100 members of a wide range of abilities. Denmead also has a brass band which is currently in the Second Section in national grading.\n\nThere is a memorial hall, built in the 1920s as a memorial to those killed in the Great War, and held in trust by the Parish Council. A Community Centre is run by Denmead Community Association. Denmead also has a fitness trail which stretches around half of the village, created to mark the Golden Jubilee of 2002.\n\nTS Alacrity Junior Cadet Corps has been running in the village since 1992, meeting every Monday evening (term time only) from 1845-2100 at the Denmead War Memorial Hall. Catering for boys and girls aged between 7½ to 18 years, the unit is a completely self funded charity.\n\nDenmead Cricket Club fields two teams in the Hampshire Cricket League, and also has a Sunday team playing friendly matches. The club plays its home matches at King George V playing fields.\n\nVille Bowmen a target archery club also call Denmead home. They shoot out doors during the summer, adjacent to the scout hut in Kidmore Lane. During the winter months they shoot indoors in the memorial hall. The club often turn out for public have a go events at the village show and fetes.\n\nDenmead has a King George's Field in memorial to King George V where the village cricket, football, tennis and bowls clubs are based.\n\nDenmead is home to Denmead Football Club who are thought to have first formed in the 1930s, with earliest definitive records from 1953-4. Youth and adult teams train and play matches King George Playing Fields. Boys and girls of all ages train on Saturday mornings, all welcome.\n\nThe Denmead Youth Theatre takes place on Fridays during term time and is split into two groups, the drama group for ages 7–12 which runs from 4:30 pm to 6:00 pm, and the youth theatre for 12- to 18-year-olds that runs 6:00 pm to 7:30 pm, all groups are run by emerging theatre directors associated with the Theatre Royal, Winchester. Over the last few years the groups have performed numerous performances in professional theatres and in a variety of genres, including \"the short history of Denmead\" with the help of the Denmead Village Association and members of the local community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121414", "title": "Orikabe Station", "text": "Orikabe Station\n\nOrikabe Station is served by the Ōfunato Line, and is located 47.6 rail kilometers from the terminus of the line at Ichinoseki Station.\n\nThe station has two opposed side platforms connected to the station building by a level crossing. The platforms are unnumbered. The station is unattended.\n\nOrikabe Station opened on September 2, 1928. The station was absorbed into the JR East network upon the privatization of the Japan National Railways (JNR) on April 1, 1987. A new station building was completed in November 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121415", "title": "Paul Douglass", "text": "Paul Douglass\n\nPaul Douglass (1905–1988) was president of American University from 1941 until 1952. His ascent to the office marked a change in the title from Chancellor to President. Douglass was a graduate of Wesleyan University and received masters and doctoral degrees from the University of Cincinnati. He was also an adviser to Syngman Rhee, President of South Korea, from 1952 to 1956 and a member of the Vermont Legislature from 1933 to 1941.\n"}
{"id": "2121420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121420", "title": "William White", "text": "William White\n\nWilliam White may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121431", "title": "The House of Yes", "text": "The House of Yes\n\nThe House of Yes is a 1997 American black comedy film adapted from the play of the same name by Wendy MacLeod. The film is directed and written by Mark Waters, produced by Robert Berger, and stars Parker Posey, Josh Hamilton, Geneviève Bujold, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Tori Spelling. It was released in the United States by Miramax Films on October 10, 1997. \"The House of Yes\" received a divided critical reaction, with Posey winning a Sundance Award and Spelling receiving a Razzie Award nomination.\n\nOn Thanksgiving in 1983, Marty Pascal travels from New York City to McLean, Virginia, to visit his family: mother Mrs. Pascal, younger brother Anthony, and twin sister \"Jackie-O\". Jackie-O, recently released from a psychiatric hospital, is obsessed with Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and emulates her style of dress and hairstyle. Marty surprises his family with news he is engaged; he introduces his fiancée Lesly, a waitress at a doughnut store. Lesly's arrival disrupts the family's gathering, and Jackie-O conspires to break the couple up.\n\nIt becomes apparent that Marty and Jackie-O were involved in an incestuous relationship as teenagers. Jackie-O convinces Marty to play their favorite childhood \"game\", involving using a gun loaded with blanks to re-enact the Kennedy assassination; the \"game\" serves as foreplay for sex. A horrified Lesly witnesses the encounter and speaks to Anthony, who had tried to warn her of the nature of Marty and Jackie's relationship. He convinces Lesly that he is a virgin and dying of a brain tumor, leading to a brief and awkward sexual encounter.\n\nIn the morning, Lesly confronts Marty about what she witnessed. Marty breaks down and begs Lesly to return to New York with him. Jackie-O convinces Marty that she will let him leave if he agrees to play the game one final time. Armed with the gun, Jackie-O recalls the events that led to their absent father's departure; Marty claims that he walked out on the family the day of the Kennedy assassination, but Jackie-O believes that he was shot by Mrs. Pascal and buried in the backyard. Jackie-O fires the gun at Marty, now loaded with real bullets, killing him. In a voice-over, Jackie-O states she buried Marty's body in the backyard, \"next to Daddy\".\n\n\nThe film was financed entirely by Tori Spelling's father Aaron Spelling and his company Spelling Entertainment. It premiered at the 1997 Sundance Film Festival. The Sundance screening attracted the interest of Miramax. According to the \"Boston Herald\" in June 1997, Miramax paid two million dollars to acquire the distribution rights to the film. They gave \"The House of Yes\" a theatrical release beginning October 10, 1997, with the film failing to recoup its one and a half million dollar budget.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 62% based on 39 reviews. On Metacritic the film has a score of 58% based on reviews from 16 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nUpon its October 1997 release, reaction to the film was mixed. Siskel and Ebert gave it two thumbs down on the October 25, 1997, episode of their show. Roger Ebert looked upon the film more favorably in his review for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", stating \"The dialogue, adapted by director Mark Waters from Wendy MacLeod's stage play, is smart and terse, with a lot of back-and-forth word play, most of it driven by Jackie-O, who is played by Posey as smart, dark and fresh out of an institution [...] While it was running, I was not bored.\"\n\nIn his positive review for \"Entertainment Weekly\", Owen Gleiberman wrote that \"\"The House of Yes\" is knowingly overripe, a kitsch melodrama that dares to make incest sexy.\" He also praised the casting of Posey, noting that \"Parker Posey may never have a role that suits her as perfectly.\" \"The Austin Chronicle\" acknowledged the strong performances of the cast, but stated, \"it's just that there's really not all that much for them to do.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2121432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121432", "title": "Cooper–Church Amendment", "text": "Cooper–Church Amendment\n\nThe Cooper–Church Amendment was introduced in the United States Senate during the Vietnam War. The amendment sought to cut off all funding to American war efforts in Cambodia. Its proposal was the first time that Congress had restricted the deployment of troops during a war against the wishes of the president.\n\nThe amendment was presented by Senators John Sherman Cooper (Republican – Kentucky) and Frank Church (Democrat – Idaho) and attached to a major bill, the Foreign Military Sales Act of 1971. The proposal was introduced in response to the recent Cambodian Incursion, including Operations Binh Tay 1/Tame the West and Freedom Deal. Senators Church and Cooper were several of the first politicians to begin openly and adamantly opposing the war in Vietnam. Their amendment sought to:\n\n\nThe Cooper-Church amendment received support from both sides in the Senate including backing from Mike Mansfield, Jacob K. Javits, William S. Symington, and J. William Fulbright. A majority of the supporters saw the amendment as an overdue attempt to reassert Congress’ constitutional control over the power to make war, while the Nixon administration condemned it as an unconstitutional intrusion into the President’s power as commander-in-chief. After a seven-week filibuster and six months of debate, the amendment was approved by the Senate by a vote of 58 to 37 on 30 June 1970. The bill failed in the House of Representatives, which opposed inclusion of the amendment by a vote of 237 to 153. President Nixon threatened to veto the bill if it contained the Cooper–Church provisions, and the foreign assistance bill was subsequently passed without it.\n\nA revised Cooper–Church amendment, Public Law 91-652, passed both houses of Congress on 22 December 1970, and was enacted on 5 January 1971, although this version had limited restrictions on air operations and was attached to the Supplementary Foreign Assistance Act of 1970. By that time, U.S. ground forces had already officially withdrawn from Cambodia, while U.S. bombing missions in Cambodia continued until 1973. The revised bill also included an amendment that repealed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, however this turned out to be insignificant as the Nixon administration cited the President’s constitutional powers as commander-in-chief rather than the resolution as the basis for his war making authority. President Nixon denounced all versions of the amendment, claiming that they harmed the military effort and weakened the American bargaining position at the Paris peace talks.\n\nAuthor David F. Schmitz stated that the amendment was a landmark in the history of opposition to the war, congressional initiatives to bring the fighting to an end, and efforts to control executive power in foreign policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121452", "title": "Yagoshi Station", "text": "Yagoshi Station\n\nYagoshi Station is served by the Ōfunato Line, and is located 47.6 rail kilometers from the terminus of the line at Ichinoseki Station.\n\nThe station has one side platform serving a single bi-directional track. The station is unattended.\n\nYagoshi Station opened on September 2, 1928. The station was absorbed into the JR East network upon the privatization of the Japan National Railways (JNR) on April 1, 1987. A new station building was completed in March 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121474", "title": "Alberoni", "text": "Alberoni\n\nAlberoni as a surname is an uncommon family name. It has been found in fewer than 200 families most with heritage in the province of Piacenza (Italy).\n\n"}
{"id": "2121489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121489", "title": "Bobby Gimby", "text": "Bobby Gimby\n\nBobby Gimby, (October 25, 1918 – June 20, 1998) was a Canadian orchestra leader, trumpeter, and singer-songwriter.\n\nHe was born Robert Stead Gimby (pronounced Jim-bee) in Cabri, Saskatchewan, a small town of about 300 people. He came from a musical family: his father Albert S. Gimby played fiddle, his mother played piano, and his sister played guitar. His father ran a hardware store, but after it burned in a fire the family struggled financially. They left Saskatchewan to live near relatives in British Columbia. The family moved to Chilliwack, B.C., where they lived throughout the 1930s, and where Gimby attended Chilliwack High School.\n\nIn Chilliwack he was a member of the Town Band, a popular group which played at local dances. In 1941, he joined the touring orchestra of Canadian bandleader Mart Kenney. He played trumpet (the press of that time referred to him as \"The Wizard of the Trumpet\") and he went on the road with Mart Kenney's Western Gentlemen, working mainly in Vancouver and western Canada.\n\nAround 1944, Gimby moved to Toronto. He founded his own band and became popular playing for teenagers. Thanks to his sponsor, the Simpson's store, he was able to entertain at various teen events during the mid-1940s. In the late 1940s, he and his band made several recordings. In 1945, he became a member of the long-running radio program the \"Happy Gang\". He remained with the Gang for thirteen years, until April 1959. In 1949, he was given his own program on CBC Radio; his band at that time was called the Rodeo Rascals. In addition to continuing to lead his own orchestra, Gimby later appeared on CBC Television in the late 1950s and hosted a show on CTV in the mid-1970s. On that show, he concentrated on big band and pop songs that would appeal to viewers who remembered him from the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Gimby was working as a songwriter; he also worked for an advertising agency, writing jingles for commercials. In 1962, while in Singapore on business, he wrote a patriotic song about the impending independence of the country. It was called \"Malaysia Forever\" and it celebrated the formation of Malaysian Federation in 1963. The song became very popular, spurred by frequent radio play, and was thought of as the new country's first national anthem.\n\nGimby came to be known as \"The Pied Piper of Canada\", a role he embraced: he would perform his music dressed up in a Pied Piper costume, wearing a cape. His popularity soared after he wrote a 1967 song called \"Ca-na-da,\" which commemorated the Canadian Centennial. He wrote the bilingual song (also known as \"Canada\") using children's voices to sing the chorus; wherever he performed it, he would invite local school kids up on stage to sing it with him. More than 50 recordings were made of the song, plus more than 250 Canadian school choirs and bands recorded it. The song was written for a documentary about the Centennial, but teachers loved the patriotic message of \"Ca-na-da\" and led the demand to release it as a single. Throughout 1967 the song remained at the top of the Canadian music charts. In 1971, Gimby donated the song's manuscript and all future royalties to Scouts Canada.\n\nGimby was a prolific songwriter throughout his career. In addition to his country's Centennial song, his compositions included centennial songs for the provinces of Manitoba and British Columbia. He wrote pop songs that were recorded by Peggy Lee, Georgia Gibbs, and Ray Bolger.\n\nGimby performed many concerts for young audiences, and was often praised for his ability to connect with kids. He often participated in events where he would lead a parade of singing children to a county fairgrounds and then perform for the fair's attendees. Gimby also traveled to military bases in foreign countries, where he would entertain the children of service personnel who were stationed overseas. In recognition of his musical contribution to his country, Gimby received the Medal of Service, and was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1968.\n\nIn a Wayne and Shuster skit about a mail-in record offer, the comedians offer a collection containing the entire works of \"Brahms, Beethoven, Strauss, Wagner and Bobby Gimby!\"\n\nGimby died in 1998 in a nursing home in North Bay, Ontario, at age 79. He was interred in Mount Pleasant Cemetery, Toronto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121490", "title": "Akhirah", "text": "Akhirah\n\nʾĀkhirah () is Islamic for the afterlife. It is repeatedly referenced in chapters of the Quran concerning the Last Judgment, an important part of Islamic eschatology. Traditionally, it is considered to be one of the six main beliefs of Muslims, the others including: Tawhid (unitarianism), belief in the angels, belief in the Revealed Books (Scrolls of Abraham, Tawrat, Zabur, Injil and Quran), belief in the prophets and messengers, and belief in predestination.\n\nAccording to the Islamic beliefs, God will play the role of the \"qadi\", weighing the deeds of each individual. He will decide whether that person's \"ʾākhirah\" lies in Jahannam (Hell) or Jannah (Heaven) on the basis of the weight of either good or bad deeds in comparison with one another. The judgment doesn't depend upon the amount of deeds, deeds are judged on the basis of the will behind it. \n\nJannah and Jahannam both have various levels. The placement of a person may depend upon the extent of his or her good deeds. It is also said that God may forgive a sin against Himself but not against another. \n\nAccording to Islam, death is not the end of the life, but it is a transferral from this world to everlasting world.. As described by some, from Dar al-fana'a (The place of annihilation) to Dar al-Baqa'a (The place of permanence). With the withdrawal of the spirit from the body, the soul's life in the Barzakh (the barrier) begins until the Day of Resurrection. According to the deeds of the believer and disbeliever, their Barzakh differs.\n"}
{"id": "2121494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121494", "title": "Joseph M. M. Gray", "text": "Joseph M. M. Gray\n\nJoseph M. M. Gray (1877 – January 10, 1957) was an American Methodist minister who was Chancellor of American University from 1933 until 1941.\n"}
{"id": "2121497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121497", "title": "Sacred Heart, Oklahoma", "text": "Sacred Heart, Oklahoma\n\nSacred Heart is a small unincorporated community in Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma, United States. Established in 1879 by Father Isidore Robot as a Catholic mission on the old Pottawatomie reserve, it was originally named \"Sacred Heart Mission\". The name was changed to Sacred Heart in 1888, shortly before the area was opened to settlement by non-Indians.\n\nThe community of Sacred Heart revolved around the Sacred Heart Mission. During the early 20th Century, many of its functions moved to other locations. High school and college education for boys moved in 1915 to Shawnee, to the facility that eventually became St. Gregory's University. The post office was closed in 1954. The mission site is located nine miles east of US 177 (Asher, Oklahoma) on SH 39, then one mile north on Sacred Heart Road. The community is now considered a ghost town.\n\nIn October 1876, Father Isidore Robot completed a deal with the Potawotami Indians for a tribal grant of land which included the current site of Sacred Heart Mission. Pioneering the mission was difficult. On Sunday, May 13, 1877, the first Mass at Sacred Heart was celebrated. Sacred Heart was not permanently occupied until June 7, 1877, which is regarded as the true founding date of the parish.\n\nThe Saint Mary's Academy was established in 1880 for the education of girls, along with a boarding school for boys, the Sacred Heart Institute. By 1884, there was a convent, a school for the girls, stables, employees' houses, blacksmith shop, tool house, carpenter shop, and a bakery-where the Sisters baked 500 French loaves each day. A model farm - with a great variety of orchards, gardens, vineyards, fields, herds of animals and every form of agriculture was developed. The farm had two main purposes: to supply food for the institution and to provide a model for the Indian boys to copy. The mission had its own publication, the \"Indian Advocate\", which was published from 1888 to 1910 in the bakery building. In 1884 the Sacred Heart College was established, offering secondary and tertiary education for boys, followed by boys' elementary education in 1926.\n\nOn the night of January 15, 1901, a fire broke out in the dining room of the Indian Boys School and swept out of control. Before it was over the blaze had destroyed the monastery, boys' school, college, girls' school, convent, and the church. Historical news accounts report that no one was killed, but the entire mission was destroyed with the exception of a few small buildings. The bakery and the two-story log cabin are the only buildings that remain today. Temporary wooden buildings were set up to carry on the boys' school, while the Sisters of Mercy moved one-quarter of a mile southeast to create a new St. Mary's Academy. Mass was celebrated in a converted granary. The present church was begun in 1905, but was not completed until 1914.\n\nBy 1910, the Benedictines went on from Sacred Heart to build St. Gregory's College, what later became St. Gregory's University, in Shawnee. A large Tudor-Gothic structure, Benedictine Hall, was under construction there by 1913, opening its doors for high school and college students for its first term in 1915. An elementary school for boys continued at Sacred Heart until 1926. Sacred Heart remained as their motherhouse for many years, until its transfer to Mt. Saint Mary's in Oklahoma City. The transfer of the educational and monastic endeavors to St. Gregory's College was complete by the early 1930s. \nThe Sisters of Mercy founded numerous educational and medical facilities across the state, including St. Mary's Academy (now Mount St. Mary High School) and Mercy Health Center in Oklahoma City.\n\nSacred Heart reverted to use as a priory after all other functions had moved to St. Gregory's. The priory closed permanently in 1965. The church remains, but most other buildings have been demolished.\n\nThe townsite contains a number of extant buildings and ruins.\n\nThe most significant building on the site is the Sacred Heart Catholic Church, completed in 1914. It is located at the top of Bald Hill, represented as the highest point in Pottawatomie County. The church is an example of a restrained style of Gothic Revival, with a red tile roof and a stumpy front tower. Nearby are two cemeteries, one for the sisters and one for the abbey. Other buildings include one and two-story log houses dating to the late 1800s and a two-story sandstone bakery. The foundations of the school buildings and other structures are visible as well. A priest's home, parish hall and maintenance building are non-contributing structures.\n\nThe site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on September 15, 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121502", "title": "Piner-Olivet Union School District", "text": "Piner-Olivet Union School District\n\nPiner-Olivet Union School District has around 1,500 students and serves western Santa Rosa, California. The district has three elementary schools, one middle school, and one middle/high school.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121504", "title": "ACPT", "text": "ACPT\n\nACPT may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2121524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121524", "title": "Worshipful Company of Constructors", "text": "Worshipful Company of Constructors\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Constructors is one of the Livery Companies of the City of London. The Company aims to bring together those professionally qualified individuals concerned with aspects of building design, execution, management, vision and economic appraisal.\n\nThe Company's origins date from 1976 when a group of members of The Faculty of Building (today, Forum for the Built Environment) met for the first inaugural meeting. \"The Company of Constructors\" was recognised by the City of London Corporation in 1985 as a City Company without Livery in 1985, and became a Livery Company in 1990.\n\nThe Constructors' Company ranks 99th in the order of precedence for Livery Companies.\n\n\nIt is a modern company, one of 30 formed since 1948. The origins of many City Livery Companies are tied to the building crafts – Carpenters, Masons, Plaisterers, etc. Other, more recent Companies are formed from construction professions (e.g.: Chartered Surveyors, Engineers, Chartered Architects) and are restricted to an individual profession.\n\nThe Constructors' Company embraces professionals from all parts of construction, as well as those, like lawyers and accountants, who work with the industry. The Company supports fellowship, education and training and charitable giving, thus following the ancient traditions of City of London Livery Companies.\n\nThe Company is governed by a Court comprising some 30 people; some are elected officers – the Master and Wardens, for example – and others either aspire to those positions, or, like the Pastmasters, have held office and give the Court the benefit of their experience.\n\nThe Court has various committees:\n\nMost new members join as Freemen, in the process making certain commitments, or Obligations, to the Company. Freemen are entitled to apply to the City Chamberlain to become a Freeman of the City of London. That achieved, and after a period of satisfactory service with the Company, a Freeman can apply to become a full Liveryman, which entitles him or her to vote in City elections and attend certain events, like the United Guilds Service at St Paul's Cathedral.\n\nOther grades of membership include:\nThe Company has recently admitted its first International Constructors.\n\nFellowship is a key aspect of the Company's activities. Each year there are three formal dinners and a programme of smaller events and activities. These provide an excellent opportunity to meet and entertain friends, colleagues, clients and family members, either in one of the City's splendid livery halls or another suitable venue.\n\nThere are Fines and Fees for entering into the Freedom and Livery of the Company as well as an annual quarterage (subscription) charge. Members are also expected to contribute to the Charity Fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121527", "title": "David McWilliams (musician)", "text": "David McWilliams (musician)\n\nDavid Samuel McWilliams (4 July 1945 – 8 January 2002) was a singer, songwriter, and guitarist from Northern Ireland, best known for his 1967 song \"Days of Pearly Spencer\".\n\nMcWilliams was born in the Cregagh area of Belfast and moved to Ballymena at the age of three. He began playing guitar and writing songs in his early teens. After leaving Ballymena Technical College in 1963, he started an apprenticeship at the Shorts missile factory in Antrim, and also started a local dance band, the Coral Showband. He was a well-respected football player, and had a trial with Linfield as a goalkeeper.\n\nHe recorded a demo of some of his own songs, which was heard by music industry entrepreneur Phil Solomon, who had previously managed The Bachelors and Van Morrison's band Them and also had close business ties with Ronan O'Rahilly's pirate radio station Radio Caroline. Solomon convinced close friend and well established songwriter Dominic Behan to take McWilliams under his wing to the point that McWilliams moved into the Behan family home in West London, an environment within which he was able to focus on songwriting; the impact of Behan's influence is difficult to determine but, it can be seen that McWilliams' live performances became much more self-assured, a key to future success. Following a period of five months in Behan's household, Solomon was able to negotiate a contract with CBS Records, which released his first, unsuccessful single \"God and My Country\" in 1966, before signing McWilliams to his own new Major Minor label. McWilliams and Behan were to remain close friends until the death of Dominic Behan in 1989.\n\nMcWilliams' first album, \"David McWilliams Singing Songs by David McWilliams\", was produced and arranged by Mike Leander, and reached number 38 on the UK Albums Chart. He quickly recorded a second album, \"David McWilliams Volume 2\", which reached number 23 in the same album chart and featured the single \"Days of Pearly Spencer\". This was a song about a homeless man McWilliams had encountered in Ballymena, and featured a sweeping orchestral arrangement by Leander and a chorus sung as if through a megaphone. This low-tech effect was actually achieved by recording the vocals from a phone box near the studio. Exposure on Radio Caroline and through advertisements in the UK music press in the summer of 1967 helped generate interest and sales in continental Europe, and the record topped the charts in numerous countries including France, Belgium and the Netherlands, selling a million copies worldwide. However, although it became well known in the UK, \"Days of Pearly Spencer\" failed to make the UK Singles Chart, perhaps because the BBC refused to play it owing to Solomon's links with pirate radio, and through mismanagement McWilliams never profited from the song's success. In Italy, the song was covered in 1968 by Caterina Caselli as \"Il Volto Della Vita\". A Spanish version called \"Vuelo blanco de gaviota\" was recorded in 1979 by Ana Belén. Successful later versions of the song included a disco version which reached number 1 in Belgium in the 1980s, and a cover version in 1988 by the French psychedelic band The Vietnam Veterans and their album \"The Days of Pearly Spencer\". A recording by Marc Almond, with an additional verse written by Almond giving the song a more optimistic tone, reached number 4 in the UK Singles Chart in 1992, and also made number 8 in Ireland.\n\nMcWilliams released another album, \"David McWilliams Volume 3\", and several further singles for Major Minor, and toured widely in Europe, on some occasions with The Dubliners and the Kerries. His 1968 song, \"Can I Get There By Candlelight?\" was used for the theme of a Dutch radio programme, \"Candlelight\" with Jan van Veen. He became popular in Germany and Italy, as well as in France and the Netherlands, and re-recorded some songs in Italian. Reportedly, David Bowie once named McWilliams as his favourite songwriter. An album, \"Days of Pearly Spencer\", comprising tracks from his three albums, was issued by Kapp Records in the US in 1968. He moved to London, and released further albums and singles on the Parlophone and Dawn labels in the 1970s, but these were unsuccessful.\n\nMcWilliams moved back to Northern Ireland in 1978. He performed infrequently after that, mostly in local bars, although he also headlined a concert in aid of striking miners in 1984 and occasionally appeared at the Ballycastle Northern Lights Festival. A compilation album, \"The Days of David McWilliams\", was issued by RPM Records in 2001.\n\nOn 8 January 2002, McWilliams died suddenly of a heart attack at his home in Ballycastle, County Antrim, at the age of 56. He was married twice and had eight children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121539", "title": "Homer vs. the Eighteenth Amendment", "text": "Homer vs. the Eighteenth Amendment\n\n\"Homer vs. the Eighteenth Amendment\" is the 18th episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 16, 1997. In the episode, Springfield enacts prohibition after a raucous Saint Patrick's Day celebration. To supply Moe's speakeasy, Homer becomes a bootlegger. The episode was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by Bob Anderson. Dave Thomas guest stars as Rex Banner and Joe Mantegna returns as Fat Tony.\n\nSpringfield enacts prohibition after Bart is accidentally intoxicated during the Saint Patrick's Day celebration. Mayor Quimby discovers that alcohol has actually been banned in Springfield for two centuries and moves to enforce the law, prompting Moe to disguise his bar as a pet shop. Alcohol continues to flow when Springfield Mafia don Fat Tony bribes the local police. When the townfolk grow impatient with the police department's incompetence, Chief Wiggum is replaced by Rex Banner, an officer of the U.S. Treasury Department. Banner erects roadblocks on all bridges leading into Springfield and buries the town's supply of alcohol at the city dump.\nHomer and Bart retrieve the buried kegs of beer and become bootleggers. Homer hides the beer in the finger holes of bowling balls; using an intricate network of pipes under Barney's Bowl-A-Rama, he bowls the balls into Moe's. Upon discovering Homer's scheme, Marge actually approves since Homer's savvy is helping support the family. The media reveal Springfield's underground alcohol trade is flourishing because of the mysterious \"Beer Baron\".\n\nWhen his supply of liquor runs out, Homer begins to distill his own homemade liquor. His stills repeatedly explode and he agrees to stop making bathtub booze at Marge's request. Unemployed and desperate, ex-Chief Wiggum tries to mug Homer but fails when Homer realizes his gun has no trigger. The men discuss their shared distaste for Banner, since he has ruined both men's livelihoods.\n\nTo help Wiggum get his job back, Homer allows Wiggum to apprehend him and do what Banner could not. Homer publicly confesses his crimes, thinking he will face a light punishment. Instead he is sentenced to expulsion from town — and a likely death — by a large catapult. Marge protests the draconian law and punishment, claiming it infringes citizens' right to drink. When Banner starts to explain why the law must be upheld, he accidentally steps on the device and Wiggum has him catapulted from town. The town clerk discovers that the prohibition law was repealed a year after it was enacted, so Homer is freed.\n\nMayor Quimby asks Homer to become the town's Beer Baron again, but Homer insists he is retired. Within five minutes, Fat Tony floods Springfield with alcohol, leading the entire town to toast the return of its beloved booze.\nThe main plot of the episode is based on the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, in which alcohol was banned in the United States. As \"The Simpsons\" has many episodes that have stories and jokes related to alcohol, the writers thought it was strange that they had never done an episode related to Prohibition, and that the idea seemed \"perfect.\" The episode features a vast amount of Irish stereotyping at the St. Patrick's Day celebration. This was a reference to when Conan O'Brien was a writer for the show and was of Irish descent, and his use of Irish stereotypes. Various writers were very concerned about Bart getting drunk. This was why he drank the beer through a horn, to show that it was only accidental. This was a toned down version of what was in John Swartzwelder's original script. Originally Chief Wiggum's first line was \"They're either drunk or on the cocaine\", but it was deemed too old-fashioned. The discovery of \"more lines on the parchment\" was a simple \"deus ex machina\" to get Homer freed and to end the episode.\n\nWhen Homer first enters Moe's \"Pet Shop\" the man that tips his hat to him outside was a background character used in the early seasons. The riot at the beginning of the episode was taken from footage from the end of the season 6 episode \"Lisa on Ice\" and updated. The line \"To alcohol! The cause of... and solution to... all of life's problems,\" was originally the act break line at the end of act two, but was moved to the very end of the episode.\n\nDuring the riot, a scene where an Irish mob starts pummeling each other after a British chip shop named \"John Bull's Fish & Chips\" blows up was censored on British television and the rest of Europe. The episode first aired while the conflict in Northern Ireland known as The Troubles was on and four years after the Shankill Road bombing in which ten people were killed by a Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) bomb which exploded prematurely in a fish shop.\n\nThe episode parodies the series \"The Untouchables\", with the character of Rex Banner based on Robert Stack's portrayal of Eliot Ness, and the voice of the narrator being based on that of Walter Winchell. Barney leaving flowers outside the Duff brewery is, according to show runner Josh Weinstein, a reference to people leaving flowers at the grave sites of various Hollywood figures like Rudolph Valentino and Marilyn Monroe. a reference to the Poe Toaster. The shot of the diner quotes Edward Hopper's \"Nighthawks\" painting. A sign in Moe's Bar says \"No Irish Need Apply\" a reference to Anti-Irish sentiment.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Homer vs. the Eighteenth Amendment\" finished 39th in ratings for the week of March 10–26, 1997, with a Nielsen rating of 8.9, equivalent to approximately 8.6 million viewing households. It was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\".\n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, called it \"A nice episode in which Homer actually devises a clever plan to keep the beer flowing.\" The \"Toronto Star\" described the episode as one of Bob Anderson's \"classics.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" also characterized the episode as one of \"The 10 Best Simpsons TV Episodes.\" Robert Canning gave the episode 9.8/10 calling it his favorite episode of the series.\n\nHomer's line \"To alcohol! The cause of... and solution to... all of life's problems,\" was described by Josh Weinstein as \"one of the best, most truthful \"Simpsons\" statements ever.\" In 2008, \"Entertainment Weekly\" included it in their list of \"24 Endlessly Quotable TV Quips\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2121543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121543", "title": "Zubayr (name)", "text": "Zubayr (name)\n\nZubair, Zubayr, Zoubir or Zuberi is an Arabic masculine name and a surname. People with that name include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121545", "title": "Lucius C. Clark", "text": "Lucius C. Clark\n\nLucius C. Clark (June 4, 1869, Grundy County, Iowa – March 27, 1949, Washington, D.C.) was Chancellor of American University from 1922 until 1932.\n\nClark received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Cornell College in 1893, and was ordained a minister in the Methodist Episcopal Church. From 1894 to 1913, he was pastor of several Methodist churches in Iowa.\n\nIn 1913, Clark moved to Washington and became pastor of the Hamline Methodist Church. He was Executive Secretary of the Washington Federation of Churches from 1920-1922. After his service as American University chancellor from 1922-32, he became Dean of the Graduate School and Director of the School of Political Science before retiring in 1934.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121546", "title": "God Don't Make No Junk", "text": "God Don't Make No Junk\n\nGod Don't Make No Junk is the first studio album by the American indie rock band The Halo Benders. It was released in 1994 on K Records on vinyl LP and compact disc. The album was the first full-length release by the Halo Benders, a side project of Calvin Johnson (of Beat Happening) and Doug Martsch (of Built to Spill). Its catalogue number is KLP29.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121553", "title": "Worshipful Company of Firefighters", "text": "Worshipful Company of Firefighters\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Firefighters is one of the 110 livery companies of the City of London. The Company's aim is to promote the development and advancement of the science, art and the practice of firefighting, fire prevention and life safety. It operates essentially as a charitable organisation, and also encourages professionalism and the exchange of information between members and others who work in allied fields.\n\nOne of the new City livery companies, its origins date from 1988 with the founding of the Guild of Firefighters. The Company of Firefighters was recognised by the City of London Corporation from 13 June 1995 as a company without livery; it was granted livery by the Court of Aldermen on 23 October 2001, thereby becoming the Worshipful Company of Firefighters.\n\nThe Firefighters' Company ranks 103rd in the livery companies' order of precedence and is based at The Wax Chandlers' Hall on Gresham Street a building it co-habits with the Worshipful Company of Wax Chandlers. The clerk to the Firefighters' Company is Steven Tamcken and the Beadle, since foundation as a Guild in 1988, is John E P Norris SBStJ (pictured right).\n\nThe Firefighters' coat of arms is blazoned: \"Quarterly: 1 and 3, Argent on three Bars wavy Azure a Firehelmet Or; 2 and 4, Argent over all a Cross Gules and in pale a Sword downwards Argent\"; and, its motto is \"Flammas Oppugnantes Fidimus Deo.\" The Company's Church is St Mary-Le-Bow \n\n"}
{"id": "2121554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121554", "title": "Konashi Station", "text": "Konashi Station\n\nKonashi Station is served by the Ōfunato Line, and is located 43.4 rail kilometers from the terminus of the line at Ichinoseki Station.\n\nThe station has one side platform serving a single bi-directional track. The station is unattended.\n\nKonashi Station opened on September 2, 1928. The station was absorbed into the JR East network upon the privatization of the Japan National Railways (JNR) on April 1, 1987. A new station building was completed in October 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121557", "title": "George Reynolds (business)", "text": "George Reynolds (business)\n\nGeorge Reynolds (born 1936) is a British businessman best known for his time as chairman of Darlington Football Club. He was found guilty of tax evasion in 2005. \n\nReynolds became the chairman of Darlington Football Club in 1999 and built the team a new stadium costing £20 million, which he named after himself. Reynolds was originally very popular with fans but he then took the club into administration and left the club in January 2004, just months after the new 25,000-seat stadium (one of the largest stadiums outside the Premier League) was opened. The stadium was renamed shortly afterwards. Darlington goalkeeper David Preece said shortly after he was transferred to Aberdeen F.C., the day before his debut against Celtic F.C., Reynolds called him threatening to cancel the transfer unless Preece signed a waiver of his £45,000 signing-on fee.\n\nHe famously declared his ambition to take Darlington into the Premier League, and when he took the club over they had been in the Football League's basement division since 1992. The new stadium did nothing to improve their on-field fortunes, and they did not move out of the basement division of the Football League until 2010 - when they were relegated to the Conference. The club was later relegated four divisions to the Northern Football League Division One and forced to reform as a new club, Darlington 1883, owned by the fans.\n\nHe was arrested on suspicion of money laundering in June 2004 after being stopped with £500,000 of cash in the boot of his car. He later pleaded guilty to charges of tax evasion and was sentenced to three years imprisonment in October 2005. Other charges which he denied, including money laundering, were left on file. Reynolds was released on 6 December 2006 but was electronically tagged and subject to a curfew. He was returned to prison for 2 weeks in April 2007 breaching the terms of his curfew. He currently operates a vending machine company and works from an E-Cig shop in Chester-le-Street.\n\nReynolds was brought up in Sunderland and in his early life became involved in crime. His first conviction was for stealing cigarettes, which he traded for food for his family. Another conviction in the 1960s saw him sent to jail for six months smuggling watches. In 1964 he was jailed for four years for safe-cracking, handling explosives, burglary and theft. He was jailed in 1970 for burglary and again in 1976 for theft. \n\nIn jail a priest persuaded him to reform and Reynolds started to study. On his release he established a series of businesses. These included a £25m kitchen surface factory based in Shildon. He amassed a £260 million fortune, and was ranked 112 in the Sunday Times rich list in 2000. He built the Witton Hall mansion on the grounds of a cottage in the village. Some extravagant purchases included a fleet of cars, a house next door to the Spice Girls in London, a yacht, a jet, a helicopter, a swimming pool, and a Spanish villa.\n\nIn 2000, he was the victim of an attempted mugging as he left a restaurant in North London with his wife and mother-in-law. Two men bundled him to the ground and tried to prise a diamond ring from his finger before removing his £41,000 Rolex watch. \nA third man demanded that Mrs Reynolds hand over her watch as well. But she began screaming and a dustbin man, who was working nearby, picked up a pole and chased off the gang who were subsequently arrested.\n\nReynolds separated from his second wife, Karen Brown, in the early 1990s, with whom he had two daughters. Karen passed away from cancer in March 2020.\n"}
{"id": "2121562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121562", "title": "Hilina Slump", "text": "Hilina Slump\n\nThe Hilina Slump, on the south flank of the Kīlauea Volcano on the southeast coast of the Big Island of Hawaiʻi, is the most notable of several landslides that ring each of the Hawaiian Islands. These landslides are the means by which material deposited at a volcano's vents are transferred downward and seaward, eventually spilling onto the seabed to broaden the island.\n\nKīlauea's entire south flank, extending out to Cape Kumukahi, is currently sliding seaward, with some parts of the central portion (over looking the Hilina slump) moving as much as 10 centimeters (4 inches) per year, pushed by the forceful injection of magma and pulled by gravity.\n\nCurrent movement of the Hilina slump and recent volcanic activity, coupled with evidence of massive submarine slides in the geological past, has led to sensationalistic claims of megatsunamis that might result if the south flank of Kīlauea should suddenly fail. Geologists are confident no such failure is likely, and other experts have stated that the supposed threats of megatsunamis are exaggerated.\n\nThe Hawaiian Islands are volcanoes, the newest part of the Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain, created by eruption of magma from the Hawaiʻi hotspot. As the Pacific plate, moving to the northwest, carries the existing volcanoes away from the hotspot, new volcanoes form at the southeastern end. The newest and largest island is the Big Island of Hawaiʻi, formed by the merger of seven volcanoes. The largest, at the trailing edge of the island, is Mauna Loa Volcano, and on its seaward flank is the younger Kīlauea, with the still submerged Lōʻihi Seamount just off-shore.\n\nThe Hawaiian volcanoes are shield volcanoes, distinguished from the more familiar stratovolcanoes by their greater breadth and lower gradient slopes. (E.g.: Kilauea's average slope to the east is only 3.3°, and the south slope from the summit to the ocean floor averages only 6°.) When the volcano is over the hotspot a plentiful supply of magma allows it to build a broad shield; when it loses its supply of magma it dies and is eroded back to sea level.\n\nLike the rest, Kīlauea is composed of alternating subaerial and submarine lava flows fractured by cooling joints and interbedded with weaker rock, sediments, and tephra, resulting in what has been characterized as a \"fractured rock mass\". These discontinuities form zones of weakness that lead to slope failure. The weight of the rock mass causes extension (stretching) downhill, favoring the formation of vertical structures, such as dip-slip faults and rift zones, parallel to the slope. These disconnect the rock mass from the upper flank, putting more stress on any non-vertical planes of weakness, which may fail and form a slip zone.\n\nOn Kīlauea's seaward flank (where it is not resting against Mauna Loa) these tendencies are evident where magma oozing out of the caldera turns east and west to form the Southwest Rift Zone (SWRZ) and East Rift Zone (ERZ), both parallel to the shore, and also in the cliffs of the Hilina Pali – coincident with dip-slip faults of the Hilina fault system – which form the head-scarp where a large block of rock has slumped down and outward.\n\nThe rift zones enable transport of lava tens of kilometers away from the caldera (as seen in the current lower Puna eruption). They also serve as wedges, forcing the south flank of Kīlauea downslope across a décollement – a nearly horizontal fault where the volcanic deposits rest on the oceanic crust – about 8 to 10 km deep. The combination of rifting and gravitationally driven slumping results in seaward movement of the entire south flank (see image), especially around the Hilina Pali, with seaward motions of up to 10 centimeters (~4 inches) per year.\n\nOn the central portion of the south flank of Kīlauea the thousand-foot high cliffs of the Hilina Pali and similar scarps were recognized as early as 1930 as headscarps resulting from slumping of the coast. The Hilina Pali is the headscarp of the Hilina Slump, a type of landslide where a large and relatively intact block slips along a concave surface, dropping vertically at the head, with the toe often extending upward as well as outward The Hilina Slump extends seaward from both ends of the Hilina Pali out to a depth of 5000 meters. Whether this slump is shallow, or reaches down to the décollement that underlies the entire Kīlauea south flank, is still under debate.\n\nWith the discovery in the late 1980s that the entire south flank of Kīlauea is involved with submarine landslides the term \"Hilina slump\" has been applied by some scientists to the broader area.\n\nThe Hilina slump is sliding seaward on top of the southern flank of the Kīlauea volcano, at an average speed of average speed of 10 cm/year (4 in/year). Kīlauea is the southeastern portion, about 13.7%, of the Big Island of Hawaii. Compared to the 25,000 to 35,000 km volume of Kīlauea, the submarine slide is between 10,000 and 12,000 km, making up about 10% of the island. Model results based on present day slope and sea level suggest that earthquake accelerations stronger than about 0.4 to 0.6 \"g\" are enough to exceed the static friction coefficient resulting in a slip along a failure surface. However, recent undersea measurements show that an undersea \"bench\" has formed a buttress at the forefront of the Hilina Slump, and \"this buttress may tend to reduce the likelihood of future catastrophic detachment.\"\n\nEarthquakes in Hawaiʻi result from either movement of magma, or sliding of the volcanic edifices which comprise the islands. Some of the seaward slippage of the flank occurs aseismically, without noticeable earthquakes. At other times there is a lurch, resulting in an earthquake of magnitude 6 or greater.\n\nAn earthquake on April 2, 1868, rocked the southeast coast of Hawaiʻi with a magnitude estimated between 7.25 and 7.75. It triggered a landslide on the slopes of the Mauna Loa volcano, five miles (8 km) north of Pāhala, killing 31 people. A tsunami claimed 46 additional lives. The villages of Punaluʻu, Nīnole, Kāwāʻa, Honuʻapo, and Keauhou Landing were severely damaged. According to one account, the tsunami \"rolled in over the tops of the coconut trees, probably 60 feet (20 m) high ... inland a distance of a quarter of a mile in some places, taking out to sea when it returned, houses, men, women, and almost everything movable.\"\n\nA similar earthquake occurred November 29, 1975, with a magnitude of 7.2. A 40-mile (60 km) wide section of the Hilina Slump slid 11 feet (3 m) into the ocean, widening the crack by 26 ft (8 m). This movement also caused a tsunami that reached a maximum height of at Keauhou Landing. Oceanfront properties were washed off their foundations in Punaluʻu. Two deaths were reported at Halape, and 19 other persons were injured. The shoreline at Keauhou Bay was dramatically altered.\n\nA magnitude 6.9 earthquake on May 4, 2018 resulted in the slump moving about two feet. It appears to have been precipitated by vibrations caused by the movement of magma in the eastern rift zone of Kīlauea, and in turn the earthquake preceded further volcanic activity. This could fit into a model of correlation between earthquakes and eruption events described for the earthquakes in 1868 and 1975.\n\nThe breadth and gentle slopes of young shield volcanoes such as Kīlauea are in contrast to the steep, picturesque cliffs (pali), deeply incised canyons, and narrow ridges typical of the older islands, and for a long while it was a bit of mystery how the latter got that way. In 1930 it was suggested that (at least in some cases) this might be the result of large landslides. In 1964 it was noted that certain areas of sea floor with very blocky topography lay downslope from what appear to be giant amphitheaters (the large bowl left at the head of landslides), suggesting the possibility of \"giant\" landslides. However, that such mass wasting was a ubiquitous feature of Hawaiian geology was not recognized until systematic mapping of the sea floor in the late 1980s identified 17 areas on the flanks of the islands that appear to be the remnants of large landslides. Some aspects of these slides – such as the large volume (estimated at 5000 cubic kilometers for the Nuuanu slide), the transport of large blocks (\"tens of kilometers\" in size) 50 km or more, and evidence of rapid transport – suggests that some of these slides were, indeed, gigantic, and could have generated giant tsunamis. One of these areas is the south flank of Kīlauea, including the Hilina slump, which is currently in motion. This has raised concern that failure of the south flank of Kīlauea could generate a tsunami that \"may threaten cities in the Pacific region\", and that even relatively minor displacement of the Hilina slump \"would be truly disastrous to life and property on Hawaii island, the rest of the archipelago, and possibly the Pacific Rim.\"\n\nWhile the Hawaiian archipelago faces a significant threat from even relatively minor local events, the threat to other trans-Pacific regions has been deemed \"exaggerated\". Particularly, the larger, more powerful, and more dramatic landslides seen around the Hawaiian Islands are a type of landslide called debris avalanches, where the material in the slide has broken up into pieces small enough to flow as a relatively narrow (typically less than 50 km wide), fast-moving stream that can run-out as far as . Debris avalanches, or flows, \"commonly represent a single episode of rapid failure\", where the potential energy of the slide is released suddenly, and could cause giant tsunamis. On the other hand, slumps are largely intact and undeformed blocks that are wider (up to 110 km) and thicker (about 10 km) than debris avalanches, and generally slow moving. Slumps commonly move on a concave surface, with the head dropping down almost vertically (as seen at the Hilina Pali and related cliffs), and the toe thrusting upward.\n\nSeaward movement of Kīlauea's flank has been largely halted on the western end by the Lōʻihi and Papaʻu seamounts, and slowed east of the Hilina Slump by the Hohonu Seamount. Additional buttressing of Hilina Slump is provided by a \"Midslope Bench\" (see detailed map above); catastrophic detachment of this landslide is deemed unlikely, and \"dire predictions of the future breakaway of the Hilina slump ... may be overstated\".\n\nWould the collapse of a flank of a Hawaiian volcano result in \"towering waves crash[ing] with the force of countless atomic bombs onto the coastlines of North America and eastern Asia\"?\n\nPublic awareness of, and anxiety about, so-called \"megatsunamis\" was heightened in 2001 when a respected scientific journal published an article by Steven Ward and Simon Day claiming that 1) the Cumbre Vieja volcano in the Canary Islands \"may experience a catastrophic failure of its west flank\" that would drop a large volume (perhaps 500 cubic kilometers) of rock into the ocean, and 2) the resulting tsunami would hit the African coast with waves as high as 100 meters (330 feet), while Florida could expect to see 25 meter (80 foot) high waves. Although no time frame was given, certain \"ominous\" developments were described that implied \"any time now\". Coupled with the knowledge that the Hawaiian islands are ringed with debris fans where large portions of the various volcanoes have slid into the sea – the volume of the Hilina slump has been estimated at 10,000–12,000 cubic kilometers – it seems reasonable to consider the risk of volcanic and/or seismic acivity in Hawaiʻi wreaking havoc around the Pacific Rim.\nIn the word of a report prepared by the U.S. Geological Survey for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission the threat of megatsunamis is: \"exaggerated.\" Lost in much of the popular reporting was that 25 meter waves hitting Florida was only in the worst-case scenario, and that with \"more modest assumptions\" the calculated height was only 3 to 8 meters. At almost the same time a physical modeling study at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, though not mentioning Ward and Day, examined the same worst-case scenario, and predicted that \"the maximum wave amplitude off the U.S. east coast would be less than one meter.\"\n\nAn analysis by found methodological errors in Ward and Day's modeling, including unrealistic assumptions regarding source dimensions, slope instability, speed of failure, and the means by which a slope failure generates a tsunami. That study also pointed out that: Pararas-Carayannis concluded that neither geology nor historic events indicate that Kīlauea's southern flank is \"unusually unstable or that a massive collapse is possible in the foreseeable future\", but even if such a collapse happened as postulated the far-field effects of the resultant tsunami \"have been greatly overstated\".\n\n\n<!-- To make short-cites work: Use either , or \n"}
{"id": "2121569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121569", "title": "Žďár nad Sázavou District", "text": "Žďár nad Sázavou District\n\nŽďár nad Sázavou District () is a district (\"okres\") within the Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. Its administrative center is the town of Žďár nad Sázavou.\n\nThe district's landscape is very picturesque, consisting of a highland of rolling hills around the rivers Sázava, Oslava, Svratka and Chrudimka, covered by deep forests, lakes and fields.\n\n37% of the active population works in industry. Agriculture is also an important economic activity, especially wheat, potatoes, fruit, timber, and livestock. The contribution of industry and agriculture to the local economy has decreased markedly since 1991. The remaining industrial activity is concentrated in the larger towns and includes mechanic, electric, and steel factories. Furniture and other small manufacturing industries have been installed after the fall of Communism.\n\nThe area, relatively untouched by pollution, attracts summer and winter tourism. Highlights include:\n\n\nBaliny - \nBlažkov - \nBlízkov - \n\"Bobrová\" - \nBobrůvka - \nBohdalec - \n\"Bohdalov\" - \nBohuňov - \nBorovnice - \nBory - \nBřezejc - \nBřezí nad Oslavou - \nBřezí - \nBřezské - \nBudeč - \nBukov - \nBýšovec - \nBystřice nad Pernštejnem - \nČerná - \nChlumek - \nChlumětín - \nChlum-Korouhvice - \nCikháj - \nDalečín - \nDaňkovice - \nDlouhé - \nDobrá Voda - \nDolní Heřmanice - \nDolní Libochová - \nDolní Rožínka - \nFryšava pod Žákovou horou - \nHamry nad Sázavou - \nHerálec - \nHeřmanov - \nHodíškov - \nHorní Libochová - \nHorní Radslavice - \nHorní Rožínka - \nJabloňov - \nJámy - \nJavorek - \n\"Jimramov\" - \nJívoví - \nKadolec - \nKadov - \nKarlov - \nKněževes - \nKoroužné - \nKotlasy - \nKozlov - \nKrásné - \nKrásněves - \nKřídla - \nKřižánky - \n\"Křižanov\" - \nKřoví - \nKuklík - \nKundratice - \nKyjov - \nLavičky - \nLhotka - \nLísek - \nLíšná - \nMalá Losenice - \nMartinice - \nMatějov - \n\"Měřín\" -\nMeziříčko - \nMilasín - \nMilešín - \nMirošov - \nMoravec - \nMoravecké Pavlovice - \nNetín - \nNížkov - \nNová Ves - \nNová Ves u Nového Města na Moravě - \nNové Dvory - \nNové Město na Moravě - \nNové Sady - \n\"Nové Veselí\" - \nNový Jimramov - \nNyklovice - \nObyčtov - \nOřechov - \nOslavice - \nOsová Bítýška - \nOsové - \n\"Ostrov nad Oslavou\" - \nOtín - \nPavlínov - \nPavlov - \nPetráveč - \nPikárec - \nPísečné - \nPočítky - \nPoděšín - \nPodolí - \nPokojov - \nPolnička - \nProsetín - \nRačice - \nRačín - \nRadenice - \nRadešín - \nRadešínská Svratka - \nRadkov - \nRadňoves - \nRadňovice - \nRadostín nad Oslavou - \nRadostín - \nŘečice - \nRodkov - \nRosička - \nRousměrov - \nRovečné - \nRožná - \nRozseč - \nRozsochy - \nRuda - \nRudolec - \nSázava - \nSazomín - \nSejřek - \nSirákov - \nSklené - \nSklené nad Oslavou - \nSkorotice - \nŠkrdlovice - \nSkřinářov - \n\"Sněžné\" - \nSpělkov - \n\"Štěpánov nad Svratkou\" -\nStrachujov - \nStránecká Zhoř - \n\"Strážek\" - \nStřítež - \nSulkovec - \nSvětnov - \nSviny - \nSvratka - \nTasov - \nTři Studně - \nUbušínek - \nUhřínov - \nUjčov - \nÚjezd - \nUnčín - \nVatín - \nVěchnov - \nVěcov - \nVelká Bíteš - \nVelká Losenice - \nVelké Janovice - \nVelké Meziříčí - \nVelké Tresné - \nVepřová - \nVěstín - \nVěžná - \nVídeň - \nVidonín - \nVír - \nVlachovice - \nVlkov - \n\"Vojnův Městec\" - \nVysoké -\nZáblatí - \nZadní Zhořec - \nŽdánice -\nŽďár nad Sázavou - \nZnětínek - \nZubří - \nZvole\n\n25 villages has been moved from administration of Žďár nad Sázavou District to administration of Brno-Country District, effective from January 1, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121580", "title": "Albert Réville", "text": "Albert Réville\n\nAlbert Réville (4 November 1826, Dieppe, Seine-Maritime25 October 1906) was a distinguished French Protestant theologian, known for his 'extremist' liberal views. He is also known for being one of the first \"intellectuals\" to join the Dreyfusard cause when the Dreyfus Affair erupted in the 1890s.\n\nRéville was born in Dieppe, Seine-Maritime. After studying at the universities of Geneva and Strassburg, he became pastor at Luneray (near Dieppe), and from 1851 to 1872 he was pastor of the Walloon church in Rotterdam. In 1880 he became professor of the History of Religions in the Collège de France, during the course of which he helped found the \"Revue de l'histoire des religions\" with Maurice Vernes. In 1886, he was appointed as the inaugural President of the new \"Fifth Section\" for Religious Sciences at the École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris.\n\nHe was a prolific writer on the comparative history of world religions. In addition to the history of Christianity, he published on the native religions of Central America (about which he gave the 1884 Hibbert Lectures), Chinese religion and the history of the idea of the Devil.\n\nHe was a notable advocate of David Strauss' vision hypothesis, that the accounts of the resurrection of Jesus were historically due to a vision caused by nervous tension by Mary Magdalene and subsequent mass hysteria among the disciples.\n\nHis son, Jean Réville, was also a theologian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121583", "title": "Pierrefonds Comprehensive High School", "text": "Pierrefonds Comprehensive High School\n\nPierrefonds Community High School (PCHS) is a non-denominational, English speaking educational facility located in the Pierrefonds-Roxboro borough of Montreal, Quebec, Canada with an enrollment capacity of approximately 1,200 students, in grades 7 through 11. It operates within the Lester B. Pearson School Board and has functioned as a secondary school since 1971. Having been originally named Pierrefonds Comprehensive High School, the slight name variation was added after the merge with Riverdale High School in 2019. The principal of the school is Cindy Wallach.\n\nPCHS began as an academic and vocational high school for both English and French speaking Catholic students to accommodate West Island population expansion at the beginning of the 1970s. Prior to its opening in 1971, established West Island schools such as Saint Thomas High School, located in Pointe-Claire, Quebec, were doubling their enrolments to accommodate Catholic students. Protestant students were already served by Riverdale High School, which opened in 1965. \n\nOriginally conceived under the proposed name of Villa Nova, PCHS opened as Polyvalente de Pierrefonds Comprehensive High School, to better reflect its multi-disciplined approach. In 1979 it ceded half its population when French speaking students moved to the new \"Polyvalente des Sources\" high school, located nearby. PCHS remained a Catholic school until 1998, when Quebec's Catholic and Protestant school boards were replaced with a secular, linguistically based system.\n\nIn 1994 it began its International Baccalaureate program which continues to this day, and in 1995 undertook a campaign to amend its name, although a strategic focus group decided to keep the name \"comprehensive\" to reflect both the wide variety of programs and services offered and the commitment to meeting all student needs. In 2001 it celebrated its 30th anniversary and honoured four teachers for their long standing and exceptional educational service and dedication to the school.\n\nIn 2019, it was announced by Quebec Education Minister Jean-François Roberge that Riverdale High School would be merging with PCHS in an attempt to deal with overcrowding issues of the CSMB.\n\nPCHS was built as an \"open-concept\" over a \"reflected plan\", meaning that one side mirrors the other, along an axial core. It features a large cafeteria at the center and a gigantic gymnasium, or \"field house\", at the south end, which is connected by a tunnel. Designed by a California architect, as recommended by the school's first principal Mr. John Oss, it employed industrial visual cues like unfinished concrete walls, exposed ceiling pipes and ducts that were painted primary red, blue and yellow enamel, and small windows that did not open. Walls between adjoining classrooms could be moved to allow for team teaching of up to 4 classes at a time. This was only used in the early years for English Literature classes. Stylistically it was considered radical for an educational institution at the time, particularly due to the fact that the classrooms had no doors, an experiment that resulted in students sometimes being distracted by people passing by in the halls. The school was still being finished when classes began in the fall of 1971.\n\nBesides its International Baccalaureate program, \"PCHS\" participates in an aggressive immersion program, an English program and a Handicapped program. In sports it is a member of the GMAA (Greater Montreal Athletic Association) and is represented by the \"Trojans'\" who are the Male Athletes and the \"Lady Trojans\" who are the Female athletes. It has a wide variety of sports for different kinds of interest such as touch football, soccer (indoor/outdoor), track and field (indoor/outdoor), rugby, softball, volleyball, swimming, badminton, tennis etc. One of their coaches is Hank Palmer (Canadien Olympian).\n\nThroughout the years students must choose between three art options: visual arts, drama and music. In grades 7 and 8 students also have the choice of dance as one of their art options. Starting in grade 9 students are allowed to change their art option if the one they chose in grade 7 does not see them fit. In grades 10 and 11 students must choose between CST and SN mathematics courses. It is important for students to choose the proper one since SN mathematics is a prerequisite for certain CEGEP programs. In grade 10 students may choose two classes out of a variety of different classes to go into in grade 11. These classes differ year to year but generally contain: physics, chemistry, biology, psychology, leadership, cooking\n\nFeatures\n\n"}
{"id": "2121588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121588", "title": "NorthernTool.com 250", "text": "NorthernTool.com 250\n\nThe NorthernTool.com 250 is a discontinued NASCAR Xfinity Series race held at the Milwaukee Mile. From 1984 to 1985, the race was 200 laps, long. From 1986 to 1992, no race was held. In 1993, the race returned, and was increased to 250 laps, , a distance it would remain at until the final race was held in 2009. The race was traditionally held Sunday afternoons, while the Monster Energy Cup Series was either off or at a different venue, but starting in 2004, the race was run on Saturday night.\n\nUntil the race sponsor changed to Camping World in 2008, the sponsorship of this race was not affected by the September 7, 2007, settlement between AT&T and NASCAR in regard to a grandfathered sponsorship deal, as Anheuser-Busch, the sponsor of the now NASCAR Xfinity Series at the time of the lawsuit, was not associated with the wireless industry. The 2010 race was canceled and the date was moved across Wisconsin to Road America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121589", "title": "Owais Shah", "text": "Owais Shah\n\nOwais Alam Shah () (born 22 October 1978) is a former English cricketer. A middle-order batsman, he played for Middlesex between 1996–2010 and Essex County Cricket Club 2011–2013 before announcing his retirement from first-class cricket. He joined Hampshire for the NatWest t20 Blast in May 2014. He has also represented England in all forms of the game.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2009, he played 71 ODIs and 17 Twenty20 Internationals. He also played 6 Tests, starting with a strong 88 on debut against India in 2006, however opportunities were limited and he did not make his third appearance until 2009 against the West Indies in 2008–09. With Michael Vaughan retired and Ian Bell dropped, Shah had the opportunity to claim the number three position for himself, however a weak series saw him dropped in favour of Ravi Bopara.\n\nHe also represented the Indian Premier League team Kolkata Knight Riders during the 2009 and 2010 seasons before being bought by Kochi Tuskers Kerala for the following two seasons, and had a short stint at the Wellington Firebirds in New Zealand. After Kochi Tuskers were excluded from the 2012 season, he played for Rajasthan Royals in IPL 5.\n\nShah was born in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan; a cricketing prodigy as an adolescent, Owais Shah began his career playing cricket for Wycombe House Cricket Club, breaking a number of club records. Owais scored a league 154 for the senior first XI when aged only 12. He won numerous awards for the club including the Ken Barrington National Cup. His maturity at a young age allowed him to work his way through both the England Youth and Middlesex Cricket County System. He made his first-class debut at age 17 in 1996 and won the NBC Denis Compton Award in 1997. In early 1998 he captained England to victory in the Under 19's World Cup in South Africa, and the following season he was captain of the England Under-19 cricket team for their \"Test\" match series at home against Pakistan. His selection for the England 'A' team that toured Australia in late 1998 at the age of 17 suggested he was on the verge of a call-up to England's Test side. However, two poor seasons followed, and despite being capped in 2000, by the end of that season—in which he made under 500 first-class runs—he could no longer command a place in the Middlesex first team. However, he made a return to form in 2001, averaging 41.60 and making his ODI debut against Australia at Bristol. Later that summer, he made 62 against Pakistan, and in 2001 Shah was named by the Cricket Writers' Club as their Young Cricketer of the Year. Owais attended Isleworth and Syon School for Boys, Lampton School (Hounslow) for his A Levels and is also a university graduate.\n\nDespite a fairly solid start to his international career, Shah could not produce the required consistency of form, making just one more fifty in ten innings from 2001/02 to 2002/03. He also suffered from a perception that his fielding was below par, something close to unforgivable in the modern one-day game, and he was dropped from the England side without having had a chance at Test cricket. In 2004, a year of success with the bat (1,336 runs at 53.44) was tempered by the loss of his Middlesex captaincy in mid-season after some poor results.\n\n2005 brought much-improved returns, as he was top-scorer of the First Division of the County Championship with two weeks left to play, having made 1578 runs at an average of 65.75. At the end of the county season in September, Shah was being talked of as a possibility for England's winter tours of Pakistan and India.\n\nHe was selected for the England 'B' team tour of the West Indies that winter, but was called up to the squad for the first-team tour of India after England suffered several injuries. He made his Test debut in the third Test at Mumbai on 18 March 2006, making 88 in his first Test innings.\n\nHe returned to the England Test squad, after 15 months out, for the first Test match against the West Indies at his home ground of Lord's; however, he scored 6 and 4 in the two innings, in an otherwise productive England batting line-up. He was dropped from the squad for the second Test following captain Michael Vaughan's return to fitness.\n\nShah was, however, brought back for the ODI series, including two Twenty20 Internationals. While making little contribution with the bat in the first match, in which England were defeated, Shah hit a match winning 55 off 35 deliveries in the second, with England drawing the Twenty20 series 1–1. He was later made man of the match. He has changed his game somewhat in recent times, and is not the classical batsman that he was in his early years; however, he still possesses a wide range of shots, with the pull shot and the fierce slap through extra cover being the most prominent.\n\nHis maiden ODI century came against India at The Oval on 5 September 2007, when he made 107* off 95 balls. Later in the same match, he bowled in an ODI for the first time, and with his 17th delivery, took his first ODI wicket, the victim being the Indian captain Rahul Dravid. Shah toured Sri Lanka with England in late 2007, and then played in the ODI series against New Zealand in early 2008. While he had a disappointing ODI series, he top-scored with 96 in the first warm-up match to enhance his claims to the Test squad.\n\nIn July 2008 he helped Middlesex win the Twenty20 Cup with a match winning innings in the final with 75 runs scored off just 35 balls, the highlight of which was three successive sixes over mid-wicket off Kent off-spinner James Tredwell.\n\nAfter the retirement of captain Michael Vaughan during summer 2008, Shah had a chance to claim a place on the tour to the West Indies. Although Ian Bell played the first Test at 3, he was dropped and replaced by Shah for the remainder of the Test series. Shah only managed one half-century, although he did reach 13,000 first-class runs during the third Test, and was not chosen for the summer Tests against West Indian cricket team in England in 2009 and Australia.\n\nHe had a poor ODI series against Australia in 2009, failing to record a score of higher than 44 in all seven matches. Going into the 2009 ICC Champions Trophy, he was under severe pressure for his place, but scored another 44 in the opening match against Sri-Lanka, before a match-winning 98 in the second group game against hosts South Africa. This came too late though, as Shah was not included in any of England's squads for the tour to South Africa. Despite still having a central contract and later being included in the England Performance Squad for the 2010 home series, he was not included in any of the final squads and did not represent England during 2010.\n\nMiddlesex announced on 31 August 2010 that they would not be renewing Shah's contract at the end of the 2010 season.\n\nWith England players free to participate in the second season of the Indian Premier League, Owais Shah was signed by the Delhi Daredevils for $275,000 during their second player auction. He was then traded to Kolkata Knight Riders in exchange of Moises Henriques. He was bought by the new team Kochi Tuskers Kerala for $200,000 and played for them in the fourth season of the IPL. In IPL 5 he played for Rajasthan Royals\n\nOn 31 August 2009 it was announced that the Wellington Firebirds had signed Shah for their domestic Twenty20 competition in December 2009. He was recommended by his former Middlesex colleague Stephen Fleming.\n\nShah played for the Cape Cobras in South Africa winning the first-class, one day and Pro20 competitions during his stay\n\nShah served as interim head coach of United Arab Emirates national team from November 2016 to January 2017, when he was succeeded by Dougie Brown. The sole major tournament for the UAE during that time was the 2017 Desert T20 Challenge.\n"}
{"id": "2121596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121596", "title": "John William Hamilton", "text": "John William Hamilton\n\nJohn William Hamilton was an American bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, elected in 1900. He was the chancellor of American University from 1916 until 1922. He was the older brother of Franklin Elmer Ellsworth Hamilton, who was also both a Methodist Bishop and the Chancellor of American University.\n\nJohn was born March 18, 1845 in Weston, Virginia (now West Virginia). He was the son of the Rev. William Cooper Patrick and Henrietta Maria (Dean) Hamilton. William was a respected clergy member of the Pittsburgh Annual Conference of the M.E. Church. He served churches in western Pennsylvania, western Virginia and eastern Ohio.\n\nJohn Hamilton was married twice. In 1873 he married Julia Elizabeth Battelle of Covington, Kentucky. She died in 1883. In 1888 he married her sister, Emma Lydia Battelle. She died in 1915. Hamilton was the father of two children, one from each marriage.\n\nAfter attending Summerfield Academy, John Hamilton taught school at the age of fifteen (the locations of the academy and the school are unknown). In April 1861 he attempted to enlist in the Union Army, but was rejected because of his age. Later he did serve with General Don Carlos Buell's troops in Kentucky (dates unknown).\n\nJohn graduated in 1865 with a BA from Mount Union College, Alliance, Ohio. In 1871 he graduated with an STB from the Boston University School of Theology.\n\nThe Rev. John Hamilton was Licensed to Preach in 1865. He was received on trial in the Pittsburgh Conference in 1866. He was appointed to the Newport Circuit in Ohio (1866–68). He was ordained Deacon in 1868 by Bishop Calvin Kingsley. That same year Hamilton transferred his ministerial membership to the New England Annual Conference, where he was ordained Elder in 1870 by Bishop Levi Scott.\n\nThe Rev. John Hamilton was appointed Pastor of several congregations in Massachusetts, including Maplewood (1868–70), Somerville (1870–72 and again 1884–88), First Methodist Church in Boston (1872–75), People's Church in Boston (1875–84) and East Boston (1888–1892).\n\nHamilton's pastorate at People's Church was especially noteworthy because he was responsible not only for its founding, but also for its development into the largest Methodist congregation in Boston. Moreover, it was Hamilton's intent from the outset that this church be open to everyone, regardless of social standing, race, or national origin.\nBeginning in 1892, Hamilton was elected corresponding secretary of the Freedmen's Aid and Southern Education Society, an agency of the M.E. Church created after the American Civil War to establish and maintain educational institutions in the southern U.S. for the benefit of freed slaves and other underprivileged youth. At the same time, being held in high esteem by his ministerial colleagues, Rev. Hamilton was elected a delegate to M.E. General Conferences, 1884–1900.\n\nJohn Hamilton was an eloquent advocate of temperance and the rights of African Americans and women. Indeed, as a General Conference delegate in 1892 he proposed a change to the Constitution of the Methodist Episcopal Church that ultimately made it possible for women to serve as delegates to that same body.\n\nThroughout his varied ministries, Rev. Hamilton was an author and an editor.\n\nJohn William Hamilton was elected to the episcopacy by the 1900 General Conference of the M.E. Church. He was assigned as Resident Bishop in San Francisco (1900–08). After the devastating earthquake of 1906, he organized the reconstruction of M.E. work in that city. First, by a national tour to raise funds for paying down all debts on M.E. properties, then raising the funds locally to rebuild every Methodist sanctuary. Hamilton United Methodist Church, designed by architect Julia Morgan in the famous Haight/Ashbury District, was named for the \"Phoenix Bishop\" who helped raise the City Spirit from the ashes: \"Together we will rebuild this city, one neighborhood at a time!\" He was also a pioneer in establishing Methodism in Alaska and Hawaii.\n\nBishop Hamilton was next assigned Resident Bishop in Boston (1908–16), where he was responsible for his denomination's ministry throughout New England. In 1916, upon reaching the mandatory retirement age of an M.E. Bishop, Hamilton succeeded his brother Franklin as Chancellor of American University in Washington, D.C.. During John's six-year administration the university's academic program improved and its financial undergirding became more sound. In 1922 he was appointed Chancellor Emeritus. During these same years, Bishop J.W. Hamilton also was a leader in raising funds for the restoration of John Wesley's living quarters at Lincoln College, Oxford.\n\nCharles Yrigoyen, Jr., in his American National Biography Online article on Bishop Hamilton, offers this evaluation:\n\nBishop Hamilton died July 24, 1934 in Boston. He was buried at Forest Hills Cemetery in Boston.\n\n\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "2121605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121605", "title": "Shearwater, Nova Scotia", "text": "Shearwater, Nova Scotia\n\nShearwater is an unincorporated Nova Scotia suburban community in the Halifax Regional Municipality between Woodside and Eastern Passage occupied by Shearwater heliport. Shearwater is divided into two sections by Main Road, referred to locally as the Upper and Lower Base but part of the same complex. The Upper Base, on the east side of Main Road, houses the airfield and administrative buildings of 12 Wing Shearwater as well as a skate park, pool, gym, and youth centre. The Lower Base, a thin strip between Main Road and Eastern Passage, holds some maintenance buildings, the Atlantic fleet diving unit, training facilities, and a yacht club. Both Bases contain PMQ military housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121606", "title": "Division Street", "text": "Division Street\n\nDivision Street is a major east-west street in Chicago, Illinois, located at 1200 North (one and a half miles north of Madison Street). Division Street begins in the Gold Coast neighborhood near Lake Shore Drive, passes through Polonia Triangle at Milwaukee Avenue into Wicker Park and continues to Chicago's city limits and into the city's western suburbs. Once known as \"Polish Broadway\" during the heyday of Polish Downtown, Division Street was the favorite street of author Nelson Algren. A fountain dedicated in his name was installed in what had been the area that figured as the inspiration for much of his work.\n\nDivision Street once served as one of Chicago's main and hippest club strips, with bars and clubs lining much of the street from State Street west to Dearborn Street. Today, the street serves as the Near North Side's second major nightlife hub, second only to the upscale River North entertainment district, located north and east of the Chicago River, and west of the famed Michigan Avenue shopping district and south of Chicago Avenue, focusing on Hubbard Street as the epicenter. The Division Street bars and clubs stay open very late, with most closing 4 o'clock or 5 o'clock in the morning. The street is usually very crowded and busy, and after 3 AM, Chicago police usually block off the street to vehicular traffic due to the heavy pedestrian presence. Further to the west, Division serves areas of the city that are not as economically vibrant, including for many years the Cabrini-Green public housing development, continuing a pattern of social class division noted by author Studs Terkel in his book, \"\". Division Street has a Red Line stop at Clark/Division. Division Street is also served by the Division/Milwaukee stop on the Blue Line at Polonia Triangle.\n\nOn the north side of this street, two doors to the east of Dearborn Street, is the bar called \"Mother's\" which gained some prominence as a result of the 1986 film, \"About Last Night...\". The film was based on the 1974 play, \"Sexual Perversity in Chicago\", by David Mamet, which was set in the subculture to be found in the intersecting Rush Street and Division Street bars, at the time. It focused on a group of characters who frequented the bar in question, portraying the corrosive effects of the subculture on relations within\n\nThe exterior shots were of the real bar, though the interior shots were done elsewhere. Mother's is located in a basement, with many support pillars through its unusually-shaped space, due to the proximity of the tunnel for the Red Line train and its air intake shafts.\n\nFarther west, around Damen Avenue (2000 W), are a number of upscale restaurants, shops, and bars. This is one of the trendiest strips in the city. These are popular in the gentrifying neighborhoods of Wicker Park, East Village, Ukrainian Village and Pulaski Park. This neighborhood figured prominently in the 1977 film, \"Looking for Mr. Goodbar\".\n\n\"Paseo Boricua\" (loosely translated as \"Boricua Promenade\") is located further west along Division Street between Western Avenue and California Avenue, in the neighborhood of Humboldt Park. The strip is flanked on both sides by Puerto Rican flags made of steel. Dedicated to Puerto Rican pride, this part of the street includes a \"walk of fame\", with the names of many outstanding Puerto Ricans. \"Paseo Boricua\" is the political and cultural capital of the Puerto Rican community in the Midwest and, some say, in the Puerto Rican Diaspora.\n\nThe Horween Leather Company, founded as I. Horween and Co. in 1905, was originally located on Division Street. The company moved in 1927 to North Elston Avenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121607", "title": "Senmaya Station", "text": "Senmaya Station\n\nSenmaya Station is served by the Ōfunato Line, and is located 39.8 rail kilometers from the terminus of the line at Ichinoseki Station.\n\nThe station has a single island platform connected to the station building by a level crossing. The station has a \"Midori no Madoguchi\" staffed ticket office.\n\nSenmaya Station opened on July 15, 1927. The station was absorbed into the JR East network upon the privatization of the Japan National Railways (JNR) on April 1, 1987.\n\nIn fiscal 2018, the station was used by an average of 199 passengers daily (boarding passengers only).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121609", "title": "Japanese Devils", "text": "Japanese Devils\n\nJapanese Devils (or Riben Guizi ) is a Japanese documentary about the war crimes committed by the Imperial Japanese Army between 1931 and 1945. The documentary is a series of interviews with 14 Japanese veterans of the Second Sino-Japanese War who recount rape, massacres, bio-experiments, and cannibalism. The accuracy of these interviews is contested by Japanese nationalist critics.\n\nMinoru Matsui's inspiration for the film came after one of his original interviewees died. Feeling that it was his last chance to document the stories, he began the process of creating the documentary. Initial support was minimal, with all production companies showing no interest. The film did not gain any traction until it was entered into the Berlin Film Festival.\n\nThe original title, Riben Guizi, is a Chinese phrase popular in the 1930s and 1940s used to express hatred for Japanese invaders.\n\nThe 14 former soldiers interviewed in the film were ex-POWs of China and were subjected to \"re-education\" by the Chinese government in the Fushun War Criminals Management Centre. This caused critics to question the accuracy of the interviews.\n\nJapanese ultra-nationalists were reported to have issued threats against the content of the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121616", "title": "Black Banana", "text": "Black Banana\n\nThe Black Banana (formerly La Banane Noire) was a nightclub in Philadelphia.\n\nThe Black Banana began in 1971 as \"La Banane Noire,\" a French ice-cream parlor and restaurant located at 534 South 4th Street, Philadelphia.\n\nIn the late-1970s, it moved to 3rd and Race Street and became a members-only club (\"The Crusaders Community Club\").\n\nDJs such as Josh Wink, Robbie Tronco, King Britt, Dj Dozia, Jeff Gross (DJ Rush), Richie Rosati, Willyum, Stango, Suzi Miller and her Bananettes performed at the nightclub, as well as video artists such as Nick London, Nick and Gigi Meoli, Toni Thomas, and uber Philly It-Girl, Kim Kelly. \n\nThe Black Banana suffered a devastating fire in 1991.\n\nThe club's founder, Garrick Melmeck died in 1991. The nightclub closed in 1998. \n\nThe building now houses Wexler Fine Arts Gallery.\n"}
{"id": "2121618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121618", "title": "Derailed (novel)", "text": "Derailed (novel)\n\nDerailed is a thriller novel written by James Siegel and published in February 2003. It tells the story of Charles Schine, a man who works in the advertising business, who suddenly finds himself having an affair, being blackmailed, and having the police investigate him for murder, all because he missed his usual commuter train one day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121619", "title": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 5 miles", "text": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 5 miles\n\nThe men's 5 miles race was held at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. It was discontinued after that in favour of the metric races of 5,000 metres and 10,000 metres. The competition was held on July 15, 1908, and July 18, 1908. 36 runners from 14 nations competed; seven from Great Britain, five from Sweden, four each from the United States, Canada and the Netherlands, two each from Denmark, France and Australasia, and one each from Hungary, South Africa, Greece, Germany, Bohemia and Italy. There were six preliminary heats, with the winner and the four runners-up with the best time advancing to the final. NOCs could enter up to 12 athletes.\n\nThese are the standing world and Olympic records (in minutes) prior to the 1908 Summer Olympics. The race was only held twice at the Olympic, 1906 and 1908.\n\nAll first round heats were held on July 15, 1908.\n\nRagueneau retired in the first quarter-mile. Coales dropped out after about four miles (6 km). Hefferon led for about half the race before Svanberg passed him.\n\nIntermediate times: 1 mile 4:52.0, 2 miles 10:02.8, 3 miles 15:10.4, 4 miles 20:29.4\n\nVoigt broke away from the pack at about four miles (6 km).\n\nIntermediate times: 1 mile 5:06.2, 2 miles 10:40.0, 3 miles 16:06.0, 4 miles 21:16.0\n\nLandqvist led the entire way, gradually pulling away from the rest of the runners.\n\nIntermediate times: 1 mile 5:07.6, 2 miles 10:32.6, 3 miles 15:53.4, 4 miles 21:26.2\n\nIntermediate times: 1 mile 4:49.6, 2 miles 9:59.8, 3 miles 15:12.4, 4 miles 20:31.4\n\nMurphy was in the lead for the entirety of the race.\n\nFitzgerald, Robertson, and Stevenson were close together for the first mile, then Robertson broke away. This left Fitzgerald and Stevenson to fight over second place.\n\nIntermediate times: 1 mile 4:52.8, 2 miles 10:02.6, 3 miles 15:18.4, 4 miles 20:37.4\n\nOwen had the largest margin of victory in the preliminary heats, defeating Galbraith by a full lap of the track.\n\nIntermediate times: 1 mile 4:46.8, 2 miles 9:56.0, 3 miles 15:19.2, 4 miles 20:51.0\n\nThe final was held on July 18, 1908.\n\nFitzgerald, Murphy, Owen, Svanberg, Hefferon, and Voigt led at various times during the final. Owen led after one mile (1.6 km) reached in 4:46.2, with Hefferon leading at the two and three mile (5 km) marks, with times of 9:54.2 and 15:05.6. After four miles (6 km), Svanberg was in front, with a time of 20:19.2. In the last two laps, Voigt sprinted to the lead which he kept until the end of the contest. He won the race setting a new Olympic record. As the competition has been discontinued, his Olympic record still stands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121625", "title": "Guillaume Canet", "text": "Guillaume Canet\n\nGuillaume Canet (; born 10 April 1973) is a French actor, film director and screenwriter, and show jumper.\n\nCanet began his career in theatre and television before moving to film. He starred in several films like \"Joyeux Noël\", \"Love Me If You Dare\" and \"The Beach\". In 2006, he turned to writing and directing with \"Tell No One\" and won a César Award for Best Director.\n\nGuillaume Canet was born in Boulogne-Billancourt on 10 April 1973 to a family of horse breeders. Canet intended to become a show jumper and was a member of the junior French National Equestrian Team. However, after a fall from his horse at age 18 he turned to acting and enrolled in the Cours Florent drama school. In 1994, he appeared in the Théâtre Hébertot production of \"La Ville dont le prince est un enfant\" with Christophe Malavoy. After working in various television shows and commercials, Canet made his film debut in the short film \"Fils unique\".\n\nIn 1997, he appeared in the thriller film \"Barracuda\" for which he won a prix d'interprétation (best actor award) at the Festival Saint-Jean-de-Luz in 1999. The same year he was nominated for a César Award for his role as Vincent Mazet in the comedy film \"En plein cœur\". He then traveled abroad to film Danny Boyle's \"The Beach\". After completing \"The Beach\", Canet starred opposite Sophie Marceau in \"La fidélité\" and in Jerry Schatzberg's \"The Day the Ponies Come Back\".\n\nIn 2002, Canet starred with Gérard Depardieu in the science fiction film \"Vidocq\". He also directed and wrote his first feature film the same year, \"Mon Idole\", which also starred his wife Diane Kruger. In 2003, he appeared opposite Marion Cotillard in Yann Samuell's \"Love Me If You Dare\" which became a sleeper hit. Canet next appeared in the international production \"Joyeux Noël\" which tells the story of the World War I Christmas cease fire. The film—which also featured Kruger—was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nCanet released his second feature film in 2006, \"Tell No One\", an adaptation of Harlan Coben's novel of the same name. \"Tell No One\" was the ninth top grossing French film of 2006 and went on to win four César awards, including a César Award for Best Director for Canet.\n\nHis film \"Blood Ties\" was selected to be screened Out of Competition at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nIn 1999, he started a relationship with German-born model and actress Diane Kruger. They were married on 1 September 2001. In January 2006, Canet and Kruger filed for divorce. Kruger later said that the marriage was not successful because their careers had kept them occupied in different parts of the world.\n\nCanet has been in a relationship with actress Marion Cotillard since October 2007. The two had known each other since 1997, and years later starred together in the 2003 film \"Love Me If You Dare\". They later co-starred in the 2009 film \"The Last Flight\". The couple has attracted considerable attention from the French media, but for a long time they did not discuss their relationship and did not appear together on a red carpet event until the Cannes Film Festival in 2009. The couple has a son together, Marcel, born on 19 May 2011. The couple are not married. Though since 2010 Cotillard has been spotted wearing a diamond solitaire on her left hand – a present from Canet – they are not engaged either. In 2014, Cotillard denied being married to Canet, instead referring to him as \"my boyfriend\" in interviews. The couple welcomed their second child, a girl named Louise in 2017.\n\nIn July 2012, paparazzo Jean-Claude Elfassi accused Canet of violence during an altercation as Canet and Cotillard arrived home from the hospital maternity ward with their new baby in May 2011. According to the photographer, Canet left his house with an iron bar and threatened him before police stepped in. Elfassi's son filmed the actor with his cell phone and while Canet made sure the footage was erased from the web, photos were published on French magazine Entrevue. Elfassi and his son attempted to sue the actor for \"violence\" and \"theft\" and their case was not only dismissed, but Elfassi faces charges for \"false accusation\" and could spend nine months in jail.\n\nCanet is an accomplished show jumper and between 2012 and 2017 participated in 623 competitions, winning 33 of them and taking nearly €67,000 in prize money. He was notably placed in competitions at international shows in Paris, and Chantilly Jumping.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121627", "title": "Franklin Elmer Ellsworth Hamilton", "text": "Franklin Elmer Ellsworth Hamilton\n\nFranklin Elmer Ellsworth Hamilton (August 9, 1866 in Pleasant Valley, Ohio – May 4, 1918) was an American bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, elected in 1916.\n\nFranklin was the son of the Rev. William Patrick and Henrietta (Dean) Hamilton. He married Mary Mackie Pierce April 25, 1895. They had the following children: Edward Pierce, Arthur Dean, and Elisabeth Louise.\n\nHamilton was the younger brother of John William Hamilton, also a bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nFranklin graduated from the Boston Latin School in 1883. He then earned the A.B. degree at Harvard University in 1887. He went on to earn the S.T.B. degree (1892) and the Ph.D. degree in 1899 at Boston University. He was also elected Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nHamilton continued his education with three years of post-graduate work at Berlin University, Germany, and in Paris, France.\n\nHamilton entered the New England Annual Conference of the M.E. Church in 1891. He was appointed to East Boston. He then became the Pastor at Newtonville. His final pastorate was First Methodist of Boston.\n\nHamilton made a tour around the world in 1904–1905 in support of student missions He was elected a delegate to the M.E. General Conferences of 1908–1916, as well as the Ecumenical conference of 1911. He also was the president of the Old South Historical Society of Boston.\n\nIn 1907 Hamilton became the chancellor of the American University, Washington, D.C., serving in this position until elected to the Episcopacy in 1916. He served as a trustee of American before being elected chancellor. His office was located at 1422 F St., N.W. in Washington, D.C. He maintained two homes: at the Hotel Hamilton in Washington, and in Milton, Massachusetts.\n\nHamilton was elected to the episcopacy of the Methodist Episcopal Church at the 1916 General Conference of that denomination. He served as resident bishop in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, from then until his death in 1918.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121629", "title": "Allenstown House", "text": "Allenstown House\n\nAllenstown House was a large five-bay, four-story Georgian mansion in County Meath, Ireland. It was built in around 1750 by William Waller.\n\nThe final owner was Vice-Admiral Arthur William Craig who assumed the surname \"Craig-Waller\" when he inherited the property in 1920 from a distant relative. In the late 1930s the house and estate were bought by the Irish Land Commission. The lands were broken up and sold. The house, though of architectural and historical significance, was controversially demolished in 1938.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121635", "title": "Rosie Cavaliero", "text": "Rosie Cavaliero\n\nRosalind Cecilia Cavaliero (born 27 November 1967) is a Brazilian-born English actress. She has appeared in numerous television roles.\n\n\n\n\nThe Radio 4 trilogy \"Lost Property\" won the '2011 BBC Audio Drama Award' for Best Drama, and Rosie Cavaliero won the Best Actress award for her role as 'Ruthie' in episode 3 \"Lost Property – A Telegram from the Queen\".\n"}
{"id": "2121650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121650", "title": "Signal lamp", "text": "Signal lamp\n\nA signal lamp (sometimes called an Aldis lamp, after Arthur Cyril Webb Aldis, who invented a widely used design, or a Morse lamp) is a visual signaling device for optical communication, typically using Morse code. Modern signal lamps are focused lamps which can produce a pulse of light. In large versions, this pulse is achieved by opening and closing shutters mounted in front of the lamp, either via a manually operated pressure switch, or, in later versions, automatically. With hand held lamps, a concave mirror is tilted by a trigger to focus the light into pulses. The lamps were usually equipped with some form of optical sight, and were most commonly used on naval vessels and in airport control towers (using color signals for stop or clearance). In manual signaling, a signalman would aim the light at the recipient ship and turn a lever, opening and closing the shutter over the lamp, to emit flashes of light to spell out text messages in Morse code. On the recipient ship, a signalman would observe the blinking light, often with binoculars, and translate the code into text.\n\nSignal lamps were pioneered by the Royal Navy in the late 19th century and continue to be used to the present day on naval vessels. They provide handy, relatively secure communications, which are especially useful during periods of radio silence, such as for convoys operating during the Battle of the Atlantic. \n\nThere are several types. Some signal lamps are mounted on the mastheads of ships, some small hand-held versions are also used (e.g., the 'Aldis lamp'); other more powerful versions are mounted on pedestals. These larger ones use a carbon arc lamp as their light source, with a diameter of 20 inches (50 cm). These can be used to signal to the horizon, even in conditions of bright sunlight. Although it was originally thought that it was only possible to communicate by line-of-sight, in practice it is possible to illuminate cloud bases both during the night and day, which allow for communication beyond the horizon. \n\nThe maximum transmission rate possible via flashing lights is no more than 14 wpm. They have a secondary function as simple spotlights.\n\nThe idea of flashing dots and dashes from a lantern was first put into practice by Captain, later Vice Admiral, Philip Colomb, of the Royal Navy, in 1867. His original code, which the Navy used for seven years, was not identical with Morse's, but Morse code was eventually adopted with the addition of several special signals. \n\nAnother signalling lamp was the Begbie lamp, a kerosene lamp with a lens to focus the light over a long distance.\n\nFlashing lights were the second generation of signalling in the Royal Navy, after the flag signals most famously used to spread Nelson's rallying-cry before the Battle of Trafalgar.\n\nDuring the trench warfare of World War I when wire communications were often cut, German signals used three types of optical Morse transmitters, called \"\", the intermediate type for distances of up to 4 km (2.5 miles) at daylight and of up to 8 km (5 miles) at night, using red filters for undetected communications.\n\nThe Commonwealth navies and NATO forces use signal lamps when radio communications need to be silent or electronic \"spoofing\" is likely. Also, given the prevalence of night vision equipment in today's armed forces, signaling at night is usually done with lights that operate in the infrared (IR) spectrum, making them less likely to be detected. All modern forces have followed suit due to technological advances in digital communications.\n\nIn air traffic control towers, signal lamps are still used today, as a backup device in case of a complete failure of an aircraft's radio. Light signals can be green, red, or white, and steady or flashing. Messages are limited to a handful of basic instructions (e.g., \"land\", \"stop\", etc.); they are not intended to be used for transmitting messages in Morse code. Aircraft can acknowledge signals by rocking their wings or flashing their landing lights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121651", "title": "Live from Planet X", "text": "Live from Planet X\n\nLive from Planet X is a live album by British-American rapper/producer MF Doom. It was released via Nature Sounds on March 5, 2005. It was recorded live in San Francisco, California on January 22nd, 2004. Originally titled Live at the DNA Lounge, the album was initially given away with \"Special Herbs, Vols. 5 & 6\". It includes tracks from \"\", \"Take Me to Your Leader\", and \"Madvillainy\".\n\nPeter Hepburn, writing for the website \"Cokemachineglow\", gave the album a favorable review, saying, \"Not only is \"Live From Planet X\" a fantastic album by live album standards, this could stand up against pretty much any rap album released so far this year.\"\n\nMeanwhile, \"Stylus Magazine\" writer David Drake gave the album a grade of \"C\", saying, \"For the discerning hip-hop fan, whatever their musical distribution allegiance, this is a pretty unnecessary (if occasionally interesting) addition to a catalogue already packed with fascinating material.\"\n\nThe entire concert is one 38:39 long track on the CD version.\n"}
{"id": "2121656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121656", "title": "Todd Walker", "text": "Todd Walker\n\nTodd Arthur Walker (born May 25, 1973) is a former professional baseball infielder who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1996 to 2007. Listed at and , he batted left-handed and threw right-handed. Walker played college baseball at Louisiana State University (LSU) and is an inductee of the National College Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\nWalker played college baseball for the LSU Tigers baseball team. In 1992, he played collegiate summer baseball with the Brewster Whitecaps of the Cape Cod Baseball League. He was a member of LSU's 1993 College World Series championship squad, and was named the College World Series Most Outstanding Player.\n\nIn 2006, Walker was elected to the LSU Hall of Fame. In July 2009, Walker was inducted into the National College Baseball Hall of Fame in Lubbock, Texas. On April 14, 2017, Walker's uniform number 12 was retired by LSU at Alex Box Stadium, Skip Bertman Field.\n\nIn 1994, the Minnesota Twins drafted Walker with the 8th pick in the 1st Round of the amateur draft. On August 30, 1996, Walker made his major league debut with the Twins. In 1998, Walker became the starting second baseman for the Twins, hitting .316 with 12 HR, 62 RBIs, and a career best 19 stolen bases.\n\nOver the next season and a half, Walker's offensive performance began to decline, and the Twins traded Walker to the Colorado Rockies. He responded by hitting .316 through the rest of 2000 and .297 through the first half of 2001. Walker hit 12 home runs as a member of the Rockies that year.\n\nThe Cincinnati Reds, in need of a better performance from its second base position, traded for Walker in July 2001. Walker rewarded the Reds by providing consistent offense, hitting .295 through the end of the season. In 2002, Walker enjoyed another fine year, hitting .299 with 11 HR and 64 RBIs and setting career highs with 42 doubles and 155 games played.\n\nFollowing the season, the Boston Red Sox hired Theo Epstein as their new General Manager. One of his first moves was trading for Walker. During 2003, Walker continued to provide consistent offense, hitting .283 with 13 HR and setting a career high with 85 RBIs. On September 23 that year, with the Red Sox trailing the Baltimore Orioles 5-2 in the ninth inning, Walker hit a two-out, two-strike, three-run home run off Jorge Julio to tie the game. (The Sox won, 6-5, on David Ortiz's walk-off home run in the tenth.) The Red Sox made the playoffs and Walker stepped up his performance again; he hit .313 with three homers in the American League Division Series against the Oakland A's, and .370 with two more homers and hits in every game against the New York Yankees in the ALCS. The Red Sox were eliminated in 7 games. Walker's five postseason homers are still a Red Sox record. Despite his performance, Walker was allowed to leave, signing with the Chicago Cubs via free agency.\n\nOver the next three seasons, Walker attempted to maintain his offensive performance with the Cubs, but found himself playing less and platooning with younger players. Walker hit .274 (2004), .305 (2005), and .277 (through July {2005). However, he began to share time at second base with other players like Neifi Pérez, and started to make appearances at first base and in the outfield.\n\nAt the end of July 2006, the San Diego Padres were attempting to make the playoffs while the Cubs were already out of the race. Before the non-waiver trade deadline, the Padres traded low-A pitching prospect José Ceda to the Cubs for Walker, who became the new starting third baseman. He hit .282 down the stretch and the Padres made the playoffs, but were eliminated in the first round by the St. Louis Cardinals.\n\nIn 2007, Walker attended spring training with the Padres. However, during the offseason, the Padres had restocked the team with more infielders and left-handed hitters and, after a poor performance during the exhibition season, Walker was released on March 27. On March 30, he signed with the Oakland Athletics. On May 12, Walker was designated for assignment to make room for Dallas Braden, and subsequently released.\n\nIn 1288 games over 12 seasons, Walker posted a .289 batting average (1316-for-4554) with 647 runs, 284 doubles, 30 triples, 107 home runs, 545 RBI, 66 stolen bases, 421 bases on balls, .348 on-base percentage and .435 slugging percentage. He finished his career with a .981 fielding percentage playing at second, third and first base. In 15 postseason games, he batted .288 (15-for-52) with 9 runs, 5 home runs and 6 RBI.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2015, Walker coached baseball at Calvary Baptist Academy in Shreveport, Louisiana.\n\nIn 2017, Walker worked with New England Sports Network (NESN) as a studio analyst and occasional color commentator; he rejoined NESN in July 2019 to work in the same capacity.\n"}
{"id": "2121662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121662", "title": "Pingwings", "text": "Pingwings\n\nPingwings was an animated black-and-white children's television series, comprising 18 ten-minute episodes, broadcast in the United Kingdom on ITV in three series of six programmes each, between 1961 and 1965. It first aired on Southern Television. Created by Oliver Postgate and Peter Firmin of Smallfilms, it starred a family of penguin-like creatures who lived at the back of a barn on the fictional Berrydown Farm. The Pingwing characters were knitted by Firmin's wife Joan, and the animation was achieved using the stop motion technique. \n\nSome of the animated sequences were filmed in the open air. Such sequences were often intercut with live-action sequences, featuring Mr and Mrs Farmer and Gay the Goat. In this way the Pingwing family interacted with their neighbours on the farm. The series was in fact filmed partly \"on location\": since Peter Firmin and his wife lived in an old farmhouse, and the Smallfilms film studio was located in a disused barn adjacent to it, all the exteriors needed for the series were available literally on their doorstep.\n\nThe series was captured on 16mm black-and-white film. All of the voices were provided by Oliver Postgate and Olwen Griffiths.\n\nA short sequence of \"Pingwings\" is available on the CD accompanying Oliver Postgate's autobiography, and a DVD of the 18 episodes is also available, from the \"Dragons' Friendly Society\".\n\nThe music for the series was composed by Vernon Elliot, and performed by him with Sidney Sutcliffe.\n\nSeries One\nSeries one was broadcast from August to September 1961.\n\nEpisode 1: \"\"The Happy Event\"\"\nEpisode 2: \"\"The Ice Cream Tree\"\"\nEpisode 3: \"\"The New House\"\"\nEpisode 4: \"\"Baby Pingwing\"\"\nEpisode 5: \"\"The Sorry Birds\"\"\nEpisode 6: \"\"The Seaside\"\"\n\nSeries Two\nSeries two was broadcast from November 1962 to February 1963\n\nEpisode 7: \"\"Robinson Pingwing\"\"\nEpisode 8: \"\"The Fish\"\"\nEpisode 9: \"\"Mrs Pingwing\"\"\nEpisode 10: \"\"The Flying Birds\"\"\nEpisode 11: \"\"The Rag Doll\"\"\nEpisode 12: \"\"Visitors\"\"\n\nSeries Three\nSeries three was broadcast from August to September 1965\n\nEpisode 13: \"\"A Game of Spoonball\"\"\nEpisode 14: \"\"Moving House\"\"\nEpisode 15: \"\"Buying and Selling\"\"\nEpisode 16: \"\"Ice Cream for Tea\"\"\nEpisode 17: \"\"A Proper Kitchen\"\"\nEpisode 18: \"\"Mrs Pingwing's Entertainment\"\"\n\nMr Pingwing\nThe father figure, portrayed as less than bright but loves his family.\n\nMrs Pingwing\nThe archetypal mother figure. Wears an apron.\n\nPaul Pingwing\nThe eldest child. Technically minded and overconfident. Wears a hat.\n\nPenny Pingwing\nPaul's younger sister. Wears an apron.\n\nBaby Pingwing\nEgg laid in episode one, hatched in episode four. Frequently gets into trouble.\n\nThe Pog\nA strange, wise pig-like creature Mr Pingwing often asks for advice in later episodes.\n\nGay the Goat\nLarge role in episode two, remains a background character elsewhere. She is deaf and kindly and a live action character.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121676", "title": "Yoshinori Kobayashi", "text": "Yoshinori Kobayashi\n\nA student of French literature from Fukuoka University, Kobayashi published his first manga, \"Tōdai Itchokusen\" (東大一直線, Beeline to Tokyo U), in 1976 in \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" while still in school. Another of his early series, , a satire about a haughty rich boy in the heyday of Japan's bubble economy, won the 1989 Shogakukan Manga Award for children's manga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121681", "title": "Durhamstown Castle", "text": "Durhamstown Castle\n\nDurhamstown Castle is a 600-year-old towerhouse in the townland of Durhamstown of the civil parish of Ardbraccan which is in the barony (Ireland) of Lower Navan, in County Meath, Ireland. It is named after a Mr Doream and has been converted into a guest house and restaurant.\n\nAlthough the precise origins of the building are unknown the existing castle is believed to date from the early 15th century. The building is of four-storeys and the ground floor has four vaulted chambers with inserted windows. A square tower with a pointed door which opens to a spiral staircase can be found at its east wall. There are three tall chimneys clustering at the north end of the nave. There is believed to have originally been another storey which was knocked down as a result of a fire. A 19th century single storey wing has been added to the north of the old house.\n\nIn the 16th century the building was owned by The 1st Earl of Essex, Lord Deputy of Ireland under Queen Elizabeth I of England and Ireland.\n\nIn the 17th century Sir Roger Jones-Lord Ranallagh lived there, whose son Arthur, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, was involved in a scandal whereby the entire Irish Exchequer was diverted to pay for the mistresses of Charles II. During the 18th century its occupants were Thompsons and during the 19th the Roberts Family.\n\nIt is currently owned by Dave and Sue Prickett, who bought it in 1996 and run it as a guest house and restaurant. It is one of the oldest continually resided-in buildings in Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121684", "title": "Toyota Tercel", "text": "Toyota Tercel\n\nThe is a subcompact car manufactured by Toyota from 1978 to 1999 across five generations, in five body configurations sized between the Corolla and the Starlet. Manufactured at the Takaoka plant in Toyota City, Japan, and sharing its platform with the Cynos ( Paseo) and the Starlet, the Tercel was marketed variously as the — sold at Toyota Japanese dealerships called \"Toyota Corolla Stores\" — and was replaced by the Platz in 1999. It was also known as the and sold at Toyopet Store locations. Starting with the second generation, the Tercel dealership network was changed to Vista Store, as its badge engineered sibling, the Corolla II, was exclusive to Corolla Store locations.\n\nThe Tercel was the first front-wheel drive vehicle produced by Toyota, establishing a layout and frame that was later used in other popular Toyota models. For example, the E80 series Corolla's frame (except AE85 and AE86) is similar to the L20 series Tercel's frame. Also, Toyota designed the then new A series engine for the Tercel, attempting simultaneously to achieve good fuel economy and performance and low emissions. Choice of body styles increased as well, with the addition of a four-door sedan.\n\nThe name \"Tercel\" derives from the Latin word for \"one third\" as the Tercel was slightly smaller than the Corolla—much the way \"\"tiercel\" refers to a male falcon, which is one-third smaller than its female counterpart. All Tercels were assembled at the Takaoka factory in Toyota City, Aichi or by Hino Motors in Hamura, Tokyo. Hino assembled the third generation Tercel from 1986 to 1990 for the two-door and some three-door models.\n\nThe Tercel was introduced in Japan in August 1978, Europe in March 1979 (Geneva Salon) and the United States in 1980. It was originally sold as either a two- or four-door sedan, or as a three-door hatchback. The hatchback's rear design was the result of using taillights similar in design to those used on the bigger Mark II: the Tercel was originally intended to be sold through Toyopet stores, alongside the Mark II. The Tercel ended up being marketed through the Corolla and the Diesel chains in Japan, while a version badged \"Toyota Corsa\" was marketed in parallel through the separate Toyopet distribution network. In the United States it was named the \"Corolla Tercel\". Models sold in the US were powered by a 1,452 cc SOHC four-cylinder 1A-C engine producing at 4,800 rpm. Transmission choices were either a four- or five-speed manual, or a three-speed automatic available with the 1.5 litre engine from August 1979 on.\n\nIn the Japanese market, the 1,500 cc engine developed at 5,600 rpm, while the 1.3-litre \"2A\" engine, added in June 1979, offered a claimed . In Europe, mainly, the 1.3 litre version was available, with .\n\nIn this new front-wheel-drive design, the first for Toyota, the engine is mounted longitudinally. The transmission is mounted under the floorpan, as is the case in a rear-wheel-drive car. Unlike a rear-wheel-drive car, the transmission has a ring and pinion gear on the front part of the transmission, underneath the engine. The engine, transmission and differential are located a little off of the centre line of the car. Halfshafts then extend from the transmission to the front wheels. This made for a taller package than usual, making the beltline higher as well, but Toyota felt that traditionalist might be scared off by a transverse setup. As early as 1980, Toyota also hinted that this setup made the conversion to a four-wheel-drive setup easier, although such a version had to wait for the second generation. The Tercel also had rack and pinion steering, the first time such a design was used by Toyota since the 2000GT.\n\nIn August 1980, the Tercel (and Corsa) underwent a facelift, with considerable changes to the front and minor ones to the interior and rear. The 1A engine was replaced by the 3A of identical displacement but now with . This engine eschewed the TGP lean burn design used on the 1A, instead depending on a catalytic converter to meet the ever more stringent emissions standards of the time.\n\nToyota redesigned the Tercel in May 1982, now called the \"Tercel\" in all markets. Its internal model code is the \"L20\" series. It was available in three- or five-door hatchback models or a four-door station wagon, and also as a four-door sedan in Japan. The station wagon, known in Japan as the \"Sprinter Carib\" (, short for \"caribou\"), was introduced in August 1982. The wagon was also available with four-wheel drive (front-wheel-drive wagons were only available in select markets). In Japan, a four-wheel-drive sedan was also available; it, too remained in production alongside the wagon version even after the introduction of the third generation Tercel. Standard front-wheel drive vehicles (and four-wheel drive wagons not equipped with the six-speed manual transmission) came with either a three-speed automatic or a four- or five-speed manual transmission. The four-speed manual was reserved for the very simplest version in North American markets.\n\nIn Japan, body styles on offer were different for the different models as they had to suit the lineups of the various dealer networks. the Corolla II was originally only available as a three- or five-door hatchback, while the Tercel and the Corsa were both offered exclusively with the five-door or the four-door sedan body styles.\n\nAs only the first two generations were sold officially in Europe, this was the last generation of the Tercel series available there, with either the hatchback or station wagon bodywork. In Japan, power outputs were as follows:\n\nNorth American Tercels were all fitted with the 1.5-litre engine, producing at 4,800 rpm. In Europe, both the 1.3 and the 1.5 litres were available. As with the earlier generation, engine and transmission were still mounted longitudinally, and the arrangements were the same. In some markets, engines received minor improvements, such as reformulated combustion chambers (to improve emissions and fuel economy), higher compression ratios, and new auxiliary devices for the carburettor assemblies.\n\nThe four-wheel-drive models (chassis code \"AL25\", only with the 1.5 litre engine) could be equipped with six-speed manual transmissions, and could be shifted from two- to four-wheel drive without coming to a stop. The sixth gear it carries is an \"extra low\" (EL) first gear, a standard transmission gear with a very low (4.71:1) gear-ratio. The EL gear generates a 17.6:1 final drive ratio, giving the driver the torque needed to extract the vehicle from conditions which otherwise may have trapped it. It is only available when in four-wheel drive, and because of its low gear-ratio it is suitable only for very low-speed use. Also included with better equipped four-wheel-drive models was an inclinometer above the radio and air conditioner that measures the tilt of the car.\n\nThe new Tercel 4WD was built from existing pieces in the Toyota inventory. The engine, transaxle and front-wheel-drive system were from the existing Tercel; the longitudinally mounted engine made such a conversion a simple affair. The coil-sprung, live rear axle and the drive shaft was taken from the rear-wheel drive Corolla. The only major part specifically designed for the new Tercel 4WD was the transfer case, built into the transmission. The transfer case provides the driver with three different power arrangements: Normally, the car is operated with front-wheel drive. When the driver pulls the 4WD selector lever back into four-wheel drive, or presses a button on the gear selector for the automatic transmission, front and rear differentials are driven at the same RPM via a direct mechanical coupling. There is no conventional center differential, so the four-wheel-drive system can be used only on loose or slippery road surfaces (such as snow, gravel, or sand); otherwise the drivetrain experiences severe wear, and handling is compromised. The third power option (which was only available on the six-speed manual) is low range. This is not the same as the low-range power option found in a truck or conventional SUV, as the Tercel lacks a high-range-low-range transfer case. When the lever is placed in four-wheel-drive mode it becomes possible to down shift the vehicle from first to EL.\n\nIn 1985 there were minor changes to gear ratios and to the grille design, and the interior was updated in 1986. The Tercel wagon (and four-door sedan in Japan) continued with the same design until February 1988 (when the Sprinter Carib was replaced by a larger, Corolla-based design), while the sedans and hatchbacks moved on to the newer design.\n\nVersions available in Europe:\n\nEngines:\n\nIn 1986, Toyota introduced the slightly larger third generation Tercel with a new 12-valve engine which featured a variable venturi carburetor, and later models with EFI. From this generation on, the engine is mounted transversely, with the transmission mounted on the right side of the engine in a layout developed by Dante Giacosa and earlier popularised in such vehicles as the Fiat 128 and Volkswagen Golf. Other changes included revised rack-and-pinion steering and a newly designed, fully independent suspension. The Tercel continued in North America as Toyota's least expensive vehicle, while it was no longer offered in Europe. In other markets, the smaller Starlet was also offered.\n\nIn Japan, the top trim package GP-Turbo came installed with Toyota's four wheel independent suspension, labeled \"Pegasus\" and included active suspension technology called \"TEMS\", along with their \"Lasre\" branded multi-port fuel injection, using the 3E-TEU engine. The GP-Turbo trim also came with a unique facelift, which included hidden headlamps.\n\nIn 1987 (for the 1988 model year), Toyota introduced the Tercel EZ to North America. Fitted with less standard equipment than the standard Tercel it has vinyl upholstery, a four-speed manual transmission, rubber mats instead of carpeting, and a deleted passenger's side sun visor. This was also when the two-door sedan model was introduced, sometimes referred to as a \"coupe\" in the United States.\n\nIn 1988, Toyota also introduced a turbodiesel version with Toyota's 1.5-litre 1N-T engine coupled with a manual five-speed transmission. This was mainly sold in the Japanese domestic market.\n\nThe wagon version continued to be of the previous generation, as did the four-door sedan (which was not exported to most countries), and continued to be so until it was moved to the Corolla's underpinnings in 1988. The variable venturi carburettor reportedly has some problems, especially in the earlier models, such as a too rich mixture, which is caused by the too thin Teflon coating of the fuel-metering needle, which erodes over time due to friction. It also has had problems with the compensator (choke device), which can also cause overly rich mixture when not working properly.\n\nFor the 1990 model year, the Tercel Wagon was discontinued, having been upgraded to the larger platform used for the Corolla/Sprinter Carib. Non-motorized two-point passive seatbelts for the front-seats were introduced in 1990.\n\nToyota introduced the fourth generation Tercel in September 1990, as either a three-door hatchback or as a sedan with either two or four doors. In the North American markets it was powered by either a 1.5 L 3E-E engine producing at 5,200 rpm (and of torque at 4,400 rpm) or a 1.5-litre 5E-FE 16 valve DOHC producing . The hatchback was not offered in North America, while the two-door sedan was not sold in any market outside of the US and Canada.\n\nIn Japan, the Tercel was also offered in 4WD versions. Hatchback models were VC, Joinus and Avenue. Trim levels for the sedan were VE, VX and VZ. The VZ is powered by a 5E-FHE engine. The higher level Japanese sedans have different tail lights and a better-equipped interior than the export models.\n\nNorth American models were the base (2-door), DX (2-/4-door) and LE (4-door). Color-keyed bumpers, full wheel covers and folded rear seat were optional on the DX, standard on the LE. The LE has red trunk garnish similar to the Japanese model.\n\nThe 1993 model had a minor exterior redesign to the front and rear fascias and the addition of a standard driver's side airbag and available anti-lock brakes. The Tercel was carried over to 1994 with no major changes—Haloalkane, a non-CFC refrigerant was used in the air conditioning system.\n\nIn Chile, the Tercel was introduced in 1991 as a four-door sedan with a 1.3-liter, SOHC 12-valve , four-cylinder, carburetor engine, under the name \"Corolla Tercel\". The \"DX\" basic version came with tachometer and four spoke steering wheel. It gained moderate success due to the Corolla name.\n\nIn September 1992, a Canadian-spec version was introduced to Chile to replace the previous one with a new 1.5-liter SOHC engine. Unlike the previous one, it was simply called \"Tercel\". It was brought along the Canadian-spec Corolla to meet the new emission standard since no Latin American version of either was yet available with a catalytic converter. Due to the higher trim level of the Canadian-spec versions, the Tercel was initially marketed as a successor of the Corolla E90, which had just been discontinued. This made it a very successful car.\n\nDesigned between 1991 and 1992, by Shinichi Hiranaka and Yasuhisa Hamano, in September 1994, for the 1995 model year, Toyota introduced an all-new Tercel. The new design offered a stiffer body with better handling and was one of only a handful of cars in the US to have OBDII in 1995. Retaining its compact packaging and high quality, the new Tercel featured a redesigned exterior and new engine. The Tercel now offered standard driver's and passenger's side airbags in the United States, but only a driver's side bag for Canada. Three-point seatbelts for front and outboard rear passengers and adjustable shoulder-belt anchor points for front seat passengers were installed on four-door models. All models met federal standards for 1997 side-impact protection, and offered anti-lock brakes. Standard models came with only a four-speed manual or automatic transmission and grey bumpers, while DX models were offered with the addition of body-colored bumpers and either a five-speed manual or four-speed automatic transmission.\n\nIts all-new appearance appears to be influenced by the Japanese-market Toyota Camry V40 series, also introduced that year. Both vehicles were available together at Toyota Corolla Store Japanese dealerships. Design patents were filed at the Japan Patent Office on October 12, 1992, under patent number 1009387.\n\nIn Japan, the Tercel was again also offered with the Corsa and Corolla II nameplates, for sale through parallel marketing channels. There was also a three-door hatchback body version offered in addition to the four-door sedan. The two-door sedan was only ever marketed in North America. There was also a four-wheel-drive option available in Japan.\n\nThe interior design pushed the dash further away, but brought the switches closer. This same dashboard (left sided version) was shared with the Toyota Starlet and Toyota Paseo of the time. The all-new DOHC 1.5 L inline-four engine provides and of torque, offering a 13 percent power increase over the previous generation as well as a 15 percent increase in fuel economy. The new 5E-FE engine gets on the highway with a five-speed manual transmission, making it the most fuel-efficient four-cylinder car of its time in the United States. As Toyota's entry-level car, the Tercel was also available with the smaller, 1.3-liter, 4E-FE and 2E gasoline four-cylinder, and the Toyota 1N-T engine; a 1,453 cc inline-four turbocharged diesel engine which provided 66 hp (49.2 kW) at 4,700 rpm and 96.1 lb·ft (130 N·m) of torque at 2,600 rpm.\n\nFor 1997, all North American market Tercels were available only in the CE trim level and incorporated many of the standard and optional items from previous base and DX models. All Tercels came standard with a new 13-inch wheel and tire combination.\n\nInside, the Tercel's dashboard was revised with rotary ventilation controls. All Toyota models had revised seat fabric and door panels. The RedHawk and WhiteHawk editions were introduced in addition to the BlackHawk trim already offered, which came standard with air conditioning, 185/60R14 tires on custom wheels, a rear spoiler with integrated brake light, and hawk symbols to identify the special model.\n\nFor 1998, the Tercel's styling was updated, highlighted by multi-reflector headlights, a revised grille and front fascia design and clear lens turn signal lights for the front and rear. The facelift occurred in December 1997 for the Japanese market, and covered all three lines (Tercel, Corsa, Corolla II).\n\nThe Tercel's rear styling was also enhanced with redesigned composite tail-lights and updated bumper molding. The new molding extended across the entire length of the rear bumper.\n\nProduction of the Tercel for the American market ended in 1998 as the model was superseded by the Echo. Production for Japan, Canada and some other countries continued through 1999. Taiwanese production continued until 2003.\n\nIn Paraguay and Peru, Tercels were still sold until the late-2000s, being replaced by Toyota Yaris.\n\nThe fifth generation of Tercel was introduced in September 1995, presented in the FISA auto Show of that year as the \"all-new Tercel twin cam\", available in three different levels: basic XLI, the medium GLI, and the full equipment LEI. All Tercels featured a 5E-FE 1.5 16v twin cam (DOHC) engine, rated at at 6,400 rpm and of torque at 3,200 rpm. With that engine the car took only 10.4 seconds from 0–60 mph. The car was revolutionary to that market at the time, and it was elected \"car of the year\" in Chile.\n\nThe XLi version was basic with no tach, and power steering was an option. The GLi had power steering, four arm steering wheels, trunk and gas cap remote opening; and three pointed rear seat belts standard. Finally, the LEi had all the equipment and AC; tachometer; rear seat belts, 175/70 13 tires, with power door locks, power windows with driver's side auto down, and four arm steering wheels. It was offered with either a five-speed manual transmission or a four-speed automatic.\n\nThe 1998 model had multi-reflector headlights, new fascia, bumpers and clear turn signal lights; in the rear, new mirror style taillights and new bumper. It was a huge success, becoming the second best-selling car in Chile for four years.\n\nIn Thailand, a version of the Tercel with different front and rear fascias was sold as the Toyota Soluna. The name \"Soluna\" is taken from Spanish words \"sol\", meaning \"sun\" and \"luna\", meaning \"moon\". The Soluna AL50 was powered by the 1.5-liter 5A-FE engine, and campaigned as the Asian family car. The plain Soluna was a big seller in Thailand. Trim levels are XLi, SLi, and GLi.\n\nOnly the XLi and GLi were sold in Thailand (since 1997) and Indonesia (since 2000) where the XLi was common for taxis. Based on the GLi, the Soluna S-Limited with body kits was offered for a short time.\n\nThe Tercel is also sold in Taiwan, which was manufactured and assembled by Kuozui Motors.\n\nThe Tercel remained smaller than the Corolla throughout its production, though by the end of its production the Tercel had become almost the same size as the North American-market 1975–1978 Corollas that were current at the time the Tercel was introduced.\n"}
{"id": "2121691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121691", "title": "Vaglio Basilicata", "text": "Vaglio Basilicata\n\nVaglio Basilicata is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Potenza, in the Southern Italian region of Basilicata. It is bounded by the comuni of Albano di Lucania, Brindisi Montagna, Cancellara, Pietragalla, Potenza, Tolve and Tricarico.\n\nIt is home to the Museo delle Antiche Genti di Lucania (Museum of the Ancient People of Lucania), which houses the Lucan portrait of Leonardo da Vinci, an alleged portrait of Leonardo da Vinci discovered in 2008. Also in the municipal territory is Archaeological Park \"Serra di Vaglio\", with remains of a Lucan town (including several princely tombs) from the 5th-3rd centuries BC. At Rossano di Vaglio are the remains of the federal sanctuary of the Lucani (used from the 5th century BC onwards) and dedicated to the goddess Mefitis. Reconstructions of the settlement and the sanctuary are in the Museo delle Antiche Genti, while most of the material excavated are in the Museo archeologico nazionale della Basilicata at Potenza.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2121692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121692", "title": "Chad Fox", "text": "Chad Fox\n\nChad Douglas Fox (born September 3, 1970 in Conroe, Texas) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher. Fox played for the Atlanta Braves, Milwaukee Brewers, Boston Red Sox, Florida Marlins, and the Chicago Cubs. He won the 2003 World Series championship as a member of the Marlins. He is also known for his injuries that have set him back in his career, undergoing Tommy John surgery twice, including having been injured in the and seasons. He has reached 50 innings—the minimum standard for a rookie season—only twice in his career, and threw fewer than 11 innings in the majors nine times between 1999 and 2009. He now teaches players of all ages at Woodlands Baseball Academy Facility in The Woodlands, Texas.\n\nFox attended Tarleton State University.\n\nThe Cincinnati Reds drafted Fox in the 23rd round of the 1992 Major League Baseball Draft. He was traded to the Atlanta Braves in 1996 with a player to be named later (Ray King) for Mike Kelly.\n\nFox was traded to the Brewers for Gerald Williams in 1997.\n\nFox's best season came in 2001, after not pitching in the majors at all the year before. Fox was voted the Brewers Most Valuable Pitcher. Taking on a setup role, Fox threw a career-best 66 innings, posting a 5-2 record and 1.89 ERA while striking out 80. This would be his last injury-free season in the majors.\n\nFox would face rehab stints in 2002 with the Brewers and 2003 with the Red Sox, though he managed to stay healthy after signing with the Florida Marlins in August 2003, posting a 2.13 ERA in 21 appearances and adding nine more outings in the postseason to help them to a World Series title. He returned to the Marlins in 2004, but was ineffective in 12 April appearances before being shut down the rest of the season with ulnar neuritis. He was equally ineffective trying to return the following season with the Chicago Cubs, this time throwing just eight innings before reinjuring his throwing elbow on April 26, 2005. This injury would temporarily end his career.\n\nOn January 11, 2008, he signed a one-year minor league deal with the Chicago Cubs hoping to make a comeback. After several rehab starts with the Cubs' A and AA affiliates, Fox was added to the 25-man major league roster on May 2. After a three-year absence he made his major league comeback debut on May 2, 2008 against the St. Louis Cardinals. He went 1-2-3 in the bottom of the 10th inning but gave up a 2-run home run in the 11th inning to take the loss.\n\nHe would go on to make appearances on May 5 and May 11, throwing two scoreless innings before returning to the disabled list on May 20 with ulnar neuritis. Fox opted to rest rather than undergo another surgery on his elbow, but was ultimately transferred to the 60-day disabled list on September 2, ending his season. In the offseason, he was re-signed by the Cubs to a minor league contract for .\n\nOn May 9, 2009; in the top of the 8th inning in a game against the Milwaukee Brewers, Fox threw a wild pitch and, coming up in obvious pain, was removed from the game. He retired as a result.\n"}
{"id": "2121693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121693", "title": "Alfred Bloom", "text": "Alfred Bloom\n\nAlfred H. Bloom is an American psychologist and linguist.\n\nBloom named executive vice chancellor of Duke Kunshan University (DKU) in China in May 2020.\n\nBloom joined NYU Abu Dhabi from Swarthmore College, where he completed an 18-year tenure as president in 2009. Under Bloom, Swarthmore assumed a position of broadly recognized leadership in American liberal arts education. During Bloom’s tenure, the College revitalized its academically rigorous Honors Program, undertook extensive renovation and creation of academic buildings, broadened its multicultural curriculum, expanded foreign study, and established the Eugene M. Lang Center for Civic and Social Responsibility.\n\nDuring the Bloom presidency, the College dramatically increased its diversity, with the proportion of students of color in the entering class rising from 16 percent to 39 percent. The College also achieved a significant increase in admissions applications and selectivity, most recently with more than 6,200 applications of extraordinary quality for approximately 375 places in the Class of 2012. Swarthmore's endowment grew from $400 million in 1991 to $1.4 billion in 2009. In addition, the College raised more than $362 million in gifts during that period. The College also expanded its commitment to financial aid, eliminating loans from students' financial aid packages, and ensuring that aid covered all foreign study. In 2000, Bloom and Swarthmore's Board of Managers, in a controversial decision, eliminated the College's football program.\n\nPrior to assuming the presidency at Swarthmore, Bloom served as executive vice president of Pitzer College in Claremont, California. Previously, he was vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty at Pitzer. He was appointed as an assistant professor of psychology and linguistics at Swarthmore in 1974, and named associate provost in 1985.\n\nIn 1967, Bloom received his B.A., \"summa cum laude\" in Romance languages and European civilization from Princeton University. That year, he studied in France as a Fulbright-Hays fellow. In 1974, he received his Ph.D. in psychology and social relations from Harvard University. The concept of \"ethical intelligence,” which has gained currency within and outside of higher education, was introduced by Bloom who first expressed it in his inaugural address as president of Swarthmore in 1991 and has since amplified its meaning in numerous writings and speeches.\n\nBloom's research brings together psychology and linguistics, particularly with respect to how they help us to understand cross-cultural continuities and differences in thought and moral understanding and the reciprocal impact of language on thought and thought on language. He is the author of \"The Linguistic Shaping of Thought: A Study of the Impact of Language on Thinking in China and the West\" (Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981) and Moral Behavior in Chinese Society (Praeger Publishers, 1981) as well as numerous articles including \"The Privileging of Experience in Chinese Practical Reasoning,\" Journal of Chinese Philosophy; \"Psychological Ingredients of High-Level Moral Thinking: A Critique of the Kohlberg-Gilligan Paradigm,\" Journal for the Theory of Social Behavior; and \"Caution - The words you use may affect what you say,\" Cognition.\n\nBloom is the recipient of honorary doctorates from the University of Richmond and Swarthmore College.\n\nBloom served as the vice chancellor of New York University Abu Dhabi from 2008-2019.\n\nBloom's research has focused on the comparative study of languages, especially between Mandarin and English. Bloom has argued for a weak version of the so-called linguistic relativity hypothesis, which postulates an influence of language on the way speakers conceptualize and arrange the reality; he has tried to show this through his most widely known experiment. He selected two different groups of subjects, one composed of native English speakers and the other composed of Chinese speakers; the subjects were shown a text written in their own respective languages, and their task was to read that text and, afterwards, give an answer to the question whether or not what it told had actually happened. The text, which had been initially written in English and later on translated into Chinese in a literal way, reported a set of counterfactual events that were told by using the subjunctive, a verb tense that is nowhere found in the Sinitic languages. In the end, Chinese speakers gave a much higher percentage of wrong answers than the English group. Therefore, Bloom's conclusion was the impossibility to translate literally between languages: Chinese and English express different thoughts, even when they are telling the same story.\n\nThis experiment has been disputed by several authors. Au, for example, conducted an extended version of the same experiment: he used different versions of the Chinese text. In those cases in which the translation was not too literal, the text became more intelligible to its readers, and therefore they were able to understand what it reported. Pinker, following Au, has also criticized Bloom's results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121696", "title": "Charles Cardwell McCabe", "text": "Charles Cardwell McCabe\n\nCharles Cardwell McCabe (October 11, 1836, Athens, Ohio – December 20, 1906, New York, NY), also known as \"Bishop\" C. C. McCabe and Chaplain C. C. McCabe, was an American who distinguished himself as a Methodist pastor, an Army chaplain during the American Civil War, a Church executive chiefly in the field of fundraising, as chancellor of American University, and as a bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church (M.E.), elected in 1896. McCabe was credited by Julia Ward Howe as having popularized her famous piece, \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic\" after his imprisonment by the Confederates in Libby Prison during the Civil War.\n\nCharles was born October 11, 1836, in Athens, Ohio, on the same day as bishop Isaac Wilson Joyce, another Ohio-born M.E. Bishop. Charles was the son of Robert McCabe, a tailor, and Sarah Robinson. His grandfather was also Robert McCabe, who was an early Methodist class-leader and an adviser to John Stewart, pioneer of American Methodist missions. Ancestor Owen McCabe was of Covenanter stock from County Tyrone, Ireland. He immigrated to America in the 1740s and by 1750 was located in Sherman's Valley of Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, in an area that eventually (1820) became Tyrone Township of Perry County, Pennsylvania. Charles went to the altar at eight years of age under the pleading of \"Saint\" Minturn. He was appointed to lead a class at age 15.\n\nIn 1854 Charles enrolled at Ohio Wesleyan University in Delaware, Ohio, where his uncle, Lorenzo Dow McCabe, was a distinguished professor. Although Charles withdrew from school in 1858, he graduated with a B.A. degree in 1860 and was accorded on honorary M.A. in 1864. He then became a high school principal. While studying at Ohio Wesleyan University, he courted an heiress Mary Monnett who ended her relationship with him without explanation. Only years later did he learn that she had been advised by a local leading minister that her wealth would tarnish the reputation of young McCabe, who clearly was destined for greatness with his forceful, joyful manner, good looks and sanctified air. Monnett eventually went insane and McCabe encountered her in an insane asylum and learned, after all those years, the reason she had rejected him. \n\nMcCabe joined the Ohio Annual Conference of the M.E. Church in 1860. He was ordained deacon by Bishop Matthew Simpson, September 23, 1860 in Gallipolis, Ohio, and elder by Bishop Thomas Asbury Morris, September 7, 1862 in Zanesville, Ohio. His career was built on his charisma as a popular and entertaining speaker and a singer with rich baritone and sparkling manner. He was very successful as a missionary and a fund raiser for the Methodist church.\n\nAs the Civil War broke out, McCabe helped raise a regiment of infantry for the Union Army. By October 8, 1862 McCabe was serving as chaplain of the 122nd Ohio Infantry. He was captured by the Confederate Army and sent to Libby Prison, where he served as a chaplain to his fellow prisoners of war. During his time as a prisoner of war, McCabe learned about the \"Battle Hymn of the Republic\", when a newspaper was slipped through the bars of the prison. Nineteenth-century newspapers featured poems and other art forms, including the lyrics to songs. Along with the lyrics to this newly written song was a notation telling readers it should be sung to the tune of \"John Brown's Body Lies A-Mouldering In His Grave.\" McCabe liked the song, sang it, and taught it to his fellow prisoners—doctors, lawyers and other professionals—to pass the time in prison. \n\nLatter at a meeting of the United States Christian Commission in the U.S. Capitol he greatly impressed Lincoln, who was in attendance along with many members of Congress. About his visit to the Capitol, Jule Ward Howe's daughter Laura Elizabeth Howe Richards wrote: \"Among other stirring tales, he told of the scene in Libby Prison; and once more, to a vast audience of loyal people, he sang the \"Battle Hymn of the Republic.\" The effect was magical. People sprang to their feet, wept and shouted and sang with all their might; and when the song was ended, above all the tumult was heard the voice of Abraham Lincoln, crying while the tears rolled down his cheeks, 'Sing it again!.'\" Ill health later forced him to resign his chaplaincy, January 8, 1864.\n\nFollowing the war, as the most famous U.S.A. chaplain, he lectured all over the U.S. on \"\"The Bright Side of Life in Libby Prison\"\", an ever-changing motivational talk, where he joked about the vermin that crawled over them at night and made clever remarks about the lawyers who weren't such bad guys if you had to be in a prison with them. McCabe himself nearly died in prison due to the unsanitary conditions, suffering from chills and fever from the illness he contracted there, but, using black humor, joked during his talks about the treatment of himself and other prisoners. Prior to entering the episcopacy, he served on the Christian Commission, as a pastor and as the church extension secretary. He was a missionary promoter, an evangelist and a Gospel singer.\n\nBishop McCabe also served as chancellor of American University from December 1902 until his death in December 1906. He was especially prominent in the university's initial fundraising. Indeed, he thought of himself as \"\"doomed to raise money,\"\" in such high demand he was as a raiser of funds for churches. Also known as Methodism's \"\"Singing Chaplain,\"\" from coast to coast he sang \"We're building two a day,\" a song written in response to the charge that the church was dying out, a charge made by a widely known agnostic of the day, Robert G. Ingersoll.\n\nBishop McCabe fell ill in New York City after a fundraising trip to the Methodist Episcopal Church of Torrington, Connecticut. He died in New York Hospital on December 19, 1906, aged 70, and was buried in Rose Hill Cemetery in Chicago.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121711", "title": "USS Percival", "text": "USS Percival\n\nUSS \"Percival\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2121712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121712", "title": "1933–34 in Swedish football", "text": "1933–34 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1933–34 season in Swedish football, starting August 1933 and ending July 1934:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2121715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121715", "title": "MHz Networks", "text": "MHz Networks\n\nMHz Networks began as a project of the Commonwealth Public Broadcasting Corporation. The broadcaster's original stations were WNVT in Goldvein, Virginia, and WNVC in Fairfax, Virginia, which served the Washington, D.C., television market. International programming began on WNVC in 1996, branded \"World View TV\". In 2001, the two stations became known as MHz Networks, with WNVC becoming MHz1 and WNVT becoming MHz2.\n\nIn the digital television era, WNVC and WNVT placed a set of twelve international news channels on their two signals. The final set of channels consisted of TRT World, CGTN America, CGTN Documentary, Africa Today TV, France 24, CNC World, Arirang, TeleSUR, Deutsche Welle, and Vietnet. Previous channels included NHK World, BVN, Al Jazeera English, Blue Ocean Network, SABC News International, NTA, Ethiopian Television, RT America, RT Spanish, VTV4, Euronews, CNC World, and TRT Türk. Two months before the end of broadcast operations in Washington, on February 1, 2018, RT America was dropped from WNVC's signal, apparently due to concerns that MHz Networks or CPBC would be required to register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act.\n\nIn 2013, Commonwealth Public Broadcasting Corporation spun off the MHz Networks unit and sold the WNVC and WNVT towers. On April 1, 2018, MHz Networks exited the Washington, D.C. market after CPBC sold the stations' channel allocations in the Federal Communications Commission's ongoing spectrum reallocation auction.\n\nMHz Worldview was an independent, American, non-commercial public television network that broadcasts newscasts and other programs from around the world. It was owned and operated by MHz Networks.\n\nMHz Worldview offered international newscasts, foreign dramas, music performances, and diversity programming, in English or with subtitles.\n\nThe channel was available as a subchannel on several U.S. public TV stations.\n\nOn January 8, 2020, MHz Networks announced the closure of MHz Worldview as they transition to digital streaming services. The network shut down at Midnight Eastern Time on March 1, 2020.. Near the closure, the many television stations that had programming from MHz switched to different networks. Five stations switched to World Channel, another five to First Nations Experience and another five to DW. MHz Worldview was the main affiliate for WPPT and they switched to PBS. WCFE-TV switched to NHK World-Japan. KMOS-TV started its new independent channel in subchannel 6.3, named KMOS Emerge. KUEN now carries local progamming on subchannel 9.2, previously used by MHz Worldview. KWSU-TV removed subchannel 10.3 after MHz Worldview was closed.\n\nOn October 20, 2015, MHz Networks launched an OTT streaming video on-demand SVOD service called MHz Choice in the U.S. The service expanded into Canada in September 2017.\n\nMHz Choice features mysteries, dramas and comedies from MHz Networks' catalog of international programs, unedited with English subtitles. The direct to consumer service is available on the web at mhzchoice.com and on a variety of apps including Android, Android TV, Apple TV, iOS, Fire TV, Roku and a Samsung Smart TV app.\n\nMHz Choice Partners<br>\nIn November 2016, MHz Choice launched on Amazon Prime Video Channels which gave Amazon Prime members the ability to add an MHz Choice subscription to their Amazon Prime account. In October 2018, MHz Choice launched on Comcast's Xfinity X1's over the internet on-demand service. In April 2019, MHz Choice launched on The Roku Channel as part of Roku's Premium Subscription service.\n"}
{"id": "2121720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121720", "title": "Aldobrandini family", "text": "Aldobrandini family\n\nThe Aldobrandini are an Italian noble family from Florence, with close ties to the Vatican. Their Roman fortunes were made when Ippolito Aldobrandini became pope under the name Pope Clement VIII. He arranged the marriage that linked the Aldobrandini with the Roman family of Pamphili. They were also linked to marriage alliances with the Farnese (Ranuccio I, duke of Parma, had married Margherita Aldobrandini) and Borghese (since Olimpia Aldobrandini married Paolo Borghese).\n\nThe family also lends its name to the Palazzo Aldobrandini on the Quirinal Hill. The Aldobrandini family, having reached the height of its powers when Ippolito Aldobrandini became Pope Clement VIII (1592-1605), began the building of the villa. In 1600 Clement VIII acquired the Orti Vitelli on the Quirinal hill and in 1601 donated the property to his Cardinal-nephew Pietro Aldobrandini. The old buildings of the Vitelli Family were demolished and construction began on the new villa and adjacent garden. The villa was never the family seat as the Aldobrandini family owned even more splendid residences elsewhere in Rome. The villa on the Quirinal hill served essentially for ceremonial functions.\n\nMore famous was the Villa Aldobrandini in Frascati. Also known as Belvedere for its charming location overlooking the whole valley up to Rome, it was rebuilt on the order of Cardinal Pietro Aldobrandini over a pre-existing edifice built by the Vatican prelate Alessandro Rufini in 1550. The villa, aligned with the cathedral down its axial avenue that is continued through the town as Viale Catone, was rebuilt in the current form by Giacomo della Porta from 1598 to 1602, and then completed by Carlo Maderno and Giovanni Fontana. The villa has an imposing 17th -century facade and some other interesting architectural and environmental features, such as the double gallery order on the rear facade, the spiral-shaped flights, the large exedra of the Water Theatre and the magnificent park. Inside there are paintings of Mannerist and Baroque artists such as the Zuccari brothers, Cavalier D'Arpino and Domenichino. Outside there is a monumental gate by Carlo Francesco Bizzaccheri (early 18th century).\n\nThe Doria, Pamphilj, Landi and Aldobrandini families have become united through marriage and descent under the simplified surname Doria Pamphilj (which is now extinct since the death of Princess Orietta Doria Pamphlij in 2000). The Aldobrandini family palazzo and its collections of works of art and furnishings is now the Doria Pamphilj Gallery in Rome.\n\nThe family name lives on, however, via a branch of the Borghese family, descended from the marriage of Olimpia Aldobrandini with Prince Paolo Borghese in the 17th century. This line is descended from Don Camillo Borghese, Prince Aldobrandini (1816–1902), a leading member of the \"soi-disant\" Black Nobility, who in turn was the younger brother of the then Prince Borghese and head of that family. Princess Olimpia Anna Aldobrandini, also a non-lineal descendant of Napoleon on her mother's side, married into the Rothschild family.\n\nThe princely family is currently represented by Prince Camillo Aldobrandini (b. 1945), whose heir is Don Clemente Aldobrandini (b. 1982).\n\nOther notable members of the Aldobrandini family are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121723", "title": "Brenz (river)", "text": "Brenz (river)\n\nThe Brenz is a river in Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria, Germany. It is a left tributary of the Danube. Its source is at a spring in the town of Königsbronn and it flows for 52 kilometers before meeting the Danube at Lauingen, a few kilometers west of Dillingen. It flows through the towns of Königsbronn, Heidenheim an der Brenz, Giengen and Lauingen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121727", "title": "Music at sporting events", "text": "Music at sporting events\n\nThe use of music at sporting events is a practice that is thousands of years old, but has recently had a resurgence as a noted phenomenon. Some sports have specific traditions with respect to pieces of music played at particular intervals. Others have made the presentation of music very specific to the team—even to particular players. Music may be used to build the energy of the fans, and music may also be introduced in ways that are less directly connected with the action in a sporting event.\n\nThe ancient Greeks intently tied the performance of music to sporting events, particularly at their quadrennial Olympic games.\nThe revival of the Olympic games in 1896 also incorporated music into the festivities surrounding the competitions. On March 25 of that year, \"the Philharmonic Orchestra played the National Anthem and the first Olympic Hymn, written by poet Kostis Palamas and set to music by the well-known Greek composer Spyridon Samaras.\"\n\nComposer Carl Orff's O Fortuna is most commonly played over a sports venue's public-address system, just before the start of many important, significant professional and collegiate games.\n\nWithin its first two notes, coupled with its booming operatic vocals and percussive instrumentation, Orff’s \"O Fortuna\" is based upon a 13th-century poem entitled,\" Carmina Burana\". Orff's legendary composition laments fate, and it forms the beginning and end of his interpretation of the poetry.\n\nCertain songs have historically been associated with particular sporting events. Fans of the home team at collegiate athletic events may serenade the losing visitors with a song recorded by Steam, titled \"Na Na Hey Hey Kiss Him Goodbye\", with its familiar refrain, \"na na, na na na na, hey, hey, hey, goodbye.\"\n\nQueen's standards '\"We Will Rock You\" and \"We Are the Champions\" have also become common fare at sporting events, as have Five Stone's \"Make Noise\", Gary Glitter's \"Rock and Roll Part 2\", and Zombie Nation's \"Kernkraft 400\". Most collegiate sports are accompanied by a band that plays brass and drum instrumental music designed to accentuate the experience.\n\nAt NBA games, repetitive organ music is played at key points of the game. For example, the announcers often play the \"Charge\" fanfare to accompany the home team entering the visitor's side of the court with possession of the ball. A different theme is used to encourage the home team in defense of their own side of the court. Many NBA teams now play a particular theme to accompany the home team taking the court to begin the game. They also use chant such as the defence chant to show support and pump up the crowd.\n\nThe NCAA does not use organ music, but in many Division I schools, a smaller pep band plays at games (as compared to the full-size football marching bands). However, during a 2004 game between Michigan State University and the University of Kentucky at Ford Field, both teams' full football marching bands played.\n\nBallpark music performed by an organist debuted at Chicago's Wrigley Field in 1941, and had spread to most other Major League parks by the 1960s.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1970s, pre-recorded pop and rock music began to supplement the organ music (or replace it entirely) at many ballparks. A very popular theme song is \"Meet the Mets\" from 1962 when the Mets joined the MLB. The Mets also had a theme song for their World Series run in 1986, it was \"Lets go Mets\".\n\nIn the modern evolution of the sport, many athletes now have \"theme songs\" that are played when they come up to bat. Slate notes that Major League Baseball players \"can pick several songs as personal themes for their plate appearances, sometimes a rotation of four different tracks a game.\" Indeed, in 2004, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that the longtime organist for Dodger Stadium \"has been usurped by a deejay who sits directly below her. He plays a selection of hip-hop and rock, interspersed with devices designed to pump up the crowd and the stadium's volume.\" In that same year, the Dropkick Murphys' version of a 1902 Red Sox fight song ended up inspiring Red Sox fandom, as their team headed to victory in both the 2004 ALCS and the 2004 World Series.\n\nThe Atlanta Braves are known for an organist whose primary duty is playing the visiting player's walkup music, which is often fan-selected or plays on a player's name, with special dispensation for certain players. Former Braves usually are greeted with the theme to Welcome Back, Kotter. Georgia natives having the popular state anthem Georgia on My Mind. Players who played college baseball at one of the currently 14 Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) or currently 14 Southeastern Conference (SEC) schools (both conferences' fan bases reach the city) or Big Ten–school Maryland (which had been an ACC member until the 2013-14 season, since former Terrapins probably made visits to the state of Georgia while playing college baseball) receive their respective school's fight song. (The fight song is played for all players who played at current ACC-schools Louisville, Notre Dame, and Pittsburgh or current SEC-schools Missouri and Texas A&M—the five most recent members of the respective conferences in baseball—even if their team played in the American (then–Big East) or Big 12 conference at the time.)\n\nIn some cases a particular song may be played at a specific time in the game.\n\n\"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\" is often played or sung at major- or minor-league baseball games, typically during the seventh-inning stretch.\n\nAt Fenway Park, Neil Diamond's song, \"Sweet Caroline,\" is played during the eighth inning of Boston Red Sox home games, and has been a regular part of the program since 2002.\n\nSince 2006, \"Sweet Caroline\" has also played over the sound system during the middle of the eighth inning of New York Mets home games.\n\nConsequently, Diamond's hit single became a standing tradition after several years of playing it based upon the home-team's performance.\n\nThe National Football League team, the Buffalo Bills, have been credited for playing \"Seven Nation Army\" by the White Stripes before each team kickoff.\n\nMany NHL hockey teams feature an organist to lead crowd chants, cues and other prompts. Hockey organists may adapt popular music for the organ and play genres such as rock, film scores, or pop on the organ in instrumental form.\n\nIn the many countries where football is popular, and in the UK in particular, football music is a varied and popular subgenre of popular music. Songs are often released to coincide with specific events, such as the World Cup, or to become anthems for particular teams. Since football has a huge spectator base, such songs are often very popular on the charts. Examples of music created to be football songs include New Order's \"World in Motion\", and \"Three Lions\" by The Lightning Seeds in collaboration with comedians and football fans: David Baddiel and Frank Skinner. A subset of football music is novelty football music, which typically includes humorous lyrics. Examples of novelty football songs include \"Vindaloo\" by Fat Les, \"Meat Pie, Sausage Roll\", and numerous Frank Sidebottom songs.\n\nThe Village People/Pet Shop Boys song \"Go West\" has also become popular, and an instrumental version of the music was used as the theme for the 2006 World Cup.\n\nLiverpool adopted \"You'll Never Walk Alone\", specifically the version performed by Merseybeat band Gerry & The Pacemakers, as its theme song. Manchester City have adopted Blue Moon as their song whilst I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles can be heard at games involving West Ham United. Stoke City fans' anthem has been Delilah since the 1970s.\n\nMany College Football teams have marching bands that play during the game at football games and march on the field during halftime.\n\nCurrently two teams have marching bands in the NFL. The Washington Redskins have featured a marching band since 1938, and the Baltimore Ravens have featured a marching band since its 1996 inception; however, Baltimore's Marching Ravens dating to the All-American Football Conference (a league which merged with the NFL) team in Baltimore, MD, featured a marching band when it began in 1947, went through many years with the Colts, and continued operations after being abandoned by the Irsay family when the team moved to Indianapolis in 1984. However, that band stayed intact in the area and began playing at other events, including the Preakness Stakes, and was used for the two-year CFL experiment known as the Baltimore Stallions. When the NFL returned to Baltimore with an expansion team in 1996 (the NFL suspended the Cleveland Browns franchise, and awarded an \"expansion team\" in Baltimore in a complex deal), the loyal band was rewarded by becoming the new Ravens' marching band. For the two years that the Ravens played at the Memorial Statium (former home of the Baltimore Colts) they remained \"The Marching Colts.\" Once the new stadium opened in 1998, the group's name was changed to Baltimore's Marching Ravens to reflect the new era for the new team. During their existence, the Los Angeles Rams had a marching band during their time at both the LA Coliseum and Anaheim Stadium. The practice was abandoned when the team relocated to St. Louis.\n\nThe Seattle Seahawks adopted The Verve's \"Bittersweet Symphony\" as their theme song, and it is heard whenever something special happens to the home team. For instance, when the team takes the field to a sellout crowd, the song blares throughout the reverberating stadium, or when the Seahawks score the game-winning field goal, it would undoubtedly be played. When the New England Patriots come out from the tunnel, Ozzy Osbourne's hit \"Crazy Train\" is played. A common song for the New Orleans Saints during and since their Super Bowl Season is \"Half-time\", or \"Stand Up and Get Crunk\" by Ying Yang Twins. The song \"Big Easy Mafia\" is played prior to all New Orleans Saints games while the players are warming up and the fans are pouring into the stadium to hype everyone up. Green Bay Packers play Todd Rundgren's \"Bang the Drum All Day\" after every Packers touchdown at Lambeau Field.\n\nA common choice of music to be played over PA systems as games are being kicked off is \"Start Me Up\" by the Rolling Stones and \"Welcome to the Jungle\" by Guns N' Roses.\n\nEntire teams will occasionally adopt a theme song (such as the Chicago Bears with their 1985 \"Super Bowl Shuffle\", sung by the members of the team). Up until 2011, Monday Night Football had its own theme, sung by Hank Williams, Jr.; the Hockey Night in Canada theme has sometimes been referred to as Canada's second national anthem; and the Olympic Games have long had powerful theme music composed to accompany ceremonies opening and closing the games.\n\nPerhaps the most extreme example of this can be found in professional wrestling and some mixed martial arts promotions, where almost every wrestler has an entry theme written to suit their particular character.\n\nAn album entitled \"ESPN Presents Stadium Anthems\" has been released that includes many songs that are played over the Public Address system at North American sporting events. Similar albums, such as Jock Jams have been released in the past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121733", "title": "Crown Pacific Partners", "text": "Crown Pacific Partners\n\nCrown Pacific Partners, L.P. was a publicly traded partnership founded in 1988 which at its peak owned about 800,000 acres (3,000 km²) of timberland, half in Oregon and the rest in Washington, Idaho, and Montana. It also held several sawmills (including one in Gilchrist, Oregon), a wood chip plant, and lumberyards in the Pacific Northwest, with wholesale marketing and sales office in states such as California, Utah, and Arizona.\n\nThe partnership went public in 1994, trading under the stock symbol CRO on the New York Stock Exchange. It filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in June 2003, with its remaining assets, 520,000 acres (2,100 km²) in Washington and Oregon, taken over by creditors in December 2004, who formed Cascade Timberlands, LLC.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121734", "title": "Unije", "text": "Unije\n\nUnije (; ) is an island in Croatia. It is part of the Cres-Lošinj archipelago, which is situated at the northern portion of the Adriatic Sea. Unije is the third largest island of the archipelago. It is in size, with numerous bays and beaches. Low hills abut the shoreline and are covered with Mediterranean evergreen macchia trees and olive trees.\n\nThe only settlement on the island of Unije bears the same name. It is a typical fishing and farming village which contains 280 houses. The houses are positioned on a gentle slope located on a western cove of the island. Because of its openness, the port of Unije does not provide good shelter during strong storms, especially those originating from the west and northwest. During severe weather, small fishing and pleasure boats have to be pulled out onto the pebbly beach while larger boats need to be moored in one of the sheltered bays on the eastern side of the island.\n\nThe year round population of Unije is less than 85 residents and grows to more than 400 residents during the summer tourist season. Passenger ship service provides daily connections to the nearby islands of Susak and Mali Lošinj as well as the mainland cities of Rijeka and Pula. Unije also has an airport that serves private and commercial aircraft. A sky bus service connects Unije to Mali Lošinj.\n\nA recently released book by Llumina Press, entitled \"The History and Families of Unije: a compiled history and family genealogies for the island of Unije, Croatia\" outlines the history for the island and provides detailed family genealogies for those families that have lived on the island for over 100 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121738", "title": "20th Duke of Cambridge's Own Infantry (Brownlow's Punjabis)", "text": "20th Duke of Cambridge's Own Infantry (Brownlow's Punjabis)\n\nThe 20th Duke of Cambridge's Own Infantry (Brownlow's Punjabis) was a regiment of the British Indian Army. It was raised in 1857, as the 8th Regiment of Punjab Infantry. It was designated as the 20th Duke of Cambridge's Own Infantry (Brownlow's Punjabis) in 1904 and became 2nd Battalion (Duke of Cambridge's Own) 14th Punjab Regiment in 1922. In 1947, it was allocated to the Pakistan Army, where it continues to exist as 6th Battalion The Punjab Regiment.\n\nThe regiment was raised at Nowshera on 1 August 1857 by Lieutenant Charles Henry Brownlow from drafts provided by 4th and 5th Punjab Infantry on the orders of John Lawrence, the British High Commissioner of the Punjab. It was one of several battalions raised by Lawrence to suppress the Great Indian Mutiny of 1857. Brownlow, who became their first commanding officer, remained associated with the regiment for more than half a century; becoming their Honorary Colonel in 1904. He was made a Field Marshal in 1908. The regiment's first overseas service came during the Second Opium War against China. Soon after landing there, it took part in the successful assault on Taku Forts on 21 August 1860. The regiment then advanced with the rest of the British force, arriving at Peking (Beijing) in late September, which was captured on 6 October. In 1861, the regiment was brought into the line as the 24th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry, replacing the previous 24th which had mutinied in 1857. It was renumbered as the 20th Regiment later in the year.\n\nIn 1863, it took part in the Umbeyla Campaign on the North-West Frontier of India. During the fierce fighting at Crag Picquet in October and November, the 20th Punjabis retook the position, which had been captured by the tribesemen on 30 October. It then successfully defended the post from repeated attacks by the tribal forces. It was the first of many such engagements against the hostile Pashtun tribes of the Afghan frontier. In 1864, the regiment, now designated as the 20th (Punjab) Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry, took part in the Black Mountain Expedition, and in 1877, it operated against the Jowaki Afridis. Next year, the regiment advanced into the Khyber Pass to clear Afghan forces at Ali Masjid during the Second Afghan War, as part of the 1st Brigade of the Peshawar Field Force. Ali Masjid, an imposing fortress, was the first engagement of the war. After the capture of the fort, the Peshawar Field Force advanced into Afghanistan and captured Jalalabad.\n\nIn 1882, the regiment was dispatched to Egypt as part of an expeditionary force to suppress the revolt by Arabi Pasha against the Egyptian Government. In a surprise dawn attack on 13 September, the Egyptian forces at Tel-el-Kebir were completely routed by the British. The 20th Punjabis fought on the left flank of the Indian Brigade. In honour of their service in Egypt, the Duke of Cambridge was appointed as their honorary colonel in 1883, and the regiment was retitled as the 20th (Duke of Cambridge's Own) (Punjab) Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry.\n\nIn 1891, after the Mir of Hunza refused to guarantee safe British passage through his state, the 20th Punjabis participated in Colonel Algernon Durand's expedition to Hunza. In 1897, during a general uprising of Pashtun tribes, the regiment operated as part of the Mohmand Field Force. The regiment, under the command by Lieutenant-Colonel (later Lieutenant-General) JB Woon, fought in a fierce engagement against a force of about 6,000 Mohmands at Shabkadr. In 1900, the 20th Punjabis were sent to China to suppress the Boxer Rebellion.\n\nSubsequent to the reforms brought about in the Indian Army by Lord Kitchener, the regiment's designation was changed to 20th Duke of Cambridge's Own Punjabis in 1903, and then 20th Duke of Cambridge's Own Infantry (Brownlow's Punjabis) in 1904.\n\nDuring the First World War, the regiment saw active service in Mesopotamia and Palestine against the Ottoman Empire. On 16 October 1914, the 20th Punjabis sailed for the Persian Gulf from Bombay as part of the 16th (Poona) Brigade of the Indian Expeditionary Force 'D'. On 6 November, the regiment landed near the fort of Fao, and then advanced up the Shatt-al-Arab. On 11 November, the regiment was actively involved in repulsing a Turkish attack near Sanniyeh. The regiment then took part in the successful attack on the Ottoman force at Saihan on 15 November, and Zain on 19 November. After the Turks retreated northwards, the regiment took part in the capture of Basra, which was occupied on 23 November. In April 1915, the regiment fought at the Battle of Shaiba, where the Turkish attempt to retake Basra was foiled. The 20th Punjabis subsequently took part in the British advance northwards, which led to the capture of Kut-al-Amara in September 1915. For the next two years, the regiment remained engaged in a number of actions against the Turks including the Battle of Istabulat. After spending a few months in Egypt, it was dispatched to Palestine in March 1918 and took over trenches north of Jaffa. In May 1918, it returned to India.\n\nIn 1921-22, a major reorganization was undertaken in the British Indian Army leading to the formation of large infantry groups of four to six battalions. Among these was the 14th Punjab Regiment, formed by grouping the 20th Punjabis with the 19th, 21st, 22nd and 24th Punjabis, and the 40th Pathans. The battalion's new designation was 2nd Battalion (Duke of Cambridge's Own) 14th Punjab Regiment. During the Second World War, the battalion was part of the British garrison of Hong Kong, where it fiercely resisted the Japanese invasion in December 1941. However, after heroically resisting the enemy for 18 days, the outnumbered British garrison was forced to surrender on 25 December. The battalion spent the rest of the war in Japanese captivity. It was re-raised in 1946. In 1947, the 14th Punjab Regiment was allocated to Pakistan Army. In 1956, it was merged with the 1st, 15th and 16th Punjab Regiments to form one large Punjab Regiment, and 2/14th Punjab was redesignated as 6 Punjab. In 1948, the battalion fought in the war with India in Kashmir, while during the 1965 Indo-Pakistan War, it served in the Rann of Kutch, and then took part in Operation Grand Slam. In 1971, it fought in East Pakistan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121739", "title": "Christian puppetry", "text": "Christian puppetry\n\nChristian puppetry is a form of Christian ministry and entertainment through puppetry.\n\nThe Muppets gave puppetry a whole new look and life in the mid-twentieth century. \"Puppet-fever\" engulfed Americans. With the new public interest in puppetry, both in America and worldwide, Christians began to see the potential in this art form.\n\nBeginning then and continuing to this day, churches in nearly every Christian denomination have started small puppet groups. Usually such groups' purpose is to serve their own children's ministry programs, but some reach outside their own walls, performing for other churches or secular venues. Some teams travel internationally to third-world countries, where children and adults have neither experienced this kind of entertainment, nor heard about Jesus Christ.\n\nChristian puppetry has grown so large that thousands of performers gather yearly at festivals to showcase, share, and learn more about their art form. One of the largest Christian puppet supplies distributors, \"One Way Street\", hosts regional festivals to serve church teams, as well as a worldwide festival (I-Fest), lasting an entire week.\n\nThough rod-arm puppetry continues to be the most common technique in Christian circles, some other forms have begun to gain popularity.\n\nBlacklight puppetry capitalizes on the novelty of ultra-violet lights, or black light. Lighting the staging area with only these specialized lights, the audience can see only the objects that are coated with a special paint. The idea of controlling what the audience sees is a major responsibility of any puppeteer, and blacklight has provided a new way of accomplishing it.\n\nDowel rod puppetry combines interpretive dance and the use of (typically) two simple dowels. Routines usually involve a song that tells a story or conveys a message while performers move in a choreographed dance, employing their rods in equally choreographed ways.\n"}
{"id": "2121746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121746", "title": "Aspen Fire", "text": "Aspen Fire\n\nThe Aspen Fire burned from June 17, 2003 for about a month on Mount Lemmon, part of the Santa Catalina Mountains located in the Coronado National Forest north of Tucson, Arizona, and in the surrounding area. It burned (132.4 sq mi) of land, and destroyed 340 homes and businesses of the town of Summerhaven.\n\nDamages to electric lines, phone lines, water facilities, streets and sewers totaled $4.1 million. Firefighting cost was about $17 million, and the Forest Service is spending $2.7 million to prevent soil loss.\n\nIn 2002, the year before the fire started, Congress had been requested to allocate about $2 million to cover the implementation of fire prevention measures in the Coronado National Forest. However, that allocation was reduced to about $150,000 in the Congressional budget process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121748", "title": "Soen Nakagawa", "text": "Soen Nakagawa\n\nSoen Nakagawa was born as Motoi Nakagawa on March 19, 1907 in Keelung, Taiwan as the eldest of three boys: \"Matoi, Tamotsu and Sonow\". His father, Suketaro Nakagawa, was an army medical officer and his mother's name was Kazuko. His family moved shortly after to Iwakuni, and then finally to Hiroshima. In 1917, at age 12, Nakagawa's father died, leaving his mother Kazuko a young widow. Soen's younger brother, Tamotsu, died soon after in his early childhood. His mother was forced to work to make ends meet and educate her young children herself. It was an unforgiving childhood for Soen. But Soen was much more interested in the arts, where at a young age he displayed a gift for poetry.\n\nIn 1923, Soen (still Matoi) entered high school and became a boarder at the First Academy in Tokyo. Soen's childhood friend, Yamada Koun, enrolled on the same day as him. The two became roommates there and remained lifelong friends. It was expected that Soen would carry on the samurai tradition of his father, but Soen was pondering a more spiritual occupation. On one occasion Koun recalled young Soen talking once about how he was sitting zazen atop a platform on the balancing bars in the playground resulting in a \"natural self-realization\". Koun found this rather odd. Soen would write later, as a monk, that his high school years were spent in search of a meaningful occupation. At the school library Soen read a passage on impermanence and deluded approaches towards happiness by Schopenhauer, which provided young Soen with a sense of clarity. Soen next read Orategama by Hakuin, and found again great clarity in the words. He gave a copy to Yamada Koun, who showed great interest in Zen afterward.\n\nIn 1927, Soen and Yamada entered Tokyo Imperial University together, where Soen stayed in a dorm at the Pure Land temple Gangyo-ji. He majored in Japanese Literature, and it was here that he continued writing his poetry. While at the university Soen studied classics of both the East and West. He studied Buddhist sutras and even the Holy Bible. Life on campus was fun for him, he frequented the theater to hear renditions of classical masters and had a band of friends immersed within the artistic community of Japan. Soen even started a small group at the university for people to sit zazen together, a tradition that lives on at the university to this day. Soen's final thesis was on the famous haiku poet, Matsuo Bashō.\n\nIn 1931 Nakagawa and Yamada graduated from Tokyo Imperial University, and it would be several years before the two would meet again. A short while after graduation Soen attended a Dharma talk by Rinzai Zen master Keigaku Katsube at Shorin-ji and knew he wanted to become a monk. Soen wanted to be ordained on his birthday at Kogaku-ji, once the monastery of his favorite Zen master Bassui. His mother felt he was throwing away his education, but knew he was a grown man who had to make his own decisions. So on March 19, 1931, Soen was ordained as a Zen monk by Keigaku Katsube at Kogaku-ji and given his Dharma name Soen. Just like Bassui, Soen began travelling to Dai Bosatsu Mountain in Kai province (near Mt. Fuji) doing solitary retreats as a hermit and then returning to the monastery to resume his duties as a monk. On the mountain Soen sat zazen and write haikus, bathing in nearby streams and living off of the land. One day while on the mountain he nearly killed himself by eating poisonous mushrooms, and some peasants from nearby took him in and nursed him back to health. During this time Soen also becomes a friend and informal pupil of Dakotsu Iida, the now famous haiku poet. He later sent his work to Iada and had it published in Iida's haiku journal, \"Unmo\". In 1932 Nakagawa first dreams up the idea of an International Dai Bosatsu Zendo while meditating on Dai Bosatsu Mountain, travelling to Sakhalin Island in Siberia in an empty search for gold to fund the project. It was also on Dau Bosatsu Mountain that Soen came up with his original mantra, \"Namu dai bosa\". In 1933 Nakagawa completes his haiku anthology \"Shigan\" (Coffin of Poems). That following year, 1934, selections from \"Shigan\" were published in the haiku journal Fujin Koron.\n\nIn 1935 Nakagawa accompanied Katsube Roshi to lead a weekend retreat for Tokyo Imperial University students, and realized he forgot the kyosaku (Zen stick). In search of a replacement stick Soen went to a nearby Zen center, Hakusan Dojo, where he heard Myoshin-ji Zen master Gempo Yamamoto speaking. Soen became transfixed by the talk and intrigued by the man. Soen would return to the dojo several times after this encounter. One day, Gempo stated:\n\nThis remark struck a deep and spontaneous chord within Soen, and so he requested dokusan with Gempo following the talk where he expressed the desire to train under him. So Soen became a student of Gempo Yamamoto at Ryutaku-ji. In 1937 Nakagawa makes a trip with Gempo Yamamoto to Xinjing in Japanese-occupied Northeast China, to start a branch of Myoshin-ji Zen with the aim of moralizing the slave labor force used in Nissan-owned mining enterprises. Soen had recently begun corresponding with Nyogen Senzaki (now in Los Angeles) in 1935, whose unconventional style of Zen teaching Soen greatly appreciated. In 1938 Yamada Koun was transferred to Xinjing on business where he met Soen again. Here, Soen mentioned to Yamada his earlier dream of one day founding a non-traditional monastery on Dai Bosatsu Mountain in the spirit of Bassui. Yamada and Soen were walking one night together while Yamada was going on about some thing or another, and Soen stopped to say something that sparked Yamada's interest:\nYears later, Yamada Koun became a Zen monk and roshi, as well. In 1939, Nakagawa returned to Dai Bosatsu Mountain for another solitary retreat. In 1941, Ryutaku-ji is officially recognized as a Rinzai training monastery.\n\nIn 1949, Nakagawa made his first trip to the United States where he met Nyogen Senzaki in San Francisco. He found Senzaki's approach to Zen refreshing, and was happy to find a new freedom in expressing himself to followers that would be unheard of in Japan. Free to combine his love for Japanese theater (Noh) into analogies that paralleled sayings of the great Zen masters of the past. Nyogen expressed his wish to Soen that he would like him to stay with him to become his heir, but Soen has responsibilities back at Ryutaku-ji he was unwilling to compromise. The two saw each other again in latter visits to the USA. During this year, Soen also published his \"Meihen\" (Life Anthology).\n\nIn 1950, Gempo Yamamoto roshi decided it was time for him to retire as abbot of Ryutaku-ji, and he wanted to appoint Soen as head abbot. Soen was hesitant and anxious about the proposition of becoming abbot. He fled the monastery briefly after assuming the position, leaving Gempo with no other choice but to resume the position temporarily. In 1951, Nakagawa returned and resumed his position as abbot at Ryutaku-ji. Soen was a non-traditional abbot, deciding to not distinguish himself from his students. He wore the robe of a monk, he bathed and ate in their quarters. Over the next few years Soen set out to visit other masters stating that, since he had only finished 500 koans of Hakuin's 1700 curriculum, he needed more training. He went to Hosshin-ji and studied under Harada Daiun Sogaku, lineage holder of both the Sōtō and Rinzai school.\n\nIn 1954, Soen met a young monk named Tai Shimano (Eido Tai Shimano) at a funeral for Zen priest Daikyu Mineo. In the summer of that year, Tai Shimano ordained as a monk at Ryutaku-ji under Soen's tutelage. In 1955, Soen made his second trip to the United States and Nyogen Senzaki came to Ryutaku-ji to visit with Soen for 6 weeks. In 1957, Keigaku Katsube roshi died. In 1958, Nyogen Senzaki died. Soen was named as the executor of Senzaki's estate and returned to the U.S. to settle Senzakis' affairs. In 1959 and 1960, Soen traveled to the US twice, leading a sesshin in Honolulu, HI during the latter.\n\nIn 1961, Gempo Yamamoto roshi died. In 1962, Soen's mother died. Soen and his mother were extraordinarily close. She would visit Ryutaku-ji almost daily to go on excursions into the mountains to talk. They would sit together to have tea, or listen to classical music together. Her death, along with Gempo's death the year before, sent Soen into a depression. He frequented Dai Bosatsu Mountain many times following this for solitary retreat. In 1963, Nakagawa traveled to the U.S.A., India, Israel, Egypt, England, Austria and Denmark with Charles Gooding, a former student of Nyogen Senzaki, teaching Zen with various sanghas.\n\nIn 1967, Nakagawa sustained a serious injury surveying the grounds of Ryutaku-ji from the view of a treetop. He slipped on a branch and was left unconscious for three days where he had fallen before being found. He was discovered in a bed of bamboo reeds unexpectedly by one of his monks. He was hospitalized for a long time while being treated for his head injury. Yamada Koun stated he was never quite the same after this accident.\n\nIn 1968, Nakagawa made his 7th trip to the US to open New York Zendo Shobo-Ji on September 15. In 1969, Nakagawa travelled again to Israel, England, Egypt, New york, California and Hawaii to lead sesshins with sanghas.\n\nIn 1971, Nakagawa made his 9th visit to the US, helping The Zen Studies Society (founded by Cornelius Crane) purchase land in the Catskill Mountains for International Dai Bosatsu Zendo. In 1972, Nakagawa made his 10th visit to the United States where he gave Dharma transmission to Eido Tai Shimano. Upon returning to Japan in 1973, Nakagawa retired as abbot of Ryutaku-ji. This same year he published \"Ten Haiku of My Choice\". In 1974 and 1975, Nakagawa made two more visits to the US, staying first at the still unopened International Dai Bosatsu Zendo, and then going into solitary retreat at New York Zendo Shobo-ji.\n\nIn 1976, International Dai Bosatsu Zendo was officially opened. In 1981, Nakagawa published Koun-sho (Ancient Cloud Selection), and in 1982, Nakagawa made his last visit to the US. Upon returning to Ryotaku-ji, Nakagawa became a recluse. In 1984, on March 11, while approaching his 77th birthday, Nakagawa died while taking a bath at Ryutaku-ji.\n\nSoen was viewed as an unorthodox, eccentric and controversial teacher within conventional Rinzai circles of his day.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121750", "title": "Nhulunbuy", "text": "Nhulunbuy\n\nNhulunbuy is a township that is the sixth largest place in the Northern Territory of Australia. Nhulunbuy was created on the Gove Peninsula when a bauxite mine, and a deep water port, were established in the late 1960s, followed by an alumina refinery. At the 2016 census, Nhulunbuy had a population of 3,240 with a median age of 32.\n\nThe alumina refinery closed in May 2014, which resulted in 1,100 workers being redeployed or made redundant, and reduced the Nhulunbuy population by 700 to 3,240 in the 2016 census.\n\nIn 2019 a new Arnhem Space Centre near Nhulunbuy, an equatorial satellite launch facility, was announced.\n\nThis area in Northeast Arnhem Land has been home to the Yolngu Aboriginal people for at least 40,000 years.\n\nMatthew Flinders, in his circumnavigation of Australia in 1803, met the Macassan trading fleet near present-day Nhulunbuy, an encounter that led to the establishment of settlements on Melville Island and the Cobourg Peninsula. A beach close to the township is named Macassan Beach in honour of this encounter.\n\nIn 1963, a Federal government decision excised part of the land for a bauxite mine to be operated by the North Australian Bauxite and Alumina Company (Nabalco). The Yolngu Aborigines at Yirrkala were strongly opposed, and forwarded a bark petition to the Australian House of Representatives, which attracted national and international attention, and which now hangs in Parliament House, Canberra.\n\nTo serve the mine, the town of Nhulunbuy was established, housing the workers and their families employed by Nabalco, which became Alcan in 2002. In 2003, Alcan Gove issued a notice of intent to Government of the Northern Territory re third stage expansion of the alumina refinery. During the 1970s, the population rose to approximately 3,500 with 1,000 students at the combined primary and high school. A new high school was opened in 1981. The mine was later owned by Rio Tinto, which acquired Alcan in 2007.\n\nPermits are required to drive to Nhulunbuy — over 700 km of unsealed roads — so most supplies and visitors are brought by air to Gove Airport or by sea.\n\nNhulunbuy is only 20 km from the Indigenous community of Yirrkala, famous for its Aboriginal art.\n\nFor the purposes of granting tax rebates to residents of isolated areas as per Section 79A(3F) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, the census population of Nhulunbuy is taken to be less than 2,500, although it was in fact 3,240 in the 2016 census.\n\nNhulunbuy includes three schools; Nhulunbuy Primary School, Nhulunbuy High School and Nhulunbuy Christian College. In 1999, the first classes of the Nhulunbuy Christian College (formerly known as Nhulunbuy Christian School) were held at the local TAFE centre, and in 2001 the first building of the new school was completed. In 2007 the NCC Middle School was opened and in 2008 the combined year 8/9 Class was first established.\n\n\nOn 29 November 2013, Rio Tinto announced the closure of the alumina refinery (but not the bauxite mine) by July 2014 with the loss of 1,100 jobs, or almost 25% of the town's population. The refinery ceased production in May 2014.\n\nNhulunbuy's population had already dropped by mid 2014, with some of the workforce retained to monitor the shutdown and survey holding ponds full of toxic compounds, but most will be gone by January 2015. A range of measures were announced to support the town and its former workers through the closure and the following three years, but locals anticipate further cuts to services since the school, hospital, power plant and flights were backed by Rio Tinto. The closure of the refinery also left flights on the Darwin-Nhulunbuy route to fall to around 50 to 60 per cent full, causing QantasLink to suspend flights on the route from 17 August 2014.\n\nAs a result of the refinery curtailment and subsequent loss of advertising revenue, Gove's only source of local news, The Arafura Times, published its final issue in mid-October 2016.\n\nIn response to the closure of, Gove Online (http://www.goveonline.com.au) a not-for-profit community-led online initiative was established in December 2016, to offer an alternative source of local news, to promote the local region to a wider audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121754", "title": "Samuel Eliot", "text": "Samuel Eliot\n\nSamuel Eliot (December 22, 1821 – September 14, 1898) was a historian, educator, and public-minded citizen of Boston, Massachusetts and Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nEliot was born in Boston, the son of William Havard Eliot (1796 - 1831) and Margaret Boies (Bradford) Eliot, and the grandson of banker Samuel Eliot. His father built the Tremont House, participated in the musical life of the city, had variants of his names including Hayward, Harvard, Havard, Howard, and Elliott, and died suddenly in 1831 while campaigning for mayor. His mother was a daughter of Alden Bradford. Charles Eliot Norton was Eliot's cousin.\n\nEliot graduated first in the class of 1839 at Harvard College and, after two years in a counting house in Boston, toured for four years in Europe in the early 1840s. During the decade following his return, he devoted himself to writing. However, on June 7, 1853, Eliot married Emily Marshall Otis (1832-1906) of Boston, and his writing career gradually drew to a close. Their daughter, Emily Marshall Eliot Morison, was the mother of noted historian Samuel Eliot Morison (1887–1976).\n\nIn 1856, Eliot became professor of history and political science at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, and then served as Trinity's president from 1860 to 1864. In 1864 Eliot returned to Boston, though he continued to teach classes at Trinity until 1874. At Harvard, he was an overseer from 1866 to 1872 and a lecturer in history from 1870 to 1873. He also served from 1868 to 1872 as president of the American Social Science Association. From 1872 to 1876 he served as headmaster of the Boston Girls' High and Normal School, and from 1878 to 1880 as superintendent of Boston Public Schools, later serving from 1885 to 1888 on the Boston School Committee.\n\nEliot was a trustee of Massachusetts General Hospital and of the Massachusetts School for the Feeble-Minded, and for 26 years a member and president of the board of trustees of the Perkins Institute for the Blind. He was also active as a trustee, director, etc., for Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Boston Athenaeum, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Massachusetts Bible Society, and the Massachusetts Historical Society.\n\nEliot died of heart trouble on September 14, 1898, at Beverly Farms, Massachusetts, and is buried at Mount Auburn Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121755", "title": "Ya'qub ibn Killis", "text": "Ya'qub ibn Killis\n\nAbu'l-Faraj Ya'qub ibn Yusuf ibn Killis (, ), (930 in Baghdad – 991), commonly known simply by his patronymic surname as Ibn Killis, was a high-ranking official of the Ikhshidids who went on to serve as vizier under the Fatimids from 979 until his death in 991.\n\nYa'qub ibn Yusuf ibn Killis was born in Baghdad in 930 in a Jewish family. After his family moved to Syria he came to Egypt in 943 and entered the service of the Regent Kafur. Soon he controlled the Egyptian state finances in his capacity as household and property administrator. Although he converted to Islam in 967, he fell out of favour with the successors of Kafur and was imprisoned. He was able however to purchase his freedom and went to Ifriqiya, where he put himself at the service of the Fatimid Caliph al-Mu'izz.\n\nAfter the Fatimid conquest of Egypt in 969, Ibn Killis returned to Egypt and was put in charge of the economy, where he was able to regularise the state finances. After the dismissal of Jawhar as-Siqilli in 979 Ya'qub ibn Killis was appointed vizier by al-Aziz, a position he held until his death in 991. He was a patron of culture and science.\n\nAbu al-Farj Ya'qub ibn Yusuf, known as Ibn Killis, was born of an honorable family of Baghdad. By birth he was a Jew, born in 930. At a young age he came with his father to Egypt, where he started his political life at the court of Kafur, the power behind the throne of the Ikhshidid regime. He was very intelligent, hard working and honest. Very soon he secured an important position in the court of Kafur as an expert in economics. In 967, he converted to Islam, by which Kafur was highly pleased and appointed him as his courtier. This aroused the jealousy of his rival, the vizier Ibn al-Furat, who began to seek a way to eliminate him.\n\nIn 968 Kafur died and Ibn al-Furat arrested all his companions including Ya'qub ibn Killis. It is said that Ya'qub bribed the jailor and absconded to Ifriqiya, where the Fatimid Caliph al-Mu'izz ruled.\n\nAl-Mu'izz assigned Ya'qub the responsibility of the country's economy. Through his past experiences he carried out his work with great efficiency. Thereafter, at the time of the Fatimid conquest of Egypt, al-Mu'izz deputed him with Jawhar as-Siqilli for the management there. According to another version, Ya'qub accompanied the Caliph al-Mu'izz when he went to Egypt in 972. After the Fatimid takeover of Egypt, Ibn al-Furat continued in office as vizier, but in 974 he resigned and al-Mu'izz handed over the administration to Ibn Killis.\n\nDuring the last years of the reign of al-Mu'izz, and the first two years of the period of his successor al-Aziz, (975-996), due to toil, honesty and intelligence of Ya'qub ibn Killis, this position became firm and stable, so much so that in 977-78 al-Aziz appointed him as \"Wazir al-Adjall\" (Chief Minister). Prior to this, the first four Fatimid caliphs had an assistant called \"wasta\".\n\nDuring his tenure as vizier, Ya'qub ibn Killis established various departments anew for the administration of the state, promoted agriculture, reformed trade and stabilised the currency, by which the country began to flourish and revenue of provinces increased. In this very period the treasury was so full as never before. In 983/4 he fell from favour, and al-Aziz fined him 20,000 gold dinars, but the cause is unknown. Nevertheless, within a few months he was reinstated to his post.\n\nIbn Killis fell seriously ill on 10 January 991. Al-Aziz visited him and said: \"O Ya'qub! If your recovery is to be gained through spending wealth then I am prepared to give away the whole wealth of the state. And if your life is saved by sacrificing any life, I am ready to sacrifice my own son\". By this it is understood what position Ya'qub ibn Killis held with the Caliph al-Aziz. The sickness began to worsen day by day and on 22 February 991 C.E. he succumbed.\n\nHis death was mourned throughout Egypt. His shroud was decorated with 50 pieces of cloth of which 30 were embroidered with gold thread. According to Ibn Khallikan, 100 poets composed lamentations and every poet earned his reward from the Caliph. In Cairo a place was named the Vizier's Quarter in his honour.\n\nWith the political sciences Ya'qub bin Killis was also endowed with a thorough knowledge of religion. He was a great scholar and was fond of literature. It is said that he wrote many books in which Mukhtasar-ul-Fiqah' (Risalat al-Waziria) is worth mentioning. This work is on theology and 40 theologians participated in its compilation.\n\nBesides, he was at his palace lecturing every Friday night on different subjects, where judges, theologians, grammarians, traditionalists and poets used to gather to hear him.\n\nAt Al-Azhar he gave vent to religious education and upon his instructions a University was established in Jama-e-Azhar, which exists until today.\n\nYa'qub ibn Killis was an efficient vizier and introduced many reforms, as a result of which the public was not burdened and treasury was full. Al-Aziz, had given him wide powers and he was also drawing a good remuneration from the Treasury with a high position in the government.\n\nConsequently, he was in possession of the force of 4,000 young men. The uniform of his guards was, similar to that of the guards of Hazrat Imam Aziz, that is silky. Ya'qub bin Killis had formed a private force, commander of which was called 'Qaid'. Courts were established for different jobs. There was also a well equipped dispensary in his palace. In the month of Ramadhan besides judges and prominent persons, nominal and general public also used to take advantage of his favour. His annual income was 100,000 dinars, i.e. more than 50,000 guineas. At the time of his death he left property valued forty lakh dinars, this amount was exclusive 200,000 dinars kept aside by him for the dowry of his daughter. He also left a piece of land worth 300,000 dinars. Besides there were 4,000 male and 8,000 female slaves.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121756", "title": "Saltillo Affair", "text": "Saltillo Affair\n\nThe Saltillo Affair () was a series of controversies surrounding the Portuguese national football team during its participation in the Mexico '86 FIFA World Cup. The affair was named after the Mexican city of Saltillo, Coahuila, in which the team was headquartered for the competition, and also the place where the majority of the described events occurred.\n\nThe team had not competed in a final phase of the World Cup since the 1966 FIFA World Cup twenty years before, where it had achieved an unprecedented 3rd place. Following a rough qualification, the 1986 campaign did not start well with the suspicion of doping falling on one of the players who had been selected for the tournament. Although that test was later proven wrong, that was the first of many controversies to affect the team in the following weeks, that included threats of strikes from the players, the announcement of a series of demands to the Portuguese Federation and reports of inappropriate behavior at the team's headquarters. It was one of the biggest scandals involving the Portuguese national team.\n\nHaving achieved third place in the England '66 World Cup, several years elapsed before Portugal qualified again for a major football competition. This happened when they reached Euro 84, where they advanced to the semi-finals, being only beaten in extra time by hosts and soon to be champions France.\n\nWhile not making a brilliant qualifying campaign for the Mexico World Cup, Portugal qualified one point ahead of Sweden thanks to a last-game victory against already-qualified leaders West Germany in Stuttgart. Nicknaming them \"Os Infantes\", with an anthem sung by \"Estebes\" (a fictional Porto native sports reporter with a stereotypical deep accent and fondness for wine, created by Portuguese humorist Herman José), the Portuguese had high hopes for their national team.\n\nOne of the key issues initially tackled was how to deal with altitude. While only one of three matches of the group stage were played in altitude – two games in Monterrey (537 m) and one in Guadalajara (1600 m) – it was argued that the team should also prepare for games in Mexico City (2238 m), and so decided that the headquarters should be in Saltillo, neighbouring the England team.\n\nWith problems scoring goals during the preparation matches, national team manager José Augusto Torres wanted to call up Rui Jordão, one of the key players two years before in France, who had not played the whole season due to a quarrel with his manager. On the other hand, Manuel Fernandes, who made one of his best seasons, scoring 30 goals, was not a viable option for Torres, to the dismay of Sporting fans. The team was eventually announced on 19 April:\n\n\nHours before leaving Portugal on 10 May, Veloso tested positive for Primobolan, an anabolic steroid. This led to initial tensions between players, the FPF, and Benfica, Veloso's club, between claims of innocence and accusations of improper player care, woke Fernando Bandeirinha at 2 o'clock in the morning and rushed him to the airport as a substitute.\n\nAfter a questionable decision about the air trip to Mexico (it was decided that instead of flying directly to Mexico City, the team should pass by Frankfurt and Dallas before), on arrival it was clear that the Portuguese organization cared too much about altitude training, neglecting other aspects. The hotel, although suitable, had no safety measures, which meant it was often crowded with national and foreign reporters; the training field was sloped and poorly treated; and local amateur teams were invited for preparation matches.\n\nPresented as a peaceful city, Saltillo proved to be anything but that. As the city was close to Laredo, Texas, in the United States, many players wanted to use their days off to shop there. A local organization delegate (grandson of a politician, known for being a small-time con artist) offered to go there and purchase the goods for the Portuguese, but after helping himself with the money, never returned. \n\nA game that was staged against a team composed of local workers (presented as a \"good challenge\" by the Mexican authorities) ended in a comical display where Diamantino even conducted an interview during the match while playing. Chile was willing to play, but the fee they asked was not met by Portuguese federation delegates. Rumours that the players were \"jumping the fence\" broke in Portugal, which led to their wives flooding the telephone lines for clarification on the issue. By then, the authority of Amândio de Carvalho, vice-president of the Portuguese Football Federation was undermined, and president Silva Resende refused to leave Mexico City.\n\nWhile the first days increased the tension between the elements of the national team, the worst was yet to come. The players first threatened to strike unless the prizes were increased, beginning a war of press releases between them and the federation. On 25 May the players dropped the bomb, refusing to play in a preparation match and further matches unless the situation was dealt with. The protest backfired, as in Portugal nobody stood with the players (press, fans and club directors included) and the international press tagged the incident as \"ridiculous\", but still took sides with the players due to the situations described by the players, which included being forced to advertise certain products (Adidas and a local brand of beer) without being paid.\n\nAfter withdrawing some demands (and working around others, like wearing their training equipment inside out so that they did not display any brands), Portugal played their opening game against England, beating the odds and winning the game with a single goal of Carlos Manuel, the \"Hero of Stuttgart\" (and said to be the head of the protesting players), which apparently opened the road to the knockout stage.\n\nFutre, expected to be the revelation of the World Cup, did not play due to Torres wanting to keep a balance between clubs in the starting eleven (Futre played together with Fernando Gomes in FC Porto), and calling him the \"secret weapon\". Days later, Bento broke a leg during practice playing as a forward, which ended his career with the national team. He was replaced by Damas, one of the best goalkeepers in Portuguese history, but he was not prepared and fell into depression. The much celebrated victory was followed by a defeat against Poland.\n\nThis left the decision to the last game against Morocco, knowing a tie would qualify both teams, but the game ended with a humiliating 3-1 defeat. As the Portuguese team, last in their group, returned home, the press was already tearing apart the whole institution of Portuguese football, from management to players.\n\nJosé Torres quit, and was replaced by Ruy Seabra for the Euro 88 campaign, while removing several players from the national team – Diamantino, Jaime Pacheco, João Pinto, Sobrinho, Fernando Gomes, Paulo Futre and Carlos Manuel. This \"team of change\" did not endure much, as after a compromising home draw against Malta (which Seabra considered to be a \"good display for those who like football\") roughly a year after, Seabra was dismissed and replaced with Juca Pereira, which progressively recalled some of the suspended players. The damage, however, was already done, and Portugal would not qualify again for an international competition until Euro 96.\n\nThe next time Portugal would play in the World Cup, in 2002, saw many parallels to the country's experience in 1986:\n\nThe end result in Korea/Japan was the same as in Mexico—Portugal failed to go through the group stages. Since 1986, the word \"Saltillo\" has become synonymous with poor management at the higher levels of Portuguese football.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121760", "title": "San Antonio Express-News", "text": "San Antonio Express-News\n\nThe San Antonio Express-News is a daily newspaper in San Antonio, Texas. It is owned by the Hearst Corporation and has offices in San Antonio and Austin. The \"Express-News\" is the fourth largest newspaper in the state of Texas, with a daily circulation of nearly 100,000 copies in 2016.. The Express-News operates online both as Express-News and as MySA. \n\nThe paper was first published in 1865 as a weekly tabloid-style newspaper under the name \"The San Antonio Express\". At that time, the city had already had a number of other newspapers in a number of different languages. However, all the other publications went out of business, leaving only the \"Express\" to serve the city.\n\nIn December 1866, the \"Express\" made the move from a weekly paper to a daily newspaper, and expanded into a full newspaper by the early 1870s. The early days of the \"Express\" was marked by several leadership changes which almost doomed the paper, until a brand new company, the Express Printing Company, took control in 1875. The \"Express\" eventually became a daily morning newspaper in 1878.\n\nIn January 1881 a new rival newspaper, the \"Evening Light\", was first published by A. W. Gifford and J. P. Newcomb, who had been an early investor in the \"Express\". The \"Evening Light\" was published as an afternoon paper, as opposed to the morning \"Express\". At first, the editors of the \"Express\" chose to ignore the upstart paper, but the \"Light\" soon grew in popularity at the turn of the 20th century. In 1906 the \"Daily Light\" was sold to E. B. Chandler, and in 1909 the Daily Light Publishing Company bought the \"San Antonio Gazette\". From then until 1911 the paper was referred to as the \"Light and Gazette\". Edward S. O'Reilly, known as Tex, was at one time managing editor. In 1911 Harrison L. Beach and Charles S. Diehl, veteran correspondents of national standing, moved to San Antonio and bought the \"Light and Gazette\". Once again it was known as the \"Light\". Diehl was a founder of the AP wire service. Beach and Diehl installed leased wire news service and published the first full stock market reports in a San Antonio paper. The \"Light\" became liberal-Democratic in its political views. While Beach and Diehl ran the paper, circulation increased from 11,000 to 25,000 copies daily. In 1918, the \"Express\" ownership, now renamed Express Publishing Company, launched its own afternoon paper, the \"San Antonio Evening News\". Soon thereafter, a rivalry developed between workers of the \"Express\" and the \"News\". In fact, some \"News\" workers dubbed a new office building as the \"News-Express\" building. In 1924, however, William Randolph Hearst bought the \"Light\" and instituted Hearst policies, and by 1945 the circulation was approximately 70,000.\n\nThe 1920s was marked by expansion by Express Publishing as the company started one of the city's first radio stations, WOAI, in 1922. As the two rival companies entered the 1950s, the \"Express\" and the \"News\" both had higher readership numbers than the \"Light\". However, the \"Light\" skyrocketed to the top of the market when it acquired a number of popular comic strips, like Dick Tracy. Over at \"Express Publishing\", the company diversified further as they acquired a couple more radio stations, and a television station which they renamed KENS-TV. Those call letters were intended to stand for, K-Express News Station. In the 1960s, \"Express Publishing\" was sold to the Harte-Hanks newspaper group.\n\nIn 1973, with the \"Light\" beating the \"Express\" and the \"News\" in circulation numbers, a new ownership group emerged. Australian native Rupert Murdoch of News Corp bought the \"Express\" and the \"News\" from Harte-Hanks. Murdoch re-formatted the \"News\" as a more tabloid-styled paper, while the \"Express\" retained its original, conservative format. The \"Light\" was now forced to compete against two different styles of newspaper while at the same time trying to combat the growing costs of an afternoon circulation.\n\nBy September 1984, the \"Express\" and the \"News\" merged into the \"Express-News\" and afternoon service was slowly discontinued, while the \"Light\" started getting into the morning circulation business in order to keep up. But under News Corp., the \"Express-News\" adopted a more mainstream format and expanded its services to communities outside Bexar County. As a result, the \"Express-News\" became San Antonio's leading newspaper for good. By 1992, News Corp had diversified into movies and television and was looking to sell the \"Express-News\". The Hearst Corporation, which still owned the \"Light\", agreed to either sell or close the newspaper and acquire the \"Express-News\" in order to keep its stake in the San Antonio market. The \"Light\" never found a buyer and it went out of business in January 1993.\n\nOn February 13, 2016, the paper broke the news of the death of US Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.\n\nToday, this Hearst Corp. newspaper is led by Publisher Susan Lynch Pape, who is also Hearst's Texas Group chief financial officer at the \"Houston Chronicle\" and the \"San Antonio Express-News\". Marc Duvoisin is Vice President and Editor of the \"San Antonio Express-News\". \n\n\"The Express-News\" is a nationally recognized news organization that has earned a number of top awards over the last several years, including first-place finishes in the Scripps, National Headliners, ASNE, TxAPME, Sigma Delta Chi, Best of the West, Editor & Publisher and other contests for its coverage of South Texas, the military, border affairs and general features. Its photo staff was a Pulitzer finalist in the feature photography category for its immigration coverage in South and Central America. Its subscriber website, ExpressNews.com, has earned top honors for its overall digital storytelling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121763", "title": "E. J. Thribb", "text": "E. J. Thribb\n\nE. J. Thribb is the fictitious poet-in-residence at the satirical magazine \"Private Eye\". The character was created in 1972 by Barry Fantoni, and he wrote the poems until 2010. Later Thribb poetry was provided by other staff members including Christopher Booker. Thribb's poems are usually about recently deceased famous people, and titled 'In Memoriam', with the first line almost invariably reading: \"So. Farewell then...\". He is an obituarist and threnodist.\n\nThribb usually mentions the deceased's catchphrase or theme song, and his poems often feature his friend Keith, or Keith's mum, who is usually \"like\" the deceased in some way.\n\nThribb's poetry is characterised by deadpan delivery and a stream of consciousness which is broken up into short lines seemingly at random, and has very little rhyme, rhythm or reason.\n\nThribb always signs his poems with his age – 17½ – although sometimes this will be modified to refer to another thing for which the deceased is famous. He sometimes signs himself E Jarvis Thribb.\n\nIn the first issue after the death of Peter Cook, comedian and longtime proprietor and financial supporter of \"Private Eye\", the magazine's cover consisted simply of a photograph of Cook beneath, in large print, the phrase 'So. Farewell then...'\n\nOriginal writer Barry Fantoni stopped writing Thribb in December 2010, upon his retirement from the Eye. The identity of the current poet(s) has not been revealed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121767", "title": "Coalition Press Information Center", "text": "Coalition Press Information Center\n\nThe Coalition Press Information Center is a centralized media information center that was established during the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nDuring the preparations for Operation Iraqi Freedom a CPIC was established at the Kuwait City Hilton, (actually located outside Kuwait City proper in the district of Mangaf). The CPIC was staffed by members of the United States Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines; the British Army, Royal Marines and Royal Air Force and the Australian Army. The CPIC director was US. Army Colonel Guy T. Shields. The deputy director was British Army Lieutenant Colonel Robert Partridge.\n\nA CPIC is normally responsible for delivering press releases and casualty reports, conducting news conferences, arranging interviews, and escorting media to newsworthy events. With the expectation that Kuwait City would be once again invaded by Iraqi forces, Coalition Forces Land Component Command established its headquarters in Doha, Qatar and the CPIC in Kuwait City ceded to the commanders in Qatar its authority to release any information to the media.\n\nThe CPIC was established at the Kuwait Hilton in early February, 2003 by the 22nd MPAD, an active Army unit stationed at Ft. Bragg, NC. The 318th PAOC, a U.S. Army Reserve unit based out of Forest Park, Illinois, took over operation of the CPIC on February 22, 2003. Before the CPIC ceased operations in Kuwait in early May, 2003, credentials were issued to more than 6,500 journalists, permitting them various levels of access to coalition forces.\n\nAfter the 2003 invasion, the CPIC was established on the second floor of the Iraqi Convention Center in Baghdad's Green Zone by the 372nd MPAD, an Army Reserve Unit from Nashville, TN. It was from this location that Coalition Chief Military Spokesman Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt and Coalition Provisional Authority Spokesman Dan Senor gave many of their press briefings in the first years of the occupation. In 2005, the CPIC was moved to a parking structure outside of the convention center to make way for the Council of Representatives of Iraq.\n\nEmbedded: \nThe Media at War in Iraq, An Oral History, by \nBill Katovsky, Timothy Carlson\n\nhttp://abcnews.go.com/International/story?id=79598&page=1\n\n"}
{"id": "2121770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121770", "title": "Wexford County Civic Center", "text": "Wexford County Civic Center\n\nThe Wexford County Civic Center is an indoor arena located in Cadillac, Michigan. It currently seats up to 1,800 in retractable bleachers for sporting events and up to 2,700 for concerts. An ice arena and the county fairgrounds are nearby.\n\nThe Civic Center, which resembles a gymnasium more than an arena, features of space and can also be used for trade shows, conventions, banquets, circuses and other events. Currently the locker rooms at the Civic Center are undergoing renovations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121778", "title": "Fashion photography", "text": "Fashion photography\n\nFashion photography is a genre of photography which is devoted to displaying clothing and other fashion items. Fashion photography is most often conducted for advertisements or fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\", \"Vanity Fair\", or \"Elle\". Fashion photography has developed its own aesthetic in which the clothes and fashions are enhanced by the presence of exotic locations or accessories.\n\nFashion photography has been in existence since the earliest days of photography. In 1856, Adolphe Braun published a book containing 288 photographs of Virginia Oldoini, Countess di Castiglione, a Tuscan noblewoman at the court of Napoleon III. The photos depict her in her official court garb, making her the first fashion model.\n\nIn the first decade of the 20th century, advances in halftone printing allowed fashion photographs to be used in magazines. Fashion photography made its first appearance in French and American magazines such as \"La mode pratique\" and \"Harper's Bazaar\". In 1909, Condé Nast took over \"Vogue\" magazine and also contributed to the beginnings of fashion photography. In 1911, photographer Edward Steichen was \"dared\" by Lucien Vogel, the publisher of \"Jardin des Modes\" and \"La Gazette du Bon Ton\", to promote fashion as a fine art by the use of photography. Steichen then took photos of gowns designed by \"couturier\" Paul Poiret. These photographs were published in the April 1911 issue of the magazine \"Art et Décoration\". According to Jesse Alexander, This is \"...now considered to be the first ever modern fashion photography shoot. That is, photographing the garments in such a way as to convey a sense of their physical quality as well as their formal appearance, as opposed to simply illustrating the object.\"\n\n\"Vogue\" was followed by its rival, \"Harper's Bazaar\", and the two companies were leaders in the field of fashion photography throughout the 1920s and 1930s. House photographers such as Steichen, George Hoyningen-Huene, Horst P. Horst and Cecil Beaton transformed the genre into an outstanding art form.\n\nIn the mid-1930s as World War II approached, the focus shifted to the United States, where \"Vogue\" and \"Harper's\" continued their old rivalry. In 1936, Martin Munkacsi made the first photographs of models in sporty poses at the beach. Under the artistic direction of Alexey Brodovitch, \"Harper's Bazaar\" quickly introduced this new style into its magazine.House photographers such as Irving Penn, Martin Munkacsi, Richard Avedon, and Louise Dahl-Wolfe would shape the look of fashion photography for the following decades. Richard Avedon revolutionized fashion photography — and redefined the role of the fashion photographer — in the post-World War II era with his imaginative images of the modern woman.\n\nFrom 1939 and onward, what had previously been the flourishing and sizeable industry of fashion photography all but stopped due to the beginnings of World War II. The United States and Europe quickly diverged from one another. What had previously been a togetherness and inspired working relationship diverged with Paris occupied and London under siege. Paris, the main fashion-power house of the time quickly became isolated from the United States—especially with \"Vogue Paris\" shutting down for a brief hiatus in 1940. With these changes, the photography based out of the USA gained a distinct Americana vibe—models often posed with flags, American brand cars, and generally just fulfilling the American ideal. What did remain of the French and British fashion photography on the other hand often had a wartime overlay to the content. Cecil Beaton’s ‘Fashion is Indestructible’ from 1941 displays a well-dressed woman viewing the rubble that once was Middle Temple in London. Similarly, Lee Miller began taking photos of women in Paris and London, modeling the latest designs for gas masks and bicycling with pincurlers in their hair, as they did not have electricity with which to curl their hair. Images such as these remain scarred into the face of fashion photography of the time and display a common sentiment among the fashionable world and the public. Even fashion photographers worked to document the issues surrounding and work towards a documentation of the time—even if within the frame of fashion. These photos are an especially good indication of the fashionable emotions of the time. Many felt that fashion photography, during wartime especially, was frivolous and unnecessary. Yet, the few who worked to preserve the industry did so in new and inventive ways throughout the duration of the war.\n\nIn postwar London, John French pioneered a new form of fashion photography suited to reproduction in newsprint, involving natural light and low contrast.\n\nIn the recent years fashion photography gained an even greater popularity due to the expansion of internet and ecommerce. Clean product, knolling and ghost mannequin photography have become a usual practice in the fashion industry.\n\nAfter the deaths of Richard Avedon, Helmut Newton, Francesco Scavullo, Herb Ritts, Gleb Derujinsky and Peter Lindbergh, some of today's most famous fashion photographers are Patrick Demarchelier, Steven Meisel, Mario Testino and Annie Leibovitz.\n"}
{"id": "2121779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121779", "title": "Orthodontic spacer", "text": "Orthodontic spacer\n\nOrthodontic separators (also known as spacers) are rubber bands or metal appliances used in orthodontics. Spacers are placed between the molars at the second orthodontic appointment before molar bands are applied. They are usually added a week before you get your braces, but can sometimes be added after. Spacers are either circular rubber bands about a centimeter in diameter placed between top and bottom molars; there may be 1-12 spacers applied or small metal spring clips (spring separators) that push the molars apart. The spacers stay between the teeth for one week and move the teeth apart slowly until they are far apart enough so that orthodontists can fit a tooth brace or molar band in between them or fit an expander with rubber rings or other appliances.\n\nSpacers are usually used to put spaces in between teeth before braces are established. It can be agitating or painful, but patients are often warned not to pick at them or they will fall out. They are usually rubber, but sometimes they can be metal. They can be used when a patient's teeth are too close together. Although they are sometimes very painful, they are usually only in place for one to two weeks. Spacers can also cause toothache and gum pain because of the constant pressure against the patient's teeth. The gaps that the spacers create are necessary to apply certain appliances or braces. There are two common types of expanders used after the spaces have been made. One very primitive, model is a metal bar that has a key used to tighten. Secondly, and more contemporary, there is an expander that is two \"L\" shaped metal rods, attached at the molars. Brackets fit against the edges. It is secured with a spring in the middle that applies pressure.\n\nThere are various reactions patients experience to having spacers placed between their teeth. If the patient has a relatively small amount of space between their molars (or none at all), then the spacer may irritate the nerves in the gum of the mouth, causing constant pain. In some cases the spacer digs into the gums, causing bleeding and swelling; and would be more uncomfortable than the actual braces. An orthodontist may advise the patient to drink cold drinks or to eat ice cream, producing a similar, although less efficient and short-lasting effect. \n\nSpacers are usually painful, although pain relievers can alleviate the pain if needed. Depending on the placement of the patient's teeth, spacers may not hurt when first applied, then start to hurt after some time, or they may immediately start to hurt. Depending on the type, spacers may cause pain while chewing, making certain foods (usually those that are tough or crispy) difficult to eat. Some people may also experience a sensation similar to having losing their milk teeth or like having food stuck between their teeth. The patient may feel the need to try to remove the spacer but that isn't advised as it makes the next step in the treatment process harder and more painful. Brushing will not cause spacers to be displaced and regular, if not more, brushing while spacers are in place is encouraged.\n\nThe application process of spacers usually involves stringing floss through the rubber band and placing the spacer between the teeth. Some spacers are small metal spring clips that squeeze the teeth apart. There is some pressure throughout the process and some soreness after, but overall, the spacer application process is quite painless, although the patient may immediately start to feel pain from the pressure exerted on the teeth. Sometimes special orthodontic tools are used to stretch open the rubber bands, depending on how crowded the teeth are. If the jaw is especially crowded, the spacers may cause intense constant pain due to the teeth moving closer together. This pain begins a while after placement and usually lasts for several days.\n\nSpacers are worn until the orthodontist removes them or they are removed accidentally. Spacers may also fall out on their own without being removed by the patient by picking or eating sticky foods. Sometimes, a dentist may use a spacer that is similar to a metal spacer (see below), but is removable and in some cases, it may have a key or string used to adjust the tightness. The spacers are usually taken out one minute before braces are fitted, however, in some instances, it can be up to a week before.\n\nMetal spacers are small and metal and are placed around the tooth. These are most commonly used while braces are already on another set of teeth. These are often worn longer than rubber bands and tend to be more painful. These are not used as often as the rubber bands. They also may tear into the gums.\n"}
{"id": "2121780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121780", "title": "Lisa Edelstein", "text": "Lisa Edelstein\n\nLisa Edelstein (; born May 21, 1966)\nis an American actress and playwright. Edelstein is known for playing Dr. Lisa Cuddy on the Fox medical drama series \"House\". Between 2014 and 2018, she starred as Abby McCarthy in the Bravo series \"Girlfriends' Guide to Divorce\".\n\nEdelstein was born in Boston, Massachusetts, to Bonnie and Alvin Edelstein. Her father is a pediatrician at Chilton Memorial Hospital (since retired). The youngest of three children in a Jewish family, she was raised in Wayne, New Jersey, and attended Wayne Valley High School, graduating in 1984.\n\nAt 16, Edelstein was a cheerleader for the New Jersey Generals. Edelstein participated in a protest of poor working conditions. She said she felt they were treated \"like hookers\" and helped organize a cheerleader walkout.\n\nShe moved to New York City at the age of 18 to study theatre at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. While living in New York, she became involved in the club scene (known there only as \"Lisa E\") and caused enough of a stir in the community to be dubbed New York City's \"Queen of the Night\" by writer and fellow celebutant James St. James, who briefly refers to Edelstein in his 1999 book \"Disco Bloodbath\".\n\nAfter being dubbed a \"celebutante\" by \"The New York Times\" magazine during her club kid days, Edelstein used her new-found celebrity to write, compose and star in an original musical called \"Positive Me\" in response to the growing AIDS crisis of the 1980s. The play, performed at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club in New York City, received many accolades. After an unsuccessful stint hosting \"Awake on the Wild Side\" for MTV in 1990, she appeared as a backstage make-up artist in Oliver Stone's Jim Morrison biography \"The Doors\", followed by guest roles on several popular comedies, including \"Mad About You\", \"Wings\", and \"The Larry Sanders Show\". On \"Sports Night\", she played a sports reporter who claimed to be a former lover of Josh Charles' character whom he did not remember. On \"Seinfeld\", she played George Costanza's sexually frustrated girlfriend in the episode \"The Masseuse\",\nBigger roles in TV dramas soon followed, among them the lesbian sister on ABC's \"Relativity\" (1996); a high-priced call girl turned Rob Lowe's date on \"The West Wing\" (1999); an assigned male at birth (AMAB) transwoman on \"Ally McBeal\" (2000); and Ben Covington's (Scott Speedman) girlfriend on \"Felicity\" (2001). She also continued to land guest-star spots on such shows as \"ER\", \"Frasier\", \"Just Shoot Me!\", \"Without a Trace\", and \"Judging Amy\", as well as small parts in the films \"What Women Want\", \"Keeping the Faith\", \"As Good as It Gets\", and \"Daddy Day Care\".\n\nFrom 2004 to 2011, she portrayed her biggest and most notable role to date, Dr. Lisa Cuddy, the Dean of Medicine at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital and frequent adversary, friend, and eventual girlfriend of title character Gregory House (Hugh Laurie) on Fox's TV series \"House\". Edelstein has often spoken fondly of her experiences on the show and fellow cast and crew, especially her friendship and strong working relationship with Laurie.\n\nIn May 2011, Edelstein announced that she would not return for the eighth and final season of \"House\". Starting in June 2011, she began an arc on \"The Good Wife\" as lawyer Celeste Serrano. She guest-starred in \"Scandal\" in 2013, and later three episodes of the ABC series \"Castle\". \n\nShe also starred as the lead role of Abby McCarthy in the Bravo series \"Girlfriends' Guide to Divorce\", an hour-long comedy-drama loosely based on the book series by Vicki Iovine and which premiered on December 2, 2014. In 2018, Edelstein joined the cast of ABC's \"The Good Doctor\" in season two as Dr. Blaize in a recurring role. This reunited her with \"House\" creator David Shore. Edelstein also plays a recurring character in \"The Kominsky Method\", a Netflix series that debuted in November 2018.\n\nShe has lent her voice to several animated programs, including \"King of the Hill\", \"American Dad!\", \"\" (as Mercy Graves, Lex Luthor's bodyguard, a role she later reprised in several episodes of \"Justice League\"), \"Legend of Korra\" (as Kya, Tenzin's sister) and the video game adaptation of \"Blade Runner\".\n\nEdelstein is a supporter of Best Friends Animal Society, of which she is an Ambassador. She supports human rights organizations and is a patron of the arts. She has appeared in numerous magazines, including the September 2010 cover of \"H\" magazine. She posed for PETA in an ad promoting vegetarianism, a diet she has followed for most of her life.\n\nOn May 25, 2014, Edelstein married artist Robert Russell in Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121789", "title": "Ben Wright (English actor)", "text": "Ben Wright (English actor)\n\nBenjamin Huntington Wright (5 May 1915 – 2 July 1989) was an English-American actor in radio, film, and television.\n\nBen Wright was born in London to an American father and an English mother. At the age of 16, he entered the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. Upon graduating, he acted in several West End stage productions. When World War II broke out, he enlisted and served in the Kings Royal Rifle Corps. He came to the U.S. in 1946 to attend a cousin's wedding and settled in Hollywood.\n\nWright worked extensively in American radio, supplying crisp, erudite diction as the radio incarnation of Sherlock Holmes (1949–1950) and Inspector Peter Black on \"Pursuit\" (1951–1952). However, he considered himself a dialectician, playing Indian servant Tulku on \"The Green Lama\", Chinese bellhop Hey Boy on the radio version of \"Have Gun Will Travel\", various dialect roles on the U.K. radio program \"Nightbeat\", and the anthology series, \"Escape\", on which his roles ranged from the Cockney protagonist of \"The Man Who Worked Miracles\" to the famed Arabian hero of \"The Voyages of Sinbad\". His other radio credits included \"Gunsmoke\", \"Crime Classics\", and \"Suspense\".\n\nHe achieved worldwide attention when he was seen as the Nazi Herr Zeller in \"The Sound of Music\" (1965), and he had small roles in \"Judgment at Nuremberg\" (1961), \"My Fair Lady\" (1964), and Billy Wilder's \"The Fortune Cookie\" (1966). On television, he was a guest star on such series as \"My Three Sons\", \"Hogan's Heroes\" (as various Nazi officers), \"Combat!\", \"Get Smart\", \"Bonanza\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"The Wild Wild West\", \"The Twilight Zone\", \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea\", \"It Takes a Thief\", \"\", as Mr. Rudolpho on the final episode of the 1964 series \"The Addams Family\", and \"The Rockford Files\". Wright made three guest appearances on \"Perry Mason\", starring Raymond Burr. He played Walter Lumis in the 1958 episode \"The Case of the Terrified Typist\", in the 1960 episode, \"The Case of the Bashful Burro\", he played assay agent and murderer Crawford Wright, who speaks with a Welsh-sounding accent and he played Clarence Keller in the 1961 episode \"The Case of the Guilty Clients\".\n\nWright played Governor José María de Echeandía in the 1960 episode \"Forbidden Wedding\" of the syndicated anthology series \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Stanley Andrews. In the story line, Echeandia objects to the wedding of a young woman who once spurned his affections.\n\nWright made a guest appearance on the television series \"The Monkees,\" in the episode \"The Success Story\". In 1971 Wright appeared as the desk clerk on \"The Men From Shiloh\" (rebranded name of the TV western \"The Virginian\") in the episode titled \"The Town Killer.\" Ben Wright also appeared in the first season of Barnaby Jones; episode titled, \"Twenty Million Alibis\"(May 6, 1973). \n\nWright also worked as a voice actor. He was often heard on \"The Outer Limits\" as various alien voices, and he also appeared on camera. Other voice work included the narrator in \"Cleopatra\" (1963) with Elizabeth Taylor, the BBC announcer in the film version of \"The Diary of Anne Frank\" (1959) and featured animation roles in several Disney films: \"One Hundred and One Dalmatians\" (1961) as songwriter Roger Radcliffe, \"The Jungle Book\" (1967) as Mowgli's wolf father, Rama, and \"The Little Mermaid\" (1989) as Grimsby. The last was his final role.\n\nOn 2 July 1989, Wright died in Saint Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, California, after undergoing heart surgery. His body was cremated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121791", "title": "Polish Mathematical Society", "text": "Polish Mathematical Society\n\nThe Polish Mathematical Society () is the main professional society of Polish mathematicians and represents Polish mathematics within the European Mathematical Society (EMS) and the International Mathematical Union (IMU).\n\nThe society was established in Kraków, Poland in 1917. It was originally simply called the Mathematical Society. It was officially constituted on April 2, 1919. Hugo Steinhaus, Stefan Banach and Otto Nikodym were among the founders.\n\nEver since its foundation, the society's main activity was to bring mathematicians together by means of organizing conferences and lectures. The second main activity is the publication of its annals \"Annales Societatis Mathematicae Polonae\", consisting of: \n\nThe annals are also known under the Polish name \"Roczniki Polskiego Towarzystwa Matematycznego\" and under the English name \"Polish Mathematical Society Annals\".\n\nThe official list of winners of Stefan Banach Prize:\nThe International Stefan Banach Prize (Polish: \"Międzynarodowa Nagroda im. Stefana Banacha\") is an annual award presented by the Mathematical Society to mathematicians for best doctoral dissertations in the mathematical sciences. Its aim is to \"promote and financially support the most promising young researchers\" in the field of mathematics. It was founded in 2009 and is named in honour of a renowned Polish mathematician Stefan Banach (1892-1945). The laureates of the award also receive a cash prize of PLN 25,000 (c.$6,500). List of laureates:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121792", "title": "Alexander Adam", "text": "Alexander Adam\n\nAlexander Adam (24 June 174118 December 1809) was a Scottish teacher and writer on Roman antiquities.\n\nAlexander Adam was born near Forres, in Moray, the son of a farmer. From his earliest years he showed uncommon diligence and perseverance in classical studies, notwithstanding many difficulties and privations. In 1757 he went to Edinburgh, where he studied at the University of Edinburgh. His reputation as a classical scholar secured him a post as assistant at Watson's Hospital and the headmastership in 1761.\n\nIn 1764 he became private tutor to Alexander Kincaid, afterwards Lord Provost of Edinburgh, by whose influence he was appointed in 1768 to the rectorship of the High School on the retirement of Mr Matheson, whose substitute he had been for some time before. From this period he devoted himself entirely to the duties of his office and to the preparation of his numerous works on classical literature. His popularity and his success as a teacher are strikingly illustrated by the great increase in the number of his pupils, many of whom subsequently became distinguished men, among them being Walter Scott, Lord Brougham and Francis Jeffrey.\n\nHe succeeded in introducing the study of Greek into the curriculum of the school, notwithstanding the opposition of the university headed by Principal William Robertson. In 1780 the University of Edinburgh conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws.\n\nHe lived his final years at 39 George Square.\n\nHe died after an illness of five days, during which he occasionally imagined himself still at work, his last words being, \"It grows dark, boys, you may go\". He is buried near his home, in the small graveyard of St. Cuthbert's Chapel of Ease on Chapel Street. The grave lies on the north wall.\n\nThe manuscript of a projected larger Latin dictionary, which he did not live to complete, lies in the library of the High School.\n\nAdam married first, in 1775, Agnes Munro, whose father was minister of Kinloss; and second, in 1780, Jean Cosser, a daughter of the controller of excise in Edinburgh.\n\nAdam's daughter Agnes married the chemist William Prout.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121799", "title": "On a Night Like This", "text": "On a Night Like This\n\n\"On a Night Like This\" is a 2000 song recorded by Australian recording artist Kylie Minogue. It was released on 11 September 2000 by Parlophone as the second single for her seventh studio album, \"Light Years\" (2000), and distributed in various formats. The track was originally written for Swedish singer Pandora by Steve Torch, Brian Rawling, Graham Stack, and Mark Taylor, while production was handled by the latter two, it was handed to Minogue to record. Musically, \"On a Night Like This\" is a dance-pop song that also incorporates elements of disco. Its lyrical content delves on experiencing unique, possibly sexual experiences during the night.\n\nUpon its release, \"On a Night Like This\" generally received favourable reviews from music critics. Some of them complimented the production and its dance sound, whilst some noted that it didn't stand out among other tracks from \"Light Years\". Commercially, it experienced success in Australia and the United Kingdom, peaking at number one and number two, respectively. Elsewhere, it performed moderately and reached the top 40 in countries such as Sweden, Ireland, Finland, and New Zealand. An accompanying music video was shot by Douglas Avery, with its plot being inspired by the Martin Scorsese 1995 film \"Casino\".\n\nThe song has been performed on all of Minogue's concert tours since its release, with the exception of the Anti Tour. Since its release, it has been selected by contemporary critics as one of her most recognizable and career-defining tracks. \"On a Night Like This\" was re-distributed as an orchestral version for her 2012 compilation album, \"The Abbey Road Sessions\".\n\nAfter leaving her label Deconstruction Records in 1999, Minogue signed a deal with British label Parlophone that same year and began recording her album \"Light Years\" (2000). The following year, she released her comeback single, \"Spinning Around\", which garnered critical and commercial success in Australasia and Europe, and led to her releasing a follow-up single from \"Light Years\". \"On a Night Like This\" was originally written for Swedish recording artist Pandora by Steve Torch, Brian Rawling, Graham Stack, and Mark Taylor, with production being handled by the latter two. Pandora recorded it for her 1999 album, \"No Regrets\", but its composers reportedly believed the result to not gain as much success as they had hoped. As a result, they handed the recording to Parlophone and suggested Minogue to record her vocals over the backing track, which she did. Greek recording artist Anna Vissi had also obtained rights to record the track, and her version appeared on her studio album \"Everything I Am\" (2000); both Pandora's and Minogue's version feature the same instrumental, whilst Vissi's had a significantly different production.\n\n\"On a Night Like This\" was released on 11 September 2000 by Parlophone as the second single from Minogue's \"Light Years\", and was distributed in various formats. The first CD single released in Australia and New Zealand featured the original recording, three remixes of the song and the enhanced music video, whilst the second CD included the original mix of \"On a Night Like This\", one remix of the song, a remix of her single \"Your Disco Needs You\", and the B-side track \"Ocean Blue\". The British and European physical editions had a similar track list, but omitted one remix from each format. A cardboard sleeve was issued only in France, including \"On a Night Like This\" and \"Ocean Blue\", whilst the Australian and New Zealand formats were re-released in Taiwan by EMI Music.\n\nNear the end of 2000, record label Dance Factory distributed the single as a 12\" vinyl that included the original track list from the first Australian and New Zealand CD single, while two vinyl discs were released in the United Kingdom. The final format was a cassette tape distributed in Europe; it included the single and two remixes on both sides. An accompanying cover sleeve was shot by Vincent Peters in Ibiza, and features Minogue laying down on a marble surface in front of a sea front; the shot also appeared in the booklet of \"Light Years\". According to Minogue, she believed it intertwined with the message of \"sunshine, beach, fun, glamour\", a concept she wanted to experiment with on the parent album. British fashion designer and friend of Minogue William Baker felt the image was of a \"mystical quality\".\n\nMusically, \"On a Night Like This\" is a dance-pop song that incorporates elements of disco in its instrumentation, as described by Nick Levine from Digital Spy and radio station Pandora. Minogue recorded the track at Dreamhouse Studios in London, United Kingdom during early 2000, and it was mixed by Mark Taylor and Graham Stack. A staff member of Pandora Radio commented the recording's instrumentation as consisting of string sections, acoustic guitars, keyboards and synthesisers managed by Taylor and Stack; the pre-chorus and chorus sections feature background vocals. According to the sheet music published by Universal Music, the song is written in the key of C minor and is set in time signature of common time with a tempo of 130 beats per minute. Minogue's vocals span from B♭3 to C5, whilst the recording has a sequence of Cm-B♭-Fm7-B♭-Cm-B♭-FM7-B♭-Cm-B♭/C-Fm7/C-B♭/C in the verses, and Cm-B♭/C-A♭-B♭ in the chorus as its chord progression. Lyrically, \"On a Night Like This\" focuses on a person enjoying unique experiences on night time, but also approaches themes of relationships and love. According to \"New Zealand Herald\"s Scott Kara, the composition is \"a swirling, late night club pop tune.\" A reviewer from British tabloid \"NME\" compared the \"disco\" sound to the 2000 track \"Groovejet (If This Ain't Love)\" by Spiller, and to the work of English recording artist Sophie Ellis-Bextor. Philip Matusavage, writing for \"MusicOMH\", argued that the song included musical influences of Europop.\n\n\"On a Night Like This\" received generally favourable reviews from most music critics. Writing for \"Stylus Magazine\", Mark Edwards said that the recording was one of the singer's songs from \"Ultimate Kylie\" that \"cemented her comeback\". He referred it to as an \"aforementioned mega-song\". Similarly, Jason Shawahn from About.com noted it as \"a blessing for domestic music consumers\". AllMusic's Chris True favored \"On a Night Like This\" as one of the better cuts on the parent album, and selected the track as some of Minogue's best work. Nick Levine from Digital Spy called it a \"catchy\" number, and pointed it out as a highlight from the record. While likening the recording to the track \"Groovejet\" by Spiller and Sophie Ellis-Bextor, a reviewer from British tabloid \"NME\" felt the comparison \"works because it doesn't revolve awkwardly round a random disco beat\".\n\nSimilarly, Hunter Felt from PopMatters enjoyed the song, but felt disappointed by Parlophone and the public for not releasing the single in the United States, commenting \"'On a Night Like This', a track that is meant to go right to number one on the Billboard Club Tracks list and while being completely ignored by the general public.\" In a review of Minogue's greatest hits album, \"The Best of Kylie Minogue\" (2012) by PopMatters' Matt James, he described \"On a Night Like This\" as a \"bedroom-eyed nightclubber\", further adding it was \"still hot enough to melt large glaciers.\" An editor from \"NME\", Stevie Chick, believed that Minogue lacked genuine \"passion\" throughout the song and labelled it \"unremarkable\". \"Billboard\"s Jason Lipshutz felt it was \"more propulsive, with an even more enjoyable bridge\" than previous single \"Spinning Around\".\n\nCommercially, the single experienced success in Australia and the United Kingdom. It debuted at number one on the Australian Singles Chart, making it her sixth number-one in that region; it also gave her the record for having the most singles debuting at number one with five entries. Subsequently, \"On a Night Like This\" fell to number three and number five in its second and third week, respectively, giving Minogue the distinction of having the lowest week drops for a single debuting atop the chart. \"On a Night Like This\" topped the single \"Most Girls\" by American recording artist Pink during its fourth week, and spent an overall 17 weeks in the chart, one of Minogue's longest-spanning releases in that region. It was certified Platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for physical shipments of 70,000 units. On the UK Singles Chart, the single debuted at number two, having been stalled from the top position by the song \"Lady (Hear Me Tonight)\" by French duo Modjo. It descended outside the top ten the following week, had three non-consecutive chart runs, and lasted 13 weeks inside the top 100. As of March 2014, \"On a Night Like This\" had sold 170,000 units in that region, as confirmed by the Official Chart Company. Elsewhere, it reached number  two on the Scottish Singles Chart and number 16 on the Irish Singles Chart.\n\nThe single performed moderately around Europe and Australasia. \"On a Night Like This\" entered at number 39 on the New Zealand Singles Chart, and reached its peak position at 34 the following week; this resulted in marking one of Minogue's lowest-charting singles in that region, with it spending a total of nine weeks within the top 50. \"On a Night Like This\" further reached number 69 on the French Singles Chart and remained for a total of five weeks inside the chart. It had a similar chart run in the Netherlands, where it peaked at number 64 and lasted four weeks. The track additionally reached the top 40 in both Sweden and Finland, whilst in the latter it only lasted a sole week in the top 20, and managed to enter the top 70 and 50 in both Germany and Switzerland. The single fared slightly better in Belgium's Flanders and Wallonia, where it peaked at number 29 on the former chart and at number three on the Bubbling Under chart in Wallonia, thus failing to enter the region's official charts.\n\nAn accompanying music video was directed by Douglas Avery, and was filmed in Monte Carlo in July 2000. The plot was loosely based on Martin Scorsese's 1995 crime drama movie \"Casino\", with Minogue herself portraying a character using aspects of Sharon Stone's bored trophy wife. Dutch actor Rutger Hauer served as Minogue's on-screen mob partner and husband. According to Hauer, no one from the set—including the singer, and apart from Avery—knew he was appearing as a cameo. Regarding the on-screen relationship, the singer stated; \"In my opinion, the Rutger Hauer character is kind of like a minder or he's in charge of her, although there is that kind of strong sexual tension.\" The artist wore three outfits in the video—a multi-coloured dress at the start of the visual, a black dress during her appearance at a casino in Monte Carlo, and a final blue cocktail dress. She had sported an estimated $2 million worth of jewellery and diamonds during filming, with a few security guards having to accompany her on the set.\n\nThe music video opens with a group of mob members plotting a scheme whilst Hauer is seen drinking an unspecified alcohol. Subsequently, the song starts and Minogue is seen on a diving board, jumping into a pool, presumably dead. Mob members look towards her body in distance, but then look away towards Hauer. She starts singing the track in the pool, gets out of it, and walks towards the mob members who seem disinterested of her presence. The singer undresses herself and throws the dress out of the window, which captures their attention. She subsequently drives in a limousine and puts on accessories whilst the driver takes her to a casino. The artist enters a large room, and plays poker with several members, eventually winning. Minogue appears in the limousine again, sporting the blue cocktail dress. Hauer, who is by himself at home, hears Minogue walking into the apartment, but she pushes over a large green vase and smashes it; disinterested, he looks towards in distance. The final scene has Minogue undressing herself and walking down steps.\n\nBritish author Sean Smith, who wrote a biography about Minogue, described the video and scenery as \"broody\" and \"atmospheric.\" According to Smith, an original version had shown footage of her both full-frontal and back nude. \"NME\" had reportedly published an article regarding the nude scene, but Avery stated that no nude shots were ever created.\n\nOn 22 September 2000, Minogue performed the recording live for the first time on Top of the Pops, wearing the same pink and beige dress from the music video. At the 2000 Sydney Olympics closing ceremony, Minogue performed ABBA's \"Dancing Queen\" and \"On a Night Like This\". In November 2012, the singer performed the song as part of the Royal Variety Performance at the Royal Albert Hall. Since its release, \"On a Night Like This\" has been featured on nearly all of Minogue's concert tours, except the Anti Tour and For You, for Me North American tour. It was one of the headlining songs of the On a Night Like This Tour, which was launched to promote \"Light Years\" in 2001. Minogue had been lowered from an anchor up until performing the song. The single was additionally performed during the \"Sex in Venice\" act of the KylieFever2002 tour, and in 2005 on her . Minogue was unable to complete the tour as she was diagnosed with early breast cancer and had to cancel the Australian leg of the tour.\n\nAfter undergoing treatment and recovery, she resumed the concert tour in the form of in 2007, and performed \"On a Night Like This\" on the \"Homecoming\" segment. The song was performed as part of the \"Black Versus White\" act of the KylieX2008 tour. Minogue performed \"On a Night Like This\" during her in 2011, which contained elements of DJ Sammy's single \"Heaven\". On December 2012, she performed the song on the Nobel Peace Prize Concert. \"On a Night Like This\" was also included on 2014's Kiss Me Once Tour, where it was performed \"amid a kaleidoscope of lasers\". It was also performed on Minogue's 2015 Summer Tour, which featured her in a glittery black and white dress. For 2018's Golden Tour, \"On a Night Like This\" was performed in a medley with unreleased track \"New York City\" and \"Raining Glitter\", a song from her fourteenth studio album \"Golden\"; it was performed in a Studio 54 setting and found Minogue, dressed in a sparkly golden dress, surrounded by dancers. Minogue promoted the song by appearing in a Pepsi commercial, having the track as background music; it was included on the official soundtrack for 2001, and was singled out by the AllMusic staff as one of the best tracks. It has appeared on four of Minogue's greatest hits compilation albums: \"Ultimate Kylie\" (2004), \"Hits\" (2011), \"The Best of Kylie Minogue\" (2012) and most recently on \"\" (2019). It has appeared on one of Minogue's remix albums, this being \"Boombox\" (2008), which was remixed by Italian DJs Bini & Martini.\n\nOn 24 February 2012, Minogue uploaded an orchestral version of \"On a Night Like This\" on her official YouTube channel. It was released three months after Minogue announced a new album that focused on re-worked versions of her previous singles, commenting, \"I've been at Abbey Road for about two weeks in total.\" The song was confirmed in September 2012 to appear on her orchestral compilation album \"The Abbey Road Sessions\" as the second track on the album, and was globally released on 24 October 2012. Alongside \"On a Night Like This\", the album was part of a commemoration of Minogue's 25th career anniversary that spanned through the entire 2012. Annie Zaleski from The A.V. Club described the composition as a \"brassy R&B torch song thanks to a soaring gospel choir and dramatic strings [...]\". Writing for \"The Guardian\", Caroline Sullivan noted the track to \"[transform] the teenage-crush fervour of the original into a cool, big-band seduction\". To promote the track, Minogue's label Parlophone distributed a CD single in the United Kingdom on 17 December 2012, which featured the re-worked recording and its instrumental version.\n\nReaction towards the re-worked version of \"On a Night Like This\" was positive amongst music critics. Scott Kara from the \"New Zealand Herald\" highlighted the track as one of the two standouts on the album, and praised its composition; he called it a \"sweeping and grand serenade\". Similarly, Digital Spy's Robert Copsey selected the track as one of the better cuts and commended how the orchestral quality allowed to emphasise the lyrical content more than the original. Jeff Katz from the American music website Idolator was very positive, stating \"Many of the cuts—including 'On A Night Like This,' 'Finer Feelings' and 'Confide In Me' — sound ready for placement in a Bond film. Driving drums and suspenseful strings breathe new life into the old favorites.\" Philip Matusavage from MusicOMH enjoyed the \"re-invented\" and \"advertous\" track, and selected it as a \"confident\" highlight from the album. To promote the single, Minogue performed the orchestral version as part of the BBC Proms in the Park London 2012 in December.\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from liner notes of \"Light Years\".\n\nRecording\n\nCredits\n\n! scope=\"row\"| Australia (ARIA)\n\n\"On a Night Like This\" was recorded by United DJs vs Pandora and released in November 2007 as the fourth and final single from United DJs vs. Pandora's album, \"Celebration\" (2007). The song peaked at number three on the Swedish Singles Chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121806", "title": "Cow-calf", "text": "Cow-calf\n\nIn North American railroading, a cow-calf (also cow and calf) locomotive is a set of switcher-type diesel locomotives. The set usually is a pair; some 3-unit sets (with two calves) were built, but this was rare. A cow is equipped with a driving cab; a calf is not. The two are coupled together (either with regular couplers or a semi-permanent drawbar) and are connected with MU cables and brake lines so that both locomotive units can be operated from the single cab.\n\nCows are analogous to A units and calves to B unit road locomotives. Both have prime movers. Like the early EMD FT locomotives, the Cow-calf sets were typically built as mated pairs, with the Cow (or cabbed unit) and calf (or cabless unit) sharing a number. However this was not always the case, with over time many of the sets being broken up and couplers added to aid with versatility.\n\nMost cow-calf sets were built between the 1930s and the 1950s. They were built by several different makers, although General Motors' Electro-Motive Division built far more than the others. As originally constructed, the cow-calf units were typically used in hump yards where they spent much of their life pushing long trains over the hump for classification. There were, however, a few notable cases where this was not so, with some industrial railroads using non mated pairs as light road switcher locomotives. However, as with the larger three unit Cow-calf sets, such was very rare.\n\nThe cow-calf concept was adopted on Queensland 2 ft gauge sugar cane railways with two locomotives being coupled permanently in multiple-unit mode with the cab of one removed. This was utilised by Isis Mill (1980-1993) and by Mackay Sugar (2005).\n\nThe concept was also used in the United Kingdom by British Rail to produce the unique Class 13 locomotives, composed of two Class 08 locomotives. British terminology is master-and-slave unit.\n\nCow-calf locomotives can be distinguished from the sometimes very similar looking slug and slug mother sets by the fact that both cows and calves are independently powered, while slugs are engineless, and dependent on power from their \"mother\" units.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121808", "title": "How Will I Know", "text": "How Will I Know\n\n\"How Will I Know\" is a song recorded by American singer Whitney Houston for her eponymous debut studio album, which was released in February 1985. The song was released by Arista Records in November that year as the album's third single. Composed by George Merrill and Shannon Rubicam, the song was originally intended for American singer Janet Jackson, but she passed on it. Houston then recorded the song with altered lyrics and production from Narada Michael Walden. The lyrics speak about the protagonist trying to discern if a boy she likes will ever like her back.\n\n\"How Will I Know\" received mainly positive reviews from music critics. The song became Houston's second number-one single on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It spent two weeks atop the chart and also became Houston's first chart topper on the Canadian \"RPM\" Top 100 Singles chart. Its success was worldwide: it reached the top-ten in Sweden, Ireland, Norway and the United Kingdom, and the top 20 in the Netherlands, New Zealand and Switzerland.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"How Will I Know\" features scenes of Houston dancing in a setting of video screens and colored partitions. The music video gave Houston exposure to the teens and MTV. It also received nominations at the 1986 MTV Video Music Awards in the categories of Best Female Video and Best New Artist, winning the former category. The song was performed on many of her tours including Greatest Love Tour (1986) and her Nothing but Love World Tour (2009–10). \"How Will I Know\" is also featured as a remix on Houston's compilation album \"\" (2000), whereas the original single version is featured on \"The Ultimate Collection\" (2007) and \"\" (2012; remastered).\n\nOriginally, songwriters George Merrill and Shannon Rubicam had written the song's demo in 1984 for American singer Janet Jackson, employed by A&M Records executive, John McClain. However, after hearing the song, Jackson's management passed on the song, feeling it was too weak in comparison to her other material. In an interview with Fred Bronson, Merrill expressed his feelings after learning of Jackson's decision. \"We were pretty upset because we thought it was perfect for her at the time. We had written it with her completely in mind.\" During this period, Brenda Andrews, at Almo-Irving Music, Merrill and Rubicam's publisher, played the song for Gerry Griffith, the director for R&B music at A&M and Arista Records. Griffith, who was compiling material for Houston's debut album at the time, felt the song perfectly matched her sound. He soon contacted Andrews and the song's two writers and urged that they should give up the song to him for Houston's debut album. Griffith described his discovery of the song and what he and Clive Davis thought of it:\n\"We had a lot of R&B-based tunes, we had a few ballads, but we didn't have a pop crossover song. So when I heard 'How Will I Know,' I said 'this is absolutely perfect.' I played it for Clive [and] he fell in love with it. I wasn't very familiar with her family background; I didn't realize that, even at that time, there was a pretty big industry buzz about her future.\"\nAfter getting permission to use the song from Merrill, Griffith quickly turned to Narada Michael Walden, who was producing for Aretha Franklin, material for her album \"Who's Zoomin' Who?\", at the time. After getting in touch with Walden, Griffith frantically urged him to produce the song, describing how important the song would be for Houston's upcoming album. After hearing the song's demo, Walden agreed to fly down to San Rafael, California to arrange it. He was not much impressed with the demo and requested permission to change some of the song's lyrics and chord progression. Distracted by his request, Merrill and Rubicam denied him the right to their song. After a lot of back-and-forth with Griffith, they compromised and allowed Walden to de-construct the song and change the key and tempo. After completing the song, Houston came into the studio to record her vocals in late 1984. Cissy Houston, Whitney's mother, joined her daughter to perform the song's background vocals. Griffith explained:\n\n\"I asked Whitney to sing on the background session. She was reluctant because she wanted to enjoy hearing her mother sing. I said, 'No, get out there and sing,' so she did. The background sounded incredible...Clive Davis heard the mix and immediately gave it a 10, which is outrageous for him, because he doesn't like anything!\"\nThe tenor saxophone is played by Premik Russell Tubbs.\n\n\"How Will I Know\" is composed in a 1980s dance beat. \"Rolling Stone\" described the song as \"perky synth-funk\". According to Kyle Anderson of MTV, the song found Houston hitting an \"incredible groove\". It is written in the key of G flat major. The beat is set the time signature of common time and moves at a fast tempo of 120 beats per minute. The song also has the sequence of G-Bm-G/C-D-Em-D as its chord progression. Houston's vocals in the song span from the note of D to the high note of G. Lyrically, the song speaks about the lead woman trying to discern whether a man she likes will ever like her back. She is also hesitant, because her friends tell her \"love can be deceiving\", and she is so shy that she cannot call him. Later, she feels that it might be a dream, but realizes that \"there's no mistaking\", and that what she feels is really love.\n\n\"How Will I Know\" mainly garnered positive reviews from music critics, with some noting it as a standout on the album. Don Shewey of \"Rolling Stone\" commented \"Although it's awfully reminiscent of the Pointer Sisters' 'He's So Shy', 'How Will I Know' is still irresistibly danceable.\" Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic wrote \"...what really impresses some 20-plus years on are the lighter tracks, particularly the breakthrough single 'How Will I Know'.\" While reviewing the \"Deluxe Anniversary Edition\" of the album, Mikael Wood of \"Entertainment Weekly\" commented on the a cappella version of the song noting, \"a cappella mix of 'How Will I Know' [that] displays the singer's precision long before the advent of Auto-Tune.\" While reviewing \"The Ultimate Collection\", Nick Levine of Digital Spy added, \"Houston's floor-fillers have aged a little more gracefully, although their clunky, thudding drum sounds are as unmistakably eighties as Joan Collins' \"Dynasty\" wardrobe.\" The song was voted number 12 in VH1's \"List of Greatest Songs of the 1980s\".\n\n\"How Will I Know\" debuted at number 60 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, on the December 7, 1985 issue. Nine weeks later, it peaked at number one on the issue dated February 15, 1986, becoming Houston's second number-one single on that chart. It displaced Houston's cousin Dionne Warwick's \"That's What Friends Are For\", and was displaced by Mr. Mister's \"Kyrie\". It stayed on the peak for two weeks. The single also debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart at number 60 and later peaked at number one, a peak it maintained for one week. On the issue dated January 25, 1986, \"How Will I Know\" entered the \"Billboard\" Dance Club Songs chart at number 30 and later peaked at number three on the February 22, 1986 issue. It also peaked at number one on the \"Billboard\" Adult Contemporary chart. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified the single Gold on December 6, 1985, for shipments of 500,000 copies or more. It ranked at number six on the \"Billboard\" year-end chart. In Canada, the single debuted at number 80 on the \"RPM\" Top 100 Singles chart on the issue dated December 14, 1985. It later peaked at number one on the week dated March 1, 1986, becoming Houston's first number-one single in Canada. It was later certified Gold by the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA) on May 1, 1986, for shipments of 200,000 copies or more.\n\nThe single performed well in other countries. In United Kingdom, it debuted at number 36, during the week of January 25, 1986 and later peaked at a position of number five. It was also certified Silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). According to MTV UK and Ireland, the single has sold about 280,000 copies in the United Kingdom. In New Zealand, the single debuted at number 35 and later peaked at number 19. In Austria, the single reached a peak position of number 28, while reaching a peak of number 12 in the Netherlands. It also reached number two in Norway and Sweden, while charting at number 11 in Switzerland. According to AllMusic, \"How Will I Know\" has sold about 1.5 million copies worldwide.\n\nIn Australia, \"How Will I Know\" was released as the first single from the album in March 1985. It spent a single week in the Kent Music Report chart at number 97 in July 1985, before re-entering the chart in February 1986, eventually peaking at number two.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"How Will I Know\", directed by British director Brian Grant and choreographed by Arlene Phillips, was filmed prior to the release of the single and album. Unlike her past music videos, Houston was given the opportunity to move beyond the staged performance settings to demonstrate straightforward dance moves. The music video is set against a strikingly designed, vividly colored setting of video screens and partitions. Houston's hair is dyed honey blonde and is worn by a dazzling colored hairbow. She is also seen accented by a tight silver dress made of metal mesh, reaching almost to her knees, adorned with matching fingerless gloves. Houston is also seen choreographing with backup dancers, in black outfits and wearing French-style makeup. The music video also has a scene of splattering of paint and drizzling down the screen. Houston's labelmate and family friend Aretha Franklin also makes a cameo appearance in the music video. In 2011, Kyle Anderson of MTV wrote that the video was \"eye-opening to watch her cut loose in a fun environment\", since her past songs were ballads.\n\nThe music video was her first to receive heavy rotation on MTV. Also, the music video was nominated for two awards at the 1986 MTV Video Music Awards, in the categories of Best New Artist and Best Female Video, winning the latter.\n\nHouston performed the song on her Greatest Love Tour (1986), Moment of Truth World Tour (1987–88), Feels So Right Japan Tour (1990), I'm Your Baby Tonight World Tour (1991), The Bodyguard World Tour (1993–94), My Love Is Your Love World Tour (1999) and Nothing but Love World Tour (2009–2010). Apart from the concert tour performances, Houston has performed the song on various other occasions like the 3rd MTV Video Music Awards in 1986, where she sang \"How Will I Know\" and \"Greatest Love of All\", 13th annual American Music Awards (1986), and 1987 BRIT Awards. The latter performance is included in the 2014 CD/DVD release, \"\".\nOn May 15, 1987, during her European promotion for then-new album, \"Whitney\", Houston sang the song at the Montreux Golden Rose Rock Festival: IM&MC Gala with two other 1986 released songs, \"I Wanna Dance with Somebody (Who Loves Me)\" and \"Where Do Broken Hearts Go\". On April 29, 1985, she appeared on \"The Merv Griffin Show\", taped in New York City, and performed \"How Will I Know\". On her Moment of Truth World Tour, she participated in the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute Concert and performed the song with other seven songs. She also performed the song on \"Welcome Home Heroes\", a concert dedicated to the U.S. troops, their families, and military and government dignitaries in honor of those returning from the Gulf War, which aired on HBO on March 31, 1991. The concert was taped and later released as a VHS on May 14, 1991. She also performed the song on , three concerts in 1994 to honor President Nelson Mandela. Houston later performed the song on the closing ceremonies of the 1994 World Cup along with five of her other songs. In 2000, she performed the song on Arista's 25th Anniversary, along with \"I Wanna Dance with Somebody (Who Loves Me)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121810", "title": "Air Force Museum of New Zealand", "text": "Air Force Museum of New Zealand\n\nThe Air Force Museum of New Zealand, formerly called The Royal New Zealand Air Force Museum, is located at Wigram, the RNZAF's first operational base, in Christchurch, in the South Island of New Zealand. It opened on 1 April 1987 as part of the celebrations for the RNZAF's 50th anniversary, and is primarily a museum of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, its predecessor, the New Zealand Permanent Air Force and New Zealand squadrons of the Royal Air Force. The Air Force Museum of New Zealand's mission is to preserve and present the history of New Zealand military aviation for commemoration, learning, inspiration and enjoyment.\n\nThe Museum holds the national collection of the Royal New Zealand Air Force. The collection includes objects covering the early days of New Zealand military aviation both prior to World War I and during this major conflict, the interwar years which saw the formation of the RNZAF in 1937, New Zealanders who fought in the RAF and in other Allied air forces during World War II, the RNZAF's campaign in the Pacific, and the post-war period to the present day. The collection also includes objects from former enemy forces, aircraft, aircraft components, aircraft engines, large objects, textiles, art and memorabilia as well as an extensive paper and photographic archive.\n\nThe Museum is free admission. Visitors can take a half-hour guided tour through 'behind the scenes' areas of the Museum, which includes the Reserve Collection hangar. The Museum's most recent restoration project, an Airspeed Oxford, is now on public display since February 2016. The Museum also has a Mosquito Flight Simulator, which features a mission based on the Allied bombing of German battleships in the Norwegian fiords.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121811", "title": "BiCon (UK)", "text": "BiCon (UK)\n\nThe UK BiCon (more formally known as the UK National Bisexual Convention or UK National Bisexual Conference), is the largest and most consistent annual gathering of the United Kingdom's bisexual community.\n\nWhile the format does vary, the common format is a long weekend over 4 days consisting of workshops, discussions, meetings and social events. Although being billed as a \"bisexual\" event, it is open to partners of bisexuals, supporters, non-bisexuals, non-definers, and anyone else interested in issues relevant to bisexuals. To that extent it can often be characterised as a nexus of the sexual freedom and queer movements. Each BiCon event usually attracts between 200 and 400 people.\n\nIn December 1984 the London Bisexual Group (in association with the now defunct zine \"Bi-Monthly\") ran a conference called \"The Politics of Bisexuality\" at The Factory Community Project in Highbury. Around 40 people attended and judged the event to be a huge success. A second event was then attended by over fifty people in April 1985. Unfortunately the venue used, the London Lesbian and Gay Centre, had just decided to ban bisexuals (and some other groups) from their premises. This did not stop the conferences which soon gained popularity in a Britain devoid of bisexual-focused events.\n\nThat following October the Edinburgh Bisexual Group took up the torch and ran an event called \"Bisexuality and the Politics of Sex\". This established the idea of conferences moving around the nation. The next was run by a bisexual women's group in London. By this point the community was starting to know what they wanted from BiCon - a chance to meet other bisexuals (and their allies) from across the country, discuss sexuality issues, relax in the company of like-minded folk and network.\n\nArmed with an agreed purpose, for the next few years the conference alternated between venues in London and Edinburgh. Then in 1989 it branched out to Coventry. As well as being the first one outside the two capitals, it was also the first to be residential (previously, people from outside the host city had either booked accommodation privately or stayed with local attendees: 'crash space') and to use the name 'BiCon', in part because of the organisers' and venue's experience with SF Cons (Science Fiction conventions).\n\nA range of cities and towns have hosted it since. Over time BiCon has evolved to fit with the needs of the community. The word 'conference' has been largely replaced by 'convention', but there is still a political and campaigning side to the event. In recent years the momentum behind the event has spawned a number of offshoots, such as BiFest, BabyBiCon, and the bi academic conference BiReCon, which have expanded on particular areas covered by BiCon.\n\nIn 2002 BiCon hosted the first Cake Awards recognising the breadth of contributions made to the bisexual community in the UK. Further Cake Awards have been presented at BiCon every few years since.\n\nBICON has been a registered trade mark of BiCon Continuity Ltd since 2016.\n\nA spin-off event BabyBiCon aimed at bisexual youth (those under 26 years old) was held in Manchester on June 5-7, 1998. It was organised at the Ardwick Youth Club by the group 'BiYouth' (which folded in 2000) with support from a couple of local lesbian and gay youth projects. While attracting around 25 people, discussions of holding successor events in 1999 and 2000 led to nothing.\n\nBiReCon is a research conference for academic work on bisexuality. BiReCon originated as a series of workshops at BiCon. Elizabeth Barker-Williams came up with the name while on the organizing committee for the 2008 BiCon. \n\nThe first BiReCon was organized as a national conference to be held before BiCon 2008. It was held in 2008 at the University of Leicester. There were approximately 60 attendees.\n\nIn 2010, BiCon (UK) organized the 10th International Conference on Bisexuality (ICB). The organizers decided to make the second BiReCon an international conference. It took place on August 26, 2010, the day before ICB, at the University of East London. Speakers included Serena Anderlini-D'Onofrio, Eric Anderson, Robyn Ochs, and John Sylla. There were approximately 100 attendees.\n\nThe third BiReCon took place on August 9, 2012 at Bradford University and focused on mental health. Speakers included Meg-John Barker, Roshan das Nair, and Christina Richards. The fourth BiReCon focused on joining academics research and community-run bi groups, and it was held on July 31, 2014 at Leeds Trinity University.\n\nThe fifth BiReCon, EuroBiReCon, was an international conference held on July 28-29, 2016 at the University of Amsterdam. The keynote speakers on the first day were Dr. Surya Monro and Dr. Alex Iantaffi. The second day included a workshop presented by Robyn Ochs, Meg-John Barker, and Maria Pallotta-Chiarolli.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121813", "title": "CPIC", "text": "CPIC\n\nCPIC may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2121819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121819", "title": "Mount Vernon Square", "text": "Mount Vernon Square\n\nMount Vernon Square is a city square and neighborhood in the Northwest quadrant of Washington, D.C. The square is located where the following streets would otherwise intersect: Massachusetts Avenue NW, New York Avenue NW, K Street NW, and 8th Street NW.\n\nMount Vernon Square is bounded on the east by 7th Street NW, on the west by 9th Street NW, on the north by Mount Vernon Place, and on the south by a two-block section of K Street NW that is slightly offset from the rest of K Street.\n\nIn the center of the square is the Carnegie Library of Washington D.C., finished in 1903, as a gift of industrialist Andrew Carnegie. The white marble Beaux-Arts building was originally the central library for Washington, D.C. The building now houses the Historical Society of Washington, D.C., and an Apple Store.\n\nThe square was in the original L'Enfant Plan for the city but in the early 1800s was divided into four triangles by the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and New York Avenue. The old Northern Liberty Market stood along Seventh Street until 1872, when it was demolished by Governor Alexander Shepherd in a night raid with two to 300 men. The roadways were removed in 1882 at the request of residents who complained that \"in its former condition the constant passage of vehicles of all descriptions through the park made it unpleasant and oftentimes dangerous for those frequenting it.\" \n\nThe Carnegie Library of Washington D.C. was built in 1903. It was the central library for the city until 1972, when the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library was completed. The library sat abandoned for a decade until it was renovated as a library for the University of the District of Columbia. \n\nIn 1999, the library became the headquarters for the Historical Society of Washington, D.C. The City Museum of Washington opened in the library in May 2003, but closed less than two years later.\n\nIn 2008, a sculpture was installed on the lawn at the south side of the square - \"The Hand\" created by Jim Fauntleroy in the 1960s for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference’s Poor People’s Campaign.\n\nThe Washington Convention and Sports Authority took over the library building in 2011, renting it out for events. The building underwent significant renovations in 2018, to accommodate a new Apple Store and exhibit space for the Historical Society.\n\nMount Vernon Square also refers to the neighborhood northeast of the square, extending north to O Street and east to New Jersey Avenue. In the early 20th century, Victorian-style townhomes occupied the area, and it was a vibrant business district until the Great Depression, when the area went into a steep decline. During the 1968 Martin Luther King, Jr. riots, the area around the square suffered rioting, arson, and extensive vandalism.\n\nIn the 1980s, 7th Street was shut down for several years during the construction of the Green Line (Washington Metro) - the Mount Vernon Square station opened in 1991.\n\nWashington's Chinatown is just south of the square, the Shaw neighborhood is just to the north, and Mount Vernon Triangle is the neighborhood directly to the east.\n\nIn 1977, the city used eminent domain to purchase several blocks southwest of Mount Vernon Square. Over the next few years, the homes and businesses on these blocks were razed. The old Washington Convention Center was constructed on the area block bounded by New York Avenue NW, 9th Street NW, H Street NW, and 11th Street NW. Construction on the center began in 1980, and it opened on December 10, 1982. At , it was the fourth largest facility in the United States at the time. However, during the 1980s and 1990s, numerous larger and more modern facilities were constructed around the country, and by 1997 the Washington Convention Center had become the 30th largest facility.\n\nIn 1998, construction began on a new larger convention center, occupying several blocks directly north of Mount Vernon Square. The new convention center was completed in 2003, and renamed the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in 2007. \n\nMany small businesses existed around Mount Vernon Square before the construction of the convention centers. One of the last businesses to exist on the west side of the square was a Chinese restaurant named Nan King (which was one of the first restaurants in the city to serve dim sum), which was open until 1979. By 2004, Alperstein's Furniture was the only store on 7th Street to survive through the construction of the Metro station and the new convention center. It closed in 2014, with a restaurant moving into its building.\n\nOn the west side of the square is the 901 New York Avenue office building (headquarters of law firm Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner), completed in 2003. On the east are two large office buildings, including the headquarters of law firm Arnold & Porter (opened 2016), and the headquarters for the Association of American Medical Colleges and the American Dental Education Association (opened 2014). On the south side is the Renaissance Washington DC Hotel (opened 1986), and the Techworld plaza office development (opened 1989), which is undergoing redevelopment and re-branding as \"Anthem Row.\"\n\nAcross from the northwest corner of the square is the Washington Marriott Marquis, the largest hotel in the city, which opened in 2014. The lot at the southwest corner of the square was the former site of the old Washington Convention Center, now the CityCenterDC development, which opened in 2015.\n\nThere are two historic buildings northwest of the square: the Mount Vernon Place United Methodist Church and the American Federation of Labor Building. The Mount Vernon Place church was built in 1917, by the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. The Labor building was built in 1916 as the headquarters for the American Federation of Labor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121822", "title": "Mandi Mullanpur", "text": "Mandi Mullanpur\n\nMandi Mullanpur, also known as Mullanpur, is a town located 18 km from Ludhiana on Grand Trunk Road to Jagraon. The village of Mullanpur is connected to the town of Mandi-Mullanpur via two link roads. On one road there is a Gurudwara (Sikh temple), Mashkiana Sahib (sometimes called Mushkiana Sahib or Baba Saheedan), having historical significance. On the other road there are houses of families who have lived there since Independence [\"Circa 1950\"].\n\nMost of the people living there are farmers and businessmen.\nThe population of Mandi Mullanpur is mainly of India's four main religious groups: Sikhs, Hindus, Muslims, and Christians. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Mandi Mullanpur has an average literacy rate of 69%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 74%, and female literacy is 63%. In Mandi Mullanpur, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n"}
{"id": "2121823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121823", "title": "Spinning Around", "text": "Spinning Around\n\n\"Spinning Around\" is a song recorded by Australian singer Kylie Minogue for her seventh studio album, \"Light Years\" (2000). It won the 2000 ARIA Music Award for Best Pop Release. Written by Ira Shickman, Osborne Bingham, Kara DioGuardi, and Paula Abdul, \"Spinning Around\" was initially meant to be recorded by Abdul for her own album, but was given to Minogue after the plan never came to fruition. Produced by Mike Spencer, the disco-influenced dance-pop song was then released as the lead single from \"Light Years\" on 19 June 2000. Lyrically, the song addresses the theme of reinvention, with Minogue claiming that she has changed as a person and learned from the past.\n\nUpon its release, \"Spinning Around\" received favourable reviews from music critics, who singled it out as one of the highlights from the album and praised Minogue for returning to her signature musical style. Commercially, the song was a success and became Minogue's \"comeback\" single following the critical and commercial disappointment of her sixth studio album \"Impossible Princess\" (1997). It entered the Australian Singles Chart at number one, becoming the singer's first chart-topper since \"Confide in Me\" (1994). The song also debuted at number one in the United Kingdom, where it became her first single to peak atop the chart since \"Tears on My Pillow\" in 1990. Elsewhere, it reached the top five in Ireland and New Zealand. \"Spinning Around\" was certified platinum and silver in Australia and the United Kingdom, respectively.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Spinning Around\" was directed by Dawn Shadforth, and features Minogue dancing and enjoying herself in a disco. It became popular for the gold hotpants she sported in most of the scenes and led to her bottom gaining extensive coverage from the media. The hotpants are considered to be \"iconic\" and have been displayed in exhibitions of Minogue's fashion. \"Spinning Around\" has been performed by Minogue during all of her concert tours, with the exception of the Anti Tour. In 2003, \"Q Magazine\" ranked \"Spinning Around\" at number 90 in their list of the \"1001 Best Songs Ever\".\n\nIn 1997, Minogue released her sixth studio album, \"Impossible Princess\". The album represented a drastic change in the singer's musical direction, shifting from her signature dance-pop styles to incorporate elements of electronica and pop rock. It was her second album to be released on British record label Deconstruction and became a success in her native Australia, peaking at number four on the ARIA Albums Chart. In the United Kingdom \"Impossible Princess\" was less successful than Minogue's previous albums and peaked at number ten on the UK Albums Chart. The album also suffered from poor reviews in the UK as commentators criticised its different musical approach; many also considered that Minogue's career was over. Despite embarking on a successful promotional tour, Minogue was dropped by Deconstruction in 1999. Minogue then signed to Parlophone, another British record label.\n\nAfter various discussions, Minogue decided to do what she did \"best\" and record a simple pop album inspired by disco and Europop, entitled \"Light Years\". \"Spinning Around\" was included as the opening track of the album and was written by Ira Shickman, Osborne Bingham, Kara DioGuardi and Paula Abdul, and produced by Mike Spencer. Abdul had based the song on her divorce from clothing designer Brad Beckerman and had originally intended to record it for her own studio album, but it was given to Minogue after the album failed to materialise. The song was the first major songwriting project for DioGuardi, who had not been offered any notable projects previously. In an interview discussing the development of \"Light Years\", Minogue revealed that the song had initially been found as a demo in New York by her A&R executive Jamie Nelson, who believed it would be \"perfect\" for the singer. After listening to the demo, Minogue agreed to record it and felt the song had the potential to be a hit. \"Spinning Around\" was then released as the lead single from the album on 13 June 2000 in Australia, and 19 June in the United Kingdom.\n\nSimilar to most of the songs from \"Light Years\", \"Spinning Around\" is a \"string-laden\" dance-pop track with prominent influences from disco music. According to the sheet music of the song published by BMG Rights Management at Musicnotes.com, it is composed in the key of F minor and features a moderate tempo of 120 beats per minute. Minogue's vocal range spans from the low note of F to the high note of C. Addressing the theme of reinvention, the lyrics declare that Minogue has changed and learned from her past mistakes; it contains lines like \"I'm spinning around/Move out of my way ... I'm not the same\" and \"Mistakes that I made have given me the strength to really believe.\" In an analysis of the lyrics of the song, Pom Avoledo from Blogcritics wrote that Minogue demands attention in the chorus towards the changes in her personality and asserts that people appreciate them, in the line \"I know you're feelin[g] me [be]cause you like it like this.\" The first verse deals with Minogue ridding herself of items and symbols from her past and starting afresh, evidenced in lines like \"Threw away my old clothes, got myself a better wardrobe.\" The critic felt that in the second verse Minogue faces her mistakes and accepts herself as she is. The bridge of the song features the repetition of the hook \"You know you like it like this,\" with Minogue's voice being vocoded. Chris True from AllMusic felt that through the lyrics, Minogue was admitting that releasing \"Impossible Princess\" in 1997 was not the best decision.\n\n\"Spinning Around\" received favourable reviews from music critics. Chris True from AllMusic selected it as a highlight from the album and said it was a \"fun and string-laden declaration that she may have made a mistake back in 1997.\" Pom Avoledo praised Minogue for returning to her signature dance-pop style and complimented her for giving \"Spinning Around\" an \"air of elegance and sensuality which was lacking in her early material.\" A very positive review came from Siobhan Grogan of \"NME\", who favoured the chorus of the song and commended Minogue for coming back to \"what she knows best.\" The critic felt the song would become a hit in gay clubs and commented that \"[Spinning Around] is made of the same fizzing, giddy disco-pop that made Kylie famous in the first place.\" Gary Crossing from Yahoo! Music, who gave \"Light Years\" a mixed review, felt that \"Spinning Around\" was one of the better tracks from the album and called it a \"slinky little number.\" Olive Pometsey from \"GQ\" deemed it one of Minogue's most \"iconic\" tracks, concluding that \"from the funky bass to those gold shorts, our pop queen did not return to the charts to play; she came to reign\".\n\nIn his review of Minogue's 2004 greatest hits album \"Ultimate Kylie\", Jason Shawahn from About.com praised the inclusion of songs like \"Spinning Around\" and other tracks from \"Light Years\", calling them \"a blessing for domestic music consumers, since that disc has never found its way onto official US release, though with any collection of Minogue hits, one simply has to look at what they have in their collection versus what they don't.\" At the 14th ARIA Music Awards ceremony in 2000, \"Spinning Around\" won the award for \"Best Pop Release\". \"Billboard\"s Jason Lipshutz wrote the track found the singer \"returning to straightforward pop after 1997's ambitious \"Impossible Princess\" and corralling some disco thump to create an especially giddy effect\"; calling it one of Minogue's \"most effortless hits to date\". Louis Vartel from the LGBT oriented website \"NewNownext\", called it her \"coolest, most liberated dance opus\". He placed it at number seven of his list of the singer's 48 greatest songs, in honor of her 48th birthday. Writing for the \"Herald Sun\", Cameron Adams ranked it at number 42 on his list of the singer's best songs, in honor of her 50th birthday and said: \"Remember at the time many thought Kylie was washed-up, so a 70s-soaked disco pop tune was the ideal way to recalibrate the good ship Minogue. It worked, with a little help from some very little hungry gold hotpants\", the last part being a reference to the song's music video.\n\nThe song was a commercial success. In Australia it was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) prior to its release on the strength of pre-orders. On the chart date of 2 July 2000, it debuted at number one on the ARIA Singles Chart. The following week, it dropped to number five and it stayed in the top ten for four consecutive weeks in total. It was Minogue's first number one single in the country since \"Confide in Me\", which was released six years earlier. \"Spinning Around\" charted for a total of 12 weeks and was later certified platinum by the ARIA for shipments of 70,000 units. The song also performed well in New Zealand, entering the RIANZ Singles Chart at number eight and peaking at number two. It spent a total of 17 weeks on the chart and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) for sales of 7,500 units.\n\nWith first-week sales of over 80,000 units, \"Spinning Around\" debuted atop the UK Singles Chart on the chart date of 1 July 2000, becoming Minogue's first number one single in a decade. Her previous chart-topping single was \"Tears on My Pillow\" from her second studio album \"Enjoy Yourself\" (1989). \"Spinning Around\" was Minogue's fifth number one single in the United Kingdom. Minogue became one of only two artists to have a number one single in three consecutive decades, achieving this in the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s. The other artist to hold this distinction is Madonna, whose song \"American Pie\" topped the UK singles chart in March 2000. \"Spinning Around\" charted inside the top ten for two weeks and inside the top forty for eight weeks. The British Phonographic Industry (BPI) certified the song silver for shipments of 200,000 units. As of March 2014, the single has sold 300,000 units in the country according to the Official Charts Company. \"Spinning Around\" was deemed a successful \"comeback\" single for Minogue and, along with parent album \"Light Years\", helped relaunch her career.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Spinning Around\" was directed by Dawn Shadforth. As the song was meant to be Minogue's \"comeback\" single and mark a \"decisive return\" to pop music following \"Impossible Princess\", the video did not contain any dark themes and put the \"emphasis firmly upon dance, fun, and freedom.\" The video begins with a shot of Minogue's feet as she enters a disco-like setting. She is then shown dancing on the floor with a man, whom she later flirts with on a sofa. Scenes of her performing a dance routine on and in front of a bar and lying on neon blue and gold lights are interspersed throughout the video. Most of the shots are focused on Minogue's body and various scenes feature her wearing gold lamé hotpants.\n\nFollowing its release, the music video became popular for the gold hotpants Minogue sported. It resulted in a media sensation regarding her bottom. British national broadsheet newspaper \"The Sunday Times\" deemed her bottom a \"wonder of nature\" and \"The Sun\" sponsored a campaign to \"have Kylie Minogue's rear-end heritage-listed, preserved for \"posteriority\" on the grounds that it's an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.\" Readers were requested by the tabloid newspaper to persuade the government to make sure \"[Minogue's] bum remains in safe hands - by turning it into a national institution.\" Rumours and speculations claiming Minogue had undergone plastic surgery to make her bottom look more appealing also began to arise during this time. In the same year, English broadcaster and journalist Johnny Vaughan commented \"if an alien landed on Earth he would think Kylie's arse is the world's leader.\" Minogue's stylist and close friend William Baker explained his decision to \"showcase\" her bottom in the video, saying \"Kylie's bottom is like a peach - sex sells and her best asset is her bum.\" The singer's response to the attention regarding her bottom was \"dry,\" claiming \"You never know what the future holds. It could become a pear.\" It was reported that Minogue had her bottom insured for five million dollars.\n\nThe hotpants were deemed \"iconic\" and were said to be the reason behind \"Spinning Around\" becoming a \"musical and visual anthem in 2000.\" According to the catalogue entry for the hotpants at the Performing Arts Collection at the Arts Centre, Melbourne, British artist and photographer Katerina Jebb bought them for fifty pence from a flea market and they were only selected for use in the video the night before the shoot, though Minogue had worn them previously for a website photoshoot. She was surprised by the attention they attracted, commenting \"I never imagined what impact a 50p pair of hotpants would have.\" She also said that the revealing nature of the hotpants made her feel insecure during the shooting, saying \"I actually wasn't confident [in them], that's the crazy thing. I remember feeling quite self-conscious and kept wrapping a robe around me on set and would discard [it] right before the take.\" The garment is often referred to as \"those hotpants,\" and have become a symbol for the singer's vitality and youthfulness. Considered to be one of her trademark looks, the attire she wore in the music video was put on display at \"Kylie: The Exhibition\", an exhibition that featured \"costumes and memorabilia collected over Kylie's career\", held at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, England, and at \"Kylie: An Exhibition\", a similar exhibition held at the Powerhouse Museum in Sydney, Australia. It was also included in Minogue's official fashion photography book \"Kylie / Fashion\", which was released on 19 November 2012 by Thames and Hudson to celebrate Minogue's completion of . In February 2014, Minogue donated the hotpants to the Performing Arts Collection museum at the Arts Centre in her hometown of Melbourne.\n\nOn 30 June 2000, Minogue performed \"Spinning Around\" on British music chart television programme \"Top of the Pops\". She performed the song for the second time on the programme on 7 July. On 18 October 2000,Minogue performed the song on the 2000 Summer Paralympics Opening Ceremony.\nOn 2 August 2001, Minogue performed \"Spinning Around\" at the BBC Radio 1 \"One Big Sunday\" show held at Leicester, in the United Kingdom, along with \"Can't Get You Out of My Head\"; for the performance, she wore a black trilby hat, sleeveless T-shirt (with a picture of Marilyn Monroe printed on it), knee length black boots, and trousers with open zips placed on both the thighs. \"Spinning Around\" was included on the \"On Yer Bike\" act of Minogue's one-off concert show Money Can't Buy, which was held on 15 November 2003. On 4 June 2012, she sang \"Spinning Around\" at the Diamond Jubilee Concert in front of the Buckingham Palace, held in honour of Elizabeth II. Minogue's wardrobe consisted of a pearl-studded black jacket and hat. Dance troupe Flawless, finalists of British television talent show \"Britain's Got Talent\", served as Minogue's backing dancers. To promote her 2012 album \"The Abbey Road Sessions\", Minogue headlined at Proms in the Park event in Hyde Park, London. This version of the song was exclusively performed at the event, as it was not included on the track list of the album.\n\nSince its release, \"Spinning Around\" has been included in the set list of each of Minogue's concert tours, except the 2012 Anti Tour. It was the final performance of the encore segment of the On a Night Like This tour, which was launched to promote \"Light Years\" in 2001. Minogue and her back-up dancers dressed in mid 1980s-inspired outfits while performing the song. The song was performed during the \"Droogie Nights\" act of the KylieFever2002 tour. In 2005, she performed the song on her . This version of the song featured the piano riff of \"Finally\", a 1991 song by American recording artist CeCe Peniston. Minogue was unable to complete the tour as she was diagnosed with early breast cancer and had to cancel the Australian leg of the tour. After undergoing treatment and recovery, she resumed the concert tour in the form of in 2007, and performed \"Spinning Around\" with combined elements of her previous singles \"Shocked\" and \"What Do I Have to Do\". The song was performed as part of the \"Beach Party\" act of the KylieX2008 tour, during which Minogue was dressed as a \"sequinned sailor.\"\n\nA medley of \"Spinning Around\", \"Shocked\", \"What Do I Have to Do\" and \"Step Back in Time\" was performed during the For You, for Me tour in 2009, Minogue's first North American tour. Dressed in a top hat and a black crinoline, Minogue performed \"Spinning Around\" during her in 2011. Minogue performed \"Spinning Around\" as part of her seven-song set at the closing ceremony of the 2014 Commonwealth Games. More recently, the song was performed on Minogue's Kiss Me Once Tour and Kylie Summer 2015 Tour, in 2014 and 2015 respectively, following a performance of \"Step Back in Time\", where Minogue wore a sparkly corset and jacket paired with a tie and thigh-high boots. For 2018-19's Golden Tour, \"Spinning Around\" was presented in a Studio 54 setting and found Minogue, dressed in a sparkly golden dress, surrounded by dancers. Writing for \"The Guardian\", Alexandra Spring felt that during the performance, the singer seemed \"happy to give that famous bottom a moment in the spotlight\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121826", "title": "Old Town, Forsyth County, North Carolina", "text": "Old Town, Forsyth County, North Carolina\n\nOld Town (or Oldtown) is a former unincorporated community in North Carolina, which was annexed by Winston-Salem. It was located near Bethania, Tobaccoville, and Pfafftown along NC 67.\n"}
{"id": "2121842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121842", "title": "Rosalia Lombardo", "text": "Rosalia Lombardo\n\nRosalia Lombardo (13 December 1918 – 6 December 1920) was an Italian child who died of pneumonia, resulting from the Spanish flu . Rosalia's father, official Mario Lombardo, was sorely grieved upon her death, so he approached Alfredo Salafia, a noted embalmer, to undertake the task of preserving her. Her mummified body, sometimes referred to as \"Sleeping Beauty\", was one of the last corpses to be admitted to the Capuchin catacombs of Palermo in Sicily.\n\nThanks to Salafia's embalming techniques, the body was well-preserved. X-rays of the body show that all the organs are remarkably intact. Rosalia Lombardo's body is kept in a small chapel at the end of the catacomb's tour and is encased in a glass covered coffin, placed on a wooden pedestal. A 2009 \"National Geographic\" photograph of Rosalia Lombardo shows the mummy is beginning to show signs of decomposition, most notably discoloration. To address these issues, the mummy was moved to a drier spot in the catacombs, and her original coffin was placed in a hermetically sealed glass enclosure with nitrogen gas to prevent decay. The mummy remains one of the best preserved bodies in the catacombs.\n\nThat same year, Capuchin catacombs curator Dario Piombino-Mascali discovered a handwritten manuscript written by Salafia, wherein he lists the ingredients used to mummify Rosalia. The embalming formula is described as \"one part glycerin, one part formalin saturated with zinc sulfate and zinc chloride, and one part of an alcohol solution saturated with salicylic acid\", and was entered into the body through a single-point injection, most likely into the femoral artery via a gravity injector. Rossella Lorenzi of Discovery News reported that the formalin was used to kill bacteria, the glycerin used to prevent desiccation, and the salicylic acid used to eliminate any fungi within the flesh, with the purpose of the zinc salts being petrifaction.\n\nThe mummy has achieved further notoriety for a phenomenon in which her eyes appear to open and close several times a day, revealing her intact blue irises. In response to speculation about her moving eyelids, Piombino-Mascali stated that \"It's an optical illusion produced by the light that filters through the side windows, which during the day is subject to change ... [her eyes] are not completely closed, and indeed they have never been\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121844", "title": "Rascal (book)", "text": "Rascal (book)\n\nRascal: A Memoir of a Better Era, often referred to as Rascal, is a 1963 children's book by Sterling North about his childhood in Wisconsin.\n\n\"Rascal\" was published in 1963. The book is a remembrance of a year in his childhood during which he raised a baby raccoon named \"Rascal\".\n\nSubtitled \"a memoir of a better era\", North's book is about being young and having a pet raccoon. \"Rascal\" chronicles young Sterling's loving yet distant relationship with his father, dreamer David Willard North, and the aching loss represented by the death of his mother, Elizabeth Nelson North. (The book also touches on young Sterling's concerns for his older brother Herschel, off fighting in World War I in Europe.) The boy reconnects with society through the unlikely intervention of his pet raccoon, a \"ringtailed wonder\" charmer. The book begins with the capture of the baby raccoon, and follows his growth to a yearling.\n\nThe story is also a personal chronicle of the era of change between the (nearly) untouched forest wilderness and agriculture; between the days of the pioneers and the rise of towns; and between horse-drawn transportation and automobiles, among other transitions. The author recounts through the eyes of himself as a boy his observations during expeditions in and around his home town, contrasted with his father's reminiscences of the time \"when Wisconsin was still half wilderness, when panthers sometimes looked in through the windows, and the whippoorwills called all night long\", provide a glimpse of the past, as the original subtitle suggests.\n\nThe book has humorous moments. His sister Theo cannot understand Sterling's building of a canoe in the living room and is \"startled nearly out of her wits\" when Rascal, who had been lying on and blending into Uncle Justus' Amazonian jaguar rug, stands up. Later in the book, Rascal joins him in a pie eating contest, and they win, but are disqualified, although his friend, Oscar Sunderland, takes first prize because of it. Rascal also enjoyed riding in his bicycle's basket, and helped him sell magazines by creating an animated sideshow.\n\nThe book also has serious moments. The author's brother, Herschel, is serving in the military during World War I, and Sterling longs for a word from him. Rascal is confined after he bites Slammy Stillman for snapping him with a rubber band. Later, Sterling catches a mild case of the Spanish flu during the epidemic. (The book states his Aunt Lillie, caring for him during his sickness, said Sterling's mother had wanted him to be a writer, which he achieved.)\n\nEventually the problems with Rascal's raids into fields and henhouses become too much; the neighbors' irritation with the boy's pet can no longer be ignored. In addition, Rascal has become a young adult and, as such, is getting attention from jealous male and interested female raccoons. Sterling realizes Rascal is a wild animal and can no longer be kept, unless always kept in a cage. He travels for hours in the newly completed canoe to release Rascal in the woods at the far side of nearby Lake Koshkonong. One of his biggest regrets is that his brother Herschel won't be back in time to see his pet.\n\nThe author's sister, poet and art historian Jessica Nelson North, wasn't particularly pleased with how her brother portrayed her family in \"Rascal\" (yet was proud of her brother's achievement, regardless).\n\nThe theme of \"Rascal\" is not friendship, but loss, and the transcendence of it. Sterling loses his mother, the attention of his father, his brother to war, and eventually his best friend, Rascal, but survives and learns from it.\n\n\nIt was made into the Disney movie \"Rascal\" in 1969 starring Bill Mumy as Sterling North. The film also featured the voice of Walter Pidgeon as the reminiscing grown Sterling North, Steve Forrest as his father Willard and Pamela Toll as his sister Theo.\n\nIt was also made into a 52-episode Japanese anime entitled \"Araiguma Rasukaru\". The success of the animated series was responsible for the accidental introduction of the raccoon into Japan.\n\nThe setting of the book, their childhood home in Edgerton, Wisconsin (known as Brailsford Junction in the book), is preserved as a museum. The author's daughter, Arielle North Olson, a respected children's author in her own right, is an honorary director of the museum. Rascal-related items at the museum include: the high chair where Rascal tried to eat the sugar cube, the barn where Rascal's entrance hole has been patched, the oak tree where Rascal stayed, Sterling's scratched sentiment of \"Damn Kaiser Bill\" on the barn (his brother was serving in WWI), Sterling's initials painted inside the garage with the same green paint that went on his canoe, and a recreation of the chicken wire screen protecting their Christmas tree.\n\nOther nearby locations mentioned in the book are Lake Koshkonong, the Rock River, and the Indianford dam.\n\nThe canoe paddle created by Sterling North for the canoe that North built at his childhood home is displayed in the museum of the Albion Academy in Albion, Wisconsin. The canoe, unfortunately, was destroyed in the 1960s fire of Kumlien Hall.\n\nIn 2008, the Okazaki World Children's Art Museum in Japan created an exhibition entitled \"A Retrospective Rascal\". 50,000 people toured the display, timed to correspond to Sterling's 100th birthday and the 30th anniversary of the anime, Araiguma Rasukaru, which was based on the book. The canoe paddle was specially sent to Japan to be the centerpiece of the exhibit. Many other items borrowed from individuals in the Edgerton area were displayed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121848", "title": "Alexander Blackwell", "text": "Alexander Blackwell\n\nAlexander Blackwell (17001747) was a Scottish adventurer.\n\nHe was born in Aberdeen, studied medicine, took to printing, and was thrown into prison for debt. His wife Elizabeth Blackwell supported him by writing and publishing a herbal (\"A Curious Herbal\", published between 1737 and 1739). After his release, he went to Sweden (without his loyal wife) in 1742, was patronised by the king, convicted of conspiracy, and beheaded in 1747.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121859", "title": "MTV Video Music Award for Best Artist Website", "text": "MTV Video Music Award for Best Artist Website\n\nThe MTV Video Music Award for Best Artist Website was given out once in 1999 during the pre-show, and was then discontinued. The winners were the Red Hot Chili Peppers for their official website, created and run by Rockinfreakapotamus Fan Club President and Head Honcho Blackie Dammett (father of Anthony Kiedis) and Webmaster Jonathan Wade with News Director Starla Angel and Web Designer Terry Wells.\n"}
{"id": "2121860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121860", "title": "International Conference on Bisexuality", "text": "International Conference on Bisexuality\n\nThe International Conference on Bisexuality (ICB), also known as the International BiCon, was a periodic gathering of bisexual activists and academics from around the world.\n\nStarted by Fritz Klein and a group of fellow activists, the first ICB was held in Amsterdam in 1991 and followed the concept of a BiCon started in the UK in 1984. The last one was 2010 in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121862", "title": "24th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry", "text": "24th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry\n\n\n\"In 1861, after the mutiny, the title was given to the 8th Regiment of Punjab Infantry which later became the 24th Regiment of Punjab Infantry.\"\n"}
{"id": "2121863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121863", "title": "Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett (politician)", "text": "Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett (politician)\n\nSir Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett (24 August 1849 – 18 January 1902) was an American-born British Conservative politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1880 to 1902.\n\nEllis Ashmead-Bartlett was born in Brooklyn, New York, to Ellis Bartlett of Plymouth, Massachusetts, and Sophia Ashmead of Philadelphia. He was the elder brother of William Burdett-Coutts, and, through their father, they claimed to be descended from Richard Warren, one of the passengers on the \"Mayflower\".\n\nShortly after the death of his father in 1852 his mother moved the family to England, where he went to school at Torquay, before entering Christ Church, Oxford in 1867 (after a short time at St Mary Hall, Oxford). He graduated with first class honours in Law and History in 1871, and was called to the bar in 1877.\n\nHe was for a while one of HM's Inspectors of Schools.\n\nAshmead-Bartlett was elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Eye, Suffolk, in the 1880 general election. In 1882 his caricature by \"Spy\" was published in the British weekly magazine Vanity Fair (21 October 1882) under the title \"The Patriotic League\". The Eye constituency was redefined under the Redistribution of Seats Act of 1885, and in the general election of 1885 he ran for, and won, Sheffield Ecclesall constituency, which he held until his death in 1902. He served as Civil Lord of the Admiralty in the governments of Lord Salisbury from 1885 to February 1886 and August 1886 to 1892. He was knighted in the 1892 Dissolution Honours.\n\nDuring the 1890s Ashmead-Bartlett championed the cause of Swaziland against the administration of the South African Republic. In late 1899, during the Second Anglo-Boer War, he travelled to South Africa to lobby the British Commander, Lord Roberts, for a position. In March Lord Roberts sent him to Swaziland to meet the Queen Regent. During this meeting the Queen Regent requested British protection for Swaziland. It is unclear if he initiated this request.\n\nIn 1874 he married Frances Christina Walsh. His eldest son by this marriage, Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett, was a war correspondent who became famous for his reporting of the Battle of Gallipoli.\n"}
{"id": "2121864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121864", "title": "William Brandon (author)", "text": "William Brandon (author)\n\nWilliam Edward Brandon (September 21, 1914 – April 11, 2002) was an American writer and historian best known for his work about Native Americans and the American West.\n\nBrandon was born in Kokomo, Indiana, but spent his childhood in various locales, including the Yucatán and New Mexico. He held a brief job in a steel mill, before he began working as a professional writer in 1938, although this was interrupted by his service as a photographer for the United States Army Air Forces in the Pacific Theater during World War II.\n\nBrandon published a variety of short fiction, essays, and poetry, which appeared initially in pulp magazines such as \"Black Mask\", and \"Detective Fiction Weekly\", but subsequently in prominent publications such as \"Esquire\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"The Paris Review\", \"The Saturday Evening Post\", and \"Reader's Digest.\"\n\nBy the 1950s, he began pursuing his interest in non-fiction writing and in 1955 produced an account of John Charles Frémont's 1848 attempt to cross the Rocky Mountains in his book \"The Men and the Mountain\".\n\nAlthough Brandon's formal education ended after high school, his scholarship was sufficiently respected that he was from 1966–1967 a visiting professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and later conducted a seminar series on Native American literature at California State College in Long Beach, California.\n\nBrandon died in Clearlake, California, on April 11, 2002, of cancer. His last book, \"The Rise and Fall of North American Indians: From Prehistory Through Geronimo,\" was published posthumously the year after his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121865", "title": "The Sexual Life of Catherine M.", "text": "The Sexual Life of Catherine M.\n\nThe Sexual Life of Catherine M. by the art critic Catherine Millet was published in the author's native French in 2001. An English translation by Adriana Hunter was published in 2002. \"Sexual Life\" was the subject of mild controversy on both sides of the Atlantic. It was reviewed by Edmund White as \"the most explicit book about sex ever written by a woman.\"\n\nThe book quickly introduces the theme, with group sex taking place from the fourth page. Despite this explicit content, critics have identified other aspects in the work, with a review in salon.com stating:\n...the most shocking thing about “The Sexual Life of Catherine M.,”... is that it isn’t particularly shocking at all. A good quarter of the time, it works as pornography (and I use the term in a descriptive sense, not a judgmental one); the rest of the time it’s a rumination on the nature of desire and pleasure and the experience of living a life that is specifically arranged to let desire and pleasure have their way with you. It’s titillating, explicit, dryly funny and sometimes exceedingly puzzling. The only truly shocking thing about it is that it was written by a straight woman and not a gay man.\n\nIn the book, Millet writes of orgies attended by up to 150 people, at which she would have sex with around a quarter of those in attendance. She also debates whether sex outdoors is better in country or urban settings, and why she could never be a prostitute.\n\nMillet writes that she has been in an open marriage with one man since the 1970s, who understands her love of sex with multiple partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121866", "title": "Anthem (Less Than Jake album)", "text": "Anthem (Less Than Jake album)\n\nAnthem (stylized as anthem.) is the fifth studio album by American ska punk band Less Than Jake, released on May 20, 2003 on Sire Records. Produced by Rob Cavallo, the album was preceded by the single \"She's Gonna Break Soon\", and was the band's most commercially successful album to date, reaching number 45 on the Billboard 200. It is the first of the band's albums to feature saxophone player Peter \"JR\" Wasilewski since he joined the band in 2000.\n\nDuring the recording sessions, the band worked on a second, self-produced album of additional tracks each night after Cavallo left the studio. This was subsequently released the following year under the name \"B Is for B-sides\".\n\nRecording took place between October and December 2002 at Piety Street Recording in New Orleans and Morning View Studio in Malibu, California, with producer Rob Cavallo.\n\nThe album includes a re-recorded version of \"Look What Happened\" from the band's previous album, \"Borders & Boundaries\", which omits the horn-driven bridge between the intro and first verse. Still another form of the song exists, used on the \"Grind\" soundtrack, omitting all horn section. The band continues to play the original version live.\n\nThe title of the album directly comes from a lyric in the song \"Screws Fall Out\", but also from its use among the band to describe a powerful song that the band can rally behind, similar to \"My Very Own Flag\" and \"Gainesville Rock City\" from \"Pezcore\" and \"Borders & Boundaries\" respectively. Bassist, Roger Manganelli, often jokes that the title was selected by the band writing down every single word in the English language, crossing out words until \"Anthem\" was the only one left uncrossed.\n\nIn April and May 2003, the group supported Good Charlotte and New Found Glory on the Honda Civic Tour. A radio edit of \"She's Gonna Break Soon\" without horns was released as a single on April 15. It was released on May 20, 2003 on Sire, an imprint of Warner Bros. Records. From June to August, the group went on the 2003 edition of Warped Tour. \"The Science of Selling Yourself Short\" was released as a single on July 1, and released to radio a week later. The music video for the song was posted on the group's website in late August.\n\nThe album performed very well, debuting higher than any Less Than Jake album to date. Songs released from the record include \"She’s Gonna Break Soon\" and \"The Science of Selling Yourself Short\", two of Less Than Jake's most commercially successful songs, and both of which became video singles.\n\nAnthem is, commercially, the band's most successful to date; the album debuted at #45 on the \"Billboard\" 200 (the band's highest to date), spent 12 weeks on the Billboard 200, and debuted at #7 for Top Internet Albums. \"The Science of Selling Yourself Short\" was a last-minute idea for the record, and turned out to be the band's most successful song to date (#36 Billboard Modern Rock Chart). BuzzFeed included the album at number 23 on their \"36 Pop Punk Albums You Need To Hear Before You F——ing Die\" list.\n\nThe CD packaging included a different piece of artwork for each track except \"Surrender\", and two additional pieces not attached to a specific song, but still present and credited in the booklet. Each song's lyrics are printed on the back of a piece of artwork, but no lyrics are provided for \"Surrender\". The art direction was done by Vinnie Fiorello and Wendy Dougan, with Fiorello creating the concept for the CD booklet and Dougan designing the booklet itself. Most notable are a piece by Shepard Fairey of Obey Giant for \"The Upwards War and the Down Turned Cycle\" and Chip Wass's design for \"The Science of Selling Yourself Short\". The latter would inspire the music video for \"The Science Of Selling Yourself Short\" and be immortalized as a toy in Less Than Jake drummer Vinnie's Monkey Vs. Robot collection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121870", "title": "20th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry", "text": "20th Regiment of Bengal Native Infantry\n\n\n\"In 1861, after the mutiny, the title was given to the 8th Regiment of Punjab Infantry\"\n"}
{"id": "2121871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121871", "title": "Ottoman Armenian casualties", "text": "Ottoman Armenian casualties\n\nOttoman Armenian casualties refers to the number of deaths of Ottoman Armenian people between 1914 and 1923. Armenia and several other nations recognize the deaths to have occurred during an Armenian Genocide. Most estimates of related Armenian deaths between 1915 and 1918 range from 800,000 to 1.5 million.\n\nThe official Ottoman statistics compiled for the period between 1915 and 1917–18 were of 800,000 killed. This figure originates from Djemal's bureau. The results were published in the official Ottoman gazette.\n\nIt was allegedly the result of a commission formed by the interior minister Mustafa Arif. It is said that they relied on reports and statistics they had compiled in a period of two months; on March 14, 1919, the results were made public by Djemal. This same figure was mentioned in Rauf Orbay's own memoirs. The initial results apparently represented those who were \"massacred\" during the deportation, without any indication as to the total number of people who perished. Mustafa Kemal, during a conversation with Major General Harbord, the chief of the American Military Mission to Armenia, in September 1919, repeated the same number. The figure of 800,000 excludes Armenian soldiers in the Ottoman army liquidated in the early stages of the genocide, as well as the number of women and male and female children assimilated into Turkish families.\n\nHowever, following the dissolution of the military tribunal, those figures were reinterpreted. The Turkish author Taner Akçam refers to a Turkish military estimate published by Lt. Col. Nihat in 1928, in which the figure of 800,000 no longer represented those \"massacred\" or \"killed\", but simply those who perished. Then the historian Bayur in a famous work wrote: \"800,000 Armenians and 200,000 Greeks died as a result of deportations or died in labor brigades.\" Bayur concluded: \"According to our official sources, these numbers are correct.\"\n\nWhile the official figures were of 800,000 killed, there were many unofficial numbers presented during the war by some Ottoman authorities—Talat, for instance, presented the figure of 300,000—but there is no indication as to how those figures were obtained. This figure is currently the one used often by the Turkish government officials.\n\nJustin McCarthy's figures are often cited, particularly in works that could be considered to support the Turkish government thesis that the Armenian massacres do not constitute genocide. Even though Professor McCarthy is a Western academic, his numbers of Armenian casualties are derived from his statistics of Armenian population, which in turn were derived from Ottoman records (by applying correction values). Some scholars (like Aviel Roshwald) therefore consider his figures to be an Ottoman source rather than a Western one. \"\n\nMcCarthy calculated an estimate of the pre-war Armenian population, then subtracted his estimate of survivors, arriving at a figure of a little less than 600,000 for Armenian casualties for the period 1914 to 1922. But as in the cases of his population, his statistics are controversial. In a more recent essay, he projected that if the Armenian records of 1913 were accurate, 250,000 more deaths should be added, for a total of 850,000. And he is also criticized for overestimating the survivor table. Frédéric Paulin goes as far as comparing his methodology with Rassinier's method in calculating the European Jewry losses during World War II.\n\nGerman sources gave the highest estimates of Armenian losses during the war even though they were the Ottoman Empire's ally. Some speculate that it was due to their access to murder sites.\n\nA report stated that as early as February 1916, 1.5 million Armenians had been destroyed. A report on May 27, 1916, by Foreign Office Intelligence Director Erzberger provided the same figure, as did an October 4, 1916 report by the German Interim Ambassador to Turkey, Radowitz. It seems that the generally cited 1.5 million figure originated from those German sources. German major Endres, who served in the Turkish army, estimated the number of Armenian deaths as 1.2 million. The same figure was mentioned during the Yozgat trial, and before the Permanent Peoples' Tribunal and is often cited elsewhere.\n\nThe Austrian consul at Trabzon and Samsun, Dr. Kwatkiowski on March 13, 1918 reported to Vienna, restricting himself to the six eastern provinces, Trabzon and Samsun district, that of the million deported, most died, while Austria-Hungary's Adrianople (Edirne) consul Dr. Nadamlenzki reported that for the entire Ottoman Empire 1.5 million had already been deported. The Austrian Vice Marashal Pomiankowski estimated the Armenian losses at about a million.\n\nArnold J. Toynbee, an intelligence officer of the British Foreign Office during World War I, estimated a death toll of 600,000 from a population of 1,800,000 Armenians who lived in Anatolia but excluded most of 1916 and the following years, as Professor Melson writes:\n\nThe King Crane Commission estimated a million for wartime losses, but also stated that the Hamidian massacres had been included. Whether or not the Armenian casualties were being deliberately understated to increase the Armenian population to support Armenian independence is still a matter of debate. The Armenian wartime losses of a million, the Adana massacres, and Hamidian massacres had been combined for the sake of what the commission at one point called \"justice,\" in what appears to have been an attempt to maximize the population count. The Armenian estimates showed the same tendency. At times, they were even reduced to 500,000 when the high Armenian death count endangered the possibility of an Armenian state including Ottoman territory, and in other instances raised to over a million. The United States figures for the period between 1915 and 1917 vary widely, but most figures approach a million or more.\n\nThe League of Nations estimated a million dead, but the list of refugees in the Caucasus and Russian Armenia who were not from Ottoman Empire was not clearly defined, which suggests that the list of 400,000 to 420,000 Ottoman Armenians may have included Armenians who were not really Ottoman Armenian. This would explain why other estimates projected the casualties over the million given by the League.\n\nWhile the Ottoman official statistics covered 1917–18, and some of German figures, most other figures excluded them. Another problem remains, as to the availability of the sources for what followed 1917. More recent scholars have called this period the second phase of the Armenian Genocide. Melson, for instance, provide' a rough estimate of 500,000. On the other hand, those estimates have no archival grounds, for this reason some researchers considers any such figures could be near to the actual casualty figures or far from it.\n\nFew commissions were formed though, such as the investigations for Kars and Alexandropol. The Alexandropol investigation by its nature is seen as the most serious such endeavor. It presented 60,000 as directed killed, in a total of 150,000 victims which condition would have ultimately led to their death sentences. But the investigation apparently came to an end abruptly. The Germans on the other hand, not presenting any numbers, have reported Russian Armenia condition, in what they considered as an Ottoman attempt to destroy it. Without taking in account the Ottoman excursion of what was considered as Persian Armenia. \nOne source states that when the Ottomans invaded Northern Iran between 1915-1918, which was historically part of the Kingdom of Armenia forming the provinces of Parskahayk and the eastern part of Vaspurakan, they killed about 80,000 Armenians, and when they invaded the Russian-controlled Transcaucasia between 1918 and 1923 they killed about 175,000 Armenians. \n\nMost of the victims could be counted in Cilicia, as well as the Eastern zone, and without ignoring Smyrna (İzmir) during what was reported as massacres and what followed with the burning of the Armenian and Greek quarters of the city (see Great Fire of Smyrna). While the total of casualties in this category is estimated to tens of thousands to over hundred of thousand, the number of victims is not well established.\n\nWhile there is no clear consensus as to how many Armenians lost their lives during the Armenian genocide and what followed, there seems to be a consensus among Western scholars with the exception of few dissident and Turkish national historians, as to when covering all the period between 1914 and 1923, over a million Armenian might have perished, and the tendency seem recently to be, either presenting 1.2 million as figure or even 1.5 million, while more moderately, \"over a million\" is presented, as the Turkish historian Fikret Adanir provides as estimation, but excludes what followed 1917.\n\nFar from finding the exact figure of Armenian casualties, some researchers have at least tried to provide some figures of losses during the war and what followed based on some sources. But most of it is rough estimates or are based on calculations of others. An example here might be the cases of Justin McCarthy, since he is one of the rare researcher that has worked with Ottoman records, various Ottomanists have recycled his figures. Scholarly consensus, however, has largely followed the conclusions presented by Levon Marashlian's study (arriving at a figure of 1.2 million), which claimed that McCarthy's approach suffers from a fatal methodological flaw: in basing his results on inaccurate records. Marashlian maintains there was a reciprocal undercounting on the Ottoman's government's part on the one hand, and underreporting by Armenians, on the other. McCarthy, nonetheless, claims that his results and the Ottoman adult male records were accurate. Others go on to criticize McCarthy in not only having undercounted the prewar Armenian population, but also overcounting the survivors. McCarthy, for his part, argue that his works are too easily labeled by academia as a Turkish-apologist, and complains of a lack of scholarly debate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121875", "title": "Helen Stuart Campbell", "text": "Helen Stuart Campbell\n\nHelen Stuart Campbell (pen names, Helen Weeks, Helen Campbell, Helen Wheaton; July 5, 1839 – July 22, 1918) was an American author, editor, social and industrial reformer, as well as a pioneer in the field of home economics. Her \"Household Economics\" (1897) was an early textbook in the field of domestic science.\n\nHer first literary work was a series of stories for children, which appeared between 1864 and 1870 in \"Our Young Folks\" and \"The Riverside Magazine\", and in book form as the \"Ainslee Series\"; then, in rapid succession, she published: \"His Grandmothers\" (1877); \"Six Sinners\" (1878); \"Unto the Third and Fourth Generation\" (1880); \"Four, and What They Did\" (1880); \"The Easiest Way in Housekeeping and Cooking; Adapted to Domestic Use or Study in Classes\" (1881); \"Patty Pearson's Boy: A Tale of Two Generations\" (1881); \"The Problem of the Poor: A Record of Quiet Work in Unquiet Places\" (1882); \"Under Green Apple Boughs\" (1882); \"The American Girl's Home-Book of Work and Play\" (1883); \"The Housekeeper's Year-Book\" (1888); \"Mrs. Herndon's Income\" (1883); \"The What-to-Do Club: A Story for Girls\" (1885); \"Miss Melinda's Opportunity\" (1886); \"Prisoners of Poverty: Women Wage-workers, their Trades and their Lives\" (1887 and 1893); \"Roger Berkeley's Probation\" (1888); \"Prisoners of Poverty Abroad\" (1888); \"Darkness and Daylight\" (1891); \"In Foreign Kitchens\" (1894); \"Some Passages in the Practice of Dr. Martha Scarborough\" (1895); and \"Household Economics\" (1897). At the turn of the century, she published, \"Ballantyne: a Novel\" (1901).\n\nHelen Campbell Stuart was born in Lockport, New York to Jane E. (née Campbell) and Homer H. Stuart (died 1890). Both parents were Vermonters, of Scotch ancestry. The Stuart family, after settling in the United States, was prominent in early colonial affairs, three generations fighting and dying in Indian, French and revolutionary wars. Homer removed, in 1839, to New York City, where he practiced law for over 50 years, being also for some years president of the Continental Bank Note Company, of New York.\n\nShe was educated in a school at Warren, Rhode Island, and at Mrs. Cook's seminary, Bloomington, New Jersey (1850–58).\n\nAbout 1859 or 1860, she married an army surgeon, Dr. Grenville Mellen Weeks. She thereafter lived in various portions of the U.S., during which time she gained that broad experience which has reappeared in her literary work. Endowed with abundant vitality, great imagination, power of dramatic expression and a profoundly sympathetic nature, it was impossible for the young woman to live an idle life.\n\nAt the age of 23, under her married name, Helen C. Weeks, she began work for children, writing steadily for \"Our Young Folks\", the \"Riverside Magazine\" and other juvenile periodicals. Like all her subsequent work, these articles were vital, magnetic and infused with humor and pathos. Soon her stories grew in length, and the \"Ainslee Series\" was issued in book form. This comprised \"Ainslee,\" \"Grandpa's House,\" \"Four and What They Did\" and \" White and Red.\" They were popular, and all of them were reprinted in England. Her next works were \"Six Sinners\", \"His Grandmothers\" and \"The American Girl's Hand-book of Work and Play\".\n\nIn 1878, Campbell was a teacher in North Carolina at the Raleigh Cooking School. About 1882, she became literary and household editor of \"Our Continent\", and wrote for its pages the popular novel entitled \"Under Green Apple Boughs,\" followed by the \"What-to-do-Club\". These latter books were preceded by several others, entitled \"Unto the Third and Fourth Generation\", and \"The Easiest Way in Housekeeping and Cooking\". \n\n\"Problem of the Poor\", which gave an impetus to much work along the same lines by other writers, began Campbell's special interest in the poor. This appeared in 1880 and drew great attention toward plans for alleviating the miseries of the ignorant and impoverished in New York City. Some of the conclusions reached by Campbell appeared in her novel, \"Mrs. Herndon's Income\", which was printed first as a serial in the \"Christian Union\", and was afterward issued in book form. This powerful book at once lifted Campbell to an important place as a novelist, while her thrilling story won the attention of philanthropists and reformers the world over.\nFrom 1881 until 1884, Campbell was literary editor of the \"Continent\", published in Philadelphia, and in 1889, she assumed charge of a department in the Springfield, Massachusetts, \"Good Housekeeping\", entitled \"Woman's Work and Wages.\" \n\nIn 1886, attracted by \"Mrs. Herndon's Income\", the New York \"Tribune\" appointed her its commissioner to investigate the condition of women wage-earners in New York, and that work resulted in a series of papers under the title of \"Prisoners of Poverty,\" which caused a profound and widespread sensation respecting the life of wage-women in the metropolis. It may be regarded as the seed from which followed a vast amount of literature upon the topic, resulting in great amelioration in the condition of a large, and at that time nearly helpless, body of workers. \n\nIn 1894, she was appointed professor of household economics in the school of sociology at the University of Wisconsin, and this chair she continued to fill until 1897, when she accepted a call to the State Agricultural College of Kansas. Her 1897 work, \"Household Economics\" was compiled from a course of lectures which she delivered at the university.\n\nSoon afterwards, Campbell went abroad to investigate the lives of wage-earners in London, Paris, Italy and Germany. There, she remained 18 months or more, the fruits of her work appearing, upon her return to the United States, in \"Prisoners of Poverty Abroad\". Following that came \"Miss Melinda's Opportunity\" and \"Roger Berkley's Probation\", two short novels, and, later, \"Anne Bradstreet and Her Time\", a historical study of early colonial life, \"A Sylvan City\", having already done the same thing for Philadelphia. A later published work of Campbell's, \"Darkness and Daylight in New York\", was a series of graphic portraitures of the salient features of the city. In 1890, Campbell received a prize from the American Economic Association for a monograph upon \"Women Wage-Earners.\"\n\nShe was the author of a biography of 17th century colonial American poet, Anne Bradstreet. She also worked as a professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin (1893–96), professor of domestic science at Kansas State Agricultural College (1896–97), and was the head resident in Chicago's Unity Settlement.\n\nFrom the first, Campbell's writings were of a philanthropic and domestic character. She becoming an earnest student of economic and social problems, especially in connection with the conditions of laboring women. She wrote several important studies about women trapped in poverty, and the role that effective home economics could play in lifting women and families out of poverty. Her writings had a recognized position among economic works. They demonstrated a thorough study of her subjects, and were thoughtful and sympathetic, though generally more of a popular than a scientific or thoroughly exhaustive character. Campbell contributed many articles on economic subjects to reviews and magazines. She wrote novels and nonfiction works dealing with home economics and relationships between the individual, the home, the workplace, physical well-being, and childhood. She was active in many organizations that advocated female empowerment and associated with many intellectuals and original thinkers, including writer Charlotte Perkins Gilman. Much of her writing was engaging and vigorous. Her pieces exposed Gilded Age social inequities and public health failures.\n\nThe \"Critic\" said, in 1887, of Campbell's \"Prisoners of Poverty\": \"Her book is devoted chiefly to statement and fact; not to the suggestion of remedies. She reinforces our consciousness that the final remedy lies farther back than in mere increase of wages or division of profits.\" In 1897, \"The Bookman\" of New York, said of \"Household Economics\": \"It is fascinating in style, teems with epigrams, and abounds in truths which it behooves women to consider. The spirit of the lectures is one of delightful idealism.\"\n\nShe married Dr. Grenville Mellen Weeks (born 1837), physician and soldier, in 1859 or 1860. In 1871, the marriage floundered, and eventually they divorced. He remarried twice thereafter.\n\nCampbell was a member of the Sorosis Club of New York, the American Economic Association, the Consumers' League and the Women's Press Club. For a major part of her life, she made her home was in New York City. In her later days, she became a Baha'i devotee, spending time at one of its institutions, Green Acre, in Eliot, Maine. By 1915, she was in Boston, and she spent her later days in Dedham, Massachusetts, where she died of endocarditis and nephritis in 1918. Her remains were taken to Eliot.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121882", "title": "Helen Campbell", "text": "Helen Campbell\n\nHelen Campbell (born 1964, Hatfield, UK) is a British diplomat who served as the European Ambassador in Norway after having served as the head of the policy co-ordination division in the European External Action Service.\n\nUK Civil Service - European Fast Stream Programme 1990-1995, Management Training Programme (Department of Employment) 1986-1989\n\nUniversity of Reading - German and French, B.A. (Hons) 1982-86\n\nUSA International Visitors Leadership Program 2006 \n\n"}
{"id": "2121886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121886", "title": "Linaria ricardoi", "text": "Linaria ricardoi\n\nLinaria ricardoi is a very rare Portuguese endemic plant species. This species main distribution area is near Beja region (Baixo Alentejo) and blossoms in March to May. There are only a few known populations of the \"Linaria ricardoi\" distributed in a metapopulation, and it faces risk of extinction due to land use change.\n"}
{"id": "2121891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121891", "title": "Book of Shadows (Charmed)", "text": "Book of Shadows (Charmed)\n\nThe Book of Shadows, or simply the Book, is a book of witchcraft from the TV series \"Charmed\". In the beginning, the book was created by Melinda Warren and was passed down the family to the Charmed Ones. This book contains spells, incantations, potions and information of the evil beings that their ancestors have once faced. They first find out that they were witches when Phoebe finds the \"Book of Shadows\" in their attic, at midnight on a full moon, and reads an incantation aloud.\nThe \"Book of Shadows\" is enchanted. It can protect itself from any evil being who dares to touch it.\n\nOutside of the television series, a \"Book of Shadows\" is considered to be a collection of magical and religious texts of Wicca and other Neopagan and witchcraft traditions, containing the core rituals, magical practices, ethics and philosophy of a practitioner. The \"Book of Shadows\" is a compendium of information on magical creatures/objects/forces of every variety, especially those that members of the Warren line had encountered, or believed would be useful to future generations. Within the realm of magical beings, it is considered to be the most complete book of magical information in existence.\n\nIn the television series \"Charmed\", the Halliwell Sisters or The Charmed Ones own a powerful and coveted \"Book of Shadows\" that has been passed down through their family line. It contains spells, potions, and information on evil beings their ancestors have faced. The book has been enchanted to protect itself, causing it to move away from any evil being that attempts to touch it. It has a large triquetra set into its front cover, symbolizing the Power of Three.\n\nThe Charmed Ones' ancestor Melinda Warren began the \"Book of Shadows\" in the late 17th century. The year 1693 is inscribed on the book's first page, below the title, presumably to indicate when the book was created. When Melinda was burned at the stake in the Salem Witch Trials, she claimed that the magical powers of each successive generation of witches in the family would grow in strength, until the book reached three sisters known as \"The Charmed Ones\", who would be \"the most powerful witches the world has ever known\". Melinda passed the book on to her daughter, Prudence, and it continued to be handed down from mother to daughter until it came to the Halliwell sisters in 1998.\n\nThe book has grown over the years with each witch who has possessed it, and by the late 1960s, it had about 100 pages. It continued to grow as The Charmed Ones added more information to it. Penny Halliwell brags in the season five episode, \"Happily Ever After\", that she created most of the good potion recipes in it. Patty Halliwell added text on Barbas, the Demon of Fear.\n\nFor many years, the \"Book\" was kept in the Manor's attic. Normally, all witches are supposed to keep their \"Book of Shadows\" in a specially protected altar room. The book has a different protection mechanism against evil. In several episodes, various effects resulted from an evil magical being tried to take the book for themselves, including: jumping off the stand in \"\"Once Upon a Time\"\" and \"\"The Seven Year Witch\"\", repelling the being away from the book in \"\"Death Becomes Them\"\", projecting a spherical shield around the Book in \"Death Becomes Them\", burning the user's hands in \"\"Imaginary Fiends\"\", and so on. When the sisters' powers were unbound, evil beings could touch it, but they couldn't get it out of the Manor. However, by 2000, the sisters had become powerful enough that evil beings couldn't even touch it.\n\nThe Halliwell sisters occasionally wrote down their experiences after vanquishing a demon, which Billie mentions this when she studied the \"Book of Shadows\" in \"\"Run Piper Run\"\". The first, added by Phoebe, was a spell to banish the Woogyman. Phoebe added a detailed entry on Cole Turner, Belthazor's human form, and Prue added a spell to summon him in his demon form, as well as an animal conjuring spell. Later, at the end of the series, the sisters write in the book about their adventures and what become of their lives.\n\nLeo Wyatt, Piper's husband, also added an entry titled \"Tips for Future Whitelighters\", fearing he may not live to see his sons grow up. The entry included information on whitelighter powers and advice on using them.\n\nIn the final episode, Piper tells her granddaughter that the book will one day be hers.\n\nIn the \"Charmed\" series, the \"Book of Shadows\" is a large, green leather-bound book with an embossed red triquetra on the cover. The triquetra symbol has been known to change, usually according to some change in the sisters' powers or emotional state. The book is somewhat worn due to its three centuries of use, but it is almost completely intact, with the exception of the page on how to relinquish one's own powers, which The Charmed Ones tore out and burned after they nearly lost their powers to a warlock in the season one episode \"Wicca Envy\". \n\n\nDue to its link with the Halliwells:\n\nThe \"Book of Shadows\" has an evil counterpart known as the\" Grimoire.\" The\" Grimoire\" is a large brown book with an unknown demonic symbol of an upside down pentagram and skull on the cover. The \"Grimoire\"s pages are said to be blackened by its evil. Much like the \"Book of Shadows,\" the \"Grimoire\" possesses the power to protect itself from its enemies or anything good.\n\nThe \"Grimoire\"s spells and incantations are written in Latin. It makes only a few appearances in the television series and Leo later orbs it, to rest under a mountain of rock in the West Andes, to prevent the coronation of another Source.\n\nBianca and her family of assassin witches possess a grimoire which contains their family's spells, although this is simply \"a\" grimoire and not \"the\" Grimoire. The book's cover in that episode had a symbol depicting two intertwined snakes. That book was sold on eBay in late 2007 and reached a final bid of $405.00.\n\nIn the episode \"Bride and Gloom\", the Charmed Ones' \"Book of Shadows\" began to change itself into a grimoire when the girls were turned into warlocks under the influence of evil magic. For instance, good spells were replaced with evil spells.\n\nIn the series, Gypsies and witches are sister traditions. Though never specifically stated to be so, Gypsy families also have their own versions of the \"Book of Shadows\" that is passed down to immediate family members. This was shown in the season five episode, \"The Eyes Have It\", wherein the Gypsy Eva finds her family spell book previously owned by her mother after her mother's death. Like traditional Books of Shadows, Gypsies' books contain spells and magical recipes.\n\nPagan author Raymond Buckland said in his 2002 book, \"The Witch Book\", that the \"Charmed Book of Shadows\" gave the show an air of authenticity and showed that the producers of the show seemed to at least know a little of what they were talking about when depicting wiccan practices.\nJudika Illes adds that the \"Charmed Book of Shadows\" describes the show's witches much in the same way as the real world Italian \"Benandanti\" traditions. She claims the show draws deeply on wiccan terminology and ritual (such as the witches' adding information to their \"Book of Shadows\"), but asserts that it is still a fantasy show. In \"The Book of Shadows: The Unofficial Charmed Companion\", Ngaire E. Genge talks about the \"Charmed Book of Shadows\" in relationship to a modern wiccan Book of Shadows and the ancient grimoires of such notables as \"Abra-Melen the Mage\" and King Solomon. The author is more critical of \"Charmed\"'s use of the book compared to real-world wiccans but adds, as Buckland did, that it is still a fantasy show. While not specifically mentioning the \"Charmed Book of Shadows\" by name, \"The Craft: A Witch’s Book of Shadows\", by Dorothy Morrison, appears to have been highly influenced by the series and features the same triquetra symbol on its cover as does the Halliwells' \"Book of Shadows\".\n\nCriticism has also been garnered for \"Charmed\"s \"Book of Shadows\". Author Peg Aoli, a noted Wiccan and media critic at \"The Witches Voice\", has been critical of mixing real world Wiccan ritual items, such as athames and the \"Book of Shadows, \"with \"Charmed\"’s \"Hollywood\" witchcraft. Aoli critically slammed the series' representation of witchcraft in an essay in \"Totally Charmed: Demons, Whitelighters and the Power of Three\". Furthermore, other critics at \"The Witches Voice\" argue that \"Charmed\"'s representation of witchcraft, including their \"Book of Shadows\", creates \"so many misconceptions\" about Wicca in the modern world.\n\nFollowing The Charmed Ones' suit, fans worldwide began creating replicas of the \"Charmed Book of Shadows\", when the series began in the 1990s. Like the famed book of the series, the replica versions continued to grow as fans created more and more pages. The most extensive replica source has 2,500 pages to date and is distributed digitally (see source list). Fan-made \"Book of Shadows\" have become an art form in itself, and many different people create these. Every artisan owns the rights to their own work, so many differences appear in each artist's re-creation of the pages. There is no one-copyright holder to this collective work, which has become a hobby, like scrapbooking. \n\nAfter \"Charmed\" ended its run, the one prop from the series that everyone wanted was the \"Book of Shadows.\" There was good-natured discussion over several years concerning which of the long-time crew and cast members had the best claim to the book. The candidates finally narrowed down to Brad Kern, the series' showrunner for its entire run; and Holly Marie Combs, who played Piper Halliwell and was the only cast member to appear in every episode, including the unaired pilot. \n\nKern and Holly Marie Combs currently share custody of the book, and agreed to alternate possession between the two of them, each getting the book for an entire year at a time. Most recently Holly Marie Combs, appearing on a Comic Con Panel, confirmed that although Kern and her did agree to share custody, Kern has not shared the book.\n"}
{"id": "2121894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121894", "title": "Bobby Pickett", "text": "Bobby Pickett\n\nRobert George Pickett (February 11, 1938 – April 25, 2007), known also by the name Bobby \"Boris\" Pickett, was an American singer, songwriter, actor and comedian known for co-writing and performing the 1962 hit novelty song \"Monster Mash.\"\n\nPickett was born in Somerville, Massachusetts on February 11, 1938. His father was a theater manager and as a nine-year-old, he watched many horror films. He would later incorporate impressions of them in his Hollywood nightclub act in 1959. An aspiring actor, Pickett began his musical career as a vocalist for a local swing band, Darren Bailes and the Wolf Eaters. Pickett served in the United States Army from March 9, 1956 to March 13, 1959 and was stationed in Korea for an unknown period of time.\n\nPickett co-wrote \"Monster Mash\" with Leonard Capizzi in May 1962. The song was a spoof on the dance crazes popular at the time, including the Twist and the Mashed Potato, which inspired the title. The song featured Pickett's impersonations of veteran horror stars Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi (the latter with the line \"Whatever happened to my Transylvania Twist?\"). It was passed on by every major record label, but after hearing the song, Gary S. Paxton agreed to produce and engineer it; among the musicians who played on it was pianist Leon Russell. Issued on Paxton's Garpax Records, the single became a million seller, reaching #1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart for two weeks before Halloween in 1962. It was styled as being by \"Bobby 'Boris' Pickett & the Crypt-Kicker 5\". The track re-entered the U.S. charts twice, in August 1970, and again in May 1973, when it reached the #10 spot. In Britain it took until October 1973 for the tune to become popular, peaking at #3 in the UK Singles Chart. For the second time, the record sold over one million copies. The tune remains a Halloween perennial on radio and on iTunes. A Christmas-themed follow-up, \"Monster's Holiday\", (b/w \"Monster Motion\") was also released in 1962 and reached #30 in December that year. \"Blood Bank Blues\" (b/w \"Me and My Mummy\") did not chart. This was followed by further monster-themed recordings such as the album \"The Original Monster Mash\" and such singles as \"Werewolf Watusi\" and \"The Monster Swim\". In 1973, Pickett rerecorded \"Me and My Mummy\" for a Metromedia 45 (it did not chart). Another of Pickett's songs, \"Graduation Day\", made #80 in June 1963. In 1985, with American culture experiencing a growing awareness of rap music, Pickett released \"Monster Rap\", which describes the mad scientist's frustration at being unable to teach the dancing monster from \"Monster Mash\" how to talk. The problem is solved when he teaches the monster to rap.\n\nIn 1975, Pickett recorded a novelty spoof on \"Star Trek\" called \"Star Drek\" with Peter Ferrara, again performing some of the various voices, which was played on Dr. Demento's radio show for many years. He also performed a duet with Ferrara in 1976 titled \"King Kong (Your Song)\" spoofing the movie by the same name that was released that year.\n\nIn the early 1980s a musical \"sequel\" to \"Monster Mash\" called \"Monster Rap\" was released, which featured Pickett teaching the creature to speak through \"rapping\". Though not nearly as popular as the original \"Monster Mash\", it once again found a reasonable following with the Dr. Demento fanbase.\n\nIn 1993, Pickett wrote and performed \"It's Alive\", another sequel of sorts to the original \"Mash\" song. It did not chart but was played occasionally on the Demento show.\n\nIn October 2005, Pickett protested inaction on the United States government's part towards global warming by releasing \"Climate Mash\", a new version of his hit single.\n\nIn 1962, it was reported in the December 1 issue of \"Cashbox\" that Pickett along with Ned Ormand and R.B. Chris Christensen had formed Nico Records. Christensen had been a partner and professional manager in Buck Owens' Bluebook Music Publishing co. They had acquired an instrumental from the Daco label which was to be their first release. The instrumental was by The Revels of \"Church Key\" and \"Six Pak\" fame.\n\nIn 1967, Pickett and television author Sheldon Allman wrote the musical \"I'm Sorry the Bridge Is Out, You'll Have to Spend the Night\". It has been produced by local theaters around the U.S. They followed it up later with another musical, \"Frankenstein Unbound\". In 1995 the co-writers of Pixar's \"Toy Story\", Joel Cohen and Alec Sokolow, produced a movie of it, originally entitled \"Frankenstein Sings\", but later released in the US under \"Monster Mash: The Movie\". Pickett starred in it with Candace Cameron, Jimmie Walker, Mink Stole, John Kassir, Sarah Douglas, Anthony Crivello, Adam Shankman and Carrie Ann Inaba. On ABC-TV, he appeared on a segment of \"The Long Hot Summer\", with Roy Thinnes and Nancy Malone, on January 26, 1966.\n\nIn 1962 or 1963, Pickett also hosted a weekly disc jockey show on KRLA in Los Angeles.\n\nIn 2005, Pickett published his autobiography through Trafford Publishing, titled \"Monster Mash: Half Dead in Hollywood\".\n\nHe appeared as a guest on the television show \"Beyond Vaudeville\" in 1991.\n\nPickett appeared in such roles as Archie Bunker as part of a stage comedy revue about television, presented in Boston, titled \"Don't Touch That Dial\".\n\nPickett appeared in films in several classic genres: beach movie, \"It's a Bikini World\" (1967); biker, \"Chrome and Hot Leather\" (1971); horror, \"Deathmaster\" (1972) and the sci-fi comedy film, \"Lobster Man From Mars\" (1989).\n\nIn 2004, Pickett served as the narrator of the children's film \"Spookley the Square Pumpkin\".\n\nFor many years, Pickett performed for \"The Lost 45s with Barry Scott\" Halloween show in the Boston area.\n\nOn April 25, 2007, Pickett died in Los Angeles, California from leukemia at the age of 69. The May 13, 2007, episode of the Dr. Demento show, featured a documentary retrospective of Pickett's work.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121907", "title": "Richard &amp; Judy", "text": "Richard &amp; Judy\n\nRichard & Judy (also known as Richard & Judy's New Position) is a British television chat show presented by the married couple Richard Madeley and Judy Finnigan. The show originally aired on Channel 4 from 26 November 2001 to 22 August 2008, but later moved to digital channel Watch from 7 October 2008 to 1 July 2009.\n\n\"Richard & Judy\" started with Channel 4 on 26 November 2001 and aired every weekday from 5pm to 6pm. Between 2006 and 2008, the \"Richard & Judy\" show shared this original timeslot with \"The Paul O'Grady Show\", a programme that started in March 2006. For three months of each year, between 2006 and 2008, the \"Richard & Judy\" show occupied the 5pm to 6pm slot (January to March and June to August), and then the \"Paul O'Grady Show\" occupied the timeframe for the following three months (March to June and September to December).\n\nOn the 15 August 2008 edition of the show, Richard stated that the following week's episode would be the last with Channel 4 and the final broadcast occurred on 22 August 2008.\n\nFollowing the show's departure from Channel 4, the producers of \"Richard & Judy\" subsequently signed a £2 million deal with the UKTV network Watch. Madeley and Finnigan renamed the show and hosted \"Richard & Judy's New Position\" from 7 October 2008. The couple stated that the new version would be \"a high octane prime time show\", with Madeley explaining, \"we [Madeley and Finnigan] were both hugely impressed with the team at UKTV, and their proposal was attractive and fun and will give us the kind of flexibility in our personal lives which we have been looking for\". The presenters continued featuring the programme's popular \"Book Club\" that had begun on their Channel 4 show.\n\nThe Watch version of the show featured a sofa area for interviews, as well as a bar area where the star guests and the show's crew members gathered during broadcasts. Each week the show employed a celebrity barman; comedian Rufus Hound undertook the role in the first week's episode. Hound had been a frequent guest on the Channel 4 series.\n\nThe first episode of the Watch series attracted an average audience of around 200,000 viewers (this figure included those who watched the show on Watch+1). The second episode, in the 8pm timeslot, attracted 53,000 viewers. Watch channel representatives were reportedly satisfied with the ratings, stating that the show had started well. Ratings consistently fell for subsequent episodes, reaching a new low of 11,000 viewers.\n\nFollowing a Christmas break at the end of 2008, the show returned on 13 January 2009 in a new 6pm slot. The show also dropped the \"New Position\" section of its title and was called \"Richard & Judy\" again.\n\nBy April 2009, ratings had slumped and the following month, an agreement was reached to terminate the show six months early. From the week of 8 June 2009, the show was reduced to a single weekly episode that aired at 4pm every Wednesday. The show's final episode was broadcast on 1 July 2009.\n\n\"You Say We Pay\" was a daily competition that involved a viewer at home describing images on a TV screen for the show's two presenters (the hosts cannot see the images, as the screen is behind them) to then identify; however, the contestant was not permitted to refer to the images by their respective names. For each correct answer provided by Madeley and Finnigan, the viewer received £1000.\n\nIn January 2006, MP and \"Celebrity Big Brother\" contestant George Galloway entered the competition and won his housemates' weekly shopping budget. Lionel Blair, Abi Titmuss and Carol Vorderman also participated in \"You Say We Pay\" whilst they were guests on the programme.\n\nOn 18 February 2007, \"The Mail on Sunday\" revealed allegations that the quiz was cheating viewers by inviting them to phone in after the winning contestant had already been chosen. The paper stressed that Madeley and Finnigan were unaware of any wrongdoing\nand the story was sold to the newspaper through a publicist named Jonathan Hartley.\n\nOn 6 July 2007, the operator of the phone-in quiz was fined a record £150,000 by regulator ICSTIS. ICSTIS said the Channel 4 programme had shown a \"reckless disregard\" for viewers after inviting them to enter a competition once the potential winners had already been selected. In addition to the fine, ICSTIS ordered that all the money be paid back to those viewers affected, around £2.5 million, and referred the case to Ofcom. The media regulator has the right to impose its own ban if it feels the broadcasting code has been breached.\n\nIn 2004, the Richard & Judy Book Club was added as a regular segment of the show. It was credited as having a massive effect on the sales of the books it featured, much like Oprah's Book Club in the USA. Each year the segment featured ten books and discussions during the programme, often with guests. Alongside the discussions and programme features, the novels contended for the Richard & Judy Book of the Year Award, presented at the British Book Awards, where the winner was chosen by votes from the public.\n\nThe Richard and Judy Book Club debuted as a website in autumn 2010, run in conjunction with retailer WH Smith.\n\nIn 2007, Richard and Judy hosted a special Children's Book Club edition of the show as part of Channel 4's \"Lost For Words\" season. The featured books were chosen with the help of pupils from several schools around the UK. The New Writers Book Club was a feature launched in October 2008 focussing on debut authors.\n\nRichard and Judy launched their wine club in 2005. Focusing on a different selection of wine each week, they reviewed the wines and gave tasting notes to the viewers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121909", "title": "Minnie Maddern Fiske", "text": "Minnie Maddern Fiske\n\nMinnie Maddern Fiske (born Marie Augusta Davey; December 19, 1865 – February 15, 1932), but often billed simply as Mrs. Fiske, was one of the leading American actresses of the late 19th and early 20th century. She also spearheaded the fight against the Theatrical Syndicate for the sake of artistic freedom. She was widely considered the most important actress on the American stage in the first quarter of the 20th century. Her performances in several Henrik Ibsen plays widely introduced American audiences to the Norwegian playwright.\n\nBorn in New Orleans, Louisiana, Minnie Maddern was the daughter of stage manager Thomas Davey and actor Lizzie Maddern. Coming from a theatrical family, she performed her first professional show at the age of three as the Duke of York in \"Richard III\". She debuted in New York as a four-year-old in the play \"A Sheep in Wolf's Clothing.\" She toured extensively as a child, and was educated in many convent schools. She was a child prodigy, touring and performing in numerous productions. According to the \"New York Times\" article \"Ibsen or Shakespeare?\" (March 18, 1928), Harrison Grey Fiske was 12 years old when he first set eyes on the future Mrs. Fiske—she was but eight, performing in a Shakespearean role. Her pay was in lollipops.\n\nBy the time she was 16, she was a leading lady, and was cast in the leading role of Chip in the play \"Fogg's Ferry\". She was recognized for her unique beauty and singing voice. She married LeGrand White, a theater musician in \"Fogg's Ferry\", but they divorced shortly thereafter. Two years later, she married Harrison Grey Fiske in March 1890, and took three years off from the stage. Leaving a life of domesticity, she returned to the theatre in 1893 as a playwright and director, having written one-act plays such as \"A Light for St. Agnes\", \"The Rose\", and \"The Eyes of the Heart\". She wrote several plays and collaborated with her husband in writing \"Fontenelle\". Mr. Fiske directed virtually all of his wife's plays after their marriage.\nAfter her husband's unsuccessful production of \"Hester Crewe\", Minnie Maddern debuted as Nora in \"A Doll's House\" by Henrik Ibsen, at the Empire Theatre in New York, launching Ibsen's career because of her outstanding performance. She is perhaps most famous for starring as Becky Sharp in the original 1899 production of Langdon Mitchell's \"Becky Sharp\", a play based on William Makepeace Thackeray's \"Vanity Fair\". Among her many triumphs on the Broadway stage were: \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" (1897, revival 1902), \"Love Finds the Way\" (1898), \"Becky Sharp\" (1899, revivals 1904, 1911), \"A Doll's House\" (1902), \"Hedda Gabler\" (1903, revival 1904), \"Leah Kleschna\" (1904–05), \"Salvation Nell\" (1908–09), \"The High Road\" (1912–13), \"Madame Sand\" (1917–18), a play about George Sand; \"Mis' Nelly of N'Orleans\" (1919), \"Helena's Boys\" (1924), \"Ghosts\" (1927), \"Ladies of the Jury\" (1929–30), as well as her self-written plays \"The Rose\" (1905), \"The Eyes of the Heart\" (1905), \"A Light from St. Agnes\" (1906). Mrs. Fiske starred in everything from farce to tragedy and even appeared in a comedy with puppets \"Wake Up, Jonathan!\" (1921). Her final appearance on Broadway was in 1930 in an acclaimed production of \"The Rivals\" cast as Mrs. Malaprop.\nIn the mid-1910s, Mrs. Fiske starred in two feature film adaptions of two of her greatest stage triumphs: \"Tess Of the d'Urbervilles\" in 1913 and \"Vanity Fair\" in 1915, both of which were surprisingly successful with moviegoers, although she felt she was not at her best in the medium and declined further film work.\n\nShe was a pioneer for realism in acting, also supporting Ibsen's works for their honest portrayals of humanity. Her love for performing Ibsen over Shakespeare, and her position that Ibsen is the better study for actors, can not be overstated. She told \"[he New York Times\" in January 1908:\n\nIbsen is of interest to the actor because properly to understand a role you must study the character from its earliest childhood. Most Ibsen men and women have lived their lives before the curtain rises. Shakespeare has often been pronounced tedious by actors because his characters require a great deal of study. But even Shakespeare seems easy when compared with the thought that must be bestowed upon Ibsen. The beautiful verse, the wonderful character drawing of Shakespeare furnish solutions of perplexing problems, but Ibsen is so elusive. He fascinates by his aloofness. He is the Wagner of the drama. Wagner struggled for understanding just as Ibsen has struggled.\n\nIn 1916, in Harpers Weekly, Fiske published the first article to consider Charlie Chaplin as a serious artist. \"It will surprise numbers of well-meaning Americans,\" Fiske wrote, \"to learn that a constantly increasing body of cultured, artistic people are beginning to regard the young British buffoon, Charles Chaplin, as an extraordinary artist as well as a comic genius. Many thoughtful persons are beginning to analyze the Chaplin performances to discover his secret. It is the old, familiar secret of inexhaustible imagination, governed by the unfailing precision of a perfect technique.\" \n\nAlthough she was highly praised as an actor, she died poverty-stricken, having fought against a group of producers that organized the Theatrical Trust or Syndicate. This organization took control of first-class playhouses in the U.S., dictated the plays chosen, and the actors that were cast. She fought for artistic freedom for 12 years, which caused her to perform in third-class theatres, such as churches and skating rinks.\n\nIn addition to her battle against the Syndicate, she was also one of the most prominent animal welfare advocates of her era. She took interest in the activities of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and other humane leagues. She was known to have picked up stray dogs and cared for them. She fought against the wearing of the plumes of snowy and great egrets on hats, raised awareness of the cruelties of fur trapping, and changed the treatment of cattle on ranges. Because she was well-known and loved, people followed her example and she was able to broadly influence animal reform. She was twice named one of the twelve greatest living American women because of her fight for animal rights and for her outstanding talent. She was first named in 1923 by the League of Women Voters, and then again in 1931 by \"Good Housekeeping\" magazine. Mark Twain wrote the story \"A Horse's Tale\" at her request to combat bullfighting in Spain.\n\nFiske was associated with Emarel Freshel's Millennium Guild. She was a strict vegetarian and opposed vivisection.\n\nShe died from congestive heart failure at the age of 66 in Queens, New York. She and Harrison had no children. Around 1915, the couple did adopt an infant boy who would have been a teen at Mrs. Fiske's death in 1932. The actress Emily Stevens (1882–1928) was her cousin as was Elizabeth Maddern, the first wife of author Jack London; she was also related to stage actress Merle Maddern (1887–1984). Robert Stevens, for 23 years the Director of the Rochester Community Players, and brother to Emily Stevens, was also a cousin.\n\nDuring World War II, the Liberty ship was built in Panama City, Florida, and named in her honor.\n\nIn 1961, her papers (23,000 items, weighing in at 1,400 pounds) were donated to the United States Library of Congress.\n\n\n"}
