{"id": "2154371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154371", "title": "Extreme ultraviolet lithography", "text": "Extreme ultraviolet lithography\n\nExtreme ultraviolet lithography (also known as EUV or EUVL) is a lithography technology using a range of extreme ultraviolet (EUV) wavelengths, roughly spanning a 2% FWHM bandwidth about 13.5 nm. \n\nWhile EUV technology is available for mass production, fewer than fifty machines worldwide are capable of producing wafers using the technique; by comparison, as of 2013, over 200 Deep Ultraviolet Lithography (DUV) immersion systems were already deployed. As of Q3 2019, 5.7 million wafers have been exposed on EUV production tools; 1.7 million wafers were exposed in Q1-Q3 alone, while the number of tools increased from 31 to 45 (on the order of 10 WPH per tool). Issues that make EUV adoption difficult are tool costs (ASML's EUV scanners can cost up to US$120 Million), tool uptime and stochastic phenomena.\nEUV photomasks work by reflecting light, which is achieved by using multiple alternating layers of molybdenum and silicon. An EUV mask consists of 40 alternating silicon and molybdenum layers; this multilayer acts to reflect the extreme ultraviolet light through Bragg diffraction; the reflectance is a strong function of incident angle and wavelength, with longer wavelengths reflecting more near normal incidence and shorter wavelengths reflecting more away from normal incidence. The pattern is defined in a tantalum-based absorbing layer over the multilayer. \n\nBlank photomasks are mainly made by two companies: AGC Inc. and Hoya Corporation. A blank photomask is covered with photoresist, which is then exposed using a laser, using maskless lithography. The exposed photoresist is developed (removed) and the unprotected areas are etched. The remaining photoresist is then removed. Masks are then inspected and later repaired using an electron beam. Etching must be done to a very specific depth thus making etching difficult when compared with conventional photomask manufacturing.\n\nThe tool consists of a laser-driven tin (Sn) plasma light source, reflective optics comprising multilayer mirrors, contained within a hydrogen gas ambient. The hydrogen is used for keeping the EUV collector mirror in the source free of Sn deposition.\n\nEUVL is a significant departure from the deep ultraviolet lithography standard. All matter absorbs EUV radiation. Hence, EUV lithography requires a vacuum. All optical elements, including the photomask, must use defect-free molybdenum/silicon (Mo/Si) multilayers (consisting of 40 Mo/Si bilayers) that act to reflect light by means of interlayer interference; any one of these mirrors absorb around 30% of the incident light.\n\nCurrent EUVL systems contain at least two condenser multilayer mirrors, six projection multilayer mirrors and a multilayer object (mask). Since the optics already absorbs 96% of the EUV light, the ideal EUV source will need to be much brighter than its predecessors. EUV source development has focused on plasmas generated by laser or discharge pulses. The mirror responsible for collecting the light is directly exposed to the plasma and is therefore vulnerable to damage from high-energy ions and other debris.\n\nSource: Gigaphoton, Sematech Symposium Japan, September 15, 2010\n\nThe required utility resources are significantly larger for EUV compared to 193 nm immersion, even with two exposures using the latter. Hynix reported at the 2009 EUV Symposium that the wall plug efficiency was ~0.02% for EUV, i.e., to get 200-watts at intermediate focus for 100 wafers-per-hour, one would require 1-megawatt of input power, compared to 165-kilowatts for an ArF immersion scanner, and that even at the same throughput, the footprint of the EUV scanner was ~3x the footprint of an ArF immersion scanner, resulting in productivity loss. Additionally, to confine ion debris, a superconducting magnet may be required.\n\nA typical EUV tool weighs 180 tons.\n\nThe following table summarizes key differences between EUV systems in development and ArF immersion systems which are already widely used in production today:\n\nThe different degrees of resolution among the 0.33 NA tools are due to the different illumination options. Despite the potential of the optics to reach sub-20 nm resolution, secondary electrons in resist practically limit the resolution to around 20 nm.\n\nNeutral atoms or condensed matter cannot emit EUV radiation. Ionization must precede EUV emission in matter. The thermal production of multicharged positive ions is only possible in a hot dense plasma, which itself strongly absorbs EUV. As of 2016, the established EUV light source is a laser-pulsed tin plasma. The ions absorb the EUV light they emit, and are easily neutralized by electrons in the plasma to lower charge states which produce light mainly at other, unusable wavelengths, which results in a much reduced efficiency of light generation for lithography at higher plasma power density.\n\nThe throughput is tied to the source power, divided by the dose. A higher dose requires a slower stage motion (lower throughput) if pulse power cannot be increased.\n\nEUV collector reflectivity degrades ~0.1-0.3% per billion 50kHz pulses (~10% in ~2 weeks), leading to loss of uptime and throughput, while even for the first few billion pulses (within one day), there is still 20% (+/-10%) fluctuation. This could be due to the accumulating Sn residue mentioned above which is not completely cleaned off. On the other hand, conventional immersion lithography tools for double patterning provide consistent output for up to a year.\n\nRecently, the NXE:3400B illuminator features a smaller pupil fill ratio (PFR) down to 20% without transmission loss. PFR is maximized and greater than 0.2 around a metal pitch of 45 nm.\n\nDue to the use of EUV mirrors which also absorb EUV light, only a small fraction of the source light is finally available at the wafer. There are 4 mirrors used for the illumination optics, and 6 mirrors for the projection optics. The EUV mask or reticle is itself an additional mirror. With 11 reflections, only ~ 2% of the EUV source light is available at the wafer.\n\nA further complication for EUV tool throughput is the ring shape of the exposure slit, in contrast to the conventional rectangular shape. Consequently, slit width and height are effectively confounded in a complicated fashion.\n\nThe EUV light source limits tool uptime besides throughput. In a two-week period, for example, over seven hours downtime may be scheduled, while total actual downtime including unscheduled issues could easily exceed a day. A dose error over 2% warrants tool downtime.\n\nWhile state-of-the-art 193 nm ArF excimer lasers offer intensities of 200 W/cm, lasers for producing EUV-generating plasmas need to be much more intense, on the order of 10 W/cm. A state-of-the-art ArF immersion lithography 120 W light source requires no more than 40 kW while EUV sources are targeted to exceed 40 kW.\n\nThe power target for EUV lithography is at least 250 W, while for other conventional lithography sources, it is much less. For example, immersion lithography light sources target 90 W, dry ArF sources 45 W, and KrF sources 40 W. High-NA EUV sources are expected to require at least 500 W.\n\nEUV lithography is particularly sensitive to stochastic effects. In a large population of features printed by EUV, although the overwhelming majority are resolved, some suffer complete failure to print, e.g. missing holes or bridging lines. A known significant contribution to this effect is the dose used to print. This is related to the shot noise issue, to be discussed further below. Due to the stochastic variations in arriving photon numbers, some areas designated to print actually fail to reach the threshold to print, leaving unexposed defect regions. Some areas may be overexposed, leading to excessive resist loss or crosslinking. The probability of stochastic failure increases exponentially as feature size decreases, and for the same feature size, increasing distance between features also significantly increases the probability. Line cuts which are relatively widely spaced are a significant issue. Yield requires detection of stochastic failures down to below 1e-12.\n\nMultiple failure modes may exist for the same population. For example, besides bridging of trenches, the lines separating the trenches may be broken. This can be attributed to stochastic resist loss, from secondary electrons.\n\nThe coexistence of stochastically underexposed and overexposed defect regions leads to a loss of dose window at a certain post-etch defect level between the low-dose and high-dose patterning cliffs. Hence, the resolution benefit from shorter wavelength is lost.\n\nThe resist underlayer also plays an important role. This could be due to the secondary electrons generated by the underlayer. Secondary electrons may remove over 10 nm of resist from the exposed edge.\n\nThe defect level is on the order of 1K/mm.\n\nPhoton shot noise can be linked to stochastic defects through the presence of dose-dependent blur (modeled as Gaussian).\n\nGlobalFoundries and Lawrence Berkeley Labs carried out a Monte Carlo study to simulate the effects of intermixing between the molybdenum (Mo) and silicon (Si) layes in the multilayer that is used to reflect EUV light from the EUV mask. The results indicated high sensitivity to the atomic-scale variations of layer thickness. Such variations could not be detected by wide-area reflectivity measurements, but would be significant on the scale of the critical dimension (CD).\nUnlike DUV lithography sources, based on excimer lasers, EUV plasma sources produce light across a broad range of wavelengths. Though the EUV spectrum is not completely monochromatic, nor even as spectrally pure as DUV laser sources, the working wavelength has generally been taken to be 13.5 nm. In actuality, the reflected power is distributed mostly in the 13.3-13.7 nm range. The bandwidth of EUV light reflected by a multilayer mirror used for EUV lithography is over +/-2% (>270 pm); the phase changes due to wavelength changes at a given illumination angle may be calculated\nand compared to the aberration budget. Wavelength dependence of reflectance also affects the apodization, or illumination distribution across the pupil (for different angles); different wavelengths effectively 'see' different illuminations as they are reflected differently by the multilayer of the mask. This effective source illumination tilt can lead to large image shifts due to defocus. Conversely, the peak reflected wavelength varies across the pupil due to different incident angles. This is aggravated when the angles span a wide radius, e.g., annular illumination. The peak reflectance wavelength increases for smaller incident angles. Aperiodic multilayers have been proposed to reduce the sensitivity at the cost of lower reflectivity but are too sensitive to random fluctuations of layer thicknesses, such as from thickness control imprecision or interdiffusion. In particular, defocused dense lines at pitches up to twice the minimum resolvable pitch suffer wavelength-dependent edge shifts.\n\nA narrower bandwidth would increase sensitivity to mask absorber and buffer thickness on the 1 nm scale.\n\nThe EUV mask absorber, due to partial transmission, generates a phase difference between the 0th and 1st diffraction orders of a line-space pattern, resulting in image shifts (at a given illumination angle) as well as changes in peak intensity (leading to linewidth changes) which are further enhanced due to defocus. Ultimately, this results in different positions of best focus for different pitches and different illumination angles. Generally, the image shift is balanced out due to illumination source points being paired (each on opposite sides of the optical axis). However, the separate images are superposed and the resulting image contrast is degraded when the individual source image shifts are large enough. The phase difference ultimately also determines the best focus position.\n\nA fundamental aspect of EUVL tools, resulting from the use of reflective optics, is the off-axis illumination (at an angle of 6 degrees, in different direction at different positions within the illumination slit) on a multilayer mask. This leads to shadowing effects resulting in asymmetry in the diffraction pattern that degrade pattern fidelity in various ways as described below.\n\nThe oblique incidence in a reflective optical system leads to shadowing effects in the presence of a mask absorber. For example, one side (behind the shadow) would appear brighter than the other (within the shadow).\n\nMost fundamentally, the behavior of light rays within the plane of reflection (affecting horizontal lines) is different from the behavior of light rays out of the plane of reflection (affecting vertical lines). Most conspicuously, identically sized horizontal and vertical lines on the EUV mask are printed at different sizes on the wafer.\nThe combination of the off-axis asymmetry and the mask shadowing effect leads to a fundamental inability of two identical features even in close proximity to be in focus simultaneously. One of EUVL's key issues is the asymmetry between the top and bottom line of a pair of horizontal lines (the so-called \"two-bar\"). Some ways to partly compensate are the use of assist features as well as asymmetric illumination.\n\nAn extension of the two-bar case to a grating consisting of many horizontal lines shows similar sensitivity to defocus. It is manifest in the CD difference between the top and bottom edge lines of the set of 11 horizontal lines. The table below lists the CD difference over 100 nm focus range under quasar illumination (quasar illumination will be described in the section on optimum illumination vs. pitch).\nFor pitches of 40 nm or below, the linewidths are 20 nm or less, while the CD difference is at least 2.5 nm, resulting in at least 12.5% difference.\n\nThe use of reflection causes wafer exposure position to be extremely sensitive to the reticle flatness and the reticle clamp. Reticle clamp cleanliness is therefore required to be maintained. Small (mrad-scale) deviations in mask flatness in the local slope, coupled with wafer defocus. More significantly, mask defocus has been found to result in large overlay errors. In particular, for a 10 nm node metal 1 layer (including 48 nm, 64 nm, 70 nm pitches, isolated, and power lines), the uncorrectable pattern placement error was 1 nm for 40 nm mask z-position shift. This is a global pattern shift of the layer with respect to previously defined layers. However, features at different locations will also shift differently due to different local deviations from mask flatness, e.g., from defects buried under the multilayer. It can be estimated that the contribution of mask non-flatness to overlay error is roughly 1/40 times the peak-to-valley thickness variation. With the blank peak-to-valley spec of 50 nm, ~1.25 nm image placement error is possible. Blank thickness variations up to 80 nm also contribute, which lead to up to 2 nm image shift.\n\nThe off-axis illumination of the reticle is also the cause of non-telecentricity in wafer defocus, which consumes most of the 1.4 nm overlay budget of the NXE:3400 EUV scanner even for design rules as loose as 100 nm pitch. The worst uncorrectable pattern placement error for a 24 nm line was about 1.1 nm, relative to an adjacent 72 nm power line, per 80 nm wafer focus position shift at a single slit position; when across-slit performance is included, the worst error is over 1.5 nm in the wafer defocus window In 2017, an actinic microscope mimicking a 0.33 NA EUV lithography system with 0.2/0.9 quasar 45 illumination showed that an 80 nm pitch contact array shifted -0.6 to 1.0 nm while a 56 nm pitch contact array shifted -1.7 to 1.0 nm relative to a horizontal reference line, within a +/- 50 nm defocus window.\n\nWafer defocus also leads to image placement errors due to deviations from local mask flatness. If the local slope is indicated by an angle α, the image is projected to be shifted in a 4x projection tool by 8 α x (DOF/2) = 4 α DOF, where DOF is the depth of focus. For a depth of focus of 100 nm, a small local deviation from flatness of 2.5 mrad (0.14°) can lead to a pattern shift of 1 nm.\n\nThe direction of illumination is also highly dependent on slit position, essentially rotated azimuthally. The reason for this is a mirror is used to transform straight rectangular fields into arc-shaped fields. More generally, so-called \"ring-field\" systems reduce aberrations by relying on the radial symmetry of an arc-shaped field derived from an off-axis annulus. This is preferred, as reflective systems must use off-axis paths, which aggravate aberrations. Hence identical die patterns within different halves of the arc-shaped slit would require different OPC. This renders them uninspectable by die-to-die comparison, as they are no longer truly identical dies. For pitches requiring dipole, quadrupole, or hexapole illumination, the rotation also causes mismatch with the same pattern layout at a different slit position, i.e., edge vs. center. Even with annular or circular illumination, the rotational symmetry is destroyed by the angle-dependent multilayer reflectance described above. Although the azimuthal angle range is +/- ~20° on 0.33 NA scanners, at 7nm design rules (36-40 nm pitch), the tolerance for (quasar) illumination can be +/-15°, or even less. Annular illumination nonuniformity and asymmetry also significantly impact the imaging.\n\nThe slit position dependence is particularly difficult for the tilted patterns encountered in DRAM. Besides the more complicated effects due to shadowing and pupil rotation, tilted edges are converted to stair shape, which may be distorted by OPC.\nAberrations, originating from deviations of optical surfaces from subatomic (<0.1 nm) specifications as well as thermal deformations and possibly including polarized reflectance effects, are also dependent on slit position, as will be further discussed below, with regard to source-mask optimization (SMO). The thermally induced aberrations are expected to exhibit differences among different positions across the slit, corresponding to different field positions, as each position encounters different parts of the deformed mirrors. Ironically, the use of substrate materials with high thermal and mechanical stability make it more difficult to compensate wavefront errors\n\nFlare is the presence of background light originating from scattering off of surface features which are not resolved by the light. In EUV systems, this light can be EUV or out-of-band (OoB) light that is also produced by the EUV source. The OoB light adds the complication of affecting the resist exposure in ways other than accounted for by the EUV exposure. OoB light exposure may be alleviated by a layer coated above the resist, as well as 'black border' features on the EUV mask. However, the layer coating inevitably absorbs EUV light, and the black border adds EUV mask processing cost.\n\nA key challenge for EUV is the counter-scaling behavior of the line tip-to-tip (T2T) distance as half-pitch (hp) is scaled down. This is in part due to lower image contrast for the binary masks used in EUV lithography, which is not encountered with the use of phase shift masks in immersion lithography. The rounding of the corners of the line end leads to line end shortening, and this is worse for binary masks. The use of phase-shift masks in EUV lithography has been studied but encounters difficulties from phase control in thin layers as well as the bandwidth of the EUV light itself. More conventionally, optical proximity correction (OPC) is used to address the corner rounding and line-end shortening. In spite of this, it has been shown that the tip-to-tip resolution and the line tip printability are traded off against each other, being effectively CDs of opposite polarity. In addition, the effectiveness of optical corrections depends on other non-optical causes such as resist blur and diffusion effects, which may also include secondary electron blur (discussed in the section on photoresist exposure). Also, larger molecular weights and sizes appear to reduce corner rounding.\n\nIn unidirectional metal layers, tip-to-tip spacing is one of the more severe issues for single exposure patterning. For the 40 nm pitch vertical lines, an 18 nm nominal tip-to-tip drawn gap resulted in an actual tip-to-tip distance of 29 nm with OPC (optical proximity correction), while for 32 nm pitch horizontal lines, the tip-to-tip distance with a 14 nm nominal gap went to 31 nm with OPC. These actual tip-to-tip distances define a lower limit of the half-pitch of the metal running in the direction perpendicular to the tip. In this case, the lower limit is around 30 nm. With further optimization of the illumination (discussed in the section on source-mask optimization), the lower limit can be further reduced to around 25 nm.\n\nFor larger pitches, where conventional illumination can be used, the line tip-to-tip distance is generally larger. For the 24 nm half-pitch lines, with a 20 nm nominally drawn gap, the distance was actually 45 nm, while for 32 nm half-pitch lines, the same nominal gap resulted in a tip-to-tip distance of 34 nm. With OPC, these become 39 nm and 28 nm for 24 nm half-pitch and 32 nm half-pitch, respectively.\n\nThe printed space between a line tip and a perpendicular line it faces is 25-35 nm for 22 nm half-pitch lines (with a 20 nm nominally drawn gap). For a 22 nm line-space pattern with 22 nm nominal gap, conventional illumination yields a 38 nm tip-to-line distance, while quasar illumination yields a 28 nm distance. The tip-to-side gap is one of the hardest features to print in a bidirectional pattern.\n\nSummary of EUV line tip and corner effects:\n\n\"Source: Semicon West 2017, IBM\"\n\nThe line end clearance distance of 28 nm essentially forces pitches to be at least 56 nm for EUV single exposure bi-directional patterning. 7 nm node minimum metal pitch is already at 40 nm or below, while gate pitch can also be below 56 nm, so this is an indication that multiple patterning would be needed even for EUV at 7 nm.\n\nAssist features are often used to help balance asymmetry from non-telecentricity at different slit positions, due to different illumination angles, starting at the 7 nm node, where the pitch is ~ 41 nm for a wavelength ~13.5 nm and NA=0.33, corresponding to k1 ~ 0.5. However, the asymmetry is reduced but not completely eliminated, since the assist features mainly enhance the highest spatial frequencies, whereas intermediate spatial frequencies, which also affect feature focus and position, are not much affected. The coupling between the primary image and the self images is too strong for the asymmetry to be completely eliminated by assist features; only asymmetric illumination can achieve this. Assist features may also get in the way of access to power/ground rails. Power rails are expected to be wider, which also limits the effectiveness of using assist features, by constraining the local pitch. Local pitches between 1x and 2x the minimum pitch forbid assist feature placement, as there is simply no room to preserve the local pitch symmetry. In fact, for the application to the two-bar asymmetry case, the optimum assist feature placement may be less than or exceed the two-bar pitch. Depending on the parameter to be optimized (process window area, depth of focus, exposure latitude), the optimum assist feature configuration can be very different, e.g., pitch between assist feature and bar being different from two-bar pitch, symmetric or asymmetric, etc..\n\nAt pitches smaller than 58 nm, there is a tradeoff between depth of focus enhancement and contrast loss by assist feature placement. Generally, there is still a focus-exposure tradeoff as the dose window is constrained by the need to have the assist features not print accidentally.\n\nAn additional concern comes from shot noise; sub-resolution assist features (SRAFs) cause the required dose to be lower, so as not to print the assist features accidentally. This results in fewer photons defining smaller features (see discussion in section on shot noise).\n\nIt is now known that the underlying mechanism for the asymmetry is different shadowing from different angles of incidence. Hence, reducing absorber thickness would be the most direct way to resolve the issue.\n\nAs SRAFs are smaller features than primary features and are not supposed to receive doses high enough to print, they are more susceptible to stochastic dose variations causing printing errors. This is particularly prohibitive for EUV, where even when the primary feature is printed at 80 mJ/cm, the SRAF suffers from stochastic printing.\n\nDue to the effects of non-telecentricity, standard illumination pupil shapes, such as disc or annular, are not sufficient to be used for feature sizes of ~20 nm or below (10 nm node and beyond). Instead certain parts of the pupil (often over 50%) must be asymmetrically excluded. The parts to be excluded depend on the pattern. In particular, the densest allowed lines need to be aligned along one direction and prefer a dipole shape. For this situation, double exposure lithography would be required for 2D patterns, due to the presence of both X- and Y-oriented patterns, each requiring its own 1D pattern mask and dipole orientation. There may be 200–400 illuminating points, each contributing its weight of the dose to balance the overall image through focus. Thus the shot noise effect (to be discussed later) critically affects the image position through focus, in a large population of features.\n\nDouble or multiple patterning would also be required if a pattern consists of sub-patterns which require significantly different optimized illuminations, due to different pitches, orientations, shapes, and sizes.\n\nLargely due to the slit shape, and the presence of residual aberrations, the effectiveness of SMO varies across slit position. At each slit position, there are different aberrations and different azimuthal angles of incidence leading to different shadowing. Consequently, there could be uncorrected variations across slit for aberration-sensitive features, which may not be obviously seen with regular line-space patterns. At each slit position, although optical proximity correction (OPC), including the assist features mentioned above, may also be applied to address the aberrations, they also feedback into the illumination specification, since the benefits differ for different illumination conditions. This would necessitate the use of different source-mask combinations at each slit position, i.e., multiple mask exposures per layer.\n\nThe above-mentioned chromatic aberrations, due to mask-induced apodization, also lead to inconsistent source-mask optimizations for different wavelengths.\n\nThe optimum illumination, taking into account both exposure dose and focus windows, is a strong function of pitch in the range between 32 nm and 48 nm (relevant to 7 nm and 10 nm foundry nodes), which is where most of the work on EUV application has been focused. For pitches larger than 44 nm, the illumination pupil shape is preferably conventional, which is a circular disc, possibly including a central obscuration to provide an annular appearance. For pitches in the range 44 nm down to 34 nm, the optimum shape is no longer conventional or annular but more shaped like the \"quasar\" (Quadrupole-shaped annular) source, i.e., an arc within each quadrant of the pupil. For pitches of 32 nm and below, the optimum illumination becomes more dipole like, i.e., concentrated toward the top and bottom or the left and right ends of the pupil. When source-mask optimization is performed, the resulting shape will resemble the closest of the standard set (conventional, annular, quasar, dipole). For pitches less than 41 nm, the central portion of the pupil must be excluded for a tool with NA=0.33, as 13.5 nm EUV light going through that portion would only contribute the zeroth diffraction order (unscattered light), effectively adding flare.\n\nThe best focus for a given feature size varies as a strong function of pitch, polarity, and orientation under a given illumination. At 36 nm pitch, horizontal and vertical darkfield features have more than 30 nm difference of focus. The 34 nm pitch and 48 nm pitch features have the largest difference of best focus regardless of feature type. In the 48-64 nm pitch range, the best focus position shifts roughly linearly as a function of pitch, by as much as 10-20 nm. For the 34-48 nm pitch range, the best focus position shifts roughly linearly in the opposite direction as a function of pitch. This can be correlated with the phase difference between the zero and first diffraction orders. Assist features, if they can fit within the pitch, were found not to reduce this tendency much, for a range of intermediate pitches, or even worsened it for the case of 18-27 nm and quasar illumination. 50 nm contact holes on 100 nm and 150 pitches had best focus positions separated by roughly 25 nm; smaller features are expected to be worse. Contact holes in the 48-100 nm pitch range showed a 37 nm best focus range. The best focus position vs. pitch is also dependent on resist. Critical layers often contain lines at one minimum pitch of one polarity, e.g., darkfield trenches, in one orientation, e.g., vertical, mixed with spaces of the other polarity of the other orientation. This often magnifies the best focus differences, and challenges the tip-to-tip and tip-to-line imaging.\n\nFor the foundry \"5nm\" node, the minimum metal pitch for horizontal lines is taken to be around 32 nm, for which dipole-like illumination is preferred, but the minimum metal pitch for vertical lines (parallel to the gates) is taken to be around 40 nm, for which quasar-like illumination is preferred. Moreover, for the foundry \"7nm\" node, the minimum metal pitch for horizontal lines is taken to be around 40 nm, for which quasar-like illumination is expected, while the minimum metal pitch for vertical lines can be taken to be around 50 nm, for which conventional or annular illumination is preferred. For the quasar illumination, the best focus position varies strongly as a function of pitch, particularly 36-40 nm vs. 48-60 nm, as well as over the 48-72 nm range. For these nodes, it is impossible to have a single EUV exposure illumination setting that fits both metal line directions at different respective pitches. Unidirectional metal layers are expected for these nodes anyway. The line tip-to-tip gap in this case is expected to be kept small enough by using cut exposures in a multiple patterning scenario.\n\nA commonly touted advantage of EUV has been the relative ease of lithography, as indicated by the ratio of feature size to the wavelength multiplied by the numerical aperture, also known as the k1 ratio. An 18 nm metal linewidth has a k1 of 0.44 for 13.5 nm wavelength, 0.33 NA, for example. For the k1 approaching 0.5, some weak resolution enhancement including attenuated phase shift masks has been used as essential to production with the ArF laser wavelength (193 nm), whereas this resolution enhancement is not available for EUV. In particular, 3D mask effects including scattering at the absorber edges distort the desired phase profile. Also, the phase profile is effectively derived from the plane wave spectrum reflected from the multilayer through the absorber rather than the incident plane wave. Without absorbers, near-field distortion also occurs at an etched multilayer sidewall due to the oblique incidence illumination; some light traverses only a limited number of bilayers near the sidewall. Additionally, the different polarizations (TE and TM) have different phase shifts.\n\nEUV light generates photoelectrons upon absorption by matter. These photoelectrons in turn generate secondary electrons, which slow down before engaging in chemical reactions. At sufficient doses 40 eV electrons are known to penetrate 180 nm thick resist leading to development. At a dose of 160 μC/cm, corresponding to 15 mJ/cm EUV dose assuming one electron/photon, 30 eV electrons removed 7 nm of PMMA resist after standard development. For a higher 30 eV dose of 380 μC/cm, equivalent to 36 mJ/cm at one electron/photon, 10.4 nm of PMMA resist are removed. These indicate the distances the electrons can travel in resist, regardless of direction. \n\nIn the most recent measurement of the significant impact of secondary electrons on resolution, it was found that 93 eV photoelectrons (from a gold underlayer) had a 1/e attenuation length of 28 nm in resist. The electron number attenuation was measured from the fraction of electrons captured in an electrical current from the resist. This indicates 37% of the released electrons still migrate beyond 28 nm from the exposure release point.\nMore details on secondary electrons in EUV photoresist exposure are provided below.\n\nWhen an EUV photon is absorbed, photoelectrons and secondary electrons are generated by ionization, much like what happens when X-rays or electron beams are absorbed by matter. 10 mJ/cm EUV photon dose results in the generation of 109 uC/cm dose of photoelectrons. The more highly absorbing resist removes more light in the top of the resist, leaving less for the bottom of the resist. The larger absorption leads to larger, more significant differences between the absorbed doses at the top and the bottom of the resist.\n\nIn other words, the less absorbing the resist, the more vertically uniform the absorption. Conventionally, photoresists are made as transparent as possible to strive for this vertical uniformity, which enables straighter resist profiles. On the other hand, for EUV, this conflicts with the goal of increasing absorption for more sensitivity at current EUV power levels. Shot noise is another concern, to be explained further below.\n\nA study by the College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE) presented at the 2013 EUVL Workshop indicated that, as a measure of EUV photoelectron and secondary electron blur, 50–100 eV electrons easily penetrated beyond 15 nm of resist thickness (PMMA or commercial resist), indicating more than 30 nm range of resist affected centered on the EUV point of absorption, for doses exceeding 200–300 uC/cm. This can be compared with the image contrast degradation reported for sub-40 nm pitches later in 2015.\n\nThe process of electron penetration through a resist is essentially a stochastic process; there is a finite probability that resist exposure by released electrons can occur quite far from the point of photon absorption. Increasing the dose increases the number of far-reaching electrons, resulting in more extended resist loss. A leading EUV chemically amplified resist exposed to 80 eV electrons at a dose up to 80 uc/cm showed up to 7.5 nm resist thickness loss. For an open-source resist exposed near 200 uC/cm by 80 eV electrons, the resist thickness lost after post-exposure bake and development was around 13 nm, while doubling the dose resulted in increasing the loss to 15 nm. On the other hand, for doses >500 uC/cm, the resist begins to thicken due to crosslinking.\n\nThe degree of photoelectron emission from the layer underlying the EUV photoresist has been shown to affect the depth of focus. Unfortunately, hardmask layers tend to increase photoelectron emission, degrading the depth of focus.\n\nDirect photocurrent measurements have been used to obtain secondary electron yields in response to EUV radiation. Simulations roughly calibrated to this yield show that the secondary electron blur increases with dose. This is associated with fewer trapping sites as dose is increased and the reactions depleting the trapping sites proceed.\n\nLow-energy electron-induced events also increase in number at a given distance from the photon absorption site, as dose is increased. This has been confirmed by resist thickness loss measurements as a function of low-energy electron dose. The dose-dependent spread of secondary electrons was also known before from electron beam lithography.\n\nThe increased secondary electron blur with increased dose makes control of stochastic defects more difficult.\n\nDue to the production of secondary electrons of various energies, the charge of the resist may locally fluctuate. An EUV exposure with less blur leads to more pronounced charge differences at the feature edge, which can lead to larger electric fields. Such large electric fields have been observed to lead to dielectric breakdown. The trapping of secondary electrons leads to a reduction of secondary electrons emitted from the film; however, the trap sites may themselves be depleted, resulting in effectively extended secondary electron blur for larger doses. Electron trapping is predicted to occur as part of polaronic behavior, which confines the electron's final energy deposition to trap site locations. The polaron size can be quite large in resists, e.g., 46 nm in PMMA.\n\nEUV resists are also exposable by wavelengths longer than EUV, particular VUV and DUV wavelengths in the 150–250 nm range.\n\nDue to the high efficiency of absorption of EUV by photoresists, heating and outgassing become primary concerns. Organic photoresists outgas hydrocarbons while metal oxide photoresists outgas water and oxygen and metal (in a hydrogen ambient); the last is uncleanable. The carbon contamination is known to affect multilayer reflectivity while the oxygen is particularly harmful for the ruthenium capping layers on the EUV multilayer optics.\n\nOne well-known issue is contamination deposition on the resist from ambient or outgassed hydrocarbons, which results from EUV- or electron-driven reactions.\n\nAtomic hydrogen in the tool chambers is used to clean tin and carbon which deposit on the EUV optical surfaces. The reaction with tin in the light source or resist or on an optical surface to form volatile SnH4 proceeds via the reaction:\nThe SnH can reach the coatings of other EUV optical surfaces, where it redeposits Sn via the reaction:\nRedeposition may also occur by other intermediate reactions.\n\nThe redeposited Sn might be subsequently removed by atomic hydrogen exposure. However, overall, the tin cleaning efficiency is less than 0.01%, due to both redeposition and hydrogen desorption, leading to formation of hydrogen molecules at the expense of atomic hydrogen.\n\nThe removal of carbon proceeds by methane formation at lower temperatures or acetyelene formation at higher temperatures:\nAtomic hydrogen is produced by EUV light directly photoionizing H:\nElectrons generated in the above reaction may also dissociate H to form atomic hydrogen:\n\nHydrogen also reacts with metal-containing compounds to reduce them to metal, and diffuses through the silicon and molybdenum in the multilayer, eventually causing blistering. Capping layers that mitigate hydrogen-related damage often reduce reflectivity to well below 70%. Capping layers are known to be permeable to ambient gases including oxygen and hydrogen, as well as susceptible to the hydrogen-induced blistering defects. Hydrogen may also react with the capping layer, resulting in its removal.\nHydrogen also reacts with resists to etch or decompose them. Besides photoresist, hydrogen plasmas can also etch silicon, albeit very slowly.\n\nTo help mitigate the above effects, the latest EUV tool introduced in 2017, the NXE:3400B, features a membrane that separates the wafer from the projection optics of the tool, protecting the latter from outgassing from the resist on the wafer. The membrane contains layers which absorb DUV and IR radiation, and transmits 85-90% of the incident EUV radiation. There is of course, accumulated contamination from wafer outgassing as well as particles in general (although the latter are out of focus, they may still obstruct light).\n\nReducing defects on extreme ultraviolet (EUV) masks is currently one of the most critical issues to be addressed for commercialization of EUV lithography. Defects can be buried underneath or within the multilayer stack or be on top of the multilayer stack. Mesas or protrusions form on the sputtering targets used for multilayer deposition, which may fall off as particles during the multilayer deposition. In fact, defects of atomic scale height (0.3–0.5 nm) with 100 nm FWHM can still be printable by exhibiting 10% CD impact. IBM and Toppan reported at Photomask Japan 2015 that smaller defects, e.g., 50 nm size, can have 10% CD impact even with 0.6 nm height, yet remain undetectable.\n\nFurthermore, the edge of a phase defect will further reduce reflectivity by more than 10% if its deviation from flatness exceeds 3 degrees, due to the deviation from the target angle of incidence of 84 degrees with respect to the surface. Even if the defect height is shallow, the edge still deforms the overlying multilayer, producing an extended region where the multilayer is sloped. The more abrupt the deformation, the narrower the defect edge extension, the greater the loss in reflectivity.\n\nEUV mask defect repair is also more complicated due to the across-slit illumination variation mentioned above. Due to the varying shadowing sensitivity across the slit, the repair deposition height must be controlled very carefully, being different at different positions across the EUV mask illumination slit.\n\nMultiple EUV pulses at less than 10 mJ/cm could accumulate damage to a Ru-capped Mo/Si multilayer mirror optic element. The angle of incidence was 16° or 0.28 rads, which is within the range of angles for a 0.33 NA optical system.\n\nProduction EUV tools need a pellicle to protect the mask from contamination. Currently, the pellicle is not yet guaranteed to withstand 250 W power necessary for high volume manufacturing; the specification is 40 W.\n\nPellicles are normally expected to protect the mask from particles during transport, entry into or exit from the exposure chamber, as well as the exposure itself. Without pellicles, particle adders would reduce yield, which has not been an issue for conventional optical lithography with 193 nm light and pellicles. However, for EUV, the feasibility of pellicle use is severely challenged, due to the required thinness of the shielding films to prevent excessive EUV absorption. Particle contamination would be prohibitive if pellicles were not stable above 200 W, i.e., the targeted power for manufacturing.\n\nHeating of the EUV mask pellicle (film temperature up to 750 K for 80 W incident power) is a significant concern, due to the resulting deformation and transmission decrease. ASML developed a 70 nm thick polysilicon pellicle membrane, which allows EUV transmission of 82%; however, less than half of the membranes survived expected EUV power levels. SiNx pellicle membranes also failed at 82 W equivalent EUV source power levels. At target 250 W levels, the pellicle is expected to reach 686 degrees Celsius, well over the melting point of aluminum. Alternative materials need to allow sufficient transmission as well as maintain mechanical and thermal stability. However, graphite, graphene or other carbon nanomaterials (nanosheets, nanotubes) are damaged by EUV due to the release of electrons and also too easily etched in the hydrogen cleaning plasma expected to be deployed in EUV scanners. Hydrogen plasmas can also etch silicon as well. A coating helps improve hydrogen resistance, but this reduces transmission and/or emissivity, and may also affect mechanical stability (e.g., bulging). The current lack of any suitable pellicle material, aggravated by the use of hydrogen plasma cleaning in the EUV scanner, presents an obstacle to volume production.\n\nASML, the sole EUV tool supplier, reported in June 2019 that pellicles required for critical layers still required improvements. \n\nIn the absence of pellicles, EUV mask cleanliness would have to be checked before actual product wafers are exposed, using wafers specially prepared for defect inspection. These wafers are inspected after printing for repeating defects indicating a dirty mask; if any are found, the mask must be cleaned and another set of inspection wafers are exposed, repeating the flow until the mask is clean. Any affected product wafers must be reworked.\n\nAs discussed above, with regard to contamination removal, hydrogen used in recent EUV systems can penetrate into the EUV mask layers. Once trapped, bulge defects were produced. These are essentially the blister defects which arise after a sufficient number of EUV mask exposures in the hydrogen environment.\n\nThe resolution of EUV lithography for the future faces challenges in maintaining throughput, i.e., how many wafers are processed by an EUV tool per day. These challenges arise from smaller fields, additional mirrors, and shot noise. In order to maintain throughput, the power at intermediate focus (IF) must be continually increased.\n\n Preparation of an anamorphic lens with an NA between 0.5 and 0.6 is underway as of 2016. The demagnification will be 8X in one dimension and 4X in the other, and the angle of reflection will increase.\n\nHigher demagnification will increase the mask size or reduce the size of the printed field. Reduced field size would divide full-size chip patterns (normally taking up 26 mm × 33 mm) among two or more conventional 6-inch EUV masks. Large (approaching or exceeding 500 mm) chips, typically used for GPUs or servers, would have to be stitched together from two or more sub-patterns from different masks. Without field stitching, die size would be limited. With field stitching, features that cross field boundaries would have alignment errors, and the extra time required to change masks would reduce the throughput of the EUV system.\n\nWith the natural Poisson distribution due to the random arrival and absorption times of the photons, there is an expected natural dose (photon number) variation of at least several percent 3 sigma, making the exposure process susceptible to stochastic variations. The dose variation leads to a variation of the feature edge position, effectively becoming a blur component. Unlike the hard resolution limit imposed by diffraction, shot noise imposes a softer limit, with the main guideline being the ITRS line width roughness (LWR) spec of 8% (3s) of linewidth. Increasing the dose will reduce the shot noise, but this also requires higher source power.\n\nA 10 nm wide, 10 nm long assist feature region, at a target non-printing dose of 15 mJ/cm, with 10% absorption, is defined by just over 100 photons, which leads to a 6s noise of 59%, corresponding to a stochastic dose range of 6 to 24 mJ/cm, which could affect the printability.\n\nA 2017 study by Intel showed that for semi-isolated vias (whose Airy disk can be approximated by a Gaussian), the sensitivity of CD to dose was particularly strong, strong enough that a reduction of dose could nonlinearly lead to failure to print the via.\nMinimum dose to restrain shot noise for process variation tolerance areas:\n\n+ A process variation tolerance area is the largest region over which process variation is allowed.\n\nThe two issues of shot noise and EUV-released electrons point out two constraining factors: 1) keeping dose high enough to reduce shot noise to tolerable levels, but also 2) avoiding too high a dose due to the increased contribution of EUV-released photoelectrons and secondary electrons to the resist exposure process, increasing the edge blur and thereby limiting the resolution. Aside from the resolution impact, higher dose also increases outgassing and limits throughput, and crosslinking occurs at very high dose levels. For chemically amplified resists, higher dose exposure also increases line edge roughness due to acid generator decomposition.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, a more absorbing resist actually leads to less vertical dose uniformity. This also means shot noise is worse toward the bottom of a highly absorbing EUV resist layer.\n\nEven with higher absorption, EUV has a larger shot noise concern than the ArF (193 nm) wavelength, mainly because it is applied to smaller dimensions and current dose targets are lower due to currently available source power levels.\n\nAs can be seen above, at the target incident dose levels, significantly fewer EUV photons are absorbed in EUV resists compared to ArF photons in ArF resists. Despite greater transparency of the resist, the incident photon flux is about 14 times larger (193/13.5) for the same energy dose per unit area. The resist thickness is limited by transparency as well as resist collapse and resist strip considerations.\n\nCurrent throughput at customer site is 1,200 wafers per day with 80% availability, while conventional tools produce 5,000 wafers per day with 95% availability. As of 2017, the cost of a 7 nm process with 3 metal layers patterned by single EUV exposure is still 20% higher than the current 10 nm non-EUV multipatterned process. Hence, multiple patterning with immersion lithography has been deployed for volume manufacturing, while deployment of EUV is expected in 2018–2020.\n\nThe deployment of EUVL for volume manufacturing has been delayed for a decade, though the forecasts for deployment had timelines of 2–5 years. Deployment was targeted in 2007 (5 years after the forecast was made in 2002), in 2009 (5 years after the forecast), in 2012–2013 (3–4 years), in 2013–2015 (2–4 years), in 2016–2017 (2–3 years), and in 2018–2020 (2–4 years after the forecasts). However, deployment could be delayed further.\n\nShipments of the NXE:3350 system began at the end of 2015, with claimed throughput of 1,250 wafers/day or 65 wafers per hour (WPH) assuming 80% uptime. By comparison, the 300-unit installed base of NXT 193-nm immersion systems had 96% availability and 275 WPH in 2015.\n\nTwenty EUV units were shipped in 2010–2016, short of the number that would be required for volume manufacturing. By comparison, ASML shipped over 60 NXT 193-nm immersion systems in 2016, and forecasts that 48 EUV units will be shipped in 2019. Six NXE:3100 units were shipped in 2010–2011. Eight NXE:3300B units were shipped in 2013Q3–2015Q1, fewer than the forecast 11 units. Two NXE:3350B units were shipped in late 2015, compared to a forecast six units. Four units were shipped in 2016, compared to a forecast six or seven units from the start of the year.\n\nAs of 2016, 12 units were forecast to ship in 2017, and 24 units in 2018. However, the shipment forecast for 2017 was halved at the beginning of the year to six or seven units. The NXE:3350B is planned to be discontinued by 2017, to be replaced by the NXE:3400B. At the time of shipping of the first NXE:3400B, eight NXE:3300B and six NXE:3350B systems were up and working in the field.\n\nA total of ten NXE3400B systems were shipped in 2017. In Q1 2018, three EUV systems were shipped. In Q2 2018, 4 more were shipped.\n\nEUV tool sales recognized (ASML quarterly reports)\nForty-five (45) NXE:3400B systems in total will be shipped by end of 2019. By comparison, 27 immersion tools were shipped to Samsung in 2010 alone. As of 2011, over 80 immersion tools were being used worldwide for 32-45 nm lithography. As of 2013, over 200 immersion tools were being used, in anticipation of 14-20nm nodes. Intel had around 200 SVG Micrascan DUV tools to support 200mm manufacturing. Thus, EUV volume is negligible compared to DUV use at mature nodes.\n\nASML expects to ship about 35 EUV systems in 2020 and between 45 and 50 EUV systems in 2021.\n\nThe NXE:3400C was announced to be introduced in 2019, including features that focused on improving uptime significantly, such as a modular design for faster changing, continuous tin supply, and better collector degradation control. However, aberration improvements have yet to be implemented, as aberrations have to be measured directly in-situ first.\n\nASML plans to introduce an improved EUV system late 2021. It will be called NXE:3600 and based on previous roadmaps it should improve throughput to over 185 wafers per hour and have an overlay of 1.1 nm.\n\nEUV is anticipated to use double patterning at around 34 nm pitch with 0.33 NA. This resolution is equivalent to '1Y' for DRAM.\nIn H2 2018, TSMC confirmed that its 5 nm EUV scheme still used multi-patterning, also indicating that mask count did not decrease from its 7 nm node, which used extensive DUV multi-patterning, to its 5 nm node, which used extensive EUV. EDA vendors also indicated the continued use of multi-patterning flows. While Samsung introduced its own 7 nm process with EUV single patterning, it encountered severe photon shot noise causing excessive line roughness, which required higher dose, resulting in lower throughput. TSMC's 5 nm node uses even tighter design rules. Samsung indicated smaller dimensions would have more severe shot noise.\n\nIn Intel's complementary lithography scheme at 20 nm half-pitch, EUV would be used only in a second line-cutting exposure after a first 193 nm line-printing exposure.\n\nMultiple exposures would also be expected where two or more patterns in the same layer, e.g., different pitches or widths, must use different optimized source pupil shapes. For example, when considering a staggered bar array of 64 nm vertical pitch, changing the horizontal pitch from 64 nm to 90 nm changes the optimized illumination significantly. Source-mask optimization that is based on line-space gratings and tip-to-tip gratings only does not entail improvements for all parts of a logic pattern, e.g., a dense trench with a gap on one side.\n\nFor the 24-36 nm metal pitch, it was found that using EUV as a (second) cutting exposure had a significantly wider process window than as a complete single exposure for the metal layer.\n\nMultiple exposures of the same mask are also expected for defect management without pellicles, limiting productivity similarly to multiple patterning.\n\nA return to extended generations of single exposure patterning would be possible with higher numerical aperture (NA) tools. An NA of 0.45 could require retuning of a few percent. Increasing demagnification could avoid this retuning, but the reduced field size severely affects large patterns (one die per 26 mm × 33 mm field) such as the many-core multi-billion transistor 14 nm Xeon chips. by requiring field stitching.\n\nIn 2015, ASML disclosed details of its anamorphic next-generation EUV scanner, with an NA of 0.55. The demagnification is increased from 4x to 8x only in one direction (in the plane of incidence). However, the 0.55 NA has a much smaller depth of focus than immersion lithography. Also, an anamorphic 0.52 NA tool has been found to exhibit too much CD and placement variability for 5 nm node single exposure and multi-patterning cutting.\n\nDepth of focus being reduced by increasing NA is also a concern, especially in comparison with multipatterning exposures using 193 nm immersion lithography:\n\nThe first high-NA tools are expected by 2020 at earliest.\n\nA much shorter wavelength (~6.7 nm) would be beyond EUV, and is often referred to as BEUV (beyond extreme ultraviolet). A shorter wavelength would have worse shot noise effects without ensuring sufficient dose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154374", "title": "WCET (TV)", "text": "WCET (TV)\n\nWCET, virtual channel 48 (UHF digital channel 17), is a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member television station licensed to Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. The station is owned by the Greater Cincinnati Television Educational Foundation, a subsidiary of Public Media Connect. WCET was the first licensed public television station in the United States. Its studios are located in the Crosley Telecommunications Center on Central Parkway in Cincinnati, and its transmitter is located on Chickasaw Street in the Mount Auburn section of Cincinnati. Master control operations are based at the studios of sister PBS member station WPTD in Dayton.\n\nOn cable, the station is available on channel 13 on most systems in the market.\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) assigned channel 48 to WCET in 1951. A corporate charter and construction permit were granted in 1953. WCET began broadcasting on July 26, 1954, from a converted closet on the third floor of Music Hall. The first day of programming began with \"Tel-A-Story\", a half-hour reading program by the Cincinnati library. On March 11, 1955, the FCC granted WCET the first non-commercial educational broadcast license in the country. WCET remained at Music Hall until 1959, when it moved to the former WLWT studios on Chickasaw Street.\n\nOriginally, WCET was funded through local school levies. However, a failed levy in 1966 forced the station to seek other sources of funding. In 1968, WCET held its inaugural \"Action Auction\", raising $31,000 in two days.\n\nIn 1976, the station moved to its present studio location at the Crosley Telecommunications Center, which it now shares with the market's two main public radio stations, WVXU-FM and WGUC-FM.\n\nIn 1981, Warner Cable agreed to carry four additional channels of instructional programming provided by WCET.\n\nIn the late 1990s, like PBS member stations in many larger television markets, WCET partnered with the for-profit company Lakeshore Learning Materials to operate a retail store. WCET took a 25% share in the Channel 48 Store of Knowledge, which went towards the station's endowment fund. The store sold merchandise related to PBS shows at the Kenwood Towne Centre from November 23, 1996, until the chain's bankruptcy and liquidation in 2001. The Discovery Channel Store opened in its place the following September.\n\nOnce simply branded \"Channel 48\" and later as \"WCET48\", the station simplified its name to \"CET\" on September 16, 2003, moving away from its call sign and channel number to indicate its increasing focus on online services. It began an IP-based on-demand video service via its website, CETconnect.\n\nOn May 8, 2009, the Greater Cincinnati Television Educational Foundation and Greater Dayton Public Television (owners of that market's PBS station WPTD) formed the umbrella non-profit organization Public Media Connect. Both WCET and WPTD operate as subsidiaries with separate branding and fundraising efforts. The merger resulted in the July 2010 transfer of WCET's master control operations to WPTD's facilities in Dayton.\n\nWCET and the Think channels were off the air (and not available through any other providers) from just after 4 p.m. on July 5 until 11:40 a.m. on July 9, 2019 due to the failure of a multiplexer in the master control power supply at Think in downtown Dayton.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nCET Create and CET Arts are also available on the digital cable tiers of local cable provider Charter Spectrum. \"CETWorld\", affiliated with PBS World (now branded simply as World), was carried on channel 48.2 from 2003 to January 5, 2009, and on 48.3 from September 24 of that year to February 1, 2010. During this time, it was also carried by Spectrum's predecessor, Time Warner Cable. World programming continues to be carried on Think World, a subchannel of sister station WPTO.\n\nOn February 1, 2010, CETWorld was replaced with CET Arts on digital subchannel 48.3. CET launched CET Arts, the first local 24-hour cultural service of its kind on February 1, 2010. CET Arts showcases drama, visual arts, dance and music programming ranging from symphonic to bluegrass.\n\nOn March 4, 2012 at 6:49 p.m., CET aired its first live high definition pledge break from its studio, around the concert program \"Under the Streetlamp\".\n\nWCET signed on its digital signal on UHF channel 34 on December 4, 2002; it began broadcasting in high definition 24 hours a day on October 1, 2005. The station discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 48, at 12:01 a.m. on May 1, 2009. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 34, using PSIP to display WCET's virtual channel as 48 on digital television receivers.\n\nThe following television series were previously or are currently produced by WCET:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154384", "title": "Spike and Tyke", "text": "Spike and Tyke\n\nSpike & Tyke is a theatrical animated short subject series, based upon the American bulldog father-and-son team from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's \"Tom and Jerry\" cartoons. Only two films were made in this spin-off series: \"Give and Tyke\" and \"Scat Cats\", both finished in 1956 and released in 1957, and produced in CinemaScope and Technicolor, as the cartoon studio shut down the year the spin-off series was started.\n\nThe cartoons were produced and directed by \"Tom and Jerry\" creators William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, and were among the last of the original MGM theatrical cartoons made. The studio was shut down in 1957, and Hanna and Barbera would move on to television animation production success with their own Hanna-Barbera Productions.\n\nSpike was voiced by Billy Bletcher, and later Daws Butler. Tyke did not talk in the theatrical shorts, but did speak on the FOX television series \"Tom & Jerry Kids\", for which the duo appeared in their own segments, and occasionally in the \"Tom and Jerry\" segments. Spike and Tyke were voiced by Richard Gautier and Patric Zimmerman, respectively. Later, they appeared in the straight to video film \"\" Spike was voiced by Maurice LaMarche and Tyke's barks were done by Frank Welker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154387", "title": "Brendan O'Brien", "text": "Brendan O'Brien\n\nBrendan O'Brien may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154395", "title": "Wilfred Moore", "text": "Wilfred Moore\n\nWilfred P. Moore, (born January 14, 1942) is a Canadian lawyer. From 1996 until his retirement in 2017, he represented Nova Scotia in the Senate of Canada.\n\nBorn in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Moore received a Bachelor of Commerce degree from Saint Mary's University in 1964 and a law degree from Dalhousie University in 1968. He was made a Queen's Counsel in 1983.\n\nHe was an alderman on Halifax city council from 1974 to 1980 and served as deputy mayor from 1977 to 1978. He has also served as Chairman of the Social Assistance Appeal Board for Halifax and Dartmouth; Chairman of the Halifax Metro Centre, and as a member of the Board of Governors of Saint Mary's University. He also serves as Chairman of the Bluenose II Preservation Trust.\n\nMoore was appointed to the Senate on the advice of Jean Chrétien on September 26, 1996. He sits as a Liberal.\n\nMoore criticized the December 2008 senate appointments of 18 Conservative loyalists by Prime Minister Stephen Harper saying,\"With regard to the rumoured filling of the vacancies, you have to look at the motivation...Is it just because he's afraid of losing government or is it because he wants the chamber to work, causing him to do his constitutional duty?...If it does happen I'm pleased the Senate will be filled and the chamber can work properly as one of our two houses of Parliament\".\n\nOn January 29, 2014, Liberal Party leader Justin Trudeau announced all Liberal Senators, including Moore, were removed from the Liberal caucus, and would continue sitting as Independents. The Senators referred to themselves as the Senate Liberal Caucus even though they were no longer members of the parliamentary Liberal caucus.\n\n5. Regarding the need for an ombuds office within the Canada Border Services Agency : http://ici.radio-canada.ca/regions/ottawa/2016/02/17/008-agence-services-frontaliers-wilfred-moore-senateur-migrants.shtml\n"}
{"id": "2154403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154403", "title": "The White Man's Burden", "text": "The White Man's Burden\n\nThe White Man's Burden: The United States and the Philippine Islands (1899), by Rudyard Kipling, is a poem about the Philippine–American War (1899–1902), which exhorts the United States to assume colonial control of the Filipino people and their country.\n\nKipling originally wrote the poem to celebrate the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Victoria (22 June 1897), but it was replaced with the sombre poem \"Recessional\" (1897), also a Kipling work about empire. He rewrote \"The White Man's Burden\" to encourage American colonisation and annexation of the Philippine Islands, a Pacific Ocean archipelago conquered in the three-month Spanish–American War (1898). As a poet of imperialism, Kipling exhorts the American reader and listener to take up the enterprise of empire, yet warns about the personal costs faced, endured, and paid in building an empire; nonetheless, American imperialists understood the phrase \"The white man's burden\" to justify imperial conquest as a mission-of-civilisation that is ideologically related to the continental-expansion philosophy of Manifest Destiny of the early 19th century.\n\nThe title, the subject, and the themes of \"The White Man's Burden\" provoke accusations of advocacy of the Eurocentric racism inherent to the idea that, by way of industrialisation, the Western world delivers civilisation to the non-white peoples of the world.\n\n Rudyard Kipling was an English writer who was born in India and lived in the US from 1892 to 1896, before returning to the United Kingdom.\n\nHis poem \"The White Man's Burden: The United States and the Philippine Islands\" was first published in \"The Times\" (London) on 4 February 1899, and in \"The New York Sun\" on 5 February. On 7 February 1899, during senatorial debate to decide if the US should retain control of the Philippine Islands and the ten million Filipinos conquered from the Spanish Empire, Senator Benjamin Tillman read aloud the first, the fourth, and the fifth stanzas of Kipling's eight-stanza poem as arguments against ratification of the \"Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Spain\" (Treaty of Paris, 10 December 1898); and that the US should formally renounce claim of authority over the Philippine Islands. To that effect, Senator Tillman addressed the matter to President William McKinley:\n\nHe quotes, inter alia, stanzas 1, 4, and 5 of \"The White Man's Burden\", noting:\n\nSenator Tillman's eloquence was unpersuasive, and the US Congress ratified the Treaty of Paris on 11 February 1899, which ended the Spanish–American War. After paying a post-war indemnification of twenty million dollars to the Kingdom of Spain, on 11 April 1899, the US established geopolitical hegemony upon islands and peoples in two oceans and in two hemispheres: the Philippine Islands and Guam in the Pacific Ocean, Cuba and Puerto Rico in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe imperialist interpretation of \"The White Man's Burden\" (1899) proposes that the \"white race\" is morally obligated to rule the \"non-white\" peoples of planet Earth, and to encourage their progress (economic, social, and cultural) through settler colonialism, which is based upon the Roman Catholic and Protestant missionaries displacing the natives' religions:\n\nKipling positively represents colonial imperialism as the moral burden of the white race, who are divinely destined to civilise the brutish, non-white Other who inhabits the barbarous parts of the world; to wit, the seventh and eighth lines of the first stanza misrepresent the Filipinos as \"new-caught, sullen peoples, half-devil and half-child.\" Despite the chauvinistic nationalism that supported Western imperialism in the 19th century, public moral opposition to Kipling's racialist misrepresentation of the colonial exploitation of labour in \"The White Man's Burden\" produced the satirical essay \"To the Person Sitting in Darkness\" (1901), by Mark Twain, which catalogues the Western military atrocities of revenge committed against the Chinese people for their anti-colonial Boxer Rebellion (1899–1901) against abusive European businessmen and Christian missionaries.\n\nPolitically, Kipling proffered the poem to New York governor Theodore Roosevelt (1899–1900) to help him persuade anti-imperialist Americans to accept the territorial annexation of the Philippine Islands to the United States. In September 1898, Kipling's literary reputation in the U.S. allowed his promotion of American empire to governor Roosevelt:\n\nAs Victorian imperial poetry, \"The White Man's Burden\" thematically corresponds to Kipling's belief that the British Empire (1583–1945) was the Englishman's \"Divine Burden to reign God's Empire on Earth\"; and celebrates British colonialism as a mission of civilisation that eventually would benefit the colonised natives. Roosevelt sent the poem to senator Henry Cabot Lodge, a firm believer in Western imperialism himself, for his review, and they agreed that it made \"good sense from the expansion standpoint.\" Since the late nineteenth century, \"The White Man's Burden\" has served the arguments and counterarguments of supporters and the opponents of imperialism and white supremacy.\n\nIn the early 20th century, in addition to \"To the Person Sitting in Darkness\" (1901), Mark Twain's factual satire of the civilizing mission proposed, justified, and defended in \"The White Man's Burden'\" (1899), it was Kipling's jingoism that provoked contemporary poetic parodies that expressed anti-imperialist moral outrage, by critically addressing the white-supremacy racism that is basic to colonial empire; among the literary responses to Kipling are: \"The Brown Man's Burden\" (February 1899), by the British politician Henry Labouchère; \"The Black Man's Burden: A Response to Kipling\" (April 1899), by the clergyman H. T. Johnson; and the poem \"Take up the Black Man's Burden\", by the American educator J. Dallas Bowser.\n\nIn the U.S., a Black Man's Burden Association demonstrated to Americans how the colonial mistreatment of Filipino brown people in their Philippine homeland was a cultural extension of the institutional racism of the Jim Crow laws (1863–1965) for the legal mistreatment of black Americans in their U.S. homeland. The very positive popular response to Kipling's jingoism for an American Empire to annex the Philippines as a colony impelled the growth of the American Anti-Imperialist League in their opposition to making colonial subjects of the Filipinos.\n\nIn \"The Poor Man's Burden\" (1899), Dr. Howard S. Taylor addresses the negative psycho-social effects of the imperialist ethos upon the working-class people of an empire. In the social perspective of \"The Real White Man's Burden\" (1902), the reformer Ernest Crosby addresses the moral degradation (coarsening of affect) consequent to the practice of imperialism; and in \"The Black Man's Burden\" (1903), the British journalist E. D. Morel reported the Belgian imperial atrocities in the Congo Free State, which was an African personal property of King Leopold II of Belgium.\n\nIn the historical survey of \"\" (1920), E. D. Morel's critique of imperial-colony power relations identifies an established cultural hegemony that determines the weight of the black man's burden and the weight of the white man's burden in their building a colonial empire. The philosophic perspective of \"The Black Man's Burden [A Reply to Rudyard Kipling]\" (1920), by the social critic Hubert Harrison, describes moral degradation as a consequence of being a colonized coloured man and of being a white colonizer. Moreover, since the late 20th-century contexts of post-imperial decolonisation and of the developing world, the phrase \"The white man's burden\" communicates the false good-intentions of Western neo-colonialism for the non-white world: civilisation by colonial domination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154406", "title": "Brendan O'Brien (journalist)", "text": "Brendan O'Brien (journalist)\n\nBrendan O'Brien was once a journalist on RTÉ One's \"Prime Time\" current affairs programme, he worked for RTE from 1973 until 2002.\n\nIn 1983, O'Brien won a Jacob's Award for his reporting on the RTÉ current affairs programme, \"Today Tonight\".\n\nHe is noted for his report and investigation of Martin Cahill where he follows the criminal and confronts him in the street.\n\nIn 2008, O'Brien won the Irish Children's Book of the Year Award for \"The Story of Ireland\". He has also written about the history of the IRA.\n\nHe worked from 2005 until 2010 for the independent radio station Newstalk presenting \"The Saturday Edition\". \n\nO'Brien is a graduate of Trinity College Dublin, and the University of Ulster.\n"}
{"id": "2154407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154407", "title": "Chic 'n Swell", "text": "Chic 'n Swell\n\nChic 'n Swell is a 1982 album by La Bottine Souriante.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154420", "title": "Cosmos Bank", "text": "Cosmos Bank\n\nThe Cosmos Co-operative Bank Ltd. (Cosmos Bank), established in 1906, is one of the oldest Urban Co-operative Banks in India. Cosmos Bank celebrated its centenary on 18 January 2006. It is one of the first co-operative banks in the country to implement Core Banking System (CBS) across the entire network of its then 140 service outlets using Finacle-Infosys Core Banking Software. It also received an authorized dealer (AD) license from the Reserve Bank of India to become the third co-operative bank in India to have such a license in thirty years.\n\nThe bank is headquartered in Pune in its Corporate Office - Cosmos Tower near on Ganeshkhind Road, Shivajinagar, Pune. This Bank is managed by executives and this executive team is led by the Managing Director. The Bank has Board of Directors.\n\nThis bank was founded on January 18, 1906 in Pune by Krishnaji Sadashiv Gore and Shankar Hari Barve. The first Chairman of the Cosmos Bank was \"Sahitya Samrat N.C. Kelkar alias Tatyasaheb Kelkar\". On December 1, 1990, Cosmos Bank received the Scheduled status and within a short span of just 7 years, on November 28, 1997 the Bank was awarded the 'Multi-State' status. The Cosmos Bank is operative in 7 States of India, viz., Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu through its 140 branches. Bank has more than 2 Millions customers and 79,000 shareholders.\n\nCosmos Bank is the first bank in co-operative sector to be granted permission to operate a Currency Chest. Cosmos Bank has a Currency Chest in Pune, offering services to other bank in Pune.\n\nOn 2018 August 11 and 13, a group of international hackers broke into the servers of the Bank. “Approximately Rs 78 crore was withdrawn through various ATMs located in 28 countries through 12,000 VISA transactions” and “another Rs 2.5 crore was withdrawn through 2,800 debit card transactions at various locations in India”. They hacked the switch which is operative for the payment gateway of VISA/Rupay Debit card and not on the core banking system of the bank, so the customers’ accounts were not affected.\n\nCosmos Bank has in total 5 regional offices with 140 service outlets in India. These are spread across 7 states and in 39 major Indian cities. Those are as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154422", "title": "Eckart Witzigmann", "text": "Eckart Witzigmann\n\nEckart Witzigmann is an Austrian chef.\n\nAfter his chef-apprenticeship in the Hotel Straubinger in Bad Gastein (1957–60), Witzigmann moved on to numerous positions in prestigious restaurants around the world, among others as a student of Paul Bocuse in Lyon, France.\n\nHis work in Germany began in 1970 at the Munich restaurant \"Tantris\" designed by the architect Justus Dahinden.\n\nOn 19 November 1978, he became the first German-speaking chef (and the third, outside France) to receive the esteemed three stars from the French Michelin Guide for his Munich restaurant \"Aubergine\" which he had opened one year previously.\n\nIn 1994, he sold the \"Aubergine\". In the same year, he received the rare award \"chef of the century\" from the Gault Millau guide. Only three other chefs have been awarded this title: Paul Bocuse, Joël Robuchon and Frédy Girardet.\n\nSince then, Witzigmann has published many cooking books.\n"}
{"id": "2154425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154425", "title": "Elkhorn Creek (Kentucky)", "text": "Elkhorn Creek (Kentucky)\n\nElkhorn Creek is an stream running through several counties in central Kentucky in the United States. The stream drains an area of . It derives its name from the shape, as seen on a map, of its main stem with its two primary forks. \n\nNorth Elkhorn Creek starts just east of Lexington and flows through Fayette and Scott counties, and into Franklin County, where it meets the South Elkhorn at the Forks of the Elkhorn east of Frankfort. South Elkhorn Creek begins in Fayette County, and flows through Woodford, Scott and Franklin counties to reach the Forks of the Elkhorn. South Elkhorn Creek defines the boundary between Scott and Woodford counties. Beyond the Forks of the Elkhorn, the confluent waters flow north and empty into the Kentucky River north of Frankfort.\n\nSpecies of fish in the Elkhorn include catfish, rock bass, smallmouth bass, largemouth bass, carp, crappie, and bluegill. Smallmouth bass is the featured fish of Elkhorn, as Elkhorn has been known to have a healthy population of this species.\n\nFishing tips can be accessed from the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources website.\n\nElkhorn is popular for being a kayaking/canoeing spot for many outdoor adventurers. Elkhorn is a popular destination for not only Kentuckians, but also many visitors from out of state also.\n\nElkhorn Creek is mentioned in the poem \"Song of Myself\" by Walt Whitman:\n\nA Southerner soon as a Northerner, a planter nonchalant and hospitable down by the Oconee I live, A Yankee bound my own way ready for trade, my joints the limberest joints on earth and the sternest joints on earth, A Kentuckian walking the vale of the Elkhorn in my deer-skin leggings, a Louisianan or Georgian...\n\n"}
{"id": "2154426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154426", "title": "Bernex, Switzerland", "text": "Bernex, Switzerland\n\nBernex is a municipality of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nBernex is first mentioned in 1256 as \"Brenay\". In 1793 the municipality of Bernex-Onex-Confignon was created. In 1850, Bernex separated from the other two, to form the municipalities of Bernex and Onex-Confignon.\n\nBernex has an area, , of . Of this area, or 59.0% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 16.5% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 21.3% is settled (buildings or roads), or 3.2% is either rivers or lakes and or 0.2% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 10.9% and transportation infrastructure made up 7.3%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 1.4% of the area while parks, green belts and sports fields made up 1.5%. Out of the forested land, 14.9% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.6% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 40.6% is used for growing crops and 5.5% is pastures, while 12.9% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is flowing water.\n\nThe municipality is located on the left bank of the Rhone river. It consists of 7 villages of Bernex and the hamlets of Chèvres, Loëx, Lully, Cressy, Challoux, Sézenove. The 7 villages that compose Bernex's municipality are symbolically recalled on the coat of arms by the 7 flames of fire that burn at the top of the hill. This hill is the culminant point of the municipality (506 m, 1,660 ft), known as the Signal de Bernex, the second highest point of the Geneva canton. \n\nThe municipality of Bernex consists of the sub-sections or villages of Les Teppes, Châtillon, Chèvres, Loëx, Cressy - Molliers, Saint-Mathieu - Combes, Saint-Mathieu - stand, Luchepelet, Vailly, Le Gamay, La Naz - Guillon. \n\nBernex has a population () of . , 19.9% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 11.2%. It has changed at a rate of 7.3% due to migration and at a rate of 1.5% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (7,759 or 85.5%), with German being second most common (421 or 4.6%) and English being third (193 or 2.1%). There are 3 people who speak Romansh and 168 people who speak Italian.\n\n, the gender distribution of the population was 49.2% male and 50.8% female. The population was made up of 3,650 Swiss men (37.4% of the population) and 1,151 (11.8%) non-Swiss men. There were 4,039 Swiss women (41.4%) and 915 (9.4%) non-Swiss women. Of the population in the municipality 1,839 or about 20.3% were born in Bernex and lived there in 2000. As of 2014, the origin of population was 44.7% were born in Geneva, 33% were born in other place of Switzerland, 22,4% were foreigners including 15,7% from European countries.\n\nIn there were 84 live births to Swiss citizens and 22 births to non-Swiss citizens, and in same time span there were 53 deaths of Swiss citizens and 7 non-Swiss citizen deaths. Ignoring immigration and emigration, the population of Swiss citizens increased by 31 while the foreign population increased by 15. There were 23 Swiss men and 27 Swiss women who emigrated from Switzerland. At the same time, there were 29 non-Swiss men and 37 non-Swiss women who immigrated from another country to Switzerland. The total Swiss population change in 2008 (from all sources, including moves across municipal borders) was an increase of 82 and the non-Swiss population increased by 80 people. This represents a population growth rate of 1.7%. The age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 24.3% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 63.1% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 12.6%.\n\n, there were 3,792 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 4,257 married individuals, 420 widows or widowers and 607 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 3,335 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 912 households that consist of only one person and 196 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 3,438 households that answered this question, 26.5% were households made up of just one person and there were 16 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 874 married couples without children, 1,226 married couples with children There were 274 single parents with a child or children. There were 33 households that were made up of unrelated people and 103 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n\nThe Administrative Council is composed of 3 administrative councillors, one of whom is appointed mayor for one year. The three councillors share the dicasteries for the 5-year legislature. The municipal council is composed of 25 members. It is headed by an office composed of a president, a vice-president and a secretary. Commissions, in which the parties elected to the municipal council are represented by 1 or 2 commissioners, in proportion to their number of plenary seats, deal with particular subjects such as finance, buildings, social affairs, etc.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 19.7% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the Green Party (18.31%), the SP (17.39%) and the LPS Party (13.79%). In the federal election, a total of 2,898 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 49.7%.\n\nIn the 2009 Grand Conseil election, there were a total of 5,937 registered voters of which 2,486 (41.9%) voted. The most popular party in the municipality for this election was the PDC with 15.6% of the ballots. In the canton-wide election they received the fifth highest proportion of votes. The second most popular party was the Les Verts (with 15.4%), they were also second in the canton-wide election, while the third most popular party was the Libéral (with 14.0%), they were first in the canton-wide election.\n\nFor the 2009 Conseil d'Etat election, there were a total of 5,945 registered voters of which 2,954 (49.7%) voted.\n\nIn 2011, all the municipalities held local elections, and in Bernex there were 23 spots open on the municipal council. There were a total of 6,990 registered voters of which 3,180 (45.5%) voted. Out of the 3,180 votes, there were 13 blank votes, 16 null or unreadable votes and 322 votes with a name that was not on the list.\n\n, Bernex had an unemployment rate of 3.6%. , there were 170 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 34 businesses involved in this sector. 425 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 59 businesses in this sector. 1,533 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 184 businesses in this sector. There were 4,543 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 44.8% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 1,690 workers who commuted into the municipality and 3,857 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 2.3 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 15.6% of the workforce coming into Bernex are coming from outside Switzerland, while 0.0% of the locals commute out of Switzerland for work. Of the working population, 20.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 63.8% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 3,679 or 40.5% were Roman Catholic, while 1,934 or 21.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 70 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.77% of the population), there were 18 individuals (or about 0.20% of the population) who belonged to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 189 individuals (or about 2.08% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 20 individuals (or about 0.22% of the population) who were Jewish, and 80 (or about 0.88% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 37 individuals who were Buddhist, 13 individuals who were Hindu and 12 individuals who belonged to another church. 2,105 (or about 23.19% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 919 individuals (or about 10.13% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Bernex about 3,165 or (34.9%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 1,793 or (19.8%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 1,793 who completed tertiary schooling, 45.4% were Swiss men, 34.6% were Swiss women, 11.8% were non-Swiss men and 8.2% were non-Swiss women.\n\nDuring the 2009-2010 school year there were a total of 2,194 students in the Bernex school system. The education system in the Canton of Geneva allows young children to attend two years of non-obligatory Kindergarten. During that school year, there were 209 children who were in a pre-kindergarten class. The canton's school system provides two years of non-mandatory kindergarten and requires students to attend six years of primary school, with some of the children attending smaller, specialized classes. In Bernex there were 336 students in kindergarten or primary school and 21 students were in the special, smaller classes. The secondary school program consists of three lower, obligatory years of schooling, followed by three to five years of optional, advanced schools. There were 336 lower secondary students who attended school in Bernex. There were 548 upper secondary students from the municipality along with 111 students who were in a professional, non-university track program. An additional 124 students attended a private school.\n\n, there were 43 students in Bernex who came from another municipality, while 961 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\nBernex is home to one of the flagships of religious architecture in the canton of Geneva, the Roman Catholic Church, dedicated to Saint Maurice. Built between 1864 and 1865, by the contractor and architect Jean-François Charrière, it preserves a rich neo-gothic decor and has stained glass windows of exceptional artistic and artisanal beauty, made by the workshops of the abbot F. Pron, a glass painter from Pont-d'Ain. It was restored in 1897 by the architect Johannes Grosset and then in 1922. Its classification as part of the Swiss heritage of Geneva dates from 19 April 1996.\nSince 1988, the municipality has participated in the Geneva recycling programme for the collection of organic waste for composting, a pioneering policy in Switzerland at the time of its launch.\n\nIn April 2017, the municipality announced its plan to reduce the use of fuel oil by 96% by 2030.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154428", "title": "Joan Cook", "text": "Joan Cook\n\nJoan Cook (born October 6, 1934) was a Canadian Senator for Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nCook was born in English Harbour West, Dominion of Newfoundland. In her working life, Cook was, variously, a businesswoman who served as vice-president of her family's automobile dealership, Cook and Jones Motors, an executive with CJON radio and television, and an executive with Robert Simpson Eastern Ltd.\n\nCook has also been heavily involved with charitable efforts, chairing fundraising campaigns for Newfoundland's branch of the Canadian Cancer Society. Cook also served on the board of directors for Newfoundland and Labrador's Pottle Center for mental health.\n\nAfter twice running unsuccessfully as a Liberal candidate in the 1993 and 1996 Newfoundland and Labrador general elections, Cook was appointed to the Senate of Canada by Governor General Roméo LeBlanc on March 6, 1998, on the advice of Liberal Prime Minister Jean Chrétien.\nAs a senator, Cook served on many committees, such as the senate committee on Fisheries and Oceans. Cook also served as opposition whip of the senate from 2005 to 2007. \n\nDue to the mandatory retirement age for Canadian Senators, Cook resigned from her appointment as Newfoundland and Labrador Senator on October 6, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154430", "title": "Bernex, Haute-Savoie", "text": "Bernex, Haute-Savoie\n\nBernex is a commune in the Haute-Savoie department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in south-eastern France.\nIts highest point is the Dent d'Oche (2222 meters)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154434", "title": "La Traversée de l'Atlantique", "text": "La Traversée de l'Atlantique\n\nLa Traversée de l'Atlantique (\"Atlantic Crossing\") is a 1986 album by La Bottine Souriante.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154436", "title": "Next-generation lithography", "text": "Next-generation lithography\n\nNext-generation lithography or NGL is a term used in integrated circuit manufacturing to describe the lithography technologies slated to replace open air, visible light photolithography. As of 2016 the most advanced form of photolithography was immersion lithography, in which water is used as an immersion medium for the final lens. It was applied to the 16 nm and 14 nm nodes, with the required use of multiple patterning. The increasing costs of multiple patterning have motivated the continued search for a next-generation technology that can flexibly achieve the required resolution in a single processing step.\n\nCandidates for next-generation lithography include: extreme ultraviolet lithography (EUV-lithography), X-ray lithography, electron beam lithography, focused ion beam lithography, and nanoimprint lithography. Electron beam lithography was most popular during the 1970s, but was replaced in popularity by X-ray lithography during the 1980s and early 1990s, and then by EUV lithography from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s. Focused ion beam lithography has carved a niche for itself in the area of defect repair. Nanoimprint's popularity is rising, and is positioned to succeed EUV as the most popular choice for next-generation lithography, due to its inherent simplicity and low cost of operation as well as its success in the LED, hard disk drive and microfluidics sectors.\n\nThe rise and fall in popularity of each NGL candidate largely hinged on its throughput capability and its cost of operation and implementation. Electron beam and nanoimprint lithography are limited mainly by the throughput, while EUV and X-ray lithography are limited by implementation and operation costs. The projection of charged particles (ions or electrons) through stencil masks was also popularly considered in the early 2000s but eventually fell victim to both low throughput and implementation difficulties.\n\nEach NGL candidate faced more competition from the extension of photolithography than from any other NGL candidate, as more and more methods of improving photolithography continued to be developed, including optical proximity correction, off-axis illumination, phase-shift masks, liquid immersion lithography, and double patterning. Even within the area of photolithography, there is a list of \"next-generation\" techniques, including two-photon lithography, 157 nm wavelength, and high-index immersion.\n\nRegardless of whether NGL or photolithography is used, etching of polymer (resist) is the last step. Ultimately the quality (roughness) as well as resolution of this polymer etching limits the inherent resolution of the lithography technique. Next generation lithography also generally makes use of ionizing radiation, leading to secondary electrons which can limit resolution to effectively > 20 nm.\n\nThe above-mentioned competition between NGL and the recurring extension of photolithography, where the latter consistently wins, may be more a strategic than a technical matter. If a highly scalable NGL technology were to become readily available, late adopters of leading-edge technology would immediately have the opportunity to leapfrog the current use of advanced but costly photolithography techniques, at the expense of the early adopters of leading-edge technology, who have been the key investors in NGL. While this would level the playing field, it is disruptive enough to the industry landscape that the leading semiconductor companies would probably not want to see it happen.\n\nThe following example would make this clearer. Suppose company A manufactures down to 28 nm, while company B manufactures down to 7 nm, by extending its photolithography capability by implementing double patterning. If an NGL were deployed for the 5 nm node, both companies would benefit, but company A currently manufacturing at the 28 nm node would benefit much more because it would immediately be able to use the NGL for manufacturing at all design rules from 22 nm down to 7 nm (skipping all the said multiple patterning), while company B would only benefit starting at the 5 nm node, having already spent much on extending photolithography from its 22 nm process down to 7 nm. The gap between Company B, whose customers expect it to advance the leading edge, and Company A, whose customers don't expect an equally aggressive roadmap, will continue to widen as NGL is delayed and photolithography is extended at greater and greater cost, making the deployment of NGL less and less attractive strategically for Company B. With NGL deployment, customers will also be able to demand lower prices for products made at advanced generations.\n\nThis becomes more clear when considering that each resolution enhancement technique applied to photolithography generally extends the capability by only one or two generations. For this reason, the observation that \"optical lithography will live forever\" will likely hold, as the early adopters of leading-edge technology will never benefit from highly scalable lithography technologies in a competitive environment.\n\nThere is therefore great pressure to deploy an NGL as soon as possible, but the NGL ultimately may be realized in the form of photolithography with more efficient multiple patterning, such as directed self-assembly or aggressive cut reduction.\n\nThe complexities of next-generation lithography development have always spurred the pursuit of ways of extending the use of incumbent lithographic materials, light sources, and tools. Currently, multiple electron beams is an NGL being considered for its possible avoidance of prohibitively low direct-write throughput, not only for wafers but also for masks as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154437", "title": "Parsbit", "text": "Parsbit\n\nParsbit, also known as Prisbit, was a Khazar noblewoman active in the 730s CE. In Armenian sources (Lewond), Parsbit is called \"the mother of the khagan\".\n\nWhether she was the regent for an infant monarch (unlikely, since during the same period Barjik is called \"the son of the khagan\") or for an incompetent one (again unlikely, since the Khazars during this period practiced ritual regicide once a monarch's ability to rule was compromised), or whether she ruled in her own right is unclear. What is certain is that Parsbit (called Barsbek in some sources) wielded an enormous degree of power, even commanding armies (such as the expeditionary force led against Armenia by Tar'mach in 730).\n\n"}
{"id": "2154438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154438", "title": "White Man's Burden (film)", "text": "White Man's Burden (film)\n\nWhite Man's Burden is a 1995 American drama film about racism in an alternative America where black and white Americans have reversed cultural roles. The film was written and directed by Desmond Nakano. The film revolves around Louis Pinnock (John Travolta), a white factory worker, who kidnaps Thaddeus Thomas (Harry Belafonte), a black factory owner for firing him over a perceived slight.\n\nThe title is a well-known phrase inspired by the famous poem of the same title by Rudyard Kipling.\n\nAt dinner, wealthy black CEO Thaddeus Thomas discusses white people and claims they are \"genetically inferior\" because the children grow up without fathers.\n\nTrying to improve himself, white candy factory worker Louis Pinnock offers to deliver a package to Thomas after his shift. Pinnock is let into the property by a white servant at the security gate point in front of the Thomas residence and accidentally views Thomas's wife naked through the window. Thomas notices and complains to the VP at the factory, during a dinner engagement at his house, that he would prefer a different delivery man instead of a \"Peeping Tom\". Although Thomas does not suggest any form of punishment towards Pinnock, the VP \"gets the message\" and immediately fires Pinnock. Pinnock returns to the Thomas residence in an attempt to discuss the misunderstanding with Thomas, but because Thomas is in an important business meeting, he refuses and sends a message to Pinnock that he apologizes, but there is nothing that he can do to help him. Pinnock begs for two minutes of his time, but is turned away.\n\nWithout any education or advanced skills, Pinnock finds difficulty getting a job and is unable to support his family. The Pinnock family are awakened one early morning by the police and the landlord to enforce eviction; the family struggles to gather their important belongings as they vacate the premises. Pinnock's mother-in-law scolds him for failing as a man; she says there is not enough room for him at her house where his wife and two children are going.\n\nPinnock's truck breaks down and he is forced to walk. At night, Pinnock is apprehended by the police who mistake him for a bank robber because \"he fit the description\". The people inside a bar come outside and shout at the police, demanding that they leave Pinnock alone. Pinnock is beaten by the police but they are chased away by the angry mob.\n\nIn a quest for justice, Pinnock kidnaps Thomas at gunpoint and demands a large sum of money that he believes is owed him for losing his job. After multiple failed attempts to withdraw the money, Pinnock holds Thomas hostage for the weekend and takes him through the ghetto where he lives. Thomas, however, remains unsympathetic to Pinnock and calls him a failure who blames the world for his problems. But Pinnock takes Thomas through the ghetto anyway, and Thomas alternates between enjoying some of the staples of ghetto life and having his eyes open to this world's racism. Pinnock calls the police to aid Thomas in his breathing problems but is mistakenly shot and killed because the police assume he is armed.\n\nThe chastened CEO visits Pinnock's grieving widow and offers her the money that Louis requested. She refuses it, and when Thomas awkwardly asks if she wants more, she bluntly says \"How much would ever be enough?\" and closes the door in his face.\n\n\nThe film gained a negative reception from critics. It holds a 24% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 33 reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade of \"C\" on scale of A+ to F.\n\nThe film was not a box office success, though the very small budget meant its losses were also minimal; it was widely seen as a blip on the radar during John Travolta's massive comeback as a film star during the post-\"Pulp Fiction\" phase of his career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154439", "title": "Eleanor Roosevelt High School (New York City)", "text": "Eleanor Roosevelt High School (New York City)\n\nEleanor Roosevelt High School is a small public high school on the Upper East Side of Manhattan in New York City. Eleanor Roosevelt High School is composed of about 33 teachers and 500 students representing over 40 different countries. Initially opened at a temporary location in Chelsea, with 105 ninth graders and a staff of eight, ERHS currently has over 500 students and over 45 staff members. Every year, the school selects 125 to 140 students out of over 6,000 applicants and is often selected over specialized high schools by students looking for a more liberal curriculum. In 2015, Eleanor Roosevelt High School was ranked the 116th best public high school in the nation by \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\nEleanor Roosevelt High School offers a comprehensive college preparatory program with Advanced Placement (AP) offerings, electives, and opportunities for college credit.\n\nEleanor Roosevelt High School is a five-floor structure with two modern science laboratories, two elevators, a dance studio, a library, an auditorium, an art studio, a computer laboratory with two different formats (Mac and Windows), and a music room with four soundproof rooms.\n\nERHS is a member of the PSAL.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154444", "title": "Ted Jones", "text": "Ted Jones\n\nTed Jones may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154450", "title": "Cuyuni-Mazaruni", "text": "Cuyuni-Mazaruni\n\nCuyuni-Mazaruni (Region 7) is a region of Esequiban Guyana, a territory in dispute by Guyana and Venezuela. Venezuela claims the territory as part of Delta Amacuro state north of the Cuyuni river and as a part of Bolívar state south of the same river.\n\nIt borders the regions of Barima-Waini, Essequibo Islands-West Demerara and Pomeroon-Supenaam to the north, the region of Upper Demerara-Berbice to the east, the region of Potaro-Siparuni and Brazil to the south.\n\nIts capital is Bartica, with other major towns including Issano, Isseneru, Kartuni, Peters Mine, Arimu Mine, Kamarang, Keweigek, Imbaimadai, Tumereng and Kamikusa.\n\nIt covers an area of 47,213 km². Before the 1980 administrative reform most of the area belonged to the Mazaruni-Potaro district.\n\nThe Government of Guyana has administered three official censuses since the 1980 administrative reforms, in 1980, 1991 and 2002. In 2012, the population of Cuyuni-Mazaruni was recorded at 20,280 people. Official census records for the population of the Cuyuni-Mazaruni Region are as follows:\n\n\n(including name variants):\n"}
{"id": "2154451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154451", "title": "Bulchan", "text": "Bulchan\n\nBulchan (Bulčan) or Bluchan (Blučan) was, according to Georgian chronicles, a Khazar general around the year 800 CE. According to the Georgian sources, Bulchan led the Khazar army in its capture of Tbilisi. As part of the surrender terms a Georgian princess named Shushan was supposed to accompany Bulchan back to the khagan's court and marry the Khazar ruler, but the girl killed herself instead. When he returned home with the news, the hapless Bulchan was killed by the khagan in a fit of rage.\n\nThe connection between Bulchan and Bulan, if any, is unknown; Peter B. Golden has commented on the common etymological roots of the two names.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154471", "title": "Karbon (software)", "text": "Karbon (software)\n\nKarbon (formerly Karbon14, Kontour, and KIllustrator) is a vector graphics editor. It is a component of Calligra Suite, an integrated graphic art and office suite by KDE. The name is a play on KDE and the radioactive isotope Carbon-14.\n\nOn 26 February 2012, the lead developer clarified on the Calligra development mailing list that the application’s name is simply \"Karbon\" without \"14\". \n\nAs of March 2020, the project is not supported and looking for maintainer.\n\nDockers are Qwidgets that you may attach to the main window or float freely. You may attach them one over another, resulting in tabs.\n\nStroke and fill allows you to set the outline or stroke colour, and the fill colour.\n\nThe tools Docker allows you to select which tool you want. Not all tools are always available. Example: the path editing tool is only available when a shape is selected.\n\nThe use of the Shape Properties docker is Unknown.\n\nToolbars allow you to display option otherwise some were in drop down menus. they may be edited by left clicking and selecting configure toolbars. The same option is under Settings. You may toggle which toolbars are visible by going to Settings, Shown toolbars and ticking them from there.\n\nThe Shape Handling tool allows you to select shapes. Once selected you may move, resize, pull, and rotate the shape. To resize a shape move your cursor to one of the corners of the selection box. Two arrows pointing in conflicting directions will appear. Then click and drag to resize the shape. If you want to resized it proportionally, hold down shift when Clicking and dragging. To move a shape around the canvas, click within the selected shapes selection box. Then hold your click and drag. This will move the shape.\nThe Connect Shapes tool allows you to visually link shapes with auto updating black lines. This is more geared to flow charts.\nThe Create Path Tool allows you to draw vector lines and connect then to make shapes with the use of Bézier curve. If you are coming from using Adobe Illustrator it may help to think of the Create Path Tool as Illustrato's Pen Tool. Karbon's create Path Tool differs from its Freehand Drawing Tool which does not allow you to edit the curves and points while drawing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154479", "title": "Baramati", "text": "Baramati\n\nBaramati is a city and a municipal council in Pune district in the state of Maharashtra, India. It is also the home town of the famous marathi Poet Kavivarya Moropant and former Chief Minister of Maharashtra and former Union Minister, Sharad Pawar (NCP founder and chief).\n\nBaramati is located at . It has an average elevation of 538 meters (1765 feet).\n\nThe population of Baramati as per the census of 2019 is 429,600. \n\nIndustries in Baramati vary from textile to dairy and food products. Similarly, there are many foreign companies in Baramati like Piaggio, Ferrero and Dynamix Dairy, Baramati. The oldest plant in Baramati MIDC is the Kalyani Steels. Likewise, recent additions to the list of industries are Bharat Forge, Ferrero Rocher, and Bauli India.\n\nBaramati and surrounding areas mostly depend on agriculture as the main source of income. The land in the region is moderately irrigated because of the Nira Left Canal irrigation from the Veer Dam. Nira River and Karha River also provide direct irrigation water to the farms.\n\nDrinking water is also sourced from this canal. Additionally, Municipal Council also receives drinking water from Ujjani Dam through a pipeline.\n\nMain crops include Sugarcane, Grapes, Jowar, Cotton and Wheat. Grapes and Sugar are exported from here. There is a huge marketplace for cotton and food grains in the city.\n\nAs the main crop of Baramati is sugarcane, there are three co-operative sugar factories viz.\n1. The Someshwar Co-operative Sugar Factory, Someshwarnagar ,\n2. Shri Chhatrapati Co-operative Sugar Factory, Bhavaninagar (Indapur) 3. The Malegaon Co-operative Sugar Factory, Malegaon.\n\nApart from agriculture, Baramati is home to a lot of industries which range from Steel Processing to Winemaking. \nBaramati is home to the three-wheeler plant of the Italian company Piaggio. The construction of a two-wheeler plant is completed, 150,000 Vespa scooters are produced annually with the initial investment.\n\nBaramati uses 800 hectares of land as MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation) Industrial Area along Baramati-Bhigwan Road, 5 km outside the town's municipal limits. Baramati MIDC has several major companies like Bharat Forge Ltd, ISMT Limited, Imsofer, Senvion, Schreiber Dynamix Dairies Ltd., Piaggio Vehicles Private Limited, Godfrey Phillips etc. and is home of many small scale industries.\n\nBaramati MIDC has a Baramati Hi-Tech Textile Park Ltd., set up over a sprawling 60-acres of land which houses small domestic garment manufacturers, consisting of a comprehensive group of textile oriented units specializing in functions such as garment-making, Apparel Printing & Packaging, Home Furnishing, Embroidery and Technical textile within the Textile Park. It also has a series of smaller units available as ancillary support units.\n\nBaramati has an airstrip near MIDC.\n\nBaramati is well connected by road with major cities in the State. It is 100 km from Pune by road. It connects to major highways via the road network. Baramati is also well connected by the rail network to Pune via Daund Junction. Baramati has two bus stands, with main bus stand located at the Indapur road. Baramati bus depot provides buses to school children. \n\nBaramati has an airport (Baramati Airport) which currently hosts a Flying School. \nBaramati is considered to be one of the future domestic airports in the region, with the runway being extended in length to accommodate larger aircraft. As of now, smaller aircraft and helicopters are able to land there. This airport is around 8 k.m. away from the Baramati situated in the part of Baramati industrial area (MIDC).\nThe condition of roads in the city is very good and there is a ring road built around the periphery of the city. This ring road is very useful for the heavy vehicles. They need not entered in the heart of the city. Because of this road facility there is no traffic jams in the internal part of the city. \n\nBaramati has created a niche for itself in the field of education. Last decade has seen growth of Baramati as a Prominent Education Center with colleges and schools ranging from Engineering to Biotechnology to Law.\n\nGovernment Medical College, Baramati was started in 2019 in MIDC area.\n\nBaramati and the surrounding area has three major places which have become well known education centers. Vidya Pratishthan offers courses from primary education to master's degrees which Established in June 1994. It is Permanently affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune MS India. It hasTotal campus area 27 acres including built up area 109265 Sq.mt. Vidyanagari has a Law College, College of Engineering, School of Bio Technology, Institute of Information Technology, MBA, MCA apart from Primary School and Arts, Commerce, Science College. Tuljaram Chaturchand College (aka TC College) has a junior and a senior college with well equipped staff following the latest trends in the market. The senior college provides graduation in science, commerce and arts.\n\nGovernment Industrial Training Institute in the Malegaon Bk. Industrial areas (MIDC) of Baramati, Jejuri, Bhigvan & Kurkumbh near Baramati City are developing fast & need skilled manpower. This institute can fulfill the requirements of skilled manpower of local industrial establishments, commercial establishments, small scale industrial units, consumer markets and other self-employment opportunities.\n\nAgricultural Development Trust, Shardanagar offers dedicated college for girls. Courses in Shardanagar includes basic graduation, Junior College,Agri College , BCA , Home Science, B.Voc., Post graduation in Organic Chemistry, Microbiology, Psychology, M.Com., Nursing, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Pre- primary, Primary, Secondary School, Bachelor's degree in Education etc.KVK is one of the Central Government Institute situated at Shardanagar, which provides agricultural facilities and demonstrations to farmers. \n\nThe Malegaon Sugar Factories's Shivnagar Vidya Prasarak Mandal, Malegaon offers a wide range of Technology and Management Courses.\nThe campus has an Engineering College, a Management Institute, a Pharmacy College and College of Commerce, Science & Computer Education.\n\nBaramati also has one Technical High-school, R. N. Agarwal Technical high-school, which offers different technical courses like carpentry, wiring, welding, engineering drawing, computer science and many other courses which are useful to make one's engineering base strong enough at the school level and to make it more easier to understand engineering courses.\n\nThe construction of Medical College is located on way near Baramati club, Bhigwan road.\n\nThe city has an M.E.S. (Maharashtra Education Society) High school of 100 years old. Founded by Freedom Fighter Vasudev Balavant Fadake on March 3, 1911, the school celebrated its 100-year completion in 2011. On the way of Patas road, the Shri Chhatrapati Shahu Highschool & Jr. College, Baramati is located where Shri. Sharad Pawar studied for one year (1954–55) in the 8th standard. Shree Chhatrapati Shahu Highschool & Jr. College, Baramati established by Padmbhushan Dr Karmveer Bhaurao Patil (Anna) in 1954, combined with the Shahu Boarding.\n\nThe city also has a famous CBSE affiliated school\nThe city hosts an agriculture development radio channel, the first of its type in India named Vasundhara Krishi Vahini (tunes on 90.4  MHz locally). This provides the farmers with reliable information on climate, plant nutrition, production seeds, fertilizers, market, new trends, etc. Another radio channel named \"Sharada Krishi Vahini\" (tunes on 90.8  MHz locally) hosted by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Baramati launched in January 2011 for the same purpose.\n\nFew kilometres away from Baramati, near to Malegaon Khurd, is home to the National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management (NIASM).\nShri Mayureshwar Mandir or Shri Moreshwar Mandir also known as Morgaon Ganpati is a Hindu temple (mandir) dedicated to Lord Ganesha, the elephant-headed god of wisdom. It is located in Morgaon (Marathi: मोरगाव) Baramati in Pune District, about 35 km away from Baramati city in the Indian state of Maharashtra.[1] The temple is the starting and ending point of a pilgrimage of the eight revered Ganesha temples called Ashtavinayaka.\n\nBhigwan is a small town 25 km from Baramati. It can be reached from Bhigwan by state transport bus from Baramati. Bhigwan bird sanctuary is 10 km away from Bhigwan town but it is difficult to reach by public transportation. There are two places with several type of migratory birds: Diksal and Kumbhargaon. There is a dam called Ujani. The backwater is spread in nearest parts of the villages. These birds can be found around this backwater area of Diksal. Diksal is 7 km away from Bhigwan. Small fishing boats can be hired for watching more birds. An outdoor activity where tourists look for pink flamingos and more at the Bhigwan bird sanctuary on a full-day tour from Pune. In addition to seeing a variety of India's bird species, visit the historic Bhuleshwar Temple along the way.\n\nThe two-stored museum holds a collection of gifts received by eminent Indian politician, Sharad Pawar during his long career in public service. The museum also has a collection of photographs that chronicles the public life of Mr. Sharad Pawar.\n\nAgricultural center situated in Malegaon about 7 km from Baramati. NIASM at Malegaon Khurd, Baramati. It also has agri-tourism, and people from outside of Baramati can visit KVK.\n\nAwesome river side with natural beauty located at Sangavi beside river Nira. It is Sangavi's one of the famous \"\"Youth Organization\"\"\nShri Shirsai Mandir (Shirsuphal)\n\nShri Shirsai Mandir is a Hindu temple dedicated to Goddess Shirsai. It is located in Shirsuphal, Baramati in Pune District, about 27.4 km from Baramati city in the Indian state of Maharashtra. There are many Monkeys in this temple as well as in this village Shirsuphal.This village is also called as \"Monkeys Village\".\n\nShri Janai Mandir (Katphal)\n\nShri Janai Mandir is a Hindu temple dedicated to Goddess Janai. It is located in Katphal, Baramati in Pune District, about 7 km from Baramati city in the Indian state of Maharashtra.\n\n\nSVPM College of Engineering"}
{"id": "2154480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154480", "title": "Cerfontaine, Belgium", "text": "Cerfontaine, Belgium\n\nCerfontaine () is a Walloon municipality located in Belgium in the province of Namur. On January 1, 2006, Cerfontaine had a total population of 4,546. The total area is 83.45 km² which gives a population density of 54 inhabitants per km².\n\nThe municipality consists of the following sub-municipalities: Cerfontaine proper, Daussois, Senzeille, Silenrieux, Soumoy, and Villers-Deux-Églises.\n\nThe Eau d'Heure lakes are situated partly in this municipality and partly in neighbouring Froidchapelle.\n\nThe CERFONTAINE post-office opened on 25 February 1860. It used a Distribution code 98 with vertical bars (before 1864), and 75 with\npoints before 1874. The SILENRIEUX post-office opened on 9 December 1899; SENZEILLES on 21 August 1906.\n\nCode 5630 since at least 1990.\n\nPostal codes in 1969 (before the merger of municipalities in 1977):\n- 6355 Villers-Deux-Églises\n- 6444 Silenrieux\n- 6445 Daussois\n- 6450 Cerfontaine\n- 6451 Soumoy\n- 6452 Senzeille.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154483", "title": "Randy Castillo", "text": "Randy Castillo\n\nRandolpho Francisco Castillo (December 18, 1950 – March 26, 2002) was an American musician. He was Ozzy Osbourne's drummer during the mid-1980s to the early 1990s, and later as drummer for Mötley Crüe, from 1999 to his death in 2002.\n\nCastillo was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He was inspired to take up the drums after seeing the Beatles perform on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in 1964.\n\nRandy's first rock band in Albuquerque was a hard rock cover band, \"The Wumblies,\" which later moved to Denver, CO before breaking up in 1980. Randy Castillo is part Apache Native American.\n\nIn 1984, Castillo was hired to play drums for Lita Ford and was featured on her \"Dancin' on the Edge\" album. Ford introduced Castillo to her boyfriend, Mötley Crüe bassist Nikki Sixx, and Nikki’s bandmate Tommy Lee. Shortly after the “Dancin’ on the Edge” tour, Lee called Castillo from a party he was at with Ozzy Osbourne and told him Ozzy was looking for a new drummer. Despite being unable to audition right away due to a broken leg he suffered while skiing, Castillo was hired by Osbourne a couple months later and ended up staying with the Ozzy Osbourne band for ten years, recording five albums with Ozzy during that time: \"The Ultimate Sin\" (1986), \"No Rest for the Wicked\" (1988), \"Just Say Ozzy\" (1990), \"No More Tears\" (1991), and a double-disc live album, \"Live & Loud\" (1993).\n\nAfter recording Ozzy's live album in 1993, he joined the short-lived Bone Angels, followed by Red Square Black. Castillo also briefly returned to Osbourne's band in 1995 for a tour, and played drums on several tribute albums during this time. He played with Ronnie James Dio on a cover of Alice Cooper's \"Welcome To My Nightmare\" on the Alice Cooper tribute album \"Welcome To The Nightmare (An All Star Tribute To Alice Cooper) \" and performed all drumming duties on a star-studded Def Leppard tribute album titled \"Leppardmania\". The album featured John Corabi (Angora, The Scream, Mötley Crüe), Paul Shortino (Rough Cutt, Quiet Riot), Kevin DuBrow (Quiet Riot), Joe Leste (Bang Tango), and Jani Lane (Warrant, solo artist), among others. Guitar and bass duties were handled by Jerry Dixon and Erik Turner of Warrant, and Tracii Guns of L.A. Guns.\n\nIn 1999, after Lee had left Mötley Crüe, Sharon Osbourne called Castillo and suggested he join the band, which he did without audition. He'd previously briefly played with Vince Neil as a touring drummer for the Vince Neil Band, and was an old friend of the band. His only recording with the band, 2000's \"New Tattoo\", was somewhat of a return to the classic Mötley Crüe sound. However, fan reaction was mixed and the album was not as successful as the band was hoping it would be. Still, there was excitement over the upcoming tour due to the revival in interest of many '80s hard rock acts, and the band geared up for their \"Maximum Rock\" tour with thrash metal legends Anthrax and Megadeth.\n\nSeveral weeks before Mötley Crüe was set to tour the \"New Tattoo\" album, Castillo became ill while performing with his mariachi side project \"Azul\" at the Cat Club in Hollywood. Immediately after the show Castillo took a cab to nearby Cedars Sinai Hospital where he collapsed as he was being admitted. The doctors discovered a duodenal ulcer that had ruptured his stomach and performed emergency surgery that saved Castillo’s life. While taking time off from Mötley Crüe to recover from his surgery, he discovered a small lump on his jaw and a month later, after it had grown to roughly the size of a golf ball, he sought treatment and was diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma, a common form of cancer that is not usually fatal if it is discovered early but can spread rapidly if left untreated. The cancer went into remission in mid-2001, and he was rumored to be rejoining Osbourne's solo band for that summer Ozzfest tour (along with Geezer Butler on bass), though these rumors were later revealed to be untrue.\n\nWithin a few months the cancer returned, and a few days after returning to the doctors, Castillo died on March 26, 2002 aged 51. During the final weeks of his life, Castillo had been working with ex-Ozzy Osbourne and Alice in Chains bassist Mike Inez on a new band and was in the process of hiring a singer.\n\nFor much of his career, Castillo exclusively used Tama drums (DW Drums from the late 1990s until his death), Remo drum heads, Zildjian cymbals, and Pro-mark drumsticks.\n\nDrum setup circa 1987:\n\nDrums: Tama Artstar II: \n\nCymbals: Zildjian: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154484", "title": "GM2900 platform", "text": "GM2900 platform\n\nGeneral Motors introduced the mid-size transverse engine front-wheel drive GM2900 platform in 1988 with the introductions of the Opel Vectra A and the Vauxhall Cavalier Mk.3 for the 1989 model year. The platform was intended to replace both division's J-cars, the Opel Ascona C and the Vauxhall Cavalier Mk.2, although the platform eventually branched out to Holden, Chevrolet's Latin American branch, and even Saab and Saturn. The GM2900 platform was replaced by the Epsilon platform in 2003, although Saab continued to use the lengthened GM2902 platform for its 9-5 model until 2010, when it was switched to the Epsilon 2 platform. The tooling for the first generation Saab 9-5 was sold to BAIC and with help from Saab engineers they will develop new models for production under the Senova brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154485", "title": "Zoltán Lajos Bay", "text": "Zoltán Lajos Bay\n\nZoltán Lajos Bay (July 24, 1900 in Gyulavári – October 4, 1992 in Washington, D.C.) was a Hungarian physicist, professor, and engineer who developed technologies, including tungsten lamps and\nmicrowave devices. He was the leader of the second group to observe radar echoes from the Moon (Moonbounce). From 1930, he worked at the University of Szeged as a professor of theoretical physics.\n\nIn 1923 at Tungsram Ltd., a research laboratory was established for improving light sources, mainly electric bulbs. The head of that laboratory was Ignác Pfeifer, whose research staff included Zoltán Bay, along with Tivadar Millner, Imre Bródy, György Szigeti, Ernő Winter, and many others.\n\nGyörgy Szigeti worked together with Zoltán Bay on metal-vapor lamps and fluorescent light sources. They received a U.S. patent on \"Electroluminescent light sources\" which were made of silicon carbide; these light sources were the ancestors of light-emitting diodes (LEDs).\n\nIn 1955, Zoltán Bay became head of the Department of Nuclear Physics in the National Bureau of Standards (NBS, called today NIST), where he measured the velocity and frequency of light by a previously unknown measurement method. As a result of Bay's research, the 1983 conference of the International Weights and Measures Bureau accepted, as a standard, the definition of a meter (metre)as recommended by Zoltán Bay.\n\nIn 1998, the State of Israel recognized him as among the Righteous Among the Nations and listed his name at Yad Vashem as rescuer number 6497.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154488", "title": "Cerfontaine, Nord", "text": "Cerfontaine, Nord\n\nCerfontaine is a commune of the Nord department in northern France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154489", "title": "Armenian cucumber", "text": "Armenian cucumber\n\nThe Armenian cucumber, Cucumis melo\" var. \"flexuosus, is a type of long, slender fruit which tastes like a cucumber and looks somewhat like a cucumber inside. It is actually a variety of muskmelon (\"C. melo\"), a species closely related to the cucumber (\"C. sativus\"). It is also known as the yard-long cucumber, snake cucumber, snake melon, \"uri\" in Japanese, \"Acur\" in Turkish, \"Kakri\" in Hindi, and \"Tar\" in Punjabi . It should not be confused with the snake gourds (\"Trichosanthes\" spp.). The skin is very thin, light green, and bumpless. It has no bitterness and the fruit is almost always used without peeling. It is also sometimes called a \"gutah\".\n\nThe Armenian cucumber grows approximately long. It grows equally well on the ground or on a trellis. Armenian cucumber plants prefer to grow in full sun for most of the day. The fruit is most flavorful when it is long. Pickled Armenian cucumber is sold in Middle Eastern markets as \"Pickled Wild Cucumber\".\n\nFredric Hasselquist, in his travels in Asia Minor, Egypt, Cyprus and Palestine in the 18th century, came across the \"Egyptian or hairy cucumber, \"Cucumis chate\"\", which is today included in the Armenian variety. It is said by Hasselquist to be the “queen of cucumbers, refreshing, sweet, solid, and wholesome.” He also states “they still form a great part of the food of the lower-class people in Egypt serving them for meat, drink and physic.” George E. Post, in \"Hastings' Dictionary of the Bible\", states, “It is longer and more slender than the common cucumber, being often more than a foot long, and sometimes less than an inch thick, and pointed at both ends.” The \"Cucumis melo\" subspecies Chate was the most frequently encountered cucurbit in ancient Mediterranean images and texts, and was most likely the type of cucumber grown year-round for Emperor Tiberius of 1st century Rome.\n\nA study published in 2018 concluded that melon yields in Israel can be improved by selection of local landraces. The study examined landraces collected from 42 fields, finding extensive variations in certain traits that could be cultivated to improve the local production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154490", "title": "NEET", "text": "NEET\n\nNEET is an acronym that stands for \"Not in Education, Employment, or Training\". It refers to a person who is unemployed, not in school or vocational training. The classification of a person as NEET originated in the United Kingdom, but its use has spread, to varying degrees, to other countries and regions, including Japan, South Korea, China, Taiwan, Canada and the United States. In North America, however, it is still unfamiliar enough that the term generally requires the acronym to be explained when it is first invoked because most people will not know the meaning of it. The equivalent, common term used in Canada and the US is simply \"unemployed\"; by convention, people who are involved in training or education are understood not to be \"unemployed\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the classification comprises people aged between 16 and 24 (some 16 and 17 year-olds are still of compulsory school age); the subgroup of NEETs aged 16–18 is frequently of particular focus. In Japan, the classification comprises people aged between 15 and 34 who are not employed, not engaged in housework, not enrolled in school or work-related training, and not seeking work.\n\nA 2008 report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said the unemployment and NEET rates for people aged 16–24 in the majority of OECD countries fell in the past decade, attributed to increased participation in education.\n\nNEET is to be distinguished from the newly coined NLFET rate used in the 2013 report on Global Employment Trends for Youth by the International Labour Organization. NLFET stands for \"neither in the labour force nor in education or training\". It is similar to NEET but it excludes the unemployed youth (who are part of the labour force).\n\nKnowledge of the word spread after it was used in a 1999 report by the Social Exclusion Unit (SEU). Before this, the phrase \"status zero\", which had a similar meaning, was used. Andy Furlong writes that the use of the term NEET became popular partly because of the negative connotations of having \"no status\". The classification is specifically redefined in other local government papers, such as \"respondents who were out of work or looking for a job, looking after children or family members, on unpaid holiday or traveling, sick or disabled, doing voluntary work or engaged in another unspecified activity\"; the acronym, however, has no agreed definition with respect to measurement, particularly in relation to defining economic inactivity. Karen Robson writes that the classification has \"virtually usurped discussions of \"youth unemployment\" in the UK literature\". Scott Yates and Malcolm Payne say that initially there was a \"holistic focus\" on the NEET group by policy-makers which looked at the problems young people went through, but this changed as the NEET status became framed in negative terms—\"as reflective of a raft of risks, problems and negative orientations on the part of young people\". NEET figures for England are published by the Department for Education (DfE). The methodology used in calculating the number of NEETs aged 16–18 is different from that used for those aged 16–24. The first relies on a range of sources, the second on the Labour Force Survey.\n\nA 2007 report commissioned by the Prince's Trust said almost a fifth of people aged 16–24 in England, Scotland, and Wales were NEETs; the proportion was lowest in Northern Ireland (13.8 percent). The second-quarter figures for 2011 showed that 979,000 people in England between 16 and 24 were NEETs, accounting for 16.2 percent in that age group. Between 1995 and 2008, the proportion of NEETs aged 16–18 in England remained fairly stable at around 8–11 percent. \"The Guardian\" reported in 2011 that, since 2003, there has been a 15.6 percent decrease in people aged 16–18 in employment, but a 6.8 percent increase in those in education and training. NEET figures tend to peak in the third quarter, when school and university courses are ending.\n\nThere is some stigma attached to the term NEET. Simon Cox of BBC News said the word is \"the latest buzzword for teenage drop-outs\". He says \"Neets are 20 times more likely to commit a crime and 22 times more likely to be a teenage mum\", and that Barking and Dagenham has been called the country's \"Neet capital\". David Smith of \"The Times\" calls them \"the yobs hanging around off-licences late into the night\". According to Colin Webster, NEETs commit disproportionately large amounts of crime. Children with high levels of truancy and exclusions at school are likely to become NEETs.\n\nSeveral schemes and ideas have been developed to reduce the number of NEETs. One of the main goals of the Connexions service, first piloted in 2001, is to reduce the number of NEETs. Most local authorities have made a local area agreement to this end. As part of the 2004 Spending Review, the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) had a public service agreement to reduce the proportion of NEETs from 9.6 percent in 2004 to 7.6 percent in 2010. Introduced in 2004–2005 the UK-wide Education Maintenance Allowance offers a means-tested weekly payment of up to £30 to young people continuing education past secondary school. In 2007 the government implemented a \"September guarantee\" that guaranteed all 16-year-old school leavers a suitable learning place in September, extended to 17-year-olds the following year. The \"Young Person's Guarantee\" was announced in the 2009 budget, offering a guaranteed job, training, or work experience to 18- to 24-year-olds who have been on Jobseeker's Allowance for six months; it went live on 25 January 2010. It was announced in the 2010 budget that the scheme would end in March 2012, an extension of one year. The Education and Skills Act 2008, which was granted royal assent in 2008, will increase the school leaving age in England to 17 in 2013, and to 18 in 2015; the Act gives the National Assembly for Wales the option to raise the leaving age in that country. A number of further education colleges seek to enrol NEETs. For example, it was reported in 2005 that a course for NEETs at Bournemouth and Poole College had offered various sign-on incentives, and completion bonuses of a free iPod and £100 in cash.\n\nThe Scottish Government limits the NEET classification to those aged 16–19.\n\nNEET is a distinct social policy category from that of freeter, the classification for those working low-wage part-time jobs, although in practice thousands of young people move between these categories (i.e., from the status of non-employed young person to that of a part-time worker and back) each year.\n\nThe demographic prevalence of NEETs has been indicated in employment statistics. Japanese politicians expressed concern about the impact on the economy of the growth in the NEET population. The estimated size rose from 480,000 in September 2002 to 520,000 in September 2003, according to the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. Other surveys by the Japanese government in 2002 presented a much larger figure of 850,000 people who can be classified as NEET, of which 60% were people aged 25 to 34. It is therefore clear that the number of NEETs produced by statistics depends greatly on the specific definition adopted; hence all figures should be treated with caution.\n\nWhen the NEET issue erupted in the Japanese media in 2004 and 2005, non-employed young people falling into this category were framed as lazy, work-shy and voluntarily out of employment. This media portrayal was effective in arousing the concern of Japan's (conservative) middle aged population, but it led only to moderate support for new youth policies. Indeed, as argued by Toivonen in an empirical monograph that juxtaposes media and policy discourses with youth support practices, the most promising solutions to the NEET conundrum have been created by social entrepreneurs such as Kudo Kei and Iwamoto Mami rather than by MHLW policy-makers or even scholars.\n\nUnlike most Western European countries, Japan's unemployment benefit terminates automatically after three to six months and there is a limited range of support for those with special needs. Many NEETs in Japan are thus inevitably supported by their parents or relatives, though some find their way to Youth Support Stations and other services designed and/or enacted by social enterprises, including many NPOs.\n\nSome believe that Japanese NEETs include many who have rejected the accepted social model of adulthood. They are said to not actively seek full-time employment after graduation, or further training to obtain marketable job skills through the governmental Hello Work schemes. This is often portrayed as a reaction against the traditional career path of the salaryman. Some experts attribute this to the extended economic stagnation during the 1990s, which led to high unemployment among young people (2.13 million by some estimates). Many freeters, who were nominally employed, became NEETs. However, these portrayals are based more on biased media reporting and prejudice than the careful empirical study of life-histories, support practices or wider social conditions. \n\nIt is accurate to say that the system of lifetime employment has partly—but not entirely—disintegrated in the face of economic pressures from globalization. The availability of lifelong employment in a single company has become untenable for a growing share of both corporations and individuals, with those relegated to Japan's peripheral labour force missing out on the traditional benefits associated with lifetime employment.\n\nProfessor Michiko Miyamoto describes the situation as a \"breakdown of the social framework forged in an industrial society, by which young people become adults.\"\n\nA report by the OECD revealed that 580,000 young Australians fall under the classification. The report also revealed that the number of NEETs has soared by 10,000 since the Global Financial Crisis and now account for one in eight Australians between the ages of 15 and 29.\n\nStatistics Canada carried out the first comprehensive study into the state of NEETs in Canada in 2012. It was revealed that around 13% of Canadians between the ages of 15 and 29 fell into the category. Despite the percentage being the second lowest in the G7 nations the total number of young Canadians that were classified as NEETs currently stands at 904,000.\n\nThe study also revealed that out of the total 904,000 NEETs around 513,000 were not looking actively for jobs. The study also suggested that long-term unemployment was not necessarily due to wider disenchantment with the labour market but rather arose out of varying factors. The study also revealed that 82% of the young people not in the labour force actually want to be placed in long-term employment. The study classified the Canadian NEET population not to be \"in a high risk, negative state\".\n\nIn 2013, a study from the Institut de la Statistique du Québec (ISQ) also revealed that 200,000 young men and women were neither in employment, education or training in the province of Quebec. The NEET rate in the province (13.5%) is similar to the Canadian rate (13.2%). The report also stated that the decrease of the NEET rate observed since 1976 was due a highest participation of women in education and employment. International comparisons were made using OECD data from 2010 and showed that the province had a lower NEET rate than the OECD average, United States, France, UK. It also showed that the NEET rate was much lower in other countries such as Germany and Norway.\n\nIn Spain, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Uruguay, the term \"ni-ni\" (\"neither-nor\") has become a popular equivalent of NEET. The term means 'ni estudia, ni trabaja' (\"neither studies, nor works\"). In Portuguese there is the equivalent term \"nem-nem\".\n\nThe term has become a controversial topic in Mexico, where the government feels that people who might be considered NEET are more likely to choose to join the organizations involved in drug trafficking in order to sustain their economical and personal needs, than they are to get a job or study. Some states and organizations in Mexico are creating work programs and scholarships to keep the NEET population away from drug cartels.\n\nIn Latin American and the Caribbean, the Word Bank estimates one in five people ages 15–24 are ninis, 20 million in total, an increase of 2 million since 1992. The 2016 study notes that two thirds of nini are women, mostly due to early marriage, teen pregnancy, or both. It is noted that male ninis increased by 46% since 1992; males account for the entire increase of ninis in the region. Male ninis usually dropped-out of school to work low-paying jobs, who during economic instability lost their jobs with little chance of returning to school.\nIn Mexico, ninis statistically account for at least a quarter of increased homicides in high-crime areas during 2007-2012, but in lower-crime areas there was no association between ninis and crime. The World Bank noted that at as of 2010, in Latin America and the Caribbean the number of ninis is somewhat lower than the global average though much higher than in higher-income nations. Globally, of the 260 million ninis counted in 2010 by the World Bank, the Middle East, North African and South Asian regions had the highest shares.\n\nGiven the lasting harm caused by the Great Recession, publications such as \"Time\" have published articles discussing the number of Americans that have qualified as NEETs, with approximately 15% of Americans under the age of 25 qualifying as such during the first quarter of 2011. Journalist Peter Gumbel wrote in late 2012 that NEETs are \"especially prevalent in the U.S.\" and constitute a \"marginalized group of young people\" given U.S. state and local government difficulties in maintaining social services.\n\nThe situation of Korean NEET is a little different from that of other countries. In countries like Mexico, Turkey and Spain, a large portion of NEETs are the people who do not even complete a high school education. In this situation, it is natural to seek a solution from education.\n\nOn the other hand, in South Korea, the level of college entrance rate is highest in the OECD. Already, many young people have completed higher education, including colleges and universities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154492", "title": "Ted Jones (hydroplanes)", "text": "Ted Jones (hydroplanes)\n\nTudor Owen (\"Ted\") Jones (died January 9, 2000) was a hydroplane designer and builder.\n\nOne of his boats, the Slo-Mo-Shun IV, won the 1950 Gold Cup, and set a water speed record (160.323 mph) in Lake Washington, off Seattle (USA)'s Sand Point, on June 26, 1950, breaking the previous (10+ year-old) record (141.740 mph) by almost 20 mph. He also designed several other unlimited hydroplanes that won the APBA Challenge Cup.\n\nHis son, Ron Jones, Sr., and grandson Ron Jones, Jr. both also had distinguished careers with unlimited hydroplane racing.\n\nHe was inducted in the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "2154498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154498", "title": "Dan Oates", "text": "Dan Oates\n\nDaniel J. Oates (born January 2, 1955) is the police chief in Miami Beach. He was formerly the Police Chief of Aurora, Colorado He was also formerly the Chief of Police and Safety Services Administrator for the City of Ann Arbor, Michigan. Oates was appointed Chief of Police on August 20, 2001 after serving 21 years in the New York Police Department. In August 2002, Oates became Ann Arbor's first Safety Services Administrator. He is a charter member of the federal Criminal Intelligence Coordinating Council. While with the Aurora Police Department, he was responsible for the criminal investigation of a 2012 mass shooting at a local movie theater, which was one of the largest mass shootings in American history.\n\nOates was born in Hackensack, New Jersey. He lived in nearby Oradell, before moving with his family to Midland Park, New Jersey, where he attended grade school at Nativity School. When Oates was 14 years old, he reached the rank of Eagle Scout, the Boy Scouts of America's highest rank. He received the award from a Troop chartered to the Church of the Nativity in Midland Park. Oates is married and has two adult daughters.\n\nOates attended Saint Joseph Regional High School and graduated in 1973. He received his bachelor's degree at Bucknell University where he majored in English. At Bucknell, he was the newspaper and yearbook editor. He went on to receive a master's degree from New York University and received his Juris Doctorate in 1986 from New York Law School. Oates is licensed to practice law in Colorado, New York, and New Jersey.\n\nAfter graduating from Bucknell University, Oates took a job as a reporter for the \"Atlantic City Press\". While covering courts, he became interested in a career as a police officer.\n\nOates began that career with the New York Police Department. He walked a beat in New York's 19th precinct, located on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He worked his way up the ladder, and later held the position of second of command of New York's Brooklyn South Patrol Borough. In this position, he was in charge of 3,000 police officers and 700 civilians. He also served as commanding officer of the legal bureau of the New York City Police Department Cadet Corps. By the end of his 21-year career, Oates had become head of intelligence for the department. There, he was part of the executive staff of Howard Safir, the New York City Police Commissioner. He also arranged security for the Millennium Summit and was also in charge of U.S. presidential security arrangements.\nOates took the helm of the Ann Arbor Police Department in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in the summer of 2001. Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje credited his newly hired police chief for mitigating attacks on Muslims after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Oates oversaw the emergency and fire department in addition to the police department. Due to budget concerns, Oates reduced the size of Ann Arbor's fire and police departments by 20%. At the same time he helped reduce the violent crime rate by 24%. Hieftje also noted that his straightforward management style was an asset to the department.\n\nOates left Ann Arbor and became the police chief in Aurora, Colorado, in 2005 after the former chief, Ricky Bennett, was demoted for his department's failure to stop Brent J. Brents from committing sex crimes. Oates began his career in Aurora by building up a relationship between the police department and minority communities, specifically focusing on the black community whose members felt that the police force was used against minorities. During his first five years in Aurora, he oversaw a 30% decrease in the crime rate.\n\nOates is currently teaching an online course in Constitutional law for Long Island University.\n\nOates was the chief of police in Aurora at the time of a mass shooting at the midnight showing of \"The Dark Knight Rises\". In a remark on the booby traps in the suspect's apartment, Oates stated that the apartment was rigged \"to kill whoever entered it\". He expanded on this by saying, \"It was going to be a police officer...We sure as hell are angry.\" When asked about the strength of the case against the alleged shooter, Oates responded, \"We will convict him. Yes.\"\n\n\nOates received the Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police Ralph Smith Innovation Award in 2008.\n\nOates received his Eagle Scout Award in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154515", "title": "Spalding Method", "text": "Spalding Method\n\nThe Spalding Method is the methodology and educational philosophy of The Writing Road to Reading program. The Spalding philosophy is child centered, that is the physical and mental well-being of students is a primary concern of Spalding teachers. High expectations for all children are central to the philosophy. These principles of learning and instruction are applied throughout the spelling, writing, and reading curricula.\n\nSpalding instruction is explicit, interactive, diagnostic, and multisensory. Teachers model, coach, and provide support as needed; students articulate, reflect, and explore new concepts. Careful daily observation of student progress enables teachers to differentiate instruction to meet student needs. Students see, hear, say, and write using all channels to the brain to enhance retention. All elements of the language are integrated in spelling, writing, and reading lessons. The kindergarten through to sixth-grade curricula is structured, sequential, and cumulative. Phonemic awareness, systematic phonics, high-frequency vocabulary are taught in spelling. In the writing lesson, the same high-frequency words are used to teach word meanings, usage, word parts, grammar, and composition. In the reading lesson, students learn the attributes of fine literature, the structure of narrative and expository text, fluency, listening and reading comprehension. They learn to monitor their comprehension while reading, to make connections with prior knowledge and the text, to predict word meanings, type of writing, outcomes and so forth. They learn to reorganize (reformat) the information in text and use it to mentally summarize to enhance comprehension.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154516", "title": "H120", "text": "H120\n\n"}
{"id": "2154517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154517", "title": "Wieden", "text": "Wieden\n\nWieden (; Central Bavarian: \"Wiedn\") is the 4th municipal District of Vienna, Austria (German: \"4. Bezirk\"). It is near the centre of Vienna and was established as a district in 1850, but its borders were changed later. Wieden is a small region near the city centre.\nAfter World War II, Wieden was part of the Soviet sector of Vienna for 10 years.\nThe name Wieden was first recorded in 1137, and is thus the oldest \"Vorstadt\" (former municipality within the \"Linienwall\") of Vienna. The main street (Wiedner Hauptstraße) is certainly even older. The district was the site of the former royal Summer residence, which was completed under Ferdinand II, and was expanded many times until Maria Theresa sold it to the Jesuits. Today it is the Theresianum, a prestigious private boarding school, while the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna resides in a wing of the building.\n\nIn the beginning of the 18th century, the development of Wieden as a suburb began. Many palaces and other buildings were built. Two small \"Vorstädte\" in the area of the present fourth district were Hungelbrunn and Schamburgergrund.\n\nThese three areas along with a number of others were incorporated into the city of Vienna as the fourth district on March 6, 1850. Because of social and economic differences, Margareten was separated from the fourth district to form the fifth district in 1861.\n\nThe so-called \"Freihaus\", built in 1700 and the largest apartment building/tenement of the time, was located in this area, although by 1970 its state had deteriorated. The name has been rehabilitated in recent years to give an identity to the local bars, restaurants and independent retailers. During the occupation by the allies (1945–1955), Wieden was part of the Soviet sector of Vienna.\n\nThe Vienna University of Technology is located in this district with its main administration buildings being located in Karlsplatz and a nearby satellite campus in the 6th district across the Wienzeile.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154525", "title": "Gigi Graciette", "text": "Gigi Graciette\n\nGigi Graciette is a television and radio personality best known for creating and hosting the talk show \"El y Ella\", which aired on Telemundo. Graciette currently serves a news reporter for KTTV in Los Angeles.\n\nGraciette was born and raised in California to a Portuguese mother and Venezuelan father. At age 13, her first editorial was published in \"La Opinion\", a Los Angeles daily Spanish language newspaper. Graciette is fluent in English, Spanish and Portuguese.\n\nHer television career began at Telemundo, where she was a feature and entertainment reporter for two national shows. She went on to produce and host her own television specials, such as \"The Hispanic Family of the Year\".\n\nGraciette later moved to the competing network, Univision, where she became the Los Angeles Bureau Chief and a reporter for \"Sábado Gigante\", one of the network's highest-rated programs.\n\nIn early 1995, Graciette returned to Telemundo where she was the co-creator, executive producer and on-camera host alongside Antonio Farré of the daily talk show \"El y Ella\". The show was seen in over 15 countries and became the highest-rated afternoon show for the network. Both hosts were replaced by Sofia Webber and Guillermo Quintanilla in 1998.\n\nGraciette later worked for Televisa in Mexico City, where she solo anchored three one-hour newscasts a day for Televisa's cable news network \"ECO,\" seen in over thirty countries. She also created and executive produced a daily political program called \"Eco Expediente\" and hosted her own radio show for Televisa Radio.\n\nSince 2002, Graciette has been a correspondent for KTTV and its sister station KCOP-TV in Los Angeles.\n\nFrom December 2003 until April 2010, Graciette hosted her own syndicated radio program, \"Ella Es... Gigi Graciette\", which aired on Radiovisa 830 AM.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154527", "title": "Flight into Egypt", "text": "Flight into Egypt\n\nThe flight into Egypt is a story recounted in the Gospel of Matthew (–) and in New Testament apocrypha. Soon after the visit by the Magi, an angel appeared to Joseph in a dream telling him to flee to Egypt with Mary and the infant Jesus since King Herod would seek the child to kill him. The episode is frequently shown in art, as the final episode of the Nativity of Jesus in art, and was a common component in cycles of the \"Life of the Virgin\" as well as the \"Life of Christ\". Within the narrative tradition, iconic representation of the \"Rest on the Flight into Egypt\" developed after the 14th century.\n\nWhen the Magi came in search of Jesus, they went to Herod the Great in Jerusalem to ask where to find the newborn \"King of the Jews\". Herod became paranoid that the child would threaten his throne, and sought to kill him (). Herod initiated the Massacre of the Innocents in hopes of killing the child (–). But an angel appeared to Joseph in a dream and warned him to take Jesus and his mother into Egypt ().\n\nEgypt was a logical place to find refuge, as it was outside the dominions of King Herod, but both Egypt and Judea were part of the Roman Empire, linked by a coastal road known as \"the way of the sea\", making travel between them easy and relatively safe.\n\nAfter a time, the holy family returned from Egypt. The text states that Herod had died. Herod is believed to have died in 4 BC, and while Matthew does not mention how, the Jewish historian Josephus vividly relates a gory death.\n\nThe land that the holy family return to is identified as \"Judah\", the only place in the entire New Testament where \"Judah\" acts as a geographic description of the whole of Judah and Galilee , rather than referring to a collection of religious people or the Jewish people in general. It is, however, to Judah that they are described as initially returning, although upon discovering that Archelaus had become the new king, they went instead to Galilee. Historically, Archelaus was such a violent and aggressive king that in the year 6 AD he was deposed by the Romans, in response to complaints from the population. Galilee was ruled by a much calmer king, Herod Antipas, and there is historical evidence that Galilee had become a refuge for those fleeing the iron rule of Archelaus.\n\n cites Hosea as prophetically fulfilled in the return of Joseph, Mary and Jesus from Egypt: \"... and out of Egypt I called My son\".\n\nMatthew's use of Hosea 11:1 has been explained in several ways. A sensus plenior approach states that the text in Hosea contains a meaning intended by God and acknowledged by Matthew, but unknown to Hosea. A typological reading interprets the fulfillment as found in the national history of Israel and the antitypical fulfillment as found in the personal history of Jesus. Matthew's use of typological interpretation may also be seen in his use of Isaiah and , and Jeremiah .\n\nAnother reading of Hosea's prophetic declaration is that it only recounts God summoning of the nation of Israel out of Egypt during the Exodus, referring to Israel as God's \"son\" in accordance with Moses' declaration to Pharaoh: \"Israel is my first-born son; let my son go, that he may serve me\" (). The Massoretic Text reads \"my son\", whereas the Septuagint reads \"his sons\" or \"his children\"; the Massoretic Text is to be preferred, the singular being both consonant with the other words which are in the singular in Hosea 11:1 and with the reference to Exodus 4:22–23. The Septuagint reading may be explained as having been made to conform to the plurals of , \"they\" and \"them\".\n\nThe Gospel of Luke does not recount this story, relating instead that the Holy Family went to the Temple in Jerusalem, and then home to Nazareth. Followers of the Jesus Seminar thus conclude that both Luke's and Matthew's birth and infancy accounts are fabrications. A theme of Matthew is likening Jesus to Moses for a Judean audience, and the Flight into Egypt illustrates just that theme.\n\nThe story was much elaborated in the \"Infancy Gospels\" of the New Testament apocrypha with, for example, palm trees bowing before the infant Jesus, Jesus taming dragons, the beasts of the desert paying him homage, and an encounter with the two thieves who would later be crucified alongside Jesus. In these later tales the family was joined by Salome as Jesus' nurse. These stories of the time in Egypt have been especially important to the Coptic Church, which is based in Egypt, and throughout Egypt there are a number of churches and shrines marking places where the family stayed. The most important of these is the church of Abu Serghis, which claims to be built on the place the family had its home.\n\nOne of the most extensive and, in Eastern Christianity, influential accounts of the Flight appears in the perhaps seventh-century \"Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew\", in which Mary, tired by the heat of the sun, rested beneath a palm tree. The infant Jesus then miraculously has the palm tree bend down to provide Mary with its fruit, and release from its roots a spring to provide her with water.\n\nThe Qur'ān does not include the tradition of the Flight into Egypt, though sūra XXIII, 50 could conceivably allude to it: “And we made the son of Maryam and his mother a sign; and we made them abide in an elevated place, full of quiet and watered with springs”. However, its account of the birth of Jesus is very similar to the account of the Flight in the \"Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew\": Mary gives birth leaning against the trunk of a date-palm, which miraculously provides her with dates and a stream. It is therefore thought that one tradition owes something to the other.\n\nNumerous later Muslim writers on the life of Jesus did transmit stories about the Flight into Egypt. Prominent examples include Abū Isḥāḳ al-Thaʿlabī, whose \"ʿArāʾis al-madjālis fī ḳiṣaṣ al-anbiyāʾ\", an account of the lives of the prophets, reports the Flight, followed by a stay in Egypt of twelve years; and al-Ṭabarī's \"History of the Prophets and Kings\".\n\nThe Flight into Egypt was a popular subject in art, showing Mary with the baby on a donkey, led by Joseph, borrowing the older iconography of the rare Byzantine \"Journey to Bethlehem\". Nevertheless, Joseph is sometimes holding the child on his shoulders. Before about 1525, it usually formed part of a larger cycle, whether of the Nativity, or the \"Life of Christ\" or \"Life of the Virgin\".\nFrom the 15th century in the Netherlands onwards, the non-Biblical subject of the Holy Family resting on the journey, the \"Rest on the Flight into Egypt\" became popular, by the late 16th century perhaps more common that the original travelling family. The family were often accompanied by angels, and in earlier images sometimes an older boy who may represent James the Brother of the Lord, interpreted as a son of Joseph, by a previous marriage.\n\nThe background to these scenes usually (until the Council of Trent tightened up on such additions to scripture) included a number of apocryphal miracles, and gave an opportunity for the emerging genre of landscape painting. In the \"Miracle of the corn\", the pursuing soldiers interrogated peasants, asking when the Holy Family passed by. The peasants truthfully said it was when they were sowing their wheat seed; however the wheat has miraculously grown to full height. In the \"Miracle of the idol\" a pagan statue fell from its plinth as the infant Jesus passed by, and a spring gushed up from the desert (originally separate, these are often combined). In other less commonly seen legends, a group of robbers abandoned their plan to rob the travellers, and a date palm tree bent down to allow them to pluck the fruit.\n\nDuring the 16th century, as interest in landscape painting grew, the subject became popular as an individual subject for paintings, often with the figures small in a large landscape. The subject was especially popular with German Romantic painters, and later in the 19th century was one of a number of New Testament subjects which lent themselves to Orientalist treatment. Unusually, the 18th century artist Gianbattista Tiepolo produced a whole series of etchings with 24 scenes from the flight, most just showing different views of the Holy Family travelling.\n\nA subject taking place after the arrival in Egypt is the meeting of the infant Jesus with his cousin, the infant John the Baptist, who, according to legend was rescued from Bethlehem before the massacre by the Archangel Uriel, and joined the Holy Family in Egypt. This meeting of the two Holy Children was to be painted by many artists during the Renaissance period, after being popularized by Leonardo da Vinci and then Raphael with works like Leonardo's Virgin of the Rocks.\n\nThe \"Flight into Egypt\" was a favorite theme of Henry Ossawa Tanner, depicting the Holy Family's clandestine evasion of King Herod's assassins (Matthew 2:12–14). In it Tanner expresses his sensitivity to issues of personal freedom, escape from persecution, and migrations of African-Americans from the South to the North.\n\nTwo plays of the medieval \"Ordo Rachelis\" cycle contain an account of the flight into Egypt, and the one found in the Fleury Playbook contains the only dramatic representation of the return from Egypt.\n\nThe oratorio \"L'enfance du Christ\" (1854) by French composer Hector Berlioz relates the events from Herod's dream and his meeting with the Magi through the angels' warning and the flight into Egypt until the Holy Family arrive at Sais.\n\nWhile Luke places Jesus' family as being originally from the town of Nazareth, Matthew has the family moving there, fearing Archelaus who was ruling in Judea in place of his father Herod. Nazareth, now a town, is not mentioned by the Old Testament, Josephus or rabbinical sources, though many Christian Bible archaeologists, such as the evangelical and egyptologist Kenneth Kitchen, state that they are fairly sure that a village existed in the area at the time of Jesus. Clarke notes that the location of Nazareth is just to the north of where the large town Sepphoris was located. At the time, Sepphoris had been largely destroyed in the violence following the death of Herod the Great, and was being rebuilt by Herod Antipas, hence Clarke speculates that this could have been seen as a good source of employment by Joseph, a carpenter.\n\nThe difficulty with the brief quote \"he will be called a Nazarene\" is that it occurs nowhere in the Old Testament, or any other extant source. The most similar known passage is Judges where of Samson it says \"the child shall be a Nazirite\", where a nazirite was a specific type of religious ascetic. That the Nazirite and Nazareth are so similar in name, while Nazareth isn't mentioned in any other source until after the Gospels have been written, and that the passage almost parallels one about the birth of a hero who was a Nazirite, has led many to propose that Matthew originally had Jesus being a Nazirite, but it was changed to Nazarene, inventing a location named \"Nazareth\", when the ascetic requirements fell foul of later religious practices. Biblical scholar R. T. France rejects this explanation, stating that Jesus was not a Nazirite and claiming that he is never described as one.\n\nAnother theory is that it is based on a prophecy at , which states \"there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow out of his roots:\" — the Hebrew for branch is \"נצר (netzer)\". The priestly clan of the \"netzerites\" possibly settled in the place which became known as Netzereth/ Nazareth. Bargil Pixner in his work \"With Jesus Through Galilee\" says that the title Nazarene, given to Jesus, alludes not so much to his town of origin as to his royal descent. While this piece of wordplay is meaningless when translated into Greek, Hebrew wordplay is not unknown in Matthew, underlining the opinion that some parts of this gospel were originally written in Hebrew.\nThe Flight into Egypt is one of the listed Seven Sorrows of Mary.\n\nA local French tradition states that Saint Aphrodisius, an Egyptian saint who was venerated as the first bishop of Béziers, was the man who sheltered the Holy Family when they fled into Egypt.\n\nIn Coptic Christianity, it is also held that the Holy family visited many areas in Egypt, including Musturud (where there is now the Church of the Virgin Mary), Wadi El Natrun (which has four large monasteries), and Old Cairo, along with Farama, Tel Basta, Samanoud, Bilbais, Samalout, Maadi, Al-Maṭariyyah and Asiut among others. It is likewise tradition that the Holy Family visited Coptic Cairo and stayed at the site of Saints Sergius and Bacchus Church (Abu Serga) and the place where the Church of the Holy Virgin (Babylon El-Darag) stands now. At Al-Maṭariyyah, then in Heliopolis and now part of Cairo, there is a sycamore tree (and adjacent chapel) that is a 1672 planting replacing an earlier tree under which Mary was said to have rested, or in some versions hidden from pursuers in the hollow trunk, while pious spiders covered the entrance with dense webs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154533", "title": "Batten disease", "text": "Batten disease\n\nBatten disease is a fatal disease of the nervous system that typically begins in childhood. Onset of symptoms is usually between 5 and 10 years of age. Often, it is autosomal recessive. It is the most common form of a group of disorders called the neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs).\n\nAlthough Batten disease is usually regarded as the juvenile form of NCL (or \"type 3\"), some physicians use the term Batten disease to describe all forms of NCL. Historically, the NCLs were classified by age of disease onset as infantile NCL (INCL), late infantile NCL (LINCL), juvenile NCL (JNCL) or adult NCL (ANCL). At least 20 genes have been identified in association with Batten disease, but juvenile NCL, the most prevalent form of Batten disease, has been linked to mutations in the \"CLN3\" gene.\n\nIt was first described in 1903.\n\nEarly signs and symptoms of the disorder usually appear around ages 2–10, with gradual onset of vision problems or seizures. Early signs may be subtle personality and behavioral changes, slow learning or regression, repetitive speech or echolalia, clumsiness or stumbling. Slowing head growth in the infantile form, poor circulation in lower extremities (legs and feet), decreased body fat and muscle mass, curvature of the spine, hyperventilation and/or breath-holding spells, teeth grinding and constipation may occur.\n\nOver time, affected children suffer mental impairment, worsening seizures and progressive loss of sight, speech and motor skills. Batten disease is a terminal disease; life expectancy varies depending on the type or variation.\n\nFemales with juvenile Batten disease show first symptoms a year later than males, but on average die a year sooner.\n\nNCLs are a family of diseases that are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Collectively referred to as Batten disease, NCLs are responsible for most paediatric neurodegenerative diseases. The specific type of NCL is characterized by the age of symptomatic onset and genetic mutation involved. Currently, mutations in ten genes are believed to lead to the development of Batten disease; 'the incidence is as high as one in 12,500 live births'.\n\n\nThe \"CLN3\" gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 16 at gene position 12.1 (16p12.1), and mutations within this gene are the major cause of juvenile NCL. More specifically, 73% of Batten disease cases are due to a 1.02-kb deletion within this gene, \"CLN3\", which causes a frameshift which produces a truncated mutant gene product of only 181 amino acids in length when compared to the wild-type gene product of 438 amino acids in length. Normal-functioning \"CLN3\" encodes for a hydrophobic transmembrane protein that is mainly localized to the lysosome; however, the 181 amino acid mutant gene product was instead found to primarily localize to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. The precise function of the \"CLN3\" gene product remains unknown.\n\nBatten disease is rare; misdiagnosis may lead to increased medical expenses, family stress, and the chance of using incorrect forms of treatment, which may exacerbate the patient's condition. Nevertheless, Batten disease can be diagnosed if properly detected. Vision impairment is the most common observable symptom of the disease. Occurrences in children are more prevalent than occurrences in adolescents or adults. Children or adults suspected of having Batten disease should initially see an optometrist or ophthalmologist. A fundus eye examination that aids in the detection of common vision impairment abnormalities, such as granularity of the retinal pigment epithelium in the central macula will be performed. Though it is also seen in a variety of other diseases, a loss of ocular cells is a warning sign of Batten disease. If Batten disease is the suspected diagnosis, a variety of tests is conducted to help accurately confirm the diagnosis, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBatten disease is a terminal illness; the FDA has approved Brineura (cerliponase alfa) as a treatment for a specific form of Batten disease. Brineura is the first FDA-approved treatment to slow loss of walking ability (ambulation) in symptomatic pediatric patients 3 years of age and older with late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2), also known as tripeptidyl peptidase-1 (TPP1) deficiency. Palliative treatment is symptomatic and supportive. One drug, an antisense oligonucleotide, milasen, described in The New England Journal of Medicine, is believed to be the first “custom” treatment for a genetic disease. It is named after the only patient who will ever take it, Mila Makovec.\n\nBatten disease is named after the British pediatrician Frederick Batten, who first described it in 1903. Also known as Spielmeyer-Vogt-Sjögren-Batten disease, it is the most common form of a group of disorders called neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL). Although Batten disease is usually regarded as the juvenile form of NCL, some physicians use the term Batten disease to describe all forms of NCL.\n\nIn June 1987, a phase-I clinical trial was launched at Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University to study a gene therapy method for treatment of the signs and symptoms of LINCL. The experimental drug works by delivering a gene transfer vector called AAV2CUhCLN2 to the brain. Although the trial is not matched, randomized, or blinded and lacked a contemporaneous placebo/sham control group, assessment of the primary outcome variable suggests a slowing of progression of LINCL in the treated children.\n\nResearchers believe the neurological deficits common in JNCL could be due to overactive AMPA receptors in the cerebellum. To test this hypothesis, researchers administered AMPA antagonist drugs into affected mice. The motor skills of the affected mice showed significant improvement after the antagonist treatment, which supported the hypothesis that the neurological deficits in JNCL are due to overactive AMPA receptors. This research could eventually help to alleviate neurological deficits of JNCL in humans.\n\nIn November 2006, after receiving FDA clearance, neurosurgeon Nathan Selden, pediatrician Bob Steiner, and colleagues at Doernbecher Children's Hospital at Oregon Health and Science University began a clinical study in which purified neural stem cells were injected into the brain of Daniel Kerner, a six-year-old child with Batten disease, who had lost the ability to walk and talk. This patient was the first of six to receive the injection of a stem cell product from StemCells Inc., a Palo Alto biotech company. These are believed to be the first-ever transplants of fetal stem cells into the human brain. By early December, the child had recovered well enough to return home, and some signs of speech returning were reported. The main goal of phase-I clinical trials, however, was to investigate the safety of transplantation. Overall, the phase-I data demonstrated that high doses of human neural stem cells, delivered by a direct transplantation procedure into multiple sites within the brain, followed by 12 months of immunosuppression, were well tolerated by all six patients enrolled in the trial. The patients’ medical, neurological, and neuropsychological conditions, following transplantation, appeared consistent with the normal course of the disease. Daniel Kerner died on August 20th, 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Cherie and Jim Flores donated $2 million, the biggest gift in Batten disease research history, and the Beyond Batten Disease Foundation contributed $500,000 to establish laboratories for Italian researchers Drs. Ballabio, Sardiello and their colleagues at the Jan and Dan Duncan Neurological Research Institute of Texas Children’s Hospital.[14]\n\nDuring 2011, the first controlled clinical trials began with the University of Rochester for a treatment for Batten Disease.[15] The trial included 30 patients who were experiencing signs of the disease in the hope of slowing its progress.\n\nIn November 2013, Weill Medical College of Cornell University began recruiting participants for a safety study of a gene transfer vector,[16] described as a non-randomised safety and efficacy trial. \nAs part of a trial began by University of Rochester in March 2014Mycophenolate mofetil is being tested to determine its efficacy and safety using a gene transfer vector.\n\nIn complex diseases such as Batten, therapies that address multiple aspects of the disease at the same time have the potential for higher impact than those focusing on one aspect.“The use of several treatment strategies might offer additional benefits to patients with neurodegenerative disease, but the benefits of this approach must be weighed carefully against the additional adverse effects that combined treatments might bring,” the researchers wrote. The medical team also noted that “over the past two decades, scientists and clinicians within the Batten disease community have worked to ensure that tools are in place to enable progress towards effective treatments at an unprecedented pace. ”Recent progress in Batten disease research offers hope that efficient and targeted therapies will be available soon, the researchers said, noting that the “Batten disease research community is becoming a model of how effective, efficient rare disease research can be accomplished by working together.”\n\nOne drug, an antisense oligonucleotide, milasen[10], described in The New England Journal of Medicine[11], is believed to be the first “custom” treatment for a genetic disease. It is named after the patient for who it was designed and the only person who will ever take it, Mila Makovec, who has Batten CLN7. More about this story can be found on the Mila's Miracle Foundation website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154534", "title": "Dehydroascorbic acid", "text": "Dehydroascorbic acid\n\nDehydroascorbic acid (DHA) is an oxidized form of ascorbic acid (vitamin C). It is actively imported into the endoplasmic reticulum of cells via glucose transporters. It is trapped therein by reduction back to ascorbate by glutathione and other thiols. The (free) chemical radical semidehydroascorbic acid (SDA) also belongs to the group of oxidized ascorbic acids.\n\nAlthough a sodium-dependent transporter for vitamin C exists, it is present mainly in specialized cells, whereas the glucose transporters, the most notable being GLUT1, transport Vitamin C (in its oxidized form, DHA) in most cells, where recycling back to ascorbate generates the necessary enzyme cofactor and intracellular antioxidant, (see Transport to mitochondria).\n\nThe structure shown here for DHA is the commonly shown textbook structure. This 1,2,3-tricarbonyl is too electrophilic to survive more than a few milliseconds in aqueous solution, however. The actual structure shown by spectroscopic studies is the result of rapid hemiacetal formation between the 6-OH and the 3-carbonyl groups. Hydration of the 2-carbonyl is also observed. The lifetime of the stabilized species is commonly said to be about 6 minutes under biological conditions. Destruction results from irreversible hydrolysis of the ester bond, with additional degradation reactions following. Crystallization of solutions of DHA gives a pentacyclic dimer structure of indefinite stability. Recycling of ascorbate via active transport of DHA into cells, followed by reduction and reuse, mitigates the inability of humans to synthesize it from glucose.\n\nVitamin C accumulates in mitochondria, where most of the free radicals are produced, by entering as DHA through the glucose transporters, GLUT10. Ascorbic acid protects the mitochondrial genome and membrane.\nVitamin C does not pass from the bloodstream into the brain, although the brain is one of the organs that have the greatest concentration of vitamin C. Instead, DHA is transported through the blood–brain barrier via GLUT1 transporters, and then converted back to ascorbate.\n\nDehydroascorbic acid has been used as a vitamin C dietary supplement.\n\nAs a cosmetic ingredient, dehydroascorbic acid is used to enhance the appearance of the skin. It may be used in a process for permanent waving of hair and in a process for sunless tanning of skin.\n\nIn a cell culture growth medium, dehydroascorbic acid has been used to assure the uptake of vitamin C into cell types that do not contain ascorbic acid transporters.\n\nAs a pharmaceutical agent, some research has suggested that administration of dehydroascorbic acid may confer protection from neuronal injury following an ischemic stroke. The literature contains many reports on the antiviral effects of vitamin C, and one study suggests dehydroascorbic acid has stronger antiviral effects and a different mechanism of action than ascorbic acid. Solutions in water containing ascorbic acid and copper ions and/or peroxide, resulting in rapid oxidation of ascorbic acid to dehydroascorbic acid, have been shown to possess powerful but short-lived antimicrobial, antifungal, and antiviral properties, and have been used to treat gingivitis, periodontal disease, and dental plaque. A pharmaceutical product named Ascoxal is an example of such a solution used as a mouth rinse as an oral mucolytic and prophylactic agent against gingivitis. Ascoxal solution has also been tested with positive results as a treatment for recurrent mucocutaneous herpes, and as a mucolytic agent in acute and chronic pulmonary disease such as emphysema, bronchitis, and asthma by aerosol inhalation.\n"}
{"id": "2154537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154537", "title": "NanoInk", "text": "NanoInk\n\nNanoInk, Inc. was a nanotechnology company headquartered in Skokie, Illinois, with a MEMS fabrication facility in Campbell, California.\n\nA spin-off of Northwestern University and founded by Northwestern professor Chad Mirkin, NanoInk specialized in nanometer-scale manufacturing and applications development for the life science and semiconductor industries. Dip Pen Nanolithography (DPN) was a patented and proprietary nanofabrication technology marketed as an anti-counterfeiting aid for pharmaceutical products.\n\nOther key applications included nanoscale additive repair and nanoscale rapid prototyping. Located in the Illinois Science + Technology Park, north of Chicago, NanoInk had nearly 400 patents and applications filed worldwide and had licensing agreements with Northwestern University, Stanford University, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and the Georgia Institute of Technology.\n\nWithin seven months of its formation, the firm released its first product, the DPN-System-1, which turned any atomic force microscope into a DPN machine.\n\nIn February 2013, NanoInk announced it would be shutting down due to insufficient funding when its primary backer, Ann Lurie, decided to pull the plug after investing $150 million over a decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154540", "title": "Times Square (1980 film)", "text": "Times Square (1980 film)\n\nTimes Square is a 1980 American drama film directed by Allan Moyle and starring Trini Alvarado and Robin Johnson as teenage runaways from opposite sides of the tracks and Tim Curry as a radio DJ. The film is set in New York City. The plot embodies a punk rock ethic of misunderstood youth articulating their frustrations toward adult authority through music.\n\nNicky Marotta (Robin Johnson) and Pamela Pearl (Trini Alvarado) are two teenage girls who meet in the New York Neurological Hospital, where they're both being examined for mental illness. Pamela is depressed and insecure, and she's neglected and exploited by her father, David Pearl (Peter Coffield), a prominent and wealthy commissioner running a campaign to \"clean up\" Times Square. Nicky is a tough-talking street kid with musical aspirations, sent to the hospital for an evaluation after an altercation with police. Sharing a room, the brash Nicky and shy Pamela become friends. Nicky admires Pamela's poetic spirit; Pamela admires Nicky's forthright attitude and resents the condescending way in which the doctors treat her. Nicky is released from the hospital and later returns, ostensibly for an appointment with her social worker, Rosie Washington (Anna Maria Horsford), but really to break Pamela out. Both girls escape the hospital, steal an ambulance, and hide out in abandoned warehouse on the Chelsea Piers, making a pact to scream out each other's names in times of trouble.\n\nThere is a citywide search for Pamela after David reports her missing and accuses Nicky of kidnapping her, claiming Pamela needs medical attention. Meanwhile, the girls try to eke out a living by engaging in card games, petty theft, odd jobs, and scavenging. Radio disc jockey Johnny LaGuardia (Tim Curry), who broadcasts from a penthouse studio overlooking Times Square, realizes that David's missing daughter is the same \"Zombie Girl\" who sent him letters, telling him how sad and insecure she feels. LaGuardia, who resents David's \"Reclaim Rebuild Restore\" campaign to gentrify Times Square, uses his radio station, WJAD, to reach out to Nicky and Pamela. The girls start writing songs together and form an underground punk rock band, The Sleez Sisters, with the help of LaGuardia, who sees them as an opportunity to undermine David. When an open letter to Pamela from Rosie is printed in the newspaper (with the help of David), calling Nicky troubled and dangerous, the girls perform a defiant Sleez Sisters song live on WJAD, making them even more famous. As an act of further rebellion, Nicky and Pamela also throw TVs off a series of rooftops in the city.\n\nThe two eventually have a falling out when they realize that their lives are on divergent paths. Pamela is content with her newfound sense of identity and wants to return home. Nicky wants to continue with The Sleez Sisters and becomes jealous of Pamela's relationship with LaGuardia. One night, she accuses LaGuardia of exploiting Pamela and herself, and throws them both out of the warehouse hideout. She then has a breakdown, wrecking her home and destroying the journal she shared with Pamela. After a failed attempt to drown herself, she drunkenly breaks into WJAD and demands that LaGuardia put her on the air (though, unbeknownst to Nicky, he never does). Midway through her song, Nicky breaks down and asks Pamela for help, shouting out her name. A sympathetic LaGuardia takes Pamela to Nicky. Pamela, breaking ties with LaGuardia, then takes Nicky to David's office, located in the middle of Times Square. Pamela calls all the local radio stations, announcing an impromptu, and illegal, midnight show in Times Square, on the rooftop of a 42nd Street grindhouse. A message is sent out to the fans of The Sleez Sisters, inviting them to attend the concert. Nicky says, \"If they treat you like garbage, put on a garbage bag. If they treat you like a bandit, black out your eyes!\" Girls across the city heed Nicky's call and board buses and subways to converge in Times Square.\n\nIn a garbage-bag costume and bandit-mask-style makeup, Nicky sings on the marquee roof above a crowd of cheering fans, also in garbage bags with \"bandit\" makeup. With the police approaching from behind, Nicky jumps off the edge of the marquee and into a blanket held taut by a group of fans. Camouflaged in the crowd, Nicky manages to evade capture by the police. Pamela watches her friend vanish into the night.\n\n\n\"Times Square\" was directed by Allan Moyle from a script written by Jacob Brackman, based on a story by Moyle and Leanne Ungar. The movie was inspired by a diary, found in a second-hand couch bought by Moyle, detailing the life on the streets of a young mentally disturbed woman. \n\n\"This girl was burning the candle at both ends,\" said Moyle. \"She would go into bars - she was too young - but she would go in anyway and get arrested. She had no intention of reaching the age of 21.\"\n\nAccording to the DVD commentary, the original title of the project was \"She's Got the Shakes.\" \n\nMoyle did a script that attracted the interest of Tim Curry. He then arranged for Jacob Brackman to do a rewrite.\n\nThe script caught the attention of Robert Stigwood, the impresario behind the musical films \"Saturday Night Fever\" (1977), \"Grease\" (1978), and \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" (1978). Moyle said, \"I think they had been planning to shoot something this summer that fell through, and I was hysterical about wanting it to be shot, so we made a deal with them. They were very sensitive to the script.\"\nAlthough Tim Curry has a supporting role in \"Times Square\" (and filmed all his scenes in two days), his familiarity with film audiences ensured that he received top-billing onscreen and in the film's advertising above the two unknown leads, 15-year-old Robin Johnson and 13-year-old Trini Alvarado. Robin Johnson's casting was a bit of a fluke. According to Robin, she was cutting class – cutting up – and had been approached by some supposed talent scout, claiming she should audition for the film. She had never seen or heard from this man after the one meeting and no one from the film crew knew of him.\nThe film went into production with a $6 million budget. Filming started in New York in October 1979. It was meant to be the first of four Stigwood films shot in New York, the others being \"The Fan\", \"Angel\" and \"Stayin' Alive'.\nThe original cut of \"Times Square\" contained lesbian content which was mostly deleted from the final print (which is still a lesbian love story). Moyle revealed in the DVD audio commentary that the film's integrity was compromised by the removal of the more overt lesbian content, and the addition of several \"inappropriate\" songs to the film's soundtrack at the insistence of producer Robert Stigwood, who wanted the film to be another \"Saturday Night Fever\" and insisted that the soundtrack be a double album to make the film more commercially viable. \n\nAllan Moyle and Robin Johnson remarked on the audio commentary that the loss of key scenes made the narrative disjointed, and damaged the story's emotion and characterizations. They also note that the film's focus changes, jarringly, from Pamela to Nicky, and that the increasingly outlandish and unrealistic story undermines the movie's gritty, on-location documentary style. \n\nMoyle left production before the film was completed, and other people supervised scenes to accompany the soundtrack additions (for example, the sequence featuring teens preparing to go to the Sleez Sisters' final concert was shot by the film's second unit).\n\nThe version of the film released to theatres was not Moyle's preferred cut; however, he still acknowledges the finished film's importance as it documents a Times Square that mostly no longer exists: the film was shot on location and captured Times Square's seedy, grindhouse atmosphere before it was cleaned up in the mid-1990s.\n\nThe film was advertised with the taglines \"\"In the heart of Times Square, a poor girl becomes famous, a rich girl becomes courageous, and both become friends\"\" and \"\"TIMES SQUARE is the music of the streets.\"\"\n\nUpon its original theatrical release, \"Times Square\" was not a commercial or critical success. \n\nReviewing the film, Roger Ebert wrote, \"\"Times Square\" rarely comes together into anything more than a good idea that fails, but there are times when it seems on the brink of wonderful things. Of all the bad movies I've seen recently, this is the one that projects the real sense of a missed opportunity - of potential achievement gone wrong. The problem may be with the screenplay. This is a movie that knows who its characters are, but doesn't seem sure about what they're doing.\" \n\nOther reviews of the film were generally negative, although Robin Johnson's performance was frequently singled out for praise. Johnson, in fact, signed an exclusive three-year contract with the Robert Stigwood Organization, with the understanding that RSO would develop film and music projects for her. RSO intended to market Johnson as \"the female John Travolta,\" and her contract legally barred her from accepting offers or auditions from rival companies. Johnson therefore turned down calls from agents, producers and casting directors, but the projects RSO promised her never came to fruition. Johnson took a job as a bank teller whilst waiting for her RSO contract to expire, and by the time it did, there were no offers for work. Johnson did some minor film and TV roles, but by the late 1980s, she gave up on acting and got a job as a traffic reporter on a Los Angeles radio station.\n\nMoyle later said he \"had a rotten time,\" on the film . \"And I just figured I wasn't combative enough to be a director.\" He did not direct again for a decade.\nOver the years since its original release, \"Times Square\" has been rediscovered and become a staple at gay and lesbian film festivals, because of the aforementioned, subtly-portrayed lesbian relationship between the film's two female leads. Kathleen Hanna of Bikini Kill and Le Tigre cites this as one of her favorite films. Welsh rock group Manic Street Preachers covered the \"Times Square\" song \"Damn Dog\" on their debut album \"Generation Terrorists\" (1992) and quoted dialogue from the film in the album liner notes (\"Damn Dog\" was, however, excluded from the American release of the album). \n\nThe Manics also titled their song \"Roses in the Hospital\" (from their second album, 1993's \"Gold Against the Soul\") after Pamela's line, \"What about the roses in the hospital?\" (alluding to the scene in which Nicky eats roses to distract Pamela from the doctors and her father). In concerts and publicity shots in 1993, Manics bassist Nicky Wire often wore bankrobber-mask-style makeup, as Nicky Marotta does in the film.\n\nThe movie was released on DVD by Anchor Bay Entertainment in 2000. Extra features on this DVD include audio commentary by director/co-writer Allan Moyle and star Robin Johnson, and the film's original theatrical trailer. Allan Moyle has stated that a director's cut of \"Times Square\" is unlikely to ever surface because the footage needed for its restoration is missing. Kino Lorber is set to release the film on Blu-ray in 2020 from a 4k remaster.\n\nThe film's release was accompanied by a double album soundtrack of punk rock and new wave music. The soundtrack comprises pre-existing songs as well as original songs commissioned for the film, and features a wide range of artists including The Ramones, The Cure, XTC, Lou Reed, Gary Numan, Talking Heads, Garland Jeffreys, Joe Jackson, Suzi Quatro, Roxy Music, Patti Smith and The Pretenders.\n\nThe Suzi Quatro track, \"Rock Hard,\" is identified in the film as being Nicky and Pamela's favorite record. The disco song \"Help Me!\", which plays over the film's closing scene, is a duet between Robin Gibb (of The Bee Gees) and Marcy Levy, and was one of the songs added to the film without the consent of Allan Moyle. The song \"Down in the Park\" is credited as being performed by Gary Numan although, technically, it was recorded when Numan was using the band name Tubeway Army. The version of \"Down in the Park\" included on the \"Times Square\" soundtrack is not the album/single version from \"Replicas\" (1979), but an earlier version of the song that would later be released on Numan's \"Replicas Redux\" (2008).\n\nThe soundtrack also features original songs sung by the film's actors, \"Damn Dog\" by Johnson, \"Your Daughter is One\" by Johnson and Alvarado, and \"Flowers of the City\" by Johnson and David Johansen. The song \"Dangerous Type\" by The Cars features in the film, but was not included on the soundtrack.\n\nAs a compilation of some of the most important New Wave and punk music from the era, the \"Times Square\" soundtrack achieved far more notoriety than the film did on its release. It also became a collectors' item among fans of XTC, because it included the specially-written XTC track \"Take This Town\", which for many years was only available on this soundtrack.\n\nIn his audio commentary for the \"Times Square\" DVD, Allan Moyle mentions that David Bowie was commissioned to provide a song for the movie's soundtrack, but Bowie's label at that time wouldn't let the filmmakers use it. (At the time, Bowie was still under contract with RCA Victor Records, and the \"Times Square\" album was issued by RSO Records, at the time distributed by RCA Victor competitor PolyGram; however, it's notable that Lou Reed, who does appear on the album, was also under contract to RCA Victor.) Desmond Child has mentioned in a magazine interview that he collaborated with David Bowie on the song \"The Night Was Not\" (the song did appear on the \"Times Square\" soundtrack, performed by Child's band, Desmond Child & Rouge). Another rumour is that Bowie intended to provide a re-recorded version of his 1971 song \"Life on Mars?\" for the \"Times Square\" soundtrack. \n\n"}
{"id": "2154544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154544", "title": "Indian mythology", "text": "Indian mythology\n\nIndian mythology may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154546", "title": "Clark County Regional Flood Control District", "text": "Clark County Regional Flood Control District\n\nThe Clark County Regional Flood Control District (CCRFCD) was created in 1985 by the Nevada Legislature allowing Clark County to provide broad solutions to flooding problems. The District has developed plans and so far successfully continued working on a 50-year program to eliminate most flooding from a 100-year flood in the populated areas for which the CCRFCD is responsible.\n\nVoters in 1986 approved a quarter cent sales tax to fund construction of regional flood control facilities. The first project began in 1988.\nAs of June 2013, a total of $1.7 bill was spent on flood control, including construction of 90 detention basins and approximately 581 miles of channels and underground storm drains. To date, 51 square miles have been removed from federally identified FEMA flood zones, saving residents millions of dollars per year in flood insurance premiums.\n\nThe Regional Flood Control District is more than 75 percent complete with the Master Plan. Another 31 detention basins are planned, along with 226 miles of conveyance.\n\nThe District's website, provides citizens information about the District and the progress of flood control in Clark County. The site also gives current rainfall information on approximately 189 locations throughout the county.\n\nThe District produces a 30-minute television news program six times per year that updates the community about the progress of flood control and provides information about flash flood safety. The program airs about 40 times per month on Cox Cable channels 2 and 4, as well as on stations in Laughlin and Mesquite.\n\nSince Las Vegas is located in a basin with a single outlet, the Las Vegas Wash, all rain runoff drains to the east side of the basin where it will eventually be deposited into Lake Mead. Rainfall in the surrounding mountain ranges, can cause flooding in the area as water flows off the mountains onto the valley floor. The area is also subject to localized weather events. It is possible for an area to receive heavy rainfall in a short time, while nearby areas as close as one or two miles (3 km) away receive little or no rain. Additional history about past flood events is available as well as some historical rainfall data.\n\nThe increase of hardscape as the valley has developed has contributed to an increase of runoff over time.\n\nTo help alleviate the damage caused by flooding, the Clark County Regional Flood Control District has spent millions of dollars to build detention basins and concrete drainage channels throughout the area. The belief is that these structures will control the flow of water when there is storm runoff and reduce flooding in areas below the basins and near the channels and washes.\n\nThe detention basins operated by the district vary in size from and are up to deep.\n\nGiven the topography of the area, some areas may not be fixable. One example being the Flamingo Wash where the channel overflows into the Imperial Palace parking garage during flash flooding events.\n\nWith the rapid growth occurring in the valley, the plan and finances have not been able to keep up. As a result, developers are deciding to build in areas not yet protected by detention basins or other control measures. This is causing many new home buyers to deal with damage or severe runoff on local streets which are used as flood channels when other facilities are not available.\n\nHeavy rainfall can cause localized flash flooding. A thunderstorm hit the northwest part of the city of Las Vegas for two hours in August 2003, causing some hail damage and considerable water damage. Heavy localized flooding occurred, with property damage reaching into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. In February 2005, the southwest part of the Vegas Valley was hard hit by flooding from the mountain rainfall runoff. Higher than average precipitation that same winter was responsible for significant damage in Mesquite and Overton which, as of that point in time, had not received much attention since their populations were so much smaller than the Las Vegas valley area.\n\nIn addition to building and maintaining flood control projects, the District also operates a Flood Threat Recognition System of ALERT rain and stream gage, with the cooperation of the United States Geological Survey and the National Weather Service. This system collects hydrometeorologic data primarily for the purpose of detecting situations which could cause flooding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154549", "title": "DJ Dan", "text": "DJ Dan\n\nDJ Dan (born Daniel Wherrett) is an American electronic house music DJ and producer.\n\nWherrett grew up in Lacey near Olympia, Washington. He started collecting records as a child. He moved to Seattle from 1988-1990 to study fashion, where he began hearing electronic dance music at such area clubs as The Underground, where he heard Randy Schlager and Donald Glaude. It was during this time he started experimenting playing on his own.\n\nIn 1991, he moved to Los Angeles. After playing a few events with LA-based DJ Ron D Core (the two of them released a series of mixtapes together, including live mixes), he eventually made his way up to San Francisco in 1993 where he joined Funky Tekno Tribe. In 1996 he partnered up with Jim Hopkins and under the name \"Electroliners\" they released \"Loose Caboose\". This track was picked up by DJs such as Carl Cox, Sasha, John Digweed, and Lee Burridge.\n\nIn 2000, Cox took Dan under his wing and brought him on tour. Also that year, Dan's track \"That Zipper Track\" was released on 4 different labels worldwide. It went on to sell over 100,000 copies on vinyl. In 2001, he created his own label, InStereo Recordings.\n\nDJ Mag named DJ Dan the #1 House DJ in 2006. Urb Magazine named him \"America's Favorite DJ\" and \"America's Hardest Working DJ\". He is currently rated the #9 DJ in America according to the DJ Times America's Best DJ Poll\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154550", "title": "Come Clean (Puddle of Mudd album)", "text": "Come Clean (Puddle of Mudd album)\n\nCome Clean is the debut studio album by the rock band Puddle of Mudd. Released on August 28, 2001, the album's music was responsible for breaking Puddle of Mudd into the mainstream music scene. It features the singles \"Control,\" \"Blurry,\" \"Drift & Die\" and \"She Hates Me\". Various tracks were re-recorded from the band's previous releases, \"Stuck\" and \"Abrasive\". The album reached the US \"Billboard\" 200, peaking at number nine.\n\nThe album has sold over 5,000,000 copies and was certified 3× Platinum by the RIAA.\n\n\"Come Clean\" received mixed reviews from critics. \"AllMusic\" and \"Rolling Stone\" said that Puddle of Mudd did not stand out with their album. Alternatively, Stephanie Dickison of \"PopMatters\" heavily praised \"Come Clean\" and called it an \"album of the year\".\n\nSome copies of the album have one or both of the following bonus tracks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154551", "title": "Böhm", "text": "Böhm\n\nBöhm may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154553", "title": "Sulphury flycatcher", "text": "Sulphury flycatcher\n\nThe sulphury flycatcher (\"Tyrannopsis sulphurea\") is a passerine bird which is a localised resident breeder from Trinidad, the Guianas and Venezuela south to Amazonian Peru, northern Bolivia and Brazil.\n\nThis large tyrant flycatcher is found in savannah habitat with moriche palms. The nest is an open cup of sticks in the crown of a moriche palm, and the typical clutch is two cream-coloured eggs blotched with brown.\n\nThe adult sulphury flycatcher is 20.3 cm long and weighs 54g. The head and neck are dark grey, and there is a concealed yellow crown stripe. The upperparts are olive, and the wings and tail are brown. The underparts are yellow with a greenish tint to the upper breast and a white throat. The black bill is short and broad.\n\nThis species resembles the tropical kingbird, but is shorter, stockier, and has a shorter bill. The call is a loud squealing \"jweeez\", quite different from the kingbird's twittering.\n\nSulphury flycatchers wait on an exposed perch high in a palm and sally out to catch insects in flight. They will also take some berries.\n\nThe species is in its own genus-(monotypic), because of its bird voicebox anatomy, the syrinx.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154563", "title": "Uppland Runic Inscription 1011", "text": "Uppland Runic Inscription 1011\n\nThis runestone, listed in Rundata as runic inscription U 1011, was carved in the 11th century and was originally located at Örby, Rasbo, Sweden.\n\nThis runestone consists of a runic inscription on two sides with the text within a serpent and a cross at the top. The runestone was moved from Rasbo to Uppsala in the 17th century. In 1867 this runestone, along with U 489 and U 896, was exhibited in the Exposition Universelle in Paris. It was dropped in Le Havre during its return. After having lain there for several decades, it was returned to Uppsala. It now stands in the \"Universitetsparken\" (the University Park) close to the main building of Uppsala University.\n\nThis is an unusual runestone in that its sponsor, Vigmund, raised it in honor of himself. There are over twenty other runestones where the sponsor stated that the stone was raised in memory of himself, including Sö 55 in Bjudby, U 127 in Danderyds, the now-lost U 149 in Hagby, U 164 and U 165 in Täby, U 171 in Söderby, U 194 in Väsby, U 212 in Vallentuna, U 261 in Fresta, U 308 in Ekeby, the now-lost U 345 in Yttergärde, U 433 in Husby-Ärlinghundra, U 734 in Linsunda, U 739 in Gådi, U 803 in Långtora, U 962 in Vaksala, U 1040 in Fasma, the now-lost U 1114 in Myrby, U 1181 in Lilla Runhällen, U Fv1958;250 in Sigtuna, Vs 17 in Råby, Vs 32 in Prästgården, and DR 212 in Tillitse. Of these, five stones known as the Jarlabanke Runestones were sponsored by the same person in memory of himself.\n\nThe inscription is carved in runestone style Pr4, which is also known as Urnes style. This runestone style is characterized by slim and stylized animals that are interwoven into tight patterns. The animal heads are typically seen in profile with slender almond-shaped eyes and upwardly curled appendages on the noses and the necks.\n\nSimilar the inscription on U 1016, this runic inscription uses the term \"stýrimanns\" or \"stýrimaðr\" as a title that is translated as \"captain.\" Other runestones use this term apparently to describe working as a steersman on a ship. Other inscriptions using this title include Sö 161 in Råby, U 1016 in Fjuckby, U Fv1976;104 at the Uppsala Cathedral, and DR 1 in Hedeby. The Norse word \"sál\" for soul in the prayer was imported from English and was first recorded as being used during the tenth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154567", "title": "The Tech Report", "text": "The Tech Report\n\nThe Tech Report is a web site dedicated to covering personal computing technology and culture. The Tech Report specializes in hardware as well as producing quarterly system build guides at various price points, and occasional price vs. performance scatter plots. Tech Report also has an active online community and a podcast. The website is also a supporter of Stanford's Folding@home and is currently ranked 26th in total production points as of March 22, 2018.\n\nTech Report was founded by Scott 'Damage' Wasson, a Harvard Divinity School graduate, and Andy 'Dr. Evil' Brown. Both started by writing at Ars Technica in 1998. The two later decided to launch their own website. The site eventually grew into a business enterprise with multiple full-time staff members, and continues in that form today.\n\nTech Report was originally located at tech-report.com in 1999. The site was moved to techreport.com in 2003.\n\nOn August 20, 2007 a beta for a new site design was posted in the forums for review by the user community. It has since been moved to live.\n\nLaunching on January 1, 2011, the new site design, TR 3.0 rolled out. Offering a completely new layout and two user switchable colors, blue and white.\n\nOn December 2, 2015 Scott Wasson, the founder and Editor-In-Chief stepped down as he accepted a role in AMD's graphics division. Wasson subsequently sold the company in March 2018 to Adam Eiberger, the Tech Report's business manager.\n\nOn December 21, 2018 Jeff Kampman stepped down as Editor-In-Chief.\n\nOn July 7, 2019, coinciding with the release of AMD's Ryzen 3 CPUs and Navi GPUs, a site redesign was launched moving from the Tech Report's former custom CMS and functionality to a Wordpress template. On July 9th, Renee Johnson posted an introduction to the design. The new redesign was met with criticism from the users. In August of same year, TechReport staff has removed all mention of former Editor-in-Chief Jeff Kampman (according to Jeff it was by his own request) as contributor and replaced his name with Renee Johnson on all articles he contributed going back to 2014. His \"farewell\" message that he posted on December 21 of 2018 was also deleted from the site. The TechReport \"About\" page was also edited and all information about original founders was removed.\n\nTechReport was one of the first sites in 2007 to document and benchmark the flaw in the translation lookaside buffer (TLB) of AMD Phenom CPUs. Despite claims by AMD that the initial BIOS fix would only result in 10% performance decrease, benchmarks by TechReport have revealed that the performance impact by the initial BIOS fix was much more severe, up to nearly 20% on average, with some applications such as Firefox experiencing performance decrease of 57% in tests. They were also the first one to notify about AMD stopping the shipment of processors due to this bug.\n\nOn September 8, 2011 Scott Wasson posted an article titled \"Inside the second: A new look at game benchmarking\". This showed gamers that frames per second(FPS) are not the only thing that matters in \"smooth\" gameplay, but frame latency has a big part. This innovative benchmarking method was later mentioned and acknowledged by other publications such as Anandtech, which described this method as \"a revolution in the 3D game benchmarking scene\" and Overclockers.\n\nIn 2013, TechReport has started an experiment using several SSD drives to determine how many writes they can endure. This test has lasted for more than 18 months before all drives used in this test have failed, enduring much larger amount of written data than rated by manufacturers themselves, and even prompting one of the manufacturers, Samsung, to release a humorous music video dedicated to this test.\n\nA large portion of the main page is dedicated to \"News\" and \"Blog\" entries. Among the news entries are \"Shortbread\" posts which offer a summary breakdown of reviews and news offered by other sites.Featured articles are often reviews of newly released PC hardware which has been tested by the site's editors and judged on a number of metrics including performance and value compared to other available hardware.\n\nAdapting to the general trend of more content for digest, The Tech Report launched their own podcast on February 9, 2008 hosted by Jordan Drake. While the schedule has varied it provides a casual but quite in-depth look back at the topics that made news from a panel of the site staff. Subsequent to 2015 episodes were released irregularly, frequently discussing the release of a new microarchitecture with David Kanter of Real World Technologies.\n\nTech Report has a phpBB-styled forum that is unrestricted in read-only form and open to the public for contribution via simple registration. The forum is primarily structured around computer technology and related topics, but debates also range from politics and religion in the \"opt-in only\" R&P forum to general random chatter in the Back Porch. Contributors to the website also have access to a restricted forum called the Smoky Back Room. Registered users may respond to news topics and other entries posted on the front page in an isolated threaded comments section that automatically attaches to each new entry. Although access to the main page comments is linked into the user database, the discussions are logged separately from the forum area of the site and are not counted toward the user forum statistics.\n"}
{"id": "2154572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154572", "title": "Nanobiotechnology", "text": "Nanobiotechnology\n\nNanobiotechnology, bionanotechnology, and nanobiology are terms that refer to the intersection of nanotechnology and biology. Given that the subject is one that has only emerged very recently, bionanotechnology and nanobiotechnology serve as blanket terms for various related technologies.\n\nThis discipline helps to indicate the merger of biological research with various fields of nanotechnology. Concepts that are enhanced through nanobiology include: nanodevices (such as biological machines), nanoparticles, and nanoscale phenomena that occurs within the discipline of nanotechnology. This technical approach to biology allows scientists to imagine and create systems that can be used for biological research. Biologically inspired nanotechnology uses biological systems as the inspirations for technologies not yet created. However, as with nanotechnology and biotechnology, bionanotechnology does have many potential ethical issues associated with it.\n\nThe most important objectives that are frequently found in nanobiology involve applying nanotools to relevant medical/biological problems and refining these applications. Developing new tools, such as peptoid nanosheets, for medical and biological purposes is another primary objective in nanotechnology. New nanotools are often made by refining the applications of the nanotools that are already being used. The imaging of native biomolecules, biological membranes, and tissues is also a major topic for nanobiology researchers. Other topics concerning nanobiology include the use of cantilever array sensors and the application of nanophotonics for manipulating molecular processes in living cells.\n\nRecently, the use of microorganisms to synthesize functional nanoparticles has been of great interest. Microorganisms can change the oxidation state of metals. These microbial processes have opened up new opportunities for us to explore novel applications, for example, the biosynthesis of metal nanomaterials. In contrast to chemical and physical methods, microbial processes for synthesizing nanomaterials can be achieved in aqueous phase under gentle and environmentally benign conditions. This approach has become an attractive focus in current green bionanotechnology research towards sustainable development.\n\nThe terms are often used interchangeably. When a distinction is intended, though, it is based on whether the focus is on applying biological ideas or on studying biology with nanotechnology. Bionanotechnology generally refers to the study of how the goals of nanotechnology can be guided by studying how biological \"machines\" work and adapting these biological motifs into improving existing nanotechnologies or creating new ones. Nanobiotechnology, on the other hand, refers to the ways that nanotechnology is used to create devices to study biological systems.\n\nIn other words, nanobiotechnology is essentially miniaturized biotechnology, whereas bionanotechnology is a specific application of nanotechnology. For example, DNA nanotechnology or cellular engineering would be classified as bionanotechnology because they involve working with biomolecules on the nanoscale. Conversely, many new medical technologies involving nanoparticles as delivery systems or as sensors would be examples of nanobiotechnology since they involve using nanotechnology to advance the goals of biology.\n\nThe definitions enumerated above will be utilized whenever a distinction between nanobio and bionano is made in this article. However, given the overlapping usage of the terms in modern parlance, individual technologies may need to be evaluated to determine which term is more fitting. As such, they are best discussed in parallel.\n\nMost of the scientific concepts in bionanotechnology are derived from other fields. Biochemical principles that are used to understand the material properties of biological systems are central in bionanotechnology because those same principles are to be used to create new technologies. Material properties and applications studied in bionanoscience include mechanical properties (e.g. deformation, adhesion, failure), electrical/electronic (e.g. electromechanical stimulation, capacitors, energy storage/batteries), optical (e.g. absorption, luminescence, photochemistry), thermal (e.g. thermomutability, thermal management), biological (e.g. how cells interact with nanomaterials, molecular flaws/defects, biosensing, biological mechanisms such as mechanosensation), nanoscience of disease (e.g. genetic disease, cancer, organ/tissue failure), as well as computing (e.g. DNA computing) and agriculture (target delivery of pesticides, hormones and fertilizers.\n\nNanobiotechnology takes most of its fundamentals from nanotechnology. Most of the devices designed for nano-biotechnological use are directly based on other existing nanotechnologies. Nanobiotechnology is often used to describe the overlapping multidisciplinary activities associated with biosensors, particularly where photonics, chemistry, biology, biophysics, nanomedicine, and engineering converge. Measurement in biology using wave guide techniques, such as dual-polarization interferometry, is another example.\n\nApplications of bionanotechnology are extremely widespread. Insofar as the distinction holds, nanobiotechnology is much more commonplace in that it simply provides more tools for the study of biology. Bionanotechnology, on the other hand, promises to recreate biological mechanisms and pathways in a form that is useful in other ways.\n\nNanomedicine is a field of medical science whose applications are increasing more and more thanks to nanorobots and biological machines, which constitute a very useful tool to develop this area of knowledge. In the past years, researchers have made many improvements in the different devices and systems required to develop nanorobots. This supposes a new way of treating and dealing with diseases such as cancer; thanks to nanorobots, side effects of chemotherapy have been controlled, reduced and even eliminated, so some years from now, cancer patients will be offered an alternative to treat this disease instead of chemotherapy, which causes secondary effects such as hair loss, fatigue or nausea killing not only cancerous cells but also the healthy ones.\nAt a clinical level, cancer treatment with nanomedicine will consist of the supply of nanorobots to the patient through an injection that will search for cancerous cells while leaving the healthy ones untouched.\nPatients that will be treated through nanomedicine will not notice the presence of these nanomachines inside them; the only thing that is going to be noticeable is the progressive improvement of their health. Nanobiotechanlogy is quite important for medicine formulation. It helps a lot in making vaccines as well.\n\nNanobiotechnology (sometimes referred to as nanobiology) is best described as helping modern medicine progress from treating symptoms to generating cures and regenerating biological tissues. Three American patients have received whole cultured bladders with the help of doctors who use nanobiology techniques in their practice. Also, it has been demonstrated in animal studies that a uterus can be grown outside the body and then placed in the body in order to produce a baby. Stem cell treatments have been used to fix diseases that are found in the human heart and are in clinical trials in the United States. There is also funding for research into allowing people to have new limbs without having to resort to prosthesis. Artificial proteins might also become available to manufacture without the need for harsh chemicals and expensive machines. It has even been surmised that by the year 2055, computers may be made out of biochemicals and organic salts.\n\nAnother example of current nanobiotechnological research involves nanospheres coated with fluorescent polymers. Researchers are seeking to design polymers whose fluorescence is quenched when they encounter specific molecules. Different polymers would detect different metabolites. The polymer-coated spheres could become part of new biological assays, and the technology might someday lead to particles which could be introduced into the human body to track down metabolites associated with tumors and other health problems. Another example, from a different perspective, would be evaluation and therapy at the nanoscopic level, i.e. the treatment of Nanobacteria (25-200 nm sized) as is done by NanoBiotech Pharma.\n\nWhile nanobiology is in its infancy, there are a lot of promising methods that will rely on nanobiology in the future. Biological systems are inherently nano in scale; nanoscience must merge with biology in order to deliver biomacromolecules and molecular machines that are similar to nature. Controlling and mimicking the devices and processes that are constructed from molecules is a tremendous challenge to face for the converging disciplines of nanobiotechnology. All living things, including humans, can be considered to be nanofoundries. Natural evolution has optimized the \"natural\" form of nanobiology over millions of years. In the 21st century, humans have developed the technology to artificially tap into nanobiology. This process is best described as \"organic merging with synthetic.\" Colonies of live neurons can live together on a biochip device; according to research from Dr. Gunther Gross at the University of North Texas. Self-assembling nanotubes have the ability to be used as a structural system. They would be composed together with rhodopsins; which would facilitate the optical computing process and help with the storage of biological materials. DNA (as the software for all living things) can be used as a structural proteomic system - a logical component for molecular computing. Ned Seeman - a researcher at New York University - along with other researchers are currently researching concepts that are similar to each other.\n\nDNA nanotechnology is one important example of bionanotechnology. The utilization of the inherent properties of nucleic acids like DNA to create useful materials is a promising area of modern research. Another important area of research involves taking advantage of membrane properties to generate synthetic membranes. Proteins that self-assemble to generate functional materials could be used as a novel approach for the large-scale production of programmable nanomaterials. One example is the development of amyloids found in bacterial biofilms as engineered nanomaterials that can be programmed genetically to have different properties. Protein folding studies provide a third important avenue of research, but one that has been largely inhibited by our inability to predict protein folding with a sufficiently high degree of accuracy. Given the myriad uses that biological systems have for proteins, though, research into understanding protein folding is of high importance and could prove fruitful for bionanotechnology in the future.\n\nLipid nanotechnology is another major area of research in bionanotechnology, where physico-chemical properties of lipids such as their antifouling and self-assembly is exploited to build nanodevices with applications in medicine and engineering. Lipid nanotechnology approaches can also be used to develop next-generation emulsion methods to maximize both absorption of fat-soluble nutrients and the ability to incorporate them into popular beverages.\n\nNanotechnology application to biotechnology leaves no field untouched by its groundbreaking scientific innovations for human wellness; the agricultural industry is no exception. Basically, nanomaterials are distinguished depending on the origin: natural, incidental and engineered nanoparticles. Among these, engineered nanoparticles have received wide attention in all fields of science, including medical, materials and agriculture technology with significant socio-economical growth.\nIn the agriculture industry, engineered nanoparticles have been serving as nano carriers, containing herbicides, chemicals, or genes, which target particular plant parts to release their content. Previously nanocapsules containing herbicides have been reported to effectively penetrate through cuticles and tissues, allowing the slow and constant release of the active substances. Likewise, other literature describes that nano-encapsulated slow release of fertilizers has also become a trend to save fertilizer consumption and to minimize environmental pollution through precision farming. These are only a few examples from numerous research works which might open up exciting opportunities for nanobiotechnology application in agriculture. Also, application of this kind of engineered nanoparticles to plants should be considered the level of amicability before it is employed in agriculture practices. Based on a thorough literature survey, it was understood that there is only limited authentic information available to explain the biological consequence of engineered nanoparticles on treated plants. Certain reports underline the phytotoxicity of various origin of engineered nanoparticles to the plant caused by the subject of concentrations and sizes . At the same time, however, an equal number of studies were reported with a positive outcome of nanoparticles, which facilitate growth promoting nature to treat plant. In particular, compared to other nanoparticles, silver and gold nanoparticles based applications elicited beneficial results on various plant species with less and/or no toxicity. Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) treated leaves of Asparagus showed the increased content of ascorbate and chlorophyll. Similarly, AgNPs-treated common bean and corn has increased shoot and root length, leaf surface area, chlorophyll, carbohydrate and protein contents reported earlier. The gold nanoparticle has been used to induce growth and seed yield in Brassica juncea.\nThis field relies on a variety of research methods, including experimental tools (e.g. imaging, characterization via AFM/optical tweezers etc.), x-ray diffraction based tools, synthesis via self-assembly, characterization of self-assembly (using e.g. MP-SPR, DPI, recombinant DNA methods, etc.), theory (e.g. statistical mechanics, nanomechanics, etc.), as well as computational approaches (bottom-up multi-scale simulation, supercomputing).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154575", "title": "Balaclava, Renfrew County, Ontario", "text": "Balaclava, Renfrew County, Ontario\n\nBalaclava is a dispersed rural community in the township municipality of Bonnechere Valley, Renfrew County, in Eastern Ontario, Canada. It is on the former Ontario Highway 513 (present day Scotch Bush Road) just off Ontario Highway 132 north of the community of Dacre, and at the outlet of Constant Creek, a tributary of the Madawaska River, from Constant Lake, approximately 30 minutes drive time from the town of Renfrew.\n\nBalaclava is a near ghost town today, a come-down from the bustling lumber town of its heyday. It started as a small community named for battle in the Crimean war. Shortly after its founding a dam and sawmill were built and by the 1860s the small hamlet had acquired a blacksmith shop and hotel to go with its permanent residents. In 1903 a sawdust burner was built so that sawdust from the mill would not be dumped in the local river, thereby polluting it. The water-powered sawmill was rebuilt in 1939 after a fire destroyed the mill that had previously occupied the space and continued to operate until 1959. At that time the depletion of available timber had reduced production to uneconomically small amounts. With the loss of the mill the viability of Balaclava as a residential town was also lost. The sawmill was the last water-powered mill to operate in the Province of Ontario.\n\nBalaclava was listed in a book on ghost towns by Ron Brown. Although it makes Balaclava sound like a pristine, deserted ghost town, actually it still has a few residents.\n\nThe place Balaclava was named in 1859 to commemorate a key victory of the British Commonwealth during the Crimean War. The Battle of Balaklava was fought on 25 October 1854 as part of the Siege of Sevastopol. and was commanded by Colonel Thomas Griffith.\n\nIn the mid-1800s, a dam was built out of timber towards the east outlet of Constant Lake along, a tributary of Madawaska River. Reports differ regarding the date of construction of the sawmill in Balaclava. The \"Ontario Law Reports\", from 1911, indicate that the mill was erected in the year of 1855. However, an archeological assessment published in 2007, indicated the mill was constructed in 1861. Regardless, two men, named Duncan Ferguson and Donald Cameron, opened the sawmill in Balaclava, joining some of the nearly one-thousand saw mills in Upper Canada at that time. Before long, Cameron sold his portion of the mill to Ferguson. In addition to mill work, Ferguson sold goods in the area. The hamlet was rounded out with a blacksmith, two hotels and a general store, run by Joseph Lagree. As a result of the sawmill, and the timber industry in the Ottawa Valley in the 1800s, Balaclava became a rather busy settlement and bustling pioneer town. The Ottawa Valley was a natural place for a timber industry to develop. The pioneers found the land lush with coniferous trees, specifically spruce and hemlock, and red and white pine trees. European settlers were drawn to the area to cut the trees, create the square cut timber and pulp and the promises of lumber wealth.\n\nThe growing town of Balaclava attracted other businessmen, such as William Hunter who built a grist mill two kilometers downstream of the dam. Hunter built his gristmill where the gradient of Constant Creek flattens into an area of poorly drained glacial outwash.\n\nIn 1868, the sawmill and dam were sold to William Richards. The Richards family would be owners and operators for the following 89 years. In 1911, a pollution-based lawsuit was brought against the sawmill, in the court of judge Latchford, Pembroke and Ottawa. This lawsuit was one of the first pollution-based lawsuits in the Province of Ontario. William Hunter, plaintiff and owner of the local gristmill, complained that between 1904 and 1909, sawdust from the upstream sawmill was negatively affecting his gristmill operations, that Constant Creek was being fouled by the usage of the sawmill, that the flow of water in Constant Creek was impeded, that the defendant disposed of refuse in the creek and that, otherwise, the plaintiff suffered injury as a result. Hunter further complained that the pollution caused damage to his mill pond and that he could not properly run his gristmill, as a result. Richards, the defendant, claimed that he was within his rights based on three reasons: (1) by virtue of a grant from the Crown, (2) right of common law and (3) by easement rights under the Limitations Act.\n\nCiting other law cases, the judge dismantled the Richards' arguments. Part of the rationale was that the original owners of Richards' mill started the operation with one saw. In 1911, the year of the suit, the mill had many saws, shingle and lath mills, an edger and other various appliances. The addition of the number of saws and other pieces of equipment enabled an obvious increase in pollution, which the court argued, surpassed Richards' rights. Further damages had already been paid from 1896 to 1903, for damages and to cover the expense of disposing of the refuse, termed \"driftwood\" by witnesses consulted in the case. This provided an indication of guilt. Hunter won the suit, Richards was ordered to pay $200 in retribution and was required by order of an injunction to refrain from depositing refuse into the stream. Richards' was give four months to alter his mill to address the refuse situation. This action resulted in the installation the first sawdust burner in the Province of Ontario.\n\nIn 1913, an appeal was made in the Ontario Supreme Court, Appellate Division, in an attempt to overturn the verdict. It was summarily dismissed. The appellate magistrate, J.A. Meredith, seemed to side on behalf of the plaintiff in his closing remarks, indicating that sawmill operations create a \"nuisance\" on the plaintiff's land and the land of many other people and local waterways; causing injury. \" The nuisance\", he remarked \" becomes more and more objectionable and injurious as the surrounding country becomes more settled and the lands affected more highly cultivated and more valuable.\" Regarding Richard's claim that the Crown grant from 1855 permitted his polluting of the stream, the court commented justice could not be retroactive. In other words, the needs of the early settlers were markedly different than the needs of society in 1913. Therefore the land grant of 1855 could not also apply as if the case were being tried in an earlier time, as Richards' had requested. The court indicated that privileges were actively being withdrawn and \"'trespassing is forbidden'\" is becoming the rule rather than the exception.\" The appeal was dismissed \"with costs\".\n\nAnd in an ironic twist of fate, in 1915, it was reported in the \"Contract Record and Engineering Review\" that Harry Richards' mill had been destroyed by fire and that he had plans to rebuild the mill.\n\nIn 1927, the dam, known as the Balaclava Dam, was rebuilt, this time out of concrete. The dam served both the lumbering and sawmill industries. The concrete dam measured 2.5m high by 53m long.\n\nBalaclava is now considered an abandoned or ghost town of Ontario. What remains is \"a few houses, an abandoned general store and blacksmith shop, an old dam over which the main road passes and a marvelously intact 19th century sawmill\".\n\nIn 1983, the Balaclava Dam was purchased by the Ministry of Government Services due to concerns raised about low lake levels and poor dam operations. The dam supported a bridge on Scotch Bush Road which therefore involved the County of Renfrew. In 2012 and 2013, modifications were made to the dam and bridge structure to separate the two. Cost for the project was shared between the Ministry of Natural Resources and the County of Renfrew. This project was undertaken because the aging nature of the structure of the dam. The freeze and thaw cycles could no longer be contained within the 90-year-old concrete. Concerns about the dam's ability to control floods were cited by the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR), owner of the Balaclava Dam, and owner of over three-hundred other dams in the Province of Ontario. Further, the MNR cited it needed to be in compliance with requirements of subsection 35(2) of the Fisheries Act. This involved decommissioning Balaclava dam and the roadway above it, removing old structures, building a new and larger dam which was accomplished in 2013. The deed to the local area was purchased in the late 1980s by Michael Huneault, and is now in possession of Wendy Huneault. In 2016, Joey Huneault started small reconstructions of some of the buildings.\n\nNext to the original location of the dam are two heritage structures that \"represent early 20th century architecture and economy\". One of which is the Richard's sawmill, located on the west bank of Constant Creek. The other is a red framed building that front the mill pond on the east side of the creek.\n\nIn December 2016 the general store was bought by a member of the Verch family. The collapsing attachment to the store was torn down and the main building itself was rebuilt into a hunt camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154581", "title": "Don Simpson", "text": "Don Simpson\n\nDonald Clarence Simpson (October 29, 1943 – January 19, 1996) was an American film producer, screenwriter, and actor. Simpson, along with his producing partner Jerry Bruckheimer, produced such hit films as \"Flashdance\" (1983), \"Beverly Hills Cop\" (1984), \"Top Gun\" (1986), and \"The Rock\" (1996). His films would go on to earn $3 billion worldwide.\n\nSimpson was born October 29, 1943, in Seattle, Washington, the son of June Hazel (\"née\" Clark), a housewife, and Russell J. Simpson, a mechanic at Boeing at the time of his birth. He grew up in Juneau, Alaska. His parents were strict Baptist believers and Simpson would go to church 4-5 times a week. He would call himself a \"straight-A Bible student. He attended West Anchorage High School, followed by the University of Oregon (English major). After graduation, he worked as a ski instructor in Utah, and then he moved to San Francisco where he worked for a theatrical advertising agency and did public relations for the First International Erotic Film Festival.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Simpson moved to Los Angeles and got a job marketing exploitation films for Warner Bros in 1971, handling distribution marketing for the movies \"Woodstock\" and \"A Clockwork Orange\". In 1973, Simpson got a job at Paramount Pictures. While there, he co-wrote the 1976 film \"Cannonball\", in which he also had a small role. By 1977, he was named vice-president of production at Paramount, and president in 1981. He was fired at Paramount in 1982 after passing out during a studio meeting due to drug use. He was working on 8 productions at once, and would regularly throw a tantrum while in production.\n\nSoon after, he forged a partnership with fellow producer Jerry Bruckheimer. The two would go on to produce some of the most financially successful films of the 1980s: \"Flashdance\" (1983, terrible reviews but excellent sales), \"Beverly Hills Cop\" (1984), \"Top Gun\" (1986) and \"Beverly Hills Cop II\" (1987). In 1985 and again in 1988, he and Bruckheimer were named Producers of the Year by the National Association of Theatre Owners.\n\nIn 1990, Simpson and Bruckheimer signed a five-year deal with Paramount worth a reported $300 million. The deal would prove to be short lived. Later that year, the Simpson/Bruckheimer-produced \"Days of Thunder\" starring Tom Cruise was released. The auto racing film received mixed reviews and grossed $158 million (over a $60 million budget). While the film was still a financial success, it did not match the success of Simpson and Bruckheimer's previous films. Simpson and Bruckheimer blamed Paramount for the film's lackluster box office returns stating that the studio rushed the planning and release of the film. In turn, Paramount blamed the film's performance on Simpson and Bruckheimer's overspending. The duo mutually parted with Paramount shortly thereafter.\n\nIn 1991, the two signed with Disney. Their first film for Disney, \"The Ref\" (1994), was a financial flop. Their following films, \"Dangerous Minds\", \"Crimson Tide\", and \"Bad Boys\", all released in 1995, brought the pair back to success.\n\nSimpson and Bruckheimer became excessively rich from their movie production activities. The duo chose black as their signature color. Simpson would wear black Levi jeans 501 only before their first wash, and then throw them away. He attended the Canyon Ranch in Arizona for occasional working out and tanning. He claimed he never underwent plastic surgery, but sources imply he went through 10 different plastic surgeries between 1988 and 1994, including a penis-enlargement procedure. Those multiple surgeries eventually led to infection, and many reversal procedures were initiated. He claimed several times that, as a producer, \"our obligation is to make money\". On the set of \"Days of Thunder\", he dated Donna Wilson who ended up dating the director Tony Scott and marrying him. Simpson worked out everyday with special equipment provided by Arnold Schwarzenegger.\n\nHe was known for his loud mouth and provocative quotes, such as \"I'm surprised for a smart Jew he's as white-bread as he is\" when talking about Steven Spielberg, and \"Any person who suggested David Lynch for \"Dune\" should have every part of their anatomy examined\". He was a life-long fan of Warren Beatty. He claimed he discovered Michael Mann and launched the career of Debra Winger. He also claimed to have picked Richard Gere for \"American Gigolo\", and to be the creator of the \"Beverly Hills Cop\" idea, which Michael Eisner denied. In the movie industry, professionals working with Simpson would refer to the \"Don Simpson Discount Factor\" (DSDF, coined by Jeff Katzenberg), a way to tone down the producer's extravaganza and exaggerations.\n\nAs Simpson and Bruckheimer's success grew, so did Simpson's reputation for being a brash \"party animal\". He would admit that \"next to eating and having sex, making movies is the best thing in the world\". Simpson's debaucherous lifestyle was well known amongst those in Hollywood, and has been documented in a number of sources. He was a fixture on the \"Hollywood cocaine-party\" circuit throughout the 1970s and 80s, and in his later years became known for throwing lavish all-night parties at his mansion. An entire chapter of the book \"You'll Never Make Love in This Town Again\" (which describes four prostitutes' stories about their sexual encounters with Hollywood celebrities) discusses his frequent sex parties and preference for S & M. He would also administer himself testosterone shots in his butt cheeks to boost his sexual drive. According to the call-girl Alexandra Datig, Simpson would audition struggling actresses for his movies, convince them to have sex with him, and secretly film his sexual intercourse with them.\n\nEventually, a rumor spread there was a hit out on him after he supposedly dated the girlfriend of a mafioso.\n\nSimpson had been using cocaine since the 1980s, but increased his usage over the years. His excessive spending (in both films and his personal life) and erratic mood swings caused by his drug use were well known within the Hollywood industry by the 1990s. According to screenwriter James Toback, both David Geffen and Jeffrey Katzenberg had attempted to get Simpson to go to rehab for his drug use.\n\nSimpson refused to admit himself into a traditional rehab facility and, in 1995, employed Dr. Stephen Ammerman to help him with his addiction. Ammerman, who had a history of drug abuse himself, believed that in order for Simpson to quit drugs, he had to use other drugs to combat the effects of painful withdrawal symptoms. Ammerman designed what has been described as a \"dangerously unorthodox\" detox program, which included the use of several medications (including morphine) for Simpson to take at home to kick his drug habit. On August 15, 1995, Ammerman was found dead in the shower of the pool house on Simpson's estate. It was later determined that Ammerman died of an accidental overdose of cocaine, Valium, venlafaxine, and morphine.\n\nFrustrated with Simpson's escalating drug use and declining work, Jerry Bruckheimer terminated their partnership in December 1995. The two agreed to finish work on \"The Rock\", which was already in production. \"The Rock\" was released after Simpson's death and is dedicated to his memory. In a 1994 interview with the \"New York Times\", Don Simpson declared: \"The days of drugs, sex and rock-and-roll are long over, at least they are for us old guys,\" and, \"I'm not going to tell you I've never done drugs: that would be a lie, but I do have one addiction. Unfortunately, it's food.\"\n\nOn January 19, 1996, Simpson was found dead in the bathroom of his Bel Air, Los Angeles home. His death was initially attributed to \"natural causes.\" An autopsy and toxicology report later determined that Simpson had died of heart failure caused by combined drug intoxication (cocaine and prescription medications) while going to the bathroom. At the time of his death, there were 21 different drugs in his system including antidepressants, stimulants, sedatives, and tranquilizers. In August 1996, investigative reporter Chuck Philips of \"The Los Angeles Times\" revealed that Simpson had been obtaining large quantities of prescription drugs from 15 different doctors, and that police found 2,200 prescription pills lined up in alphabetical order in his bedroom closet.\n\nA 1998 book by journalist Charles Fleming reported that Simpson's prescription drug expenses totaled more than $60,000 a month at the time of his death. He also referred to Don Simpson as \"a supercharged simple-minded creature, an Aesop's fable on crystal meth.\"\n\nSimpson was never married, and lived by himself in his Coldwater Canyon mansion in Beverly Hills.\n\nIn the 1970s, Don Simpson took classes to join the Church of Scientology, but quit after spending $25,000 and not seeing any significant personal improvements. During the shooting of \"Days of Thunder\", Simpson threw David Miscavige off the production because he refused to pay for a more expensive Scientology-patented sound recording device.\n"}
{"id": "2154586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154586", "title": "WAGM-TV", "text": "WAGM-TV\n\nWAGM-TV, virtual and VHF digital channel 8, is a CBS/Fox/CW+-affiliated television station licensed to Presque Isle, Maine, United States. Owned by Gray Television, it is a sister station to Fort Kent-licensed low-powered NBC affiliate WWPI-LD (channel 16). The two stations share studios on Brewer Road in Presque Isle; WAGM-TV's transmitter is located on the northern section of Mars Hill Mountain among the wind turbines.\n\nWAGM-TV signed on October 13, 1956 on VHF channel 8. It was a CBS affiliate owned by Harold Glidden and the Aroostook Broadcasting Corporation along with WAGM radio (then at 1450 AM; later at 950 AM). The transmitter was behind the station's Brewer Road studios, providing a coverage area limited to the immediate area including Presque Isle and Caribou. In 1957, Glidden sold Aroostook Broadcasting to Community Broadcasting System, a company controlled by former Governor Horace Hildreth, who also owned WABI-AM-TV in Bangor.\n\nSoon afterward, the station changed its primary affiliation to NBC, matching WABI-TV; however, WAGM-TV maintained secondary affiliations with CBS and ABC. It returned to being a primary CBS affiliate, again following WABI's lead, in 1959. However, in practice, as an affiliate of all the big three networks, WAGM cherry-picked the most popular programs for its prime time lineup.\n\nCommunity Broadcasting Service merged with Journal Publications in 1971 to form Diversified Communications. WAGM radio was sold in 1981 and renamed WKZX; it went silent by 1991. The radio station's building still exists today but appears abandoned, while the three transmitter towers nearby were dismantled sometime in the early 1990s. In 1984, Diversified Communications sold WAGM-TV to NEP Communications, then-owner of WNEP-TV in Scranton, Pennsylvania. NEP sold WNEP to The New York Times Company a year later, but retained WAGM under the licensee name NEPSK, Inc. At one point co-owned by Tom Shelburne, Peter Kozloski, and Norman Johnston, Kozloski assumed full ownership of the station in 1991, retaining the NEPSK name.\n\nAround the same time as the sale to NEP, WAGM began phasing out its secondary affiliations with ABC and NBC. Given increasing availability of cable and satellite television in rural Aroostook County, the necessity to carry programming from multiple networks decreased. Many stations over the Canadian border in New Brunswick also serve Aroostook County. By 1990, WAGM carried the entire CBS prime time lineup, with other network programs airing nightly between 7 and 8. The station dropped ABC completely in 1998, while the last NBC show seen on the station, \"Days of Our Lives\", disappeared from the schedule in September 2005. The end of the ABC and NBC affiliations left KXGN-TV in Glendive, Montana as the last television station in the United States affiliated with more than one big three network on a single feed (that station, formerly a dual CBS/NBC affiliate, moved NBC to a digital subchannel in September 2009). Today, WLBZ and WVII-TV from Bangor serve as the \"de facto\" NBC and ABC affiliates respectively on Charter Spectrum's Presque Isle system.\n\nWhen Fox gained broadcasting rights to games from the NFL's National Football Conference in 1994, WAGM aired them since Fox didn't have an affiliate in Presque Isle; this made it the only station in the United States to air programs from all four major networks at the same time. The arrangement ended when CBS obtained the American Football Conference contract in 1998; as a result, Fox programming was provided to the Presque Isle area via Foxnet, and it remained that way until September 2006. WAGM also aired some UPN programming during late nights and weekends from 1995 until 2006 when that network closed and merged with The WB to form The CW. \n\nThe station moved its transmitter site in 1999 to the summit of Big Rock ski resort on Mars Hill Mountain's southwestern face. The move placed the antenna at a much higher point greatly improving reception of the signal. This location is where its first digital signal on UHF channel 16 signed on from in July 2003. For the U.S. digital transition on June 12, 2009, WAGM applied for a 10 kilowatt digital signal and moved its transmitter to the northern section of Mars Hill Mountain. At midnight on June 12, it signed-off the analog channel 8 and digital channel 16 signals for the final time. The next day, the station signed-on a new more powerful digital signal on channel 8.\n\nWAGM is seen across Western New Brunswick in Canada and can be picked up over-the-air a few miles outside of Fredericton city limits in communities such as Keswick Ridge. On cable, it is seen throughout Northwestern New Brunswick towns such as Woodstock, Grand Falls, and Edmundston. The station was available to a greater extent in Canada such as in Fredericton until the advent of satellite-delivered American broadcast stations on Cancom in the early-1990s.\n\nIn April 2015, WAGM was sold to Gray Television for $10.25 million. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015 following FCC approval. WAGM is Gray's first television station in the Northeastern United States.\n\nIn February 2017, Gray announced that it would purchase Bangor's WABI-TV from Diversified Communications with the transaction expected to close in the second quarter of 2017 pending FCC approval. The purchase would reunite WAGM with its former co-owned station, and in the press release from Gray announcing the purchase it was stated that the two stations would share newsgathering and other resources.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWAGM-DT2 is the Fox-affiliated second digital subchannel of WAGM-TV, broadcasting in high definition on virtual and VHF digital channel 8.2. On cable, the subchannel is available on Spectrum channel 12.\n\nOn September 12, 2006, WAGM launched a Fox affiliate on its primary digital channel preceding the shutdown of Foxnet. Prior to then, outside of the station's secondary Fox affiliation during the mid-1990s, Foxnet provided the state's only access to Fox on cable outside of the Portland and Bangor areas; the subchannel's launch coincided with the shutdown of Foxnet (which served as the Fox affiliate for the entire state of Maine between late 2001 and April 2003). Foxnet was originally scheduled to cease operations on September 1, but the shutdown was postponed to allow WAGM time to set up the service. The change resulted in the main CBS signal moving to a new second subchannel. Such a placement is generally uncommon as most broadcasters number a digital signal equivalent to the analog signal as minor channel 1 and number other subchannels with higher minor channel numbers. This is a similar situation as NBC affiliate WGBC in Meridian, Mississippi which moved its original NBC affiliation to a new second digital subchannel so its main channel could join Fox and the Retro Television Network (RTV).\n\nUntil Time Warner Cable switched to WAGM's relocated CBS feed, it offered Fox in high definition for a short time on digital channel 508. On November 15, 2007, WAGM created a new separate website for its Fox channel featuring the \"My Fox\" format and layout from Fox Interactive Media. However, the web address \"myfoxaroostook.com\" was eventually abandoned.\n\nBy fall 2017, the over-the-air feed of \"WAGM Fox 8\" had begun airing in Fox's recommended 720p HD resolution; the Fox subchannel had only been carried in high definition on cable prior to then. In addition to its over-the-air resolution upgrade, WAGM Fox 8 had also been moved to the station's second digital subchannel while CBS programming was returned to its original position on WAGM's main channel.\n\nWAGM-DT3 (branded as The County's CW 8.3, in reference to the large Aroostook County containing most of WAGM's coverage area) is the CW-affiliated third digital subchannel of WAGM-TV, broadcasting in widescreen standard definition on virtual and VHF digital channel 8.3. All programming on WAGM-DT3 is received through The CW's programming feed for smaller media markets, The CW Plus, which provides a set schedule of syndicated programming acquired by The CW for broadcast during time periods outside of the network's regular programming hours; however, Gray Television handles local advertising and promotional services for the subchannel. WAGM-DT3 was launched on September 10, 2018, and is carried locally on Spectrum channel 13 in SD, and in high-definition on channel 1212. Presently, the HD feed is exclusive to cable due to WAGM's current multiplexer limitations.\n\nPreviously, the CW affiliation in the market was available through a cable-only channel operated by Spectrum and the forerunner providers in the market, which carried the station on cable channel 13 since 1998, when it launched as a WB affiliate with the WB 100+ service (then branded as \"Presque Isle's WB\") under the false callsign \"WBPQ\" (which stood for The WB PresQue Isle) for the purposes of identification in electronic program guides and Nielsen ratings tabulation. Throughout its twenty years as a cable channel, it only ran in standard definition. It seamlessly became associated with the new CW network (branded as \"Presque Isle CW\", though it used a \"CW 13\" logo) on September 18, 2006 after the merger of The WB and UPN into that one network. Following this CW affiliate's September 10, 2018 debut over the new WAGM-DT3 subchannel, it updated its branding to \"The County's CW 8.3\" to reflect its new over-the-air presence.\n\nIn addition to the main signal, WAGM operates an additional translator.\n\nA second translator signal, W16DA-D in Fort Kent, changed its call letters to WWPI-LD on June 3, 2019 after Gray Television filed with the FCC on May 21 for a construction permit to move the translator's city of license from Fort Kent to Presque Isle (the FCC granted that CP on August 7). WWPI-LD then fell silent and returned to the air January 7, 2020 as an NBC affiliate.\n\nA third translator, W02AU-D (channel 2) in St. Francis, used to transmit from the north of Back Settlement and was licensed to the St. Francis Chamber of Commerce; however, on June 4, 2016, the FCC deleted W02AU-D from its database.\n\nWAGM-TV airs the complete CBS schedule; until 2013, the station signed off every night and thus did not show CBS News \"Up to the Minute\". During the fall potato harvest (potatoes being the most important industry in the region), the annual \"Potato Picker's Special\" is aired weekdays at 5 a.m. for approximately three weeks beginning in September. The program announces details from area farmers with regards to the harvest and has been airing on either radio or television for over 50 years.\n\nSyndicated programming on WAGM includes \"Jeopardy!\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Inside Edition\", and \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", among others.\n\nWAGM's \"NewsSource 8\" broadcasts have routinely ranked as the highest-rated local newscasts in the United States based on Nielsen market share. The station serves a large area but its primary market is Aroostook County which is about the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined. Given the station's transmitter location in close proximity to Canada, it also covers news and weather in Western New Brunswick.\n\nThe small market nature of WAGM tends to result in a high employee turnover rate with most personalities staying at the station for only a year or two before moving on to a larger market. Nevertheless, a few personnel have been with WAGM for more than a few years such as Assistant News Director and Sports Director Rene Cloukey. Another long-lasting employee no longer with the station is Station Manager and News Director Jon Gulliver who recently came back to the station on a part time basis helpimg with sports as well as former News Director Sue Bernard. Current Chief Meteorologist Ted Shapiro has been with WAGM since being ousted from Bangor's WVII when that station axed its weather department and outsourced forecasting segments to AccuWeather in State College, Pennsylvania. Ironically, WAGM uses some of that company's CinemaLive weather graphics system in its own forecast segments.\n\nWith the September 12, 2006 launch of Fox on its main channel came a new prime time weeknight newscast known as \"NewsSource 8 at 10\". This program closely mirrors local news seen on the CBS channel. On April 11, 2009, due to a decrease in sponsorship, increased preemptions from network sports coverage, and financial reasons, WAGM stopped airing a Saturday night newscast at 6. In late-September 2010, \"NewsSource 8: The Saturday Edition\" was brought back to air on the Fox channel with occasional airings on the CBS channel if preempted. In addition, the prime time newscast at 10 was expanded to Saturday nights at that point in time. With the launch of Fox College Football's primetime games in 2012, the Saturday newscast was discontinued.\n\nOn August 23, 2010, WAGM renovated its news and weather set but kept the same music theme and graphics package. Unlike most CBS affiliates, WAGM does not air a noon newscast and/or a newscast weeknights at 5. When the Fox channel first launched, it replayed the morning broadcast originally at 8 a.m. This was eventually moved to 9 a.m. and then dropped altogether at some point.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154588", "title": "Böhmer", "text": "Böhmer\n\nBöhmer or Boehmer is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154589", "title": "Alief Hastings High School", "text": "Alief Hastings High School\n\nAlief Hastings High School is a public high school in the Alief area of Houston, Texas, United States. Originally Alief Junior-Senior High School, which became Alief Middle School, housed all of the secondary students in the district. The school's present location opened, while still under construction, for the fall semester of 1972. All high school students moved to that building, with the first graduating class in May 1973.\n\nAlief Hastings is a part of the Alief Independent School District and it serves grades 9 through 12. Ninth-graders are in the Alief Hastings Ninth Grade Center (6750 Cook Road, City of Houston, 77072) while tenth through twelfth graders are on the main campus (4410 Cook Road, City of Houston, 77072). The campuses had a combined enrollment of 4207 students as of the 2002-2003 school year. The opening of Alief Taylor High School reduced the overall class size at Alief Hastings significantly. Alief Hastings is considered to be the brother school of Alief Elsik High School.\n\nThe ninth grade campus is located in the International District although the main high school building is outside of it.\n\nIn 2019 Hastings received a C grade from the Texas Education Agency.\n\nAll Alief ISD elementary, intermediate, and middle schools feed into Hastings as high school placement in Alief ISD is determined by a computerized lottery: the lottery can result in either Elsik, Hastings, or Taylor. If a student was selected by lottery to attend a high school different from the high school of a relative currently attending or graduated from, the student may opt to transfer to that respective school.\n\nStudents may also complete an application for the district's magnet high school, Kerr.\n\nNeighborhoods served by AISD include Alief, most of the New Chinatown, most of Westchase, Bellaire West, and most of Leawood.\n\nPeggy Miller, a teacher, said that when she started being the school's yearbook advisor at Hastings, 18 years prior to 2008, the number of copies of yearbooks sold was 80% of the total number of students. Around 2008, the copies of yearbooks sold was 10-15% that of the total number of students. In 2008 Miller said \"They all want them, but it's like, who's got $60? They would rather go buy their tennis shoes or buy a grill for their mouth or something. A book is not as significant today to a child.\" In 2008 Miller introduced color pages in an effort to entice students to buy more yearbooks.\n\nIn the 2018-2019 school year, there were 3,998 students. 28.0% were African American, 11.0% were Asian, 57.2% were Hispanic, 0.3% were American Indian, 0.2% were Pacific Islander, 2.9% were White, and 0.5% were two or more races. 77.2% of students were Economically Disadvantaged, 23.8% were English Language Learners, and 6.1% received Special Education services.\n\nFor the 2018-2019 school year, the school received a C grade from the Texas Education Agency, with an overall score of 77 out of 100. The school received a C grade in two domains, Student Achievement (score of 77) and Closing the Gaps (score of 72), and a B grade in School Progress (score of 80). The school did not receive any of the seven possible distinction designations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154590", "title": "California Insurance Commissioner", "text": "California Insurance Commissioner\n\nCalifornia Insurance Commissioner has been an elected executive office position in California since 1991. Prior to that time, the Insurance Commissioner was appointed by the Governor. The officeholder is in charge of the California Department of Insurance.\n\nThe current Insurance Commissioner is Democrat Ricardo Lara.\n\n\nAs a result of the passage of Proposition 103 in 1988, the elected office of the California Insurance Commissioner was created in 1991. Previously, the position was held by a person appointed by the Governor. The Insurance Commissioner oversees the Department of Insurance.\n\nThe Insurance Commissioner does not oversee the majority of Health Plans and Health Insurance. HMO Health Plans and PPO Plans offered by Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield of California are overseen by the California Department of Managed Health Care.\n"}
{"id": "2154591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154591", "title": "Jerry Messing", "text": "Jerry Messing\n\nJerome Edward Trager \"Jerry\" Messing is an American actor.\n\nMessing played Pugsley Addams in the 1998 film \"Addams Family Reunion\", and had a reoccurring role on the short-lived cult NBC dramedy, \"Freaks and Geeks,\" as Gordon Crisp, an optimistic geek with trimethylaminuria. He also appeared in five episodes of \"Even Stevens\" and two episodes of \"Mr. Show with Bob and David\". Messing has not appeared in an acting role since 2003. \n\nIn 2011, Messing appeared in a music video for artist Viennie V, playing a contestant on a dating show. To date, the video has over 770,000 views.\n\nOn October 31, 2013 a picture of Messing appeared on Reddit. The photo features Messing wearing a fedora and grinning at the camera. After being widely disseminated online, Messing was labeled \"Fedora Guy\" and the picture became synonymous with \"neckbeard\" and \"nice guy\" stereotypes. Messing has stated in subsequent interviews that the picture was an outtake for a headshot photoshoot he took when attempting to restart his acting career, after briefly attending Florida International University to study psychology.\n“Fedora” Productions\n\nIn January 2020, Messing started a YouTube channel by the name of “Fedora Productions.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2154598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154598", "title": "Bill Blair (politician)", "text": "Bill Blair (politician)\n\nWilliam Sterling \"Bill\" Blair (born 1954) is a Canadian politician, currently serving as Canada's Minister of Public Safety and as a Member of Parliament representing the federal electoral district of Scarborough Southwest. Formerly serving as Minister of Border Security and Organized Crime Reduction, Blair was appointed Minister of Public Safety on 20 November 2019. Before federal politics, he served as the chief of the Toronto Police Service from 2005 until his 25 April 2015 retirement. Prior to his time as chief, Blair had a three-decade-long career in the service.\n\nBlair was born in Scarborough, Ontario. Blair's father had served as a police officer for 39 years. Blair considered pursuing a degree in law or finance, when he initially enrolled at the University of Toronto Scarborough in the mid 1970s. Blair initially studied economics at the University of Toronto. He left to follow his ambition of being a police officer, but returned later and completed a Bachelor of Arts in economics and criminology.\n\nBlair is married to Susan McMaster, who share three grown children (2 sons and daughter) and 2 grandchildren.\n\nBlair joined the Toronto Police Service while in university to make money and began taking courses on a part-time basis. Blair walked a beat near Regent Park and later worked as an undercover officer in Toronto's drug squad.\n\nAfter Blair earned his bachelor's degree in criminology, he advanced his career in the police service in the late 1980s, taking part in drug busts involving the seizure of millions of dollars of cocaine. Chief David Boothby assigned Blair to improve the poor community relations between the officers of 51 Division, which patrolled Blair's old beat near Regent Park. Blair normalized police relations with the community by measures such as sending cops to read to kids in local elementary schools and engaging with local businesses and churches.\n\nIn 1999, Blair was considered as a candidate to replace outgoing chief Boothby, but mayor Mel Lastman, with the support of Premier Mike Harris, chose to hire Julian Fantino, then head of the York Regional Police. After reorganization of the senior ranks after Fantino's ascension as police chief, Blair became head of detective operations.\n\nBlair was selected in a 4–2 vote of the Toronto Police Services Board in early April 2005, and formally appointed Chief of the Toronto Police Service on April 26, 2005. He succeeded Mike Boyd, who had served as interim chief after the expiry of Julian Fantino's contract. Prior to his appointment as chief, Blair worked for approximately 30 years as a Toronto police officer, with assignments involving drug enforcement, organized crime and major criminal investigations. Blair served as president of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police.\n\nIn the spring of 2009, Tamil Canadians in Toronto upset by civilian deaths in the Sri Lankan Civil War, which included an overnight artillery bombardment that killed 378 civilians and wounded 1,100, allegedly perpetrated by government forces, staged a series of protests in Toronto, including shutting down the northbound and southbound lanes of University Avenue for four days while protesting in front of the US Consulate, and illegally blocking traffic on the Gardiner Expressway. Blair and the police faced pressure to crack down on the demonstrations, arrest and deporting the protesters. Instead, Blair used his experience in community policing to ensure that minimal force was used, spoke respectfully of the protesters' rights to expression, and negotiated the peaceful resolution of the events. The Canadian Tamil Congress would later award Blair an inaugural \"Leaders for Change Award\" for his leadership during the protests.\n\nAt a rally on 28 June 2010, protesters called for Blair's resignation, regarding the detention of nearly 1,000 people during the 2010 G20 Toronto summit protests. In a December 2010 interview, Blair indicated that he would not resign, despite growing criticism of his leadership during and after the summit.\n\nResponding to questions about a controversial regulation enacted by the Cabinet of Ontario to increase police powers during the summit, Blair was supportive, stating that \"it was passed in exactly the procedure as described in our legislation in Ontario.\" Post-summit reports revealed that on June 25, prior to the start of the summit and shortly after Blair defended a widely reported misinterpretation of the regulation in a press conference, the police department received a government bulletin clarifying the misinterpretation and explaining that the new regulation accorded them no additional power to demand identification outside of the summit perimeter. Blair's spokesperson stated that as of the press conference, Blair was unaware of the clarification; however, Blair did not retract his prior remarks to the press after receiving the bulletin. When interviewed after the summit, Blair confirmed that there was never an extraordinary legal requirement for the public to present identification within of the perimeter fence, but that he \"was trying to keep the criminals out.\" In December 2010, following a critical report by the Ontario Ombudsman, André Marin, Blair admitted regret that he had initially interpreted the regulation at face value, and did not promptly clear up confusion about the meaning of the regulation.\n\nIn 2013, Blair came into conflict with Toronto mayor Rob Ford after confirming to the media that the police had obtained a video of the mayor smoking what appeared to be crack cocaine. Blair said he was \"disappointed\" in the mayor. As the investigation into the mayor and his friend Alessandro Lisi continued, Mayor Ford dared Blair to arrest him and accused him of wasting money in their surveillance of Ford. Rob Ford's brother, Councillor Doug Ford, claimed that Blair had \"gone rogue\" and violated the Police Services Act when speaking out about the mayor during the ongoing police investigation. On August 11 2014, Blair served councillor Doug Ford with notice of defamation. Doug Ford accused the police chief of using the suit as \"payback\" in retaliation against the mayor for not extending his contract, but apologized for his comments shortly afterwards.\n\nIn his last years in office, Blair was in conflict with several members of the Toronto Police Services Board over resistance to proposed reforms as well as his resistance to cut the police service's budget. On July 30, 2014, the Board announced that it would not renew Blair's contract for a third, five-year term. He retired from the police service when his contract ended on April 25, 2015 and was succeeded by Deputy Chief Mark Saunders.\n\nBlair declined to comment on his future plans while he was still police chief. The Liberal Party of Canada recruited Blair to be its candidate in Scarborough Southwest for the federal election held October 2015. A poll conducted by Forum Research suggested Blair would receive 39% of the vote against 29% for incumbent Dan Harris of the New Democratic Party and 27% for the Conservatives.\n\nOn April 25, 2015, Blair confirmed his intention to seek the Liberal Party nomination in Scarborough Southwest. He won the Liberal nomination on June 13, 2015.\n\nOn October 19, 2015, Blair was elected in the Scarborough Southwest riding. On January 28, 2017, Blair was named parliamentary secretary to the Minister of Justice. In January 2016, Blair was named as the head of the federal-provincial task force tasked with creating a plan for the legalization of cannabis in Canada.\n\nOn September 19, 2017, Blair assumed additional parliamentary secretary responsibilities assisting the Minister of Health.\n\nOn July 18, 2018, Blair was appointed Minister of Border Security and Organized Crime Reduction.\n\nOn November 20, 2019, Bill Blair was appointed Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness.\n\nIn 2007, he was appointed an Officer of the Order of Merit of the Police Forces and in 2012, he was elevated within the Order to the level of Commander. He is a Member of the Venerable Order of Saint John. On January 19, 2013, Blair was honoured by the Canadian Tamil Congress, with their inaugural \"Leaders for Change Award\" for his exemplary leadership during the protests of 2009 in Toronto.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154601", "title": "Bacillus coagulans", "text": "Bacillus coagulans\n\nBacillus coagulans is a lactic acid-forming bacterial species. The organism was first isolated and described as \"Bacillus coagulans\" in 1915 by B.W. Hammer at the Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station as a cause of an outbreak of coagulation in evaporated milk packed by an Iowa condensary. Separately isolated in 1935 and described as \"Lactobacillus sporogenes\" in the fifth edition of \"Bergey's Manual\", it exhibits characteristics typical of both genera \"Lactobacillus\" and \"Bacillus\", its taxonomic position between the families Lactobacillaceae and Bacillaceae was often debated. However, in the seventh edition of Bergey's, it was finally transferred to the genus \"Bacillus\". DNA-based technology was used in distinguishing between the two genera of bacteria which are morphologically similar and possess similar physiological and biochemical characteristics.\n\n\"B. coagulans\" is a Gram-positive rod (0.9 by 3.0 to 5.0 μm in size), catalase positive, spore-forming, motile, and a facultative anaerobe. It may appear Gram-negative when entering the stationary phase of growth. The optimum temperature for growth is 50 °C (122 °F); range of temperatures tolerated are 30–55 °C (86–131 °F). \nIMViC tests\nVP and MR (methyl-red) tests are positive.\n\n\"Bacillus coagulans\" has been added by the EFSA to their Qualified Presumption of Safety list and has been approved for veterinary purposes as GRAS by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Center for Veterinary Medicine, as well as by the European Union, and is listed by AAFCO for use as a direct-fed microbial in livestock production. It is often used in veterinary applications, especially as a probiotic in pigs, cattle, poultry, and shrimp. Many references to use of this bacterium in humans exist, especially in improving the vaginal flora, improving abdominal pain and bloating in irritable bowel syndrome patients, and increasing immune response to viral challenges. There is evidence from animal research that suggests that \"Bacillus coagulans\" is effective in both treating as well as preventing recurrence of clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. One strain of this bacterium has also been assessed for safety as a food ingredient. Spores are activated in the acidic environment of the stomach and begin germinating and proliferating in the intestine. Sporeforming \"B. coagulans\" strains are used in some countries as probiotics for patients on antibiotics.\n\n\"B. coagulans\" is often marketed as \"Lactobacillus sporogenes\" or a 'sporeforming lactic acid bacterium' probiotic, but this is an outdated name due to taxonomic changes in 1939. Although \"B. coagulans\" does produce L+lactic acid, the bacterium used in these products is not a lactic-acid bacterium, as \"Bacillus\" species do not belong to the lactic acid bacteria. By definition, lactic acid bacteria (\"Lactobacillus\", \"Bifidobacterium\") do not form spores. Therefore, using the name \"Lactobacillus sporogenes\" is scientifically incorrect.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154604", "title": "Iconograph", "text": "Iconograph\n\nAn iconograph is a picture formed by a word or words. It can take the form of irregularly shaped letters or (especially in the case of poems) irregularly aligned text.\n\nAmerican poet May Swenson popularized such poems in her 1970 book \"Iconographs\", which contained a number of poems laid out to resemble their subjects (e.g. a butterfly).\n"}
{"id": "2154608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154608", "title": "Bansalan, Davao del Sur", "text": "Bansalan, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBansalan is about south of Davao City and is very accessible by land transportation mostly by buses going to Cotabato City, Kidapawan and Tacurong. Bansalan is about north-west of the provincial capital city of Digos. The neighboring towns include Makilala in the north, Magsaysay in the west, Matanao in the south and Mount Apo and part of Digos in the east.\n\nBansalan is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\nBansalan was a forest primeval and the aborigines were Bagobos. As they were nomadic, they traveled from one place to the other by hacking their way through the virgin forests. They also cultivated land for their staple food but soon left the place after harvest time in search of a better place to cultivate. They also had the wide area of hunting ground where at the end of the day, they brought home speared wild boar, deer or monkeys. The implements they had were crude but obviously the bow and arrow were used both in hunting and fishing. The waters then were crystal pure and were untarnished by the changing current ecology. In some certain sites, Bansalan had patches of cogonal land interspersed with tall trees demarcated by serene creeks and turbulent rivers gushing from the belly of Mount Apo, the highest mountain peak in the Philippines where according to legend, Apo Sandawa ruled as god.\n\nIn early times, the Bagobo society was divided into datus or the chieftains, freemen, and slaves. The datus interpret customary laws. Marriages were arranged, the groom's parents selecting the bride and negotiating the match. A bride-price is paid according to their wealth, and the bride's parents also give a present equal to about half this amount to dispel the idea that they're selling their daughter. The groom has to serve the bride's family both before and after the wedding. The two-to three-day wedding ceremony takes place in the bride's home and ends with the bride and groom feeding each other a handful of rice. Young men strived to attain the rank of magani, a warrior class whose members had killed more than one enemy and were entitled to wear distinctive red clothing. A communal spirit prevailed, with everyone helping in house-building and cultivation.\n\nThe inhabitants in this early settlement venerated the anitos and their religion is a pantheon of innumerable gimokods (spirits), knowledge of which resides in old men and women known as mabalian.\n\nThe Bagobos celebrate Gin-Em festival which displays gratitude to the spirits for success in war or domestic matters, or for warding-off sickness, evil spirits, or danger. Two bamboo poles are erected in the house of a datu, then offerings are made, and a chicken is sacrificed. In former times, enemy skulls would be attached to the poles, and a slave sacrificed. Each magani relates his past exploits, and dancing, chanting of old songs and poems, feasting, and drinking fermented sugarcane wine continue till daybreak.\n\nThe Bagobos produce baskets trimmed with beads and fibers, ornate weapons, and inlaid metal boxes finished with bells. A metal box where they kept betel nuts is inseparable.\n\nBansalan was the name of the simple farmer who one day dug the earth in search of potable water to quench his thirst. Fortunately, he dug a well-spring, and did not only satisfy his thirst but also called his other companions to share his discovery. Rain widened the spring and the constant erosion of soil led its transformation into a creek, and later into a river. Unfortunately, Bansalan, the farmer did not live long. His companions who were the recipients of Bansalan's daring adventures named that the river after him and later also became the name of the fledgling village. President Elpidio Querino proclaimed Bansalan as a regular town on September 18, 1952, including two booming villages of Matanao and Kialeg in the south-west and western part of Bansalan which later became regular towns.\n\nDavao del Sur and parts of Northern Cotabato were established by good-natured relationships of the chieftains. In the beginning of the 20th century, Datu Tumunas of Bansalan launched feeder road constructions with the help of his own tribe people. Tumunas succeeded in linking Bansalan with Digos, ushering in the establishment of a harmonious relation between the Bagobos and the Kalagans, the natives of Digos. The friendship has expanded by leaps and bounds when they encouraged constant \"tabo\" or market following the old system of \"ukom\" or barter. Datus of neighboring places came to Bansalan to establish friendly relations with Datu Tumunas. Among them were Datu Julian and Datu Akwas. Later Datu Siman of Kidapawan succeeded in constructing a road linking the place with Bansalan. More friendly relations were established as the road construction increased.\"\n\nBansalan is situated at the north-western part of the Province of Davao del Sur. Towards the south is the Municipality of Matanao, to the west is the Municipality of Magsaysay, to the southeast is the Municipality of Digos and on the north-east lies the Mt. Apo National Park. Its total land area is 48,548 hectares and divided into 23 villages or barrios where the Poblacion is the main center.\n\nThe Poblacion serves as the nerve-center of the town where all the schools, churches of different denominations, market, cinema, sports facilities, and other amenities are located. It is highly agricultural and most of the active young people work in Digos which now became the capital town of Davao del Sur. There are about 55,000 people living in the whole town including the villages.\n\nIn the early 1950s, a big number of migrants from other parts of the country but mainly from Cebu settled in Bansalan which drastically changed the lives of the Bagobos, the native inhabitants of the place. The Bagobos retreated to the hinterlands, and the settlers took over the running and further development of the town. At present, not one public official is a native Bagobo, the tribe which was responsible in the establishment of the town. What remained is the name of Datu Bansalan but his daring adventures are already long forgotten by the town people. Town anniversaries are celebrated with grand fiestas and parades but Datu Bansalan is no longer remembered in the history nor given an appropriate celebration in honor of his founding the town. People remember the date Pres. Quirino officially proclaimed Bansalan as a regular town as if the history of the town only started in September 1952.\n\nIn 1957, the barrios of Kibao, San Vicente, Kibuaya, Managa Km. 67, Sinawilan, New Visayas, Sacub, Upper Malabang, Temongbong, Sinaragan, Maliit Digos, Kapok, Tamlangon, Manga, Buas, New Katipunan, Da-Anama, Upper Kauswagan, Kagaulas, Kabasagan, Tuwak, Mal, Latian, Lanturi, Dongang-Pekong, La Union, Kauswagan and Paitan were separated from said municipality, and constituted into a new and independent municipality known as Matanao.\n\nIn the same year, the following sitios were converted into barrios: Buas, Mabunga, Manga, Tacul, Kanapolo, San Isidro, San Miguel, Bacongan, Dalawinon, New Clarin, Kasuga, Rizal, Dalumay, Darapuay, Kinuskusan, Tubod, Bitaug, Libertad, Buenavista, Mabini, Pananag, Union, Upper Managa, Mabuhay, Bonifacio, San Vicente, Kibao, Tinongtongan, Kabasagan, Tuwak, Maliit Digos, Tamlangon, New Katipunan, Upper Sacub, Sinarangan, Kibuaya, and Managa.\n\nIn 1959, barrio Kialeg was renamed Magsaysay.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154610", "title": "Don Marcelino, Davao Occidental", "text": "Don Marcelino, Davao Occidental\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was created through Batas Pambansa Bilang 147 on December 19, 1979, from the municipality of Malita. It is named in honor of Marcelino Maruya, the first municipal mayor of Malita, appointed by President Manuel Quezon in 1936.\n\nThe municipality recently experience frequent tectonic earthquakes. Television personality Franco Hernandez died at a drowning incident in Barangay North Lamidan on November 11, 2017. Police report that strong wave hit their motorized boat causing him and his girlfriend to fall off.\n\nDon Marcelino is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\nMunicipal Officials 2016-2019:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154612", "title": "Beamsville, Ontario", "text": "Beamsville, Ontario\n\nBeamsville (2016 Urban area estimated population 11,834) is a community that is part of the town of Lincoln, Ontario, Canada. It is located along the southern shore of Lake Ontario and lies within the fruit belt of the Niagara Peninsula. It contains century-old brick buildings, an old-fashioned downtown area with barbershops, women's dress shops, a bakery, a print shop, restaurants, banks, and other businesses, and plenty of orchards and vineyards.\n\nThe Queen Elizabeth Way, the main road that connects Toronto and Buffalo, New York, has an interchange at Beamsville. Many tourists stop off at the highway exit for something to eat at the many fast food restaurants located nearby.\n\nBeamsville is in the heart of Ontario's wine country and contributes greatly to the wine industry in the Niagara Peninsula. Many wineries from the area have taken home top awards, including Grape King at the Niagara Grape & Wine Festival, as well as international awards.\n\nAlanson Harris operated a foundry making farm tools and would go on to become farm implements marker Massey Harris.\n\nCraft Beverage Manufacturers in Beamsville:\n\nBeamsville was named after Jacob Beam (1728-1812), a United Empire Loyalist. Both of his homes — the original one located on the Thirty Mile Creek, as well as the one near downtown Beamsville — are still intact today.\n\nJacob and Catharine Beam (1737-1820), along with their daughter Catharine (Beam) Merrell (1766-1842), and son-in-law Samuel Merrell (1758-1833), emigrated to Canada from New Jersey in 1788, and founded Beamsville.\n\nBy 1869, Beamsville was a village with a population of 550 in the Township of Clinton, Lincoln County. It was on the Great Western Railway. The average price of land in vicinity was $45.\n\nIn 1898, hockey players in the town of Beamsville were the first to make use of a hockey net.\n\nIn 1917 the Royal Flying Corps established a \"School of Aerial Fighting\" on the farmland immediately east of Beamsville. The school consisted of a camp, an airfield, and a gunnery range over Lake Ontario. Today an historical plaque at 4222 Sann Road marks the geographical centre of the 300 acre school property. The building adjacent to the plaque is an original hangar.\n\nIn 1970, the Town of Beamsville was amalgamated with Clinton Township and (half of) Louth Township to form the larger Town of Lincoln.\n\nThere are five schools located in Beamsville: two secondary school (grades 9-12), and three elementary schools (Kindergarten-Grade 8).\nBeamsville currently has one public secondary school, Beamsville District Secondary School. Beamsville District Secondary School was first established in 1888 which is on Central Ave, and draws students from all over the Town of Lincoln. The current principal at BDSS is Mr.Miller and the current student population is just over 400 students. BDSS currently ranks as the 451st-best secondary school in Ontario out of 740 according to the Fraser Institute\n\nThere are two public elementary schools located in Beamsville, Senator Gibson Public School and Jacob Beam Public School.\n\nThe Niagara Catholic District School Board has two elementary schools in Beamsville (St. Johns and St. Mark). St. Mark Catholic Elementary School was opened in 2001. It has undergone a large expansion in 2011, growing to 22 classrooms. The current enrollment at St. Mark is 541 students. St. Johns Catholic Elementary School was built in 1958 and the current enrollment is 346 students \n\nGreat Lakes Christian High School is a private, four year co-educational day and boarding Christian high school affiliated with the Churches of Christ.\n\nThe town is home to numerous Dutch and United Empire Loyalist families, as evidenced by the large number of Dutch Reformed and Anglican churches in the area. Other ethnic groups include Italians — one family of whom founded the Commisso's Supermarket and many more existing companies.\n\nWilliam Fairbrother, the inventor of the hockey net, lived in Beamsville. Bill Berg, formerly a hockey player for the Toronto Maple Leafs, and now an National Hockey League (NHL) broadcaster, was born, and continues to make his home in Beamsville. Paul Laus, a former Florida Panthers defenceman and Ryan Christie, who played seven games with the Dallas Stars and Calgary Flames are also Beamsville natives.\n\nAnother Beamsville native of note, Tonya Verbeek, earned an Olympic silver medal in women's wrestling at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. She won a bronze medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China, and another silver medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, England.\n\nRalph Reid and Lloyd Southward, Beamsville natives, were Lancaster pilots during the Second World War and both were awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC).\n\nAnother Beamsville native is former Canadian Football League (CFL) running back, Andre Sadeghian. Andre was drafted in the third round of the 2007 CFL Draft by the B.C. Lions. He went on to play four seasons in the league with the aforementioned B.C. Lions, Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Saskatchewan Roughriders and Winnipeg Blue Bombers.\n\nEvelyn Dick, known for the murder of her estranged husband, John Dick, was born and lived in this town.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154613", "title": "Hagonoy, Davao del Sur", "text": "Hagonoy, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality of Hagonoy has a total land area of 114.28 square kilometers representing about three (3%) percent of the total land area of the province of Davao del Sur. Located on the north-eastern coastal end of the Padada Valley, Hagonoy lies on the belly of the seahorse-like shaped province. It is bounded on the north by Digos City, the provincial capital, Davao Gulf on the east, the municipality of Matanao on the west, the municipality of Kiblawan on the south-west and the municipality of Padada on the south. The seat of municipal government is located in Poblacion about 8 kilometers away from Digos City.\n\nThe boundaries of the municipality of Hagonoy, Province of Davao del Sur on the North, an imaginary line cutting the Digos-Malalag-Makar road at Km. 311, running due West from the shoreline of Davao Gulf up to imaginary North-South line with longitude 125o 14’ E., then due South along the line to its intersection with an imaginary line running due shoreline of Davao Gulf cutting Digos-Malalag-Makar Road at Km. 318.1 so that the territory of the said municipality shall include the barrios of Kibuaya, Upper Sacub, Lower Sacub, Maliit Digos, La Union, Malabang, Tologan, Malinao, Guihing, Pawa, Hagonoy, Balutakay and Sinayawan and the sitios of Quezon and “Polo-polo”.\n\nHagonoy is politically subdivided into 21 barangays which are grouped into three (3) major districts; the western or upland barangays, central or rice-producing barangays, and the eastern or coastal barangays. Mainly an agricultural community, upland barangays are planted with corn, sugarcane, soybeans, cotton and coconuts. The central barangays are considered as the rice granary of the municipality and that of the province, being within the service coverage area of the Padada River Irrigation System. The eastern barangays are mostly cultivated into plantation crops such as coconuts, cacao, bananas, and lately mangoes as well as fishponds. In terms of land area, the biggest barangay is Hagonoy Crossing with 1,589 hectares while the smallest is Clib with only 151 hectares.\n\nBefore its creation into a municipality, Hagonoy was a sitio of barrio Digos, municipality of Santa Cruz. Then, when the municipality of Padada was created on July 1, 1949, Hagonoy was annexed as one of its barrios. On May 28, 1953, by virtue of Executive Order No. 596 issued by President Elpidio V. Quirino, Hagonoy was separated from Padada and became a regular municipality.Then in early 1970's, batch of Cebuanos came from Danao City, particularly from Caputatan, among them Nathaniel Capuyan and Loselo Capuno Sr., who worked in the sugarcane plantations and settled in barangay Maliit Digos. And from then on plenty of others who came from Caputatan, Danao City followed, and eventually found a place in a land owned by Alejandro Almendras.\n\nRepublic Act No. 2094, which defined the boundaries of Hagonoy, referred to its territory as comprising the barrios of Kibuaya, Upper Sacub, Lower Sacub, Maliit-Digos, La Union, Malabang, Tulogan, Malinao, Guihing, Pawa, Hagonoy, Balutakay, Leling, and Sinayawan, and the sitios of Quezon and Polopolo.\n\nThe first set of appointed municipal officials assumed office in July 5 of the same year. Since its creation into a municipality to date, two (2) appointed and seven (7) elected mayors guided the development and destiny of the town. The appointed mayors were Antonio Go Pace (Quirino Administration) and Ramon Sacedon (Magsaysay Administration). The first elected Mayor was Gonzalo S. Palamos Sr.. He served for one term (4 years). Then was elected Board Member of Davao Province (undivided) for two consecutive terms (8 years). Alfredo Salutillo then became mayor of Hagonoy for two consecutive terms Gonzalo S. Palamos Sr. was again elected mayor for his second term. Bartolome G. Hernandez Jr. (1 term and extended by the proclamation of martial law). Mayor Filomeno V. Surposa, was appointed as Officer-In-Charge under the Freedom Constitution after the famous EDSA Revolution and was elected into office during the election on January 17, 1988. Mayor Manuel M. Cabardo was elected in the 1992 elections but opted not to bid for reelection in 1995 which Mayor Filomeno V. Surposa was elected back to office. In the 1998 election, Jose M. Superales Sr. won over Ex-Mayor Filomeno V. Surposa. In the recently conducted election on May 14, 2007 Ret. Gen. Franco Magno Calida won over Jose M. Superales Sr. in a local election and assume office on June 30, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154617", "title": "List of Tintin home video releases", "text": "List of Tintin home video releases\n\nThis is a list of videos and DVDs produced for \"The Adventures of Tintin\" 1991-92 TV series, based on the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé.\n\nThe full series has been available three times on video, with individual episodes released by Lumiere in 1994 and Mollin Video in 2000, while Anchor Bay released a series of five videos, containing four episodes on each (and five on the last one) in 2002–2003.\n\nThe series has also been released twice on Region 2 DVD by Anchor Bay, but with no subtitles or extra features. The first was as an exclusive 5-disc DVD release for HMV with soundtracks in English, French and Spanish. The second was a general 10-disc release but with the soundtrack only in English. The 10-disc set is in the canonical order, although the limited edition 5-disc set places \"The Blue Lotus\" first (presumably from looking at the back of one of the books). On 10 October 2011, Anchor Bay re-released the series in a 5 disc DVD set and released it for the first time on Blu-ray, also in a 5 disc set. The Blu-ray and 5 DVD-re-release feature a 16:9 transfer that has been cropped from the 4:3 image.\n\nIn France, the full series has been available for years on video, produced by Citel. At the beginning of 2006, Citel also released the series on Region 2 DVD. The DVDs are packaged in two ways. In one packaging, there are 21 DVDs with one episode per DVD and audio in French and English but no subtitles. A full set was issued in a wooden box. The second packaging has two episodes on each DVD (3 on one). These have audio in French, English and Spanish and subtitles in the same three languages plus French for the hard of hearing. Some of them also have subtitles in Portuguese. Recently the series was issued as a partwork by Éditions Atlas in France, with an accompanying booklet featuring information about the episode and behind-the-scenes artwork.\n\nIn Canada, the series has been released on Region 1 DVD on two 5-disc box sets (with all discs individually available), with French and English language tracks with subtitles. Each DVD contains two episodes, arranged in two boxed sets of ten episodes each. \"Tintin in America\" is not planned for release. Except for the episodes which, joined together, form story arcs (\"The Secret of the Unicorn\"/\"Red Rackham's Treasure\", \"The Seven Crystal Balls\"/\"Prisoners of the Sun\" and \"Destination Moon\"/\"Explorers on the Moon\"), the episodes have no specific order on the discs. It is more French than English; for on-screen text, English subtitles automatically appear. The Canadian editions were released in the US on 18 August 2009.\n\nIn New Zealand & Australia, a 6-disc DVD box set of the series was released by Madman Entertainment in 2004, in the order in which the comics were released. The first three discs had four episodes, the last three had three episodes. Each disc comes with information on the comic books, character profiles, and no subtitles. Madmad subsequently released a \"Remastered\" edition with the picture cropped for a 16:9 frame.\n\nIn India, the series has been released on both DVD and VCD by Moser Baer Home Entertainment once before. Now the series is available in two formats on DVD and VCD from Eagle Home Entertainment. First is the boxed format, in which there are 21 DVDs with one episode per DVD and audio in English with English subtitles. The full set was issued in a wooden box as part of 80th anniversary celebration by Eagle. The second format is individual episodes sold separately with audio in English with English subtitles. The DVDs are region free in both cases.\n\nIn Brazil, the series has been released on DVD in July 2008. Each season has been released separately on 3 box-sets. There's also a special deluxe collector's edition box-set with all 39 episodes on 9 discs. The series has been released by Log On Multimedia and the region-free DVDs contains audio in English and Portuguese and subtitles in Portuguese.\n\nIn Germany, a Video version was distributed in the 1990s by ATLAS Film. In 2004 it was released on Region 2 DVD, on two 4-disc box sets (with all discs individually available), with German and French language tracks. In 2005 an anniversary edition, with all 39 episodes on 8-disc's came out.\n\nOn 11 May 2011, Shout! Factory and Vivendi Entertainment announced that they had acquired the rights (under license from Nelvana) to release the series on DVD in Region 1. They have subsequently released the first two seasons on DVD The third and final season was released on 21 August 2012.\n\n\nA limited edition of Ellipse-Nelvana's \"The Adventures of Tintin\" TV cartoon series was released as its HMV exclusive in Europe by Anchor Bay Entertainment. It contains all 21 full-length episodes on 5 DVDs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nContains six discs. The episodes are viewed in the same way as the comics are released. The first three discs have four episodes, the last three have three. \n"}
{"id": "2154618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154618", "title": "Jose Abad Santos, Davao Occidental", "text": "Jose Abad Santos, Davao Occidental\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the southernmost municipality on the mainland of Mindanao island. The coastal town is the second largest municipality in Davao Occidental after Malita.\n\nThe Municipality of Jose Abad Santos was formerly a part of Malita town. It was later established as a separate town on August 1, 1948 and was originally named \"Trinidad\". The barrio of Caburan became its \"poblacion\" or town center. In 1954, the municipality was renamed by Republic Act no. 1206, in honor of José Abad Santos, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, who was executed by the Japanese invading forces during World War II.\n\nJose Abad Santos is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\nMunicipal officials 2013-2016:\n\nVast natural resources can be found, such as the wide stretch of mangroves of the municipality. Milkfish and tilapia breeding, as well as copra production, are the primary source of income for its people. The long stretch of beaches with brown, black and white sands, together with abundant marine life offshore are the primary natural attractions of Jose Abad Santos.\n\nThe municipality can be reached by public utility vehicles plying from Davao City and Digos City via the Pan-Philippine Highway. Past the town of Sulop is the junction with Davao del Sur Provincial Highway. Turning east at the junction, head south on the provincial highway to the town of Malita. And to the said municipality, \"habal-habal\" or passenger motorcycles ply to the adjacent town Don Marcelino.\n\nThe road condition of the town is poor. Its road network is mostly unpaved, traversing through high-sloped hilly coastal and mountain roads with the danger of falling rocks from above. Most of the river crossings have no bridges, so drivers traversing the town have to consider if their vehicle is capable of crossing a shallow river. During rainy weather, travelers have to wait for the water level to subside before the river could become accessible again. A trip to the town is considered as either adventurous or dangerous by those who intend to visit depending on their experience, though part of the road heading to Don Marcelino town to the north is paved, made with concrete cement.\n\nOn August 20, 2013, former provincial representative Marc Douglas Cagas IV complained about the DPWH's complacency about the project involving the improving of roads going to the municipality. He attributed the complacency to the pork barrel scandal that was already happening in the country's politics since several days before the said complaint due to overspending of their budget for the said project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154619", "title": "Kiblawan, Davao del Sur", "text": "Kiblawan, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nKiblawan is politically subdivided into 30 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2154620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154620", "title": "Magsaysay, Davao del Sur", "text": "Magsaysay, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAs with much of the rural area of Davao del Sur, the predominant economic activity is based on rice farming.\n\nMagsaysay is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154621", "title": "Malalag, Davao del Sur", "text": "Malalag, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMalalag is the agricultural center of Davao del Sur, and its main products are banana, coconut and other fruits and vegetables. Other primary industries include fishing and mining.\n\nMalalag is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\n\nMalalag derives its name from the color that describes the river running within the heart of the town. The water flowing towards the bay appeared yellowish. The natives referring to the river called it, “\"malalag nga tubig\"”, meaning “yellow water.” The distinct appearance of the river attracted migrants to the place.\n\nSome pioneers trace the town's name from a disagreement between a Spanish soldier and Datu Alag, a famous chieftain among the early tribes. It was said that Datu Alag made an appointment with the Spaniard and promised him to be his guide. However, Datu Alag broke his promise and not one of his followers could tell where he has gone. Sensing that he had somehow been tricked, the Spanish soldier became enraged and shouted, “\"Mal Alag, Mal Alag\".” (Bad Alag!) The tribe members confounded by his words kept on repeating it. The same story was told over the generations, so that even settlers coming from Visayas and Luzon became accustomed to calling the place Malalag.\n\nMalalag Bay was previously known as Casilaran Bay, The name Malalag was applied to it some time during the Second World War after a Philippine National Police (PNP) barracks was established. The same area, now known as Crossing Baybay and adjacent to the 434th PNP Mobile Force Company barrack, was a center of commerce with Chinese traders. Also, the Malalag Wharf that is located about a kilometer away used to accommodate three to four sea vessels that loaded products for transport to Visayas.\n\nMalalag became a municipality by virtue of Executive Order No. 596 dated May 28, 1953 issued by H.E. President Elpidio Quirino. This legal document stated that Malalag shall comprise the southern and south-eastern part of Padada and separated from its mother municipality of Padada by a straight west-to-east line passing through the Bolton Barrio Boundary Monument No. 20, Santa Cruz Cadastre 275 Davao. Its boundary on the South was redefined under Republic Act 1008 stating among others that the boundary line between the municipalities of Padada and Malalag shall be from east to west of Balasinon River from the Gulf of Davao to Km. 327 of the Digos-Malalag-Makar Road and a straight line along latitude 6°36' from the provinces of Davao and Cotabato. Even upon the creation of Sulop pursuant to Executive Order 295, the Padada-Malalag boundary as defined in R.A. 1008 was reiterated. For two decades, the boundary dispute arising from the encroachment of the Municipality of Sulop into the territory of Malalag remained unsettled.\n\nOriginally, Malalag contained the Poblacion that is the seat of the Municipal Government, Bulacan, Bolton, Santa Maria, New Baclayon and Sulop. At present, it has fifteen (15) regular barangays: Poblacion, Baybay, Bulacan, Bolton, New Baclayon, Caputian, Bagumbayan, Ibo, Pitu, Tagansule, Kiblagon, Rizal, San Isidro, Mabini and Lapu-lapu.\n\nThe Municipality used to celebrate \"Araw ng Malalag\" every 2nd day of July, but by virtue of Municipal Ordinance No. 10 dated May 21, 1990, and consistent with its charter day, the celebration was transferred to May 28. On July 2, 1953, the first sets of local officials were appointed and assumed office, headed by Mayor Col. Antonio Lanzar.\n\nSince 1954, the municipal government has been run by the following elected mayors:\n\nIn 1955, the barrios of Basiawan, Kibulan and the sitios of Kimatay and Kilalag were transferred from the town of Malita, Davao del Sur, to Malalag.\n\nThe municipality in 1970 had a total population of 34,764 and in the 1980 official result it had a total of 44,690. In 1983, upon the court decision for case 1212 Boundary disputes between the Provinces of South Cotabato and Davao del Sur, there were 6 barangays in the Municipality of Malalag transferred to Malungon, South Cotabato. Consequently, there was a sudden decreased in population during the 1990 census. The population gradually increased from 27,709 in 1990 to 35,241 in 2007.\n\nAs of the 2007 census, the municipality had a total registered population of 35,241 with a total of 7,477 corresponding households. Out of the 15 barangays comprising Malalag, Barangay Poblacion has the largest population in the entire municipality (population 6,105) and the highest number of households (1,240 households), followed by the barangays of Bulacan (population 4,277), Baybay (population 3,619) and New Baclayon (population 3,483). Other barangays are moderately populated. Three barangays were identified as urban with a total population of 11,939: Poblacion, Baybay and Bagumbayan. The rural areas at present have a total population of 23,302 with 11 component rural barangays. The barangay of Bulacan is the largest among the rural barangays with a total population of 4,277 followed by Mabini and New Baclayon.\n\nAgriculture: Among agricultural crops, coconut leads in production followed by banana and sugarcane. Other major crops are corn and vegetables. The municipality also produces high value fruits like mango. Cattle leads in livestock production.\n\nFisheries: The long coastline of Malalag which forms part of the Davao Gulf provides a rich fishing grounds.\n\nForestry: Tropical evergreen and other timber cover the vast timberland and forest area. Rattan, bamboo and other vines are also in abundance.\n\nMining: Deposits of copper and or limestone were also traced but still have to be tapped for commercial and industrial uses. The Sagittarius Mines Inc. (SMI) has picked Davao del Sur to host the supporting infrastructure for the $5.9-billion Tampakan copper-gold project and identified Malalag as the preferred site for the PPFP (Port, Power Station and Filter Plant Project) development.\n\nThe Malalag Wharf is along the south-west coastline of Malalag Bay, about south of Digos and approximately south of Davao City. It is more than long and wide. Port facilities include:\n\nMalalag Arrastre Porters and Stevedoring Multi-Purpose Coop (MAPOSTMUCO) are the cargo handling operators of general cargoes such as molasses, sugar, steel products, vehicle and heavy equipment.\n\nApproach for Malalag Wharf is through the Malalag Bay. Ships can anchor at a depth of 21 fathoms free of hazardous underwater obstructions/currents and is notably sheltered from direct exposure to the open sea. Vessels entering the Malalag Port navigate through the south-west route of the Malalag Bay which is a tributary of the larger Davao Gulf waters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154623", "title": "Malita, Davao Occidental", "text": "Malita, Davao Occidental\n\n', officially the ', is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMalita is known for various cultural arts and heritage of its people and tribes. Gaginaway Festival is celebrated annually every full moon on the month of November and Araw ng Malita is also celebrated annually on November 17.\n\nAccording to folk etymology, the name \"Malita\" is derived from the Spanish word \"\"maleta\"\" which means suitcase. It is said that purportedly Don Mariano Peralta, a retired veteran of the Spanish–American War who ventured to the place, decided to live on the vast, fertile plain across the river. One day while bodily fording the deep and swift river with his suitcase and other belongings in hand, the force of the current overwhelmed his perilous balance and got swept by the water consequently losing his grip on the suitcase. His frantic shouts of \"\"maleta, maleta\"\" attracted the attention of the bathing natives who after realizing the situation promptly responded and retrieved the vanishing to settle as Malita. How it came to its present spelling and usage maybe attributed to the natives’ prevalent use of suitcase. Hardly forgetting the shouts of Peralta, the natives later thought the word referred to the land he intended long 'e' sound for the vowels 'i' and 'e'.\n\nMalita is the oldest community in the province. Malita's existence dates back scores of years before its formal creation as municipality on November 17, 1936. Records show that Malita must have existed long before the passage of the Philippine Commission Act, the Laws of the Moro Province that mentioned Malita in Section 1 of Act No. 164 dated December 10, 1904. Through the said Act it is presumed that it existed as a \"barrio\" of Santa Cruz long before the coming of the Americans to Davao. Executive Order No. 64 issued by President Manuel L. Quezon officially created Malita into a municipality. Marcelino Maruya, from whom the town of Don Marcelino was named after, was the first appointed municipal mayor.\n\nWaves of migrants from the Visayan islands, most of whom hail from Cebu, came on what is now Malita long before it became a municipality. They were later followed by immigrants from Luzon. Even after the destruction brought by World War II by the belligerents, there are still waves of migrants towards Malita and other parts of then-Davao province. This increased its population until it later became the most populous municipality in the province.\n\nThe municipality is the main economic center of Davao Occidental province. Agriculture and fishery is the main industry of the municipality. Being far from other major urban centers in its vicinity like Davao City, Digos City, and Gen. Santos City, and although only a town, Malita also serves as the major urban center of the province. However, as economic activity in the town continues its rapid growth, Malita will soon become the province's first component city for years to come.\n\nMunicipal officials (2013-2016):\n\nThe municipality of Malita is subdivided into 30 barangays:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154624", "title": "Matanao, Davao del Sur", "text": "Matanao, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMatanao is bordered in the west by the town of Columbio, in the province of Sultan Kudarat, in the north by the towns of Magsaysay and Bansalan, in the east by Hagonoy and the city of Digos, and in the south by Kiblawan and Padada.\n\nIn 1957, some of the barrios of the municipality of Bansalan namely Kibao, San Vicente, Kibuaya, Managa Km. 67, Sinawilan, New Visayas, Sacub, Upper Malabang, Tibongbong, Sinaragan, Maliit Digos, Kapok, Tamlangon, Manga, Buas, New Katipunan, Da-Anama, Upper Kauswagan, Kagaulas, Kabasagan, Tuwak, Mal, Latian, Lanturi, Dongan-Pekong, La Union, Kauswagan, and Paitan were grouped and constituted into a new and independent municipality known as Matanao.\n\nMatanao means a place or something to see or witness at a vantage point. In the earlier days, the place was known as “Matin-aw”, a term used to mean clear. The name is derived from the crystal clear brooks and rivers that abound in the area. No one could exactly tell how, when and why “Matin-aw” became Matanao.\n\nIn 1920, long before Matanao was formally created into a municipality, Buas had already existed (representing Matanao) as a barangay of Santa Cruz inhabited by tribal minorities, the Blaans (\"Bilaan\") with Datu Edu Gamban as their recognized leader. In 1927, migrants from the Visayas led by the late Rosendo Javelona and his family came to the place. Protestantism was spread by one Pastor Diamonon through the Javelonas. Ranchers also invaded the place and have for themselves large homesteads. Ten years later, sometime in 1937, scores of Cebuanos came. Among them were Roman Albarracin, Pablo Chavez and Crispin Puerto and their kins. The next batch of Cebuanos came in 1940′s including the Famor Clan. The clan introduced Catholicism in the area and a chapel was built giving honor to the present patron Saint Senor San Miguel, the Archangel.\n\nCountless batches of migrants flocked to the place and various cultural influences account for what Matanao is today. The people of the municipality is a blend of Cebuanos, Ilongos, Bicolanos, Boholanos, Ilocanos, Zamboanguenos, Tagalogs, Blaans, Calagans and Bagobos, Babel of dialects was experienced by the people in the place, but Cebuano came out to be the dominating dialect, thus, becoming the mother tongue of the municipality until the present time.\n\nMatanao is located in the province of Davao Del Sur in Region XI Davao Region on Mindanao Island. The municipality Matanao is about west-south-west of province capital City Of Digos and about south-south-east of Philippine main capital Manila.\n\nHot and humid most of the year. May to November is typhoon season. The mean annual temperature of the municipality is between . The annual rainfall ranges from . The coldest part of the year is usually during the month of December to February and the hottest month are April and May. Rainfall distribution is more or less even during the year.\n\nMatanao is politically subdivided into 33 barangays. The poblacion forms the center of the municipality whereas the other 32 are in the outlying areas which several kilometers away from the town.\n\nAlthough predominantly a rice farming municipality, Matanao is a growing area for banana cultivation. Cavendish and Lakatan banana plantations are now being established in barangays Manga, Dongan-Pekong and Saboy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154625", "title": "Padada, Davao del Sur", "text": "Padada, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIts boundaries were defined by Republic Act No. 1008, approved June 12, 1954.\n\nPadada is a word which refers to a tree that belongs to the mangrove family which were abundant along its entire quite shorelines and estuaries during the primeval time, but due to encroachment and indiscriminate fish farming, Padada trees became extinct.\n\nPadada is part of the province of Davao del Sur lying between 125 degrees 20’ east longitude and 6 degree 28’ 44’ north latitude. It is bounded on the north by the municipality of Hagonoy, on the west by the municipality of Kiblawan, on the south by the municipalities of Sulop and Malalag and on the east by the Davao Gulf. The Poblacion is approximately from Digos, the capital town of Davao del Sur.\n\nThe total land area of the municipality is , 65% of which is planted to coconut and 35% to banana, corn, rice and other crops. It has three urban barangays namely, NCO, Almendras, and Quirino that totals to one hundred eighty one hectares. Four of the remaining fourteen barangays are located along the coastal portion and the other on the internal area. Two (2%) of the total provincial land area is what constitute the municipality of Padada.\n\nHot and humid most of the year. May to November is typhoon season. The mean annual temperature of the municipality is between . The annual rainfall range from . The coldest part of the year is usually during the month of December to February and the hottest month are April and May. Rainfall distribution is more or less even during the year.\n\nPadada is politically subdivided into 17 barangays.\n\nIt is a 65-hectare site, 4.5 kilometers east of Poblacion Padada facing Davao Gulf. Known as the crocodile mountain for when viewed above it look like a sleeping crocodile resting in the shore of Padada. It is being identified as the Provincial Jamboree Site and an Agro-forest area of the municipality. The hill is covered with shrubs, trees and rocks. It is planted with trees since 1972, as an environmental concern of the people of Padada. A potential mountain trail for tourist. On top of the summit, you will have a panoramic view of Padada Valley, Davao Gulf, Mt. Apo, and Mt Matutum. It can be reached by 30–45 minutes hiking from the foot of the hill.\n\nA coral reef with an area of more or less four (4) hectares located within the municipal fish sanctuary. The whole area is covered with a variety of corals and 10–12 depth fathom blue clear water used to be the breeding ground of variety of species of marine life. The area will submerge during high tide and is visible during low tide. It is one of the best take off point of scuba divers and a scuba diving destination in the south. It is estimated to be nine (9) kilometers from the Poblacion and only around five (5) kilometers from the Piape shoreline. It is accessible by all type of land transportation from Poblacion Padada to barangay Piape and by boat or motorized banca from Piape to the reef. A prelude to Piape coral reef is a sandy reef locally known as Pasig which will also submerge during high tide but is only ½ hectare in area surrounded with a knee-length muddy water not conducive to swimming and diving.\n\nIt is located adjacent to Piape Reef facing Piape Hills. It is 4.5 km. East of Poblacion facing Davao Gulf and can be reached on a motorized boat in 5–7 minutes. It has an area of 50 hectares surrounded with buoys from BFAR (Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Philippines)) for its protection and identification. It is a breeding ground of 50–60 species of marine life.\n\nGuihing was once the original sitio of Padada and its formation was brought about by Mr. Walstrom, an American expatriate who owns a vast coconut plantation in the area called the Mindanao Estate Co., together with the effort of Don Bartolome Hernandez Sr., a coconut planter and a pioneer of the area too.\nPadada as a town was organized on July 15, 1949, after its creation into such by virtue of Executive Order # 236 of Elpidio Quirino, then president of the Republic of the Philippines. The territorial jurisdiction of Padada originally embraced the present town of Santa Maria, Malalag, and Sulop in the south, Kiblawan in the west, Hagonoy in the north, and part of Matanao in the north-west with the seat of government in the barrio of Limonso which is now the Padada Poblacion. In 1946 after the proclamation of the Philippine Republic, hordes of home seekers mostly Filipino veterans of the Second World War headed by Major Froilan Mascardo Matas, settled the area called Padada Valley occupying several repossessed Japanese Plantations in the vicinity. With the influx of numerous migrants of all walks of life, Limonso as the center of trade, grew into a large community, and qualified to become a separate municipality. As early as January 1949, the bid for the creation of Padada Town was prepared, finally securing its approval through Executive Order No. 236, dated July 15, 1949.\n\nAntonio Go Pace was the first mayor by appointment who was erstwhile a councilor of Santa Cruz. With him, Inocentes Zanoria Adolfo was also assigned as the first municipal treasurer of Padada. The creation of Limonso now Padada into a municipality and the subdivision of the poblacion into commercial and residential districts was attributed to him. Gregorio Matas was the first elected mayor and held the position for three consecutive terms with Mr. Felix Brandares as vice mayor and in which the municipal building was possible thru his effort. Atty. Isidro M. Ordaneza succeeded the former and holds the longest tenure of office—16 years from 1963 and re-elected again in 1967 and 1971 until March 1979. Padada ABC gymnasium was built during his term.\n\nHowever, in the process of re-organization of local governments by President Ferdinand E. Marcos, then Vice Mayor Benjamin A. Saragena was designated Acting Mayor of Padada, assuming office on March 19, 1979. In the 1980 local elections, Acting Mayor Saragena was elected mayor with Pascuala Dizon as Vice Mayor and his entire Sangguniang Bayan ticket was swept into office.\n\nAfter the People Power Revolution in EDSA, Corazon C. Aquino appointed Atty. Carmelo R. De Los Cientos III as OIC of this Municipality and assumes the office with Elpidio R. Pantojan as OIC Vice Mayor and 8 OIC Sangguniang Banyan.\n\nPrior to the 1988 local elections, all OIC Municipal Officials we made to resign during the campaign period from December 1987 to February 1988. It was on this short period of time that another OIC ruled the municipality. OIC Mayor Leonardo U. Pillerin and Vice Mayor Margarito Mendez were installed from December 1987 to February 1988, together with the 8 OIC S.B. members. During the 1988 elections, the people of Padada elected Atty. Carmelo R. De los Cientos III as municipal mayor and Elpidio R. Pantojan as vice mayor. Both were re-elected and served for three terms. In the 1998 local election, former Mayor Benjamin A. Saragena won the election of mayor and Antonio N. Razonable as the Vice Mayor.\n\nIn 2001 local elections, Atty. Antonio N. Razonable and Pedro F. Caminero Jr. won the mayoralty and Vice Mayoralty post. Both were re-elected and served from 2001 to 2010.\n\nThe 2010 elections, which made use of Precinct Count Optical Scan (PCOS) system, paved the way to Pedro F. Caminero Jr, a vice mayor for three terms during the administration of Razonable, to reign the local government of Padada as the new mayor. He was accompanied by Alexander V. Morales as his vice mayor and partner in the local governance. In the May 2013 national election, he was replaced by Atty. Gladys A. Razonable-Gascon, the daughter of then Mayor Antonio N. Razonable and the first female mayor of Padada.\n\nOn December 15, 2019, a 6.9 earthquake hit at around 2:11 p.m. with epicenter 6 kilometers northwest of Padada.\n\nBased on National Statistical Coordination Board, the total population was 25,724 as of May 1, 2010, up from 27,127 in the August 2007 census. The registered number of voters is 16,815 as of 2010.\n\nEnglish, Pilipino, Chinese, Cebuano is the mother tongue spoken by 68.82% of the total population. Other dialects spoken in the area are; B´laan, 6.40%; Bagobo 2.88%; Hiligaynon (Ilongo) 1.70%; Manobo 6.72%; Ilocano 1.22% and Tagacaolos 8. 36%\n\nEnglish and Filipino [formerly spelled Pilipino], which is based on Tagalog, is the official language. About 95 percent of the population speaks Visaya. English is widely and commonly used for educational, governmental, and commercial purposes.\n\nMajority of the population are Roman Catholics [17,907], a few are Muslims and Protestants, as well as Iglesia Ni Cristo and Mormons.\n\nAs early as 1848 the Spanish missionaries set foot on Davao. Fr. Francisco Lopez from the Augustinian Recollects together with Don Jose Oyanguren came to establish a Christian settlement after defeating local chieftain, Datu Bago. The following years, the Jesuits took over the apostolic responsibility from the Recollects. Instrumental to the evangelization and expansion of the Davao church were missionaries like Fr. Quirico More, Mateo Gisbert, and Saturnino Urius. The entire Mindanao area was under the Diocese of Cebu since 1595, until some parts were placed under the jurisdiction of Jaro in 1865. On April 10, 1910, the Diocese of Zamboanga was created and took all ecclesiastical territories in Mindanao away from Cebu. Then, on January 20, 1933 Pope Pius XI created Cagayan de Oro as second diocese in Mindanao. During this time Mindanao was divided into two dioceses, Zamboanga and Cagayan de Oro.\n\nIn 1934 because of the scarce number of missionaries and since Davao has only eight Jesuits administering it, Bishop Luis del Rosario of Zamboanga sought for foreign help and one of those who responded was the Foreign Mission Society of Quebec or popularly known as P.M.E. Fathers or La Société des Missions-Étrangères (in French: Pretres de Missions-Étrangères,). In 1937, the first P.M.E. Fathers who arrive here in Davao were Fr. Clovis Rondeau, Omer Leblanc, Leo Lamy, Conrad Cote, and Msgr. Clovis Thibault who was the main proponent of establishing the Parish of Padada. After the first five P.M.E. Fathers, many others followed. On December 17, 1949 Davao became the Prelature Nullius to which Clovis Thibault was appointed as administrator.\n\nOn June 29, 1951 Pope, Plus XI elevated Cagayan de Oro to an archdiocese together with Jaro. The Archdiocese of Cagayan de Oro became the first archdiocese in Mindanao. It had as its suffragans all the dioceses and prelatures then in Mindanao: Surigao, Cotabato, Sulu, Davao, Ozamiz, and Zamboanga which had been its mother diocese. It became an archdiocese seven years ahead of its mother diocese, Zamboanga.\n\nAnd on December 31, 1954, Clovis Thibault, P.M.E. was appointed as prelate and on February 11, 1955, he was ordained as bishop. When Davao was later elevated into a diocese, Bishop Thibault was canonically instituted as its ruling bishop on July 11, 1966.\n\nOn the account of Fr. Paul Gravel, P.M.E. in his 25th Padada Parish anniversary message dated May 1, 1977, he recalls of the establishment of the Parish. It started with the proposal of Msgr. Clovis Thibault during the Parish fiesta of Digos on August 22, 1952. In the following month September 7, together with his close friend Diosdado Ypil they ventured the new undertaking. They were welcomed by the people of Padada in the person of Mayor Gregorio Matas, Bonifacio Semilla the president of Catholic Association and many others who were supportive of the said plan.\n\nChristians during this time must have been excited upon hearing the news. Given that Santa Cruz was long before became a parish in 1941 and Digos in 1948, to some degree Padada reached the appropriate moment to become a parish. At that moment Padada had only a chapel situated near the highway, standing near the bread fruit or locally known as ‘kamansi’ (Artocarpus altilis) that is within the vicinity and residence of a certain Rodem. Right after that day they repaired the old chapel and afterward moved it in the residence of the Yap Family which is the location of the church at present. They effectively did it in three weeks time before their fiesta with the help of the people. They called the project ‘Tagbo’ (encounter). We could not be certain whether they dismantled it piece by piece or carried the entire structure all the way to its new place like what we Filipinos usually do in bayanihan which greatly witness our spirit of communal unity and effort. It was an enormous undertaking that they informed and sought help from leaders like Mr. Ronda of Hagonoy, Mr. Pascual, Diel and Calumpong of Malalag, and other places like Pawa, Kiblawan, Tanwalang, and Santa Maria. There were hundreds of them including the tribal minorities of B’laans of Maragaa and the Tagacaolos of Malalag shared their earnest involvement of the said project. On September 29 that year, Fr. Gravel celebrated the annual fiesta of St. Michael the archangel in the new site. They completed the initial stage that sets another milestone in the lives of the people in Padada. After the fiesta, the same spirit of enthusiasm and solidarity continued to intensify as they started to plan the construction of a bigger church. Finally, on July 6, 1953, they laid the foundation of the structure. Again, the structure that was planned needed help from the affiliated communities. It was a protracted effort to finish the main and internal structure of the church that they continually relied on the financial aid from few of the wealthy families of the neighboring municipalities and the masons who volunteered their service.\n\nFr. Gravel was the first and said to be the longest assigned priest of Padada. Ambiguously he was remembered serving the parish for ten years. The parish records show that there had been a great deal of assistance coming from the P.M.E.'s who took the role as Parish priests, but probably he stayed a little longer. Even at present his persona endured in the memories of the people as the driving force who laid the foundations of their dream.\n\nPadada is basically an agricultural area where coconuts abound and to which copra is the main produce, maize comes to second as the important crops that is grown including bananas and cassava. Other crops include sugarcane, mangoes and papayas. Livestock on farms include chickens, goats and hogs.\n\nMarine fishing is an important industry. Barangays along the coastal portion are mostly converted into fishponds that yields bangus (milkfish) and shrimp. The Poblacion serves as the economic and the business center.\n\nPadada Overland transport terminal is at the center of the town, where all the major businesses, commercial establishments and public market are situated. Concrete-paved national highway runs along Padada connecting Davao City and General Santos and adjacent provinces like South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Maguindanao, Cotabato and Santa Cruz Province. Air and water transport is accessible in the area through the international air and sea ports located in Davao City and General Santos City. Jeepneys and buses are used widely for major routes. Mostly Tricycles in the poblacion and in neighboring barangays. Bikes are used for leisure and sporting events.\n\nPrivate schools\n\nPublic schools\n\n"}
{"id": "2154626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154626", "title": "Santa Cruz, Davao del Sur", "text": "Santa Cruz, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe Municipality of Santa Cruz is part of Metropolitan Davao.\n\nSanta Cruz situates in the Northern part of Davao del Sur. Bounded by Davao City on the north and south by the city of Digos. After undergoing several political subdivisions, 27,960 hectares of land was left representing 6.7% of the total land area of Davao del Sur. Forest land comprises 60% and the rest includes the 8 coastal barangays in the area.\n\nThe land area of Santa Cruz per Board of Technical Survey and Maps is 27,960 hectares. However, based on the Field Appraisal and Assessment Sheets (FAAS) and Tax Maps of the Municipal Assessor's Office the total land area of the municipality is 28,759.7855 or about 7.31% of the province's area (393,401 hectares). This excludes the Kapatagan contested area. Among the 18 barangays, Sibulan has the biggest land area of 6,390.6581 hectares or 22.22% of the total land area. Poblacion Zone III has the smallest area of 105.3148, only 0.37% of the total.\n\nSanta Cruz is traversed by mountain ranges and high relief that include part of the famed Mount Apo, the highest mountain peak in the Philippines, straddle the south, central, north and north-western portions of the municipality. The rugged topography of the central area gradually undulates toward the coastal plains of the north-eastern, eastern and south-eastern parts. Here, settlements sprawl contiguously along the coast of Davao Gulf under the vast monotony of coconut plantations. On the western frontier, a plateau stretches toward Barangay Kapatagan of Digos City. The municipal elevation ranges from above sea level (m.a.s.1.).\n\nSanta Cruz is politically subdivided into 18 barangays. Of the 18 barangays, 7 are uplands, 9 are upland-lowland and coastal and 2 are lowland-coastal.\n\nSanta Cruz has a favorable climate all year round characterized by wet and dry seasons. It is outside the typhoon belt. Generally the months of November to April are dry periods. Wet season occurs from May to October. This type of climate is observable in the plain and coastal areas. In the mountainous barangays, the fourth type of climate is consistently experienced. Rainfall is more or less evenly distributed throughout the year. Most often in these areas heavy downpour occurs every afternoon while in the morning the sun shines.\n\nSanta Cruz is the oldest municipality in the province; it was founded on 5 October 1884, thirty-six years after the foundation of Davao, which is its mother city, by Don Jose Uyanguren of Guipúzcoa, Spain. It all started when Spanish pioneers and missionaries attempted to settle and Christianize the area in what is now Barangay Poblacion as early as 1880. But because of the relentless Islamic faith of the local people in the area, the enraged pioneers and missionaries planted a cross under a shelter to mark the failure of the missionaries to convert these people to Christianity; the town's name now bears the name of the cross planted by those Spaniards. Fortunately, for the next 4 years, the local people will submit themselves to Christianity and had themselves conquered by Angel Rodriguez, the Spanish Governor-General of Davao. But, like Don Uyanguren's attempt to develop the newly established Davao, the area around the young town did not prosper until after almost 20 years since then.\n\nThe Americans arrived in Davao in the early 1900s after the Spanish defeat in the Spanish–American War. Fourteen years later, the town began to grow economically, although overshadowed by the booming economic growth of its neighbour Davao. Several Japanese entrepreneurs like Kyusaburo Otta and Yoshizo Furukawa are living in the region to exploit more agricultural territories, the former in Davao and the latter in what is now the barangays Darong and Inauayan.\n\nOn 16 March 1936, its mother town, Davao, became one of the first two cities in Mindanao, the other being Zamboanga, due to the town's faster economic growth and agricultural boom.\n\nOn 1942, it was the beginning of Japanese invasion of the Philippines. The town suffered greatly during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines, unlike its neighbor Davao, which fared well and continued its economic growth during that time. The local recognized guerrillas and the military troops of the Philippine Commonwealth Army units continued to attack the Imperial Japanese forces. On 1945, combined Filipino and American troops including recognized guerrillas fought the Japanese and liberated the town. The general headquarters of the Philippine Commonwealth Army and Philippine Constabulary was active from 1945 to 1946 and was located in the town. After the war, most of the inhabitants of Santa Cruz moved to Davao in search of economic opportunities; despite this, the town continued its population and economic growth, though at a slower rate.\n\nAlmost three years after the Philippine Independence in 4 July 1946, two towns broke off from the municipality, namely: Padada, on 15 July 1949; and Digos on 19 July in the same year. In 1960's, a new municipality, \"Roxas\", was carved out from the town, covering the present-day barangays of Inauayan, Darong, Astorga, Coronon, and Sibulan; however, the Supreme Court of the Philippines nullified the creation of the municipality since this meant the collapse of the jurisdiction of once the most Christianized town in Mindanao.\n\nOne of the municipalities which broke off from the town, Digos, became the capital town of the newly created Davao del Sur province in 1967; thirty-three years later it would become a city and will be the most populous in the entire province, excluding Davao City.\n\nIn 5 October 2013, during the town's 129th anniversary of its existence, its local government leaders and populace have envisioned for a new aspiration for the town to become a city, given the presence of large industrial companies like the San Miguel Corporation, Coco Davao Inc., Franklin Baker Co., GSL Food Industries in the town. The municipal mayor Joel Ray Lopez commented, \"As the oldest town in the province of Davao del Sur, we really wanted it to become a city soon.\" Its infrastructure have been moderately improved, and most of its cityhood requirements, specifically its income and total land area requirements, have been already met. When the municipality of Santa Cruz finally becomes a city, full industrialization in the area may be expected.\n\nThe languages spoken here in the municipality are Davaoeño, Tagalog, Mansakan, and English.\n\nAgriculture: Among agricultural crops, coconut leads in production followed by banana and sugarcane. Other major crops are corn, coffee and vegetables. The municipality also produces high value fruits like mango, lanzones and durian. Cattle leads in livestock production.\n\nFisheries: The 24-kilometer long coastline of Santa Cruz which forms part of the Davao Gulf provides a rich fishing grounds and is suitable for aquaculture.\n\nMining: Deposits of sulfur ore, rock phosphate, guano, limestone and cement raw materials were also traced but still have to be tapped for commercial and industrial uses.\n\nForestry: Tropical evergreen and other timber cover the vast timberland and forest area. Rattan, bamboo and other vines are also in abundance.\n\nMajor industries: Banana, Coconut, and Seaweed cultivation.\n\nA famous competitive tourism destination in Southern Mindanao where eco-cultural and adventure tourism are properly managed and environmental protection is sustained through the partnership of the private sector and the government.\n\n\n\n\n\nOther scenic spots include the Passig Islet Agro Eco Park and Tudaya Falls.\n\n\n\n\nSanta Cruz is accessible by land transportation vehicles plying the Davao-Digos City, Davao-Kidapawan City, Davao-Cotabato City, Davao-Koronadal City and Davao-Tacurong City routes passing through the town's single, stretch of national highway that traverses its 11 barangays. From Davao City, the administrative center of Region XI, it is away within a 45-minute ride, while it is or about 15-minute ride from provincial capital city of Digos.\n\nAir and water transport is accessible in the area through the international air and sea ports located in Davao City. Traveling overland is catered to by the Santa Cruz Overland Transport Terminal. Concrete-paved national highway runs along Santa Cruz connecting the cities of Davao and General Santos and adjacent provinces like South Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Maguindanao and Cotabato Province. Jeepneys and buses are used widely for major routes plying across the town. Mostly tricycles operate in the \"poblacion\" (town center) and in neighboring barangays. Bikes are used for leisure and sporting events.\n\nSenator Ronald dela Rosa — Director General of the Philippine National Police was born and raised in Santa Cruz, Davao del Sur.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154627", "title": "Santa Maria, Davao Occidental", "text": "Santa Maria, Davao Occidental\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality, located on Mindanao Island, is about north-west of province capital municipality of Malita and about south-south-east of Philippine main capital Manila. The noted features of Santa Maria is the Mt. Cuiawa, standing about more than a hundred-meter above sea level. And at the foot of this mountain, the Municipal Hall where it is located.\n\nSanta Maria is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n\nThe Tagakaulu Kalagan are self-sufficient farmers, producing nearly all of their own food. Wet-rice is grown in the lowlands, and dry-rice and corn are farmed in the upland areas. Yams and sweet potatoes are also staple crops. Vegetables such as tomatoes, squash, and beans are grown; coconuts abound; and many kinds of fruit are available. Goats are raised for meat, and chickens are raised for both eggs and meat. In addition to farming, the Tagakaulu Kalagan catch fish and obtain wild foods and other various materials from the marshes around them.\nThose of highest rank in their society do not perform manual labor. Among the rest of the population, male/female division of labor is not very pronounced. Generally, men do the plowing, tilling, and other heavy farm work. The women do most of the domestic work, often assisted by their older children. \nTagakaulu Kalagan art is confined mostly to weaving, basket making, and producing certain ornaments. Personal adornment in the form of bright clothing, beaded jewelry, and other accessories is distinctive and colorful. On special occasions, graceful dances are performed to the rhythmic music of gongs and other instruments. \nThe Tagakaulu Kalagan social structure is unusual because it is modified by a system of social rank, certain rules of descent, and distinctive marriage patterns. For most purposes, social rank is less important than blood ties. Higher-ranking families maintain elaborate genealogies to prove their claims of descent.\nThere is a strong preference for marriage between related families, especially marriage to second cousins. After marriage, the couple usually resides in the husband's community. Today, however, many young couples form their own independent households.\n\nThe Tagakaulu Kalagan were not introduced to Islam until Muslim missionaries arrived in the area during the 1500s. About half of the entire group of Kalagan came under Islamic influence at that time, and the group divided. Most of the Tagakaolo Kalagan became Muslims; however, the majority of the Tagakaulu Kalagan remained animists (believe that non-human objects have spirits). Today, many of them are still ethnic religionists, believing in the traditions and religions of their forefathers. They continue to believe in a variety of \"environmental spirits.\" Many tales are also told of magic, sorcery, and supernatural beings.\nMunicipal officials 2013-2016:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154628", "title": "Sarangani, Davao Occidental", "text": "Sarangani, Davao Occidental\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality consists of 2 major islands (the eponymous Sarangani Island and Balut Island) and 1 minor islet (Olanivan Island), collectively called as the \"Sarangani Islands\", located just south of Mindanao island in the Celebes Sea. It is the municipality of the Philippines bordering Indonesia.\n\nSarangani is politically subdivided into 12 barangays.\n\n\"Balut Island\"\n\n\"Sarangani Island\"\n\nMunicipal officials 2013-2016:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154629", "title": "Sulop, Davao del Sur", "text": "Sulop, Davao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSulop is about from Digos City, the seat of the provincial government of Davao del Sur. The municipality is located halfway between two major growth centers of Mindanao, namely, Davao City of Region XI and General Santos City of Region XII.\n\nSulop is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\nIn the early part of the 19th century, a wave of immigrants from the Visayas Region, mostly from Cebu, came to Sulop which was still a barangays under the Municipality of Padada, Davao del Sur. Settlers from Leyte, Iloilo and Bohol also arrived during the century. They acquired lands from the natives known as Tagacaolo, B’laans and Bagobos who were the early inhabitants of the place.\n\nThe name Sulop was derived from its natives which means swampy place surrounded by second growth forest and habitat of wild pigs. Settlers, then converted the place into settlement sites and production areas of agricultural crops.\n\nBy virtue of Executive Order No. 295 issued on April 24, 1958, President Carlos P. Garcia converted barangays Sulop and its adjacent barangays into an independent Municipality of Sulop of the Province of Davao del Sur. The development of the municipality underwent eight changes of political leadership up to the present Administration.\n\nPresident Carlos P Garcia appointed Nestorio Comabig as the first mayor of the Municipality of Sulop. Mayor Nestorio Comabig’s achievement was the assignment of residential lots to interested parties consistent to the town site development plan. However, Mayor Nestorio Comabig resigned from office after six years he assumed the office.\n\nThe then Vice Mayor Antonio Go Pace assumed the vacated mayorship position and facilitated the construction of the first municipality’s Town Hall.\nVice Mayor Sebastian Mondejar, Sr. succeeded the mayorship of Antonio Go Pace when the latter died and the former facilitated the coming of Cocoa Investors, Incorporated (CII), a multi-million peso corporation engaged in cacao beans production;\n\nVice Mayor Perfecto O. Sagarino Sr. succeeded as mayor when Mayor Sebastian Mondejar Sr. was killed in an ambush on December 3, 1982, during the height of insurgency. Mayor Perfecto Sagarino Sr.'s greatest achievement was the construction of Sulop Public Market Buildings. He relinquished his position after the EDSA Revolution (People Power Revolution) in 1986;\n\nAtty. Leopoldo C. Diones, Jr. was then installed as OIC-Mayor who retained his position by winning the 1987 and 1992 elections.\n\nAtty. Jose Jimmy S. Sagarino, son of former mayor Perfecto O. Sagarino emerged the winner in the mayoralty race in 1995 and stayed on for 3 terms. The construction of the new Municipal Government Center of Sulop was made during his incumbency.\n\nOn June 30, 2004, local leadership was then steered by Mayor Restituto Ornales. In his quest to sustain the obtaining momentum of development, he placed agricultural productivity as the center piece of his development thrust and initiated the construction of Labon – Clib Steel Bridge.\n\nThe latest change in leadership took place on June 30, 2007, when the newly elect-mayor assumed post at 12:00 noon which marked the returned of undefeated 3-termer Mayor Jose Jimmy S. Sagarino who in his new term celebrated the Golden Founding Anniversary of the Municipality of Sulop.\n\nThe Southern Philippines Agri-business and Marine and Aquatic School of Technology (SPAMAST) has a Sulop Extension.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154630", "title": "Canon EF-S 18–55mm lens", "text": "Canon EF-S 18–55mm lens\n\nThe Canon EF-S 18–55mm lens 3.5–5.6 is a Canon-produced wide-angle to mid telephoto zoom lens for digital single-lens reflex cameras with an EF-S lens mount. The field of view has a 35 mm equivalent focal length of 28.8–88mm, and it is a standard kit lens on Canon's consumer APS-C DSLRs. In February 2017 Canon announced the new Canon EF-S 18–55mm lens 4–5.6 IS STM with a smaller aperture, which made the lens 20% smaller according to Canon.\n\nThere have been nine iterations of this lens, five of which are discontinued and four of which are currently in production: III (kit only and most 'basic'), IS II, and the two IS STM lenses.\n\nThe lens body has a plastic construction, including the lens mount. Generally, however, this version of the lens is soft and must be stopped down to gain acceptable sharpness. Barrel distortion becomes quite noticeable at the wide-angle setting and chromatic aberration (purple fringing) is common.\n\nOn 20 August 2007, the EF-S 18-55m IS was announced along with the EOS 40D. The lens featured improved optical quality over previous versions and added image stabilization.\n\nOn 7 February 2011, the 18–55mm 1:3.5–5.6 IS II was announced to be bundled with the EOS 600D and 1100D. \n\nOn 21 March 2013, the 18–55mm 3.5–5.6 IS STM was announced alongside the EOS 700D/Rebel T5i and 100D/Rebel SL1. It has a different optical formula from that of any previous Canon 18–55mm lens, and includes Canon's STM (stepping motor) technology, claimed by the company to offer quieter continuous autofocus while shooting video when attached to bodies that have Canon's hybrid autofocus sensor technology. The STM is also the first 18–55mm version with an internal focusing design. At introduction, it was offered as a kit lens on both the 700D and 100D; it has since become one of two alternative kit lenses for the 70D.\n\nOn 14 February 2017, the 18–55mm 4–5.6 IS STM was announced alongside the EOS 800D/Rebel T7i, 200D, and the 77D. It has a different optical formula from that of any previous Canon 18–55mm lens and a smaller aperture, which made it possible to reduce the lens' physical size.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154635", "title": "Carolingian art", "text": "Carolingian art\n\nCarolingian art comes from the Frankish Empire in the period of roughly 120 years from about 780 to 900—during the reign of Charlemagne and his immediate heirs—popularly known as the Carolingian Renaissance. The art was produced by and for the court circle and a group of important monasteries under Imperial patronage; survivals from outside this charmed circle show a considerable drop in quality of workmanship and sophistication of design. The art was produced in several centres in what are now France, Germany, Austria, northern Italy and the Low Countries, and received considerable influence, via continental mission centres, from the Insular art of the British Isles, as well as a number of Byzantine artists who appear to have been resident in Carolingian centres.\nThere was for the first time a thoroughgoing attempt in Northern Europe to revive and emulate classical Mediterranean art forms and styles, that resulted in a blending of classical and Northern elements in a sumptuous and dignified style, in particular introducing to the North confidence in representing the human figure, and setting the stage for the rise of Romanesque art and eventually Gothic art in the West. The Carolingian era is part of the period in medieval art sometimes called the \"Pre-Romanesque\". After a rather chaotic interval following the Carolingian period, the new Ottonian dynasty revived Imperial art from about 950, building on and further developing Carolingian style in Ottonian art.\n\nHaving established an Empire as large as the Byzantine Empire of the day, and rivaling in size the old Western Roman Empire, the Carolingian court must have been conscious that they lacked an artistic style to match these or even the post-antique (or \"sub-antique\" as Ernst Kitzinger called it) art still being produced in small quantities in Rome and a few other centres in Italy, which Charlemagne knew from his campaigns, and where he was crowned Holy Roman Emperor in Rome in 800.\n\nAs symbolic representative of Rome he sought the \"renovatio\" (revival) of Roman culture and learning in the West, and needed an art capable of telling stories and representing figures with an effectiveness which ornamental Germanic Migration period art could not. He wished to establish himself as the heir to the great rulers of the past, to emulate and symbolically link the artistic achievements of Early Christian and Byzantine culture with his own.\n\nBut it was more than a conscious desire to revive ancient Roman culture. During Charlemagne's reign the Byzantine Iconoclasm controversy was dividing the Byzantine Empire. Charlemagne supported the Western church's consistent refusal to follow iconoclasm; the Libri Carolini sets out the position of his court circle, no doubt under his direction. With no inhibitions from a cultural memory of Mediterranean pagan idolatry, Charlemagne introduced the first Christian monumental religious sculpture, a momentous precedent for Western art.\n\nReasonable numbers of Carolingian illuminated manuscripts and small-scale sculptures, mostly in ivory, have survived, but far fewer examples of metalwork, mosaics and frescoes and other types of work. Many manuscripts in particular are copies or reinterpretations of Late Antique or Byzantine models, nearly all now lost, and the nature of the influence of specific models on individual Carolingian works remains a perennial topic in art history. As well as these influences, the extravagant energy of Insular art added a definite flavour to Carolingian work, which sometimes used interlaced decoration, and followed more cautiously the insular freedom in allowing decoration to spread around and into the text on the page of a manuscript.\n\nWith the end of Carolingian rule around 900, high quality artistic production greatly declined for about three generations in the Empire. By the later 10th century with the Cluny reform movement, and a revived spirit for the idea of Empire, art production began again. New Pre-Romanesque styles appeared in Germany with the Ottonian art of the next stable dynasty, in England with late Anglo-Saxon art, after the threat from the Vikings was removed, and in Spain.\n\nThe most numerous surviving works of the Carolingian renaissance are illuminated manuscripts. A number of luxury manuscripts, mostly Gospel books, have survived, decorated with a relatively small number of full-page miniatures, often including evangelist portraits, and lavish canon tables, following the precedent of the Insular art of Britain and Ireland. Narrative images and especially cycles are rarer, but many exist, mostly of the Old Testament, especially Genesis; New Testament scenes are more often found on the ivory reliefs on the covers. The oversized and heavily decorated initials of Insular art were adopted, and the historiated initial further developed, with small narrative scenes seen for the first time towards the end of the period—notably in the Drogo Sacramentary. Luxury manuscripts were given treasure bindings or rich covers with jewels set in gold and carved ivory panels, and, as in Insular art, were prestige objects kept in the church or treasury, and a different class of object from the working manuscripts kept in the library, where some initials might be decorated, and pen drawings added in a few places. A few of the grandest imperial manuscripts were written on purple parchment. The Bern Physiologus is a relatively rare example of a secular manuscript heavily illustrated with fully painted miniatures, lying in between these two classes, and perhaps produced for the private library of an important individual, as was the Vatican Terence. The Utrecht Psalter, stands alone as a very heavily illustrated library version of the Psalms done in pen and wash, and almost certainly copied from a much earlier manuscript.\n\nOther liturgical works were sometimes produced in luxury manuscripts, such as sacramentaries, but no Carolingian Bible is decorated as heavily as the Late Antique examples that survive in fragments. Teaching books such as theological, historical, literary and scientific works from ancient authors were copied and generally only illustrated in ink, if at all. The Chronography of 354 was a Late Roman manuscript that apparently was copied in the Carolingian period, though this copy seems to have been lost in the 17th century.\n\nCarolingian manuscripts are presumed to have been produced largely or entirely by clerics, in a few workshops around the Carolingian Empire, each with its own style that developed based on the artists and influences of that particular location and time. Manuscripts often have inscriptions, not necessarily contemporary, as to who commissioned them, and which church or monastery they were given to, but few dates or names and locations of those producing them. The surviving manuscripts have been assigned, and often reassigned, to workshops by scholars, and the controversies attending this process have largely died down. The earliest workshop was the Court School of Charlemagne; then a Rheimsian style, which became the most influential of the Carolingian period; a Touronian style; a Drogo style; and finally a Court School of Charles the Bald. These are the major centres, but others exist, characterized by the works of art produced there.\n\nThe Court School of Charlemagne (also known as the Ada School) produced the earliest manuscripts, including the Godescalc Evangelistary (781–783); the Lorsch Gospels (778–820); the Ada Gospels; the Soissons Gospels; the Harley Golden Gospels (800-820); and the Vienna Coronation Gospels; ten manuscripts in total are usually recognised. The Court School manuscripts were ornate and ostentatious, and reminiscent of 6th-century ivories and mosaics from Ravenna, Italy. They were the earliest Carolingian manuscripts and initiated a revival of Roman classicism, yet still maintained Migration Period art (Merovingian and Insular) traditions in their basically linear presentation, with no concern for volume and spatial relationships.\n\nIn the early 9th-century Archbishop Ebo of Rheims, at Hautvillers (near Rheims), assembled artists and transformed Carolingian art to something entirely new. The Gospel book of Ebbo (816–835) was painted with swift, fresh and vibrant brush strokes, evoking an inspiration and energy unknown in classical Mediterranean forms. Other books associated with the Rheims school include the Utrecht Psalter, which was perhaps the most important of all Carolingian manuscripts, and the \"Bern Physiologus\", the earliest Latin edition of the Christian allegorical text on animals. The expressive animations of the Rheims school, in particular the Utrecht Psalter with its naturalistic expressive figurine line drawings, would have influence on northern medieval art for centuries to follow, into the Romanesque period.\n\nAnother style developed at the monastery of St Martin of Tours, in which large Bibles were illustrated based on Late Antique bible illustrations. Three large Touronian Bibles were created, the last, and best, example was made about 845/846 for Charles the Bald, called the Vivian Bible. The Tours School was cut short by the invasion of the Normans in 853, but its style had already left a permanent mark on other centers in the Carolingian Empire.\n\nThe diocese of Metz was another center of Carolingian art. Between 850 and 855 a sacramentary was made for Bishop Drogo called the Drogo Sacramentary. The illuminated \"historiated\" decorated initials (see image this page) were to have influence into the Romanesque period and were a harmonious union of classical lettering with figural scenes.\n\nIn the second half of the 9th century the traditions of the first half continued. A number of richly decorated Bibles were made for Charles the Bald, fusing Late Antiquity forms with the styles developed at Rheims and Tours. It was during this time a Franco-Saxon style appeared in the north of France, integrating Hiberno-Saxon interlace, and would outlast all other Carolingian styles into the next century.\n\nCharles the Bald, like his grandfather, also established a Court School. Its location is uncertain but several manuscripts are attributed to it, with the Codex Aureus of St. Emmeram (870) being the last and most spectacular. It contained Touronian and Rheimsian elements, but fused with the style that characterized Charlemagne's Court School more formal manuscripts.\n\nWith the death of Charles the Bald patronage for manuscripts declined, signaling the beginning of the end, but some work did continue for a while. The Abbey of St. Gall created the Folchard Psalter (872) and the Golden Psalter (883). This Gallish style was unique, but lacked the level of technical mastery seen in other regions.\n\nLuxury Carolingian manuscripts were intended to have treasure bindings—ornate covers in precious metal set with jewels around central carved ivory panels—sometimes these were donated some time after the manuscript itself was produced. Only a few such covers have survived intact, but many of the ivory panels survive detached, where the covers have been broken up for their materials. The subjects were often narrative religious scenes in vertical sections, largely derived from Late Antique paintings and carvings, as were those with more hieratic images derived from consular diptychs and other imperial art, such as the front and back covers of the Lorsch Gospels, which adapt a 6th-century Imperial triumph to the triumph of Christ and the Virgin.\n\nImportant Carolingian examples of goldsmith's work include the upper cover of the Lindau Gospels; the cover of the Codex Aureus of St. Emmeram, which can be precisely dated to 870, is probably a product of the same workshop, though there are differences of style. This workshop is associated with the Holy Roman Emperor Charles II (the Bald), and often called his \"Palace School\". Its location (if it had a fixed one) remains uncertain and much discussed, but Saint-Denis Abbey outside Paris is one leading possibility. The Arnulf Ciborium (a miniature architectural ciborium rather than the vessel for hosts), now in the Munich Residenz, is the third major work in the group; all three have fine relief figures in repoussé gold. Another work associated with the workshop is the frame of an antique serpentine dish in the Louvre. Recent scholars tend to group the Lindau Gospels and the Arnulf Ciborium in closer relation to each other than the Codex Aureus to either.\n\nCharlemagne revived large-scale bronze casting when he created a foundry at Aachen which cast the doors for his palace chapel, in imitation of Roman designs. The chapel also had a now lost life-size crucifix, with the figure of Christ in gold, the first known work of this type, which was to become so important a feature of medieval church art. Probably a wooden figure was mechanically gilded, as with the Ottonian Golden Madonna of Essen.\n\nOne of the finest examples of Carolingian goldsmiths' work is the Golden Altar (824–859), a \"paliotto\", in the Basilica of Sant'Ambrogio in Milan. The altars four sides are decorated with images in gold and silver repoussé, framed by borders of filigree, precious stones and enamel.\n\nThe Lothair Crystal, of the middle of the 9th century, is one of the largest of a group of about 20 engraved pieces of rock crystal which survive; this shows large numbers of figures in several scenes showing the unusual subject of the story of Suzanna.\n\nSources attest to the abundance of wall paintings seen in churches and palaces, most of which have not survived. Records of inscriptions show that their subject matter was primarily religious.\n\nMosaics installed in Charlemagne's palatine chapel showed an enthroned Christ worshipped by the Evangelist's symbols and the twenty-four elders from the Apocalypse. This mosaic no longer survives, but an over-restored one remains in the apse of the oratory at Germigny-des-Prés (806) which shows the Ark of the Covenant adored by angels, discovered in 1820 under a coat of plaster.\n\nThe villa to which the oratory was attached belonged to a key associate of Charlemagne, Bishop Theodulf of Orléans. It was destroyed later in the century, but had frescos of the Seven liberal arts, the Four Seasons, and the Mappa Mundi. We know from written sources of other frescos in churches and palaces, nearly all completely lost. Charlemagne's Aachen palace contained a wall painting of the Liberal Arts, as well as narrative scenes from his war in Spain. The palace of Louis the Pious at Ingelheim contained historical images from antiquity to the time of Charlemagne, and the palace church contained typological scenes of the Old and New Testaments juxtaposed with one another.\n\nFragmentary paintings have survived at Auxerre, Coblenz, Lorsch, Cologne, Fulda, Corvey, Trier, Müstair, Mals, Naturns, Cividale, Brescia and Milan.\n\n\"Spolia\" is the Latin term for \"spoils\" and is used to refer to the taking or appropriation of ancient monumental or other art works for new uses or locations. We know that many marbles and columns were brought from Rome northward during this period.\n\nPerhaps the most famous example of Carolingian spolia is the tale of an equestrian statue. In Rome, Charlemagne had seen the Equestrian Statue of Marcus Aurelius in the Lateran Palace. It was the only surviving statue of a pre-Christian Roman Emperor because it was mistakenly thought, at the time, to be that of Constantine and thus held great accord—Charlemagne thus brought an equestrian statue from Ravenna, then believed to be that of Theodoric the Great, to Aachen, to match the statue of \"Constantine\" in Rome.\n\nAntique carved gems were reused in various settings, without much regard to their original iconography.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154641", "title": "Resurrection (Common album)", "text": "Resurrection (Common album)\n\nResurrection is the second studio album by American rapper Common, then known as Common Sense, released on October 4, 1994 by Relativity Records. It was mainly produced by No I.D., who also produced most of Common's 1992 debut \"Can I Borrow A Dollar?\".\n\nThe album received critical acclaim, but not a significant amount of mainstream attention. Originally, it was rated 3.5 mics in The Source; however, in 1998, it was selected as one of The Source's 100 Best Rap Albums .\n\nThe album is divided into two sections; the \"East Side of Stony\" (tracks 1-7) and \"West Side of Stony\" (tracks 8-15). Stony Island Avenue is a street that runs through the South Side of Chicago, where Common was raised. The closing track, \"Pop's Rap\" was the first of a series of tracks featuring spoken word and poetry by Common's father, Lonnie \"Pops\" Lynn, which Common has used to close several of his albums since. Interlaced throughout the album are short interludes which form a loose narrative concerning day-to-day life on the South Side.\n\nSongs such as \"Thisisme\", are full of self-assessing raps that reflect the rapper's personal growth since 1992's \"Can I Borrow A Dollar?\". Likewise the crasser moments found on that LP, such as the misogynistic \"Heidi Hoe\" are greatly toned down for \"Resurrection\", and replaced by thought-provoking narratives such as \"Chapter 13 (Rich Man Vs. Poor Man)\", and \"I Used to Love H.E.R.\" - a song that re-imagines Hip hop as a formerly unadulterated woman, led astray after being enticed by materialistic elements of life. The use of a conflicted woman as an allegory for Hip hop allowed Common to covertly express his disdain at the genre's turn towards gangsta rap inspired content, and what he saw as the resulting reorientation of rap artists.\n\nThis song, which brought Common to the attention of fans and music critics alike, would also become the cause of a rift between the rapper and West Coast emcee Ice Cube, who took exception to the insinuation that the West Coast pioneered style of gangsta rap was detrimental to Hip hop - even going as far as to claim that Hip hop altogether \"started in the West\". Together with his Westside Connection compatriots, Cube hurled insults Common's way on the song \"Westside Slaughterhouse\" and throughout their album \"Bow Down\", to which the rapper replied with the equally venomous \"The Bitch in Yoo\". In the aftermath of the murders of both Tupac Shakur and the Notorious B.I.G., the rivalry would be settled out of public view at a peacemaking function held by Louis Farrakhan at his home.\n\nThe album is broken down track-by-track by Common in Brian Coleman's book \"Check the Technique\".\n\nThe lyricism of \"Resurrection\" is acclaimed. Using a combination of irony and double entendre, the rapper related on \"Book of Life\":\n\nIn The Source, Chairman Mao wrote that \"Common Sense presents a thinking man's perspective on rhyming that's admirably down to earth and free of gimmicks\". Common's style of delivery, speedy and somewhat erratic on \"Can I Borrow\", is here smoother and more evenly paced. As before he occasionally ventures into a faux-singing mode, albeit less frequently (for example, he quotes the refrain of \"Get Up, Stand Up\" in \"Book of Life\"). Many of the songs hooks are provided by scratches and samples.\n\nFor \"Resurrection\", producer No I.D. polished up on the production techniques from\n\"Can I Borrow\", providing for Common, a canvas full of lush jazz samples, deep, throbbing basslines, dusty, thumping drums, and crackling snares. With the majority of tracks handled by one producer (the exceptions being \"Chapter 13\" and \"Sum Shit I Wrote\" by Ynot), the album maintains a cohesive feel and fluid sequencing. \n\nThe sounds range from the upbeat (\"Communism\") to the downbeat (\"\"Nuthin' To Do\"\"), and from the smooth and sleek (\"I Used to Love H.E.R.\"), to the rugged (\"Sum Shit I Wrote\"). Similar to other Hip hop productions of the time, the sources for many of the samples are from less obvious choices such as The New Apocalypse, and their cover of \"Get Out Of My Life, Woman\", which is used for the song \"Watermelon\".\n\n\"Resurrection\" is frequently held to be a classic album by rap critics. This album signified both the arrival of a level of maturity in Common's work, and yet the end of his first phase, which was characterized by a more straightforward, and underground based sound. Subsequent albums by the rapper would see him delving into experimentation and themes such as love, which perhaps marks his second phase.\n\nIn the \"Rolling Stone\" review, Touré wrote of the album: \"\"Resurrection\" belongs among the best recent hardcore albums: \"Illmatic\", by Nas, \"Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers)\", by Wu-Tang Clan, and \"Ready to Die\", by the Notorious B.I.G..\" Despite critical acclaim, the album sold poorly, peaking at #179 on the Billboard 200 with 2,000 copies sold, before dropping out of the charts the following week.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154646", "title": "Baganga", "text": "Baganga\n\n' (), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people, making it the third largest town in province (after Mati City and Lupon).\n\nIt is the largest among the municipalities and city in the province in terms of land area, and is considered the chief town of the province's 1st legislative district.\n\nBaganga got its name from a thorny bush having plum like fruits that were abundant during the Spanish arrival. Others say that it was referred to a big mouth of a river that traversed the central part of the town.\n\nThe Mandaya tribes having a colourful presentation in giving receptions to the hungry Spaniards has encouraged the survivors to report to Spain how beautiful the town was. Thus, on the Villalobos expedition on August 7, 1543 it encouraged the chronicler Garcia Descalante Alvarado to take note and make the necessary observation to King Philip.\n\nAt the start, Baganga was under the Spanish rule. A part of the Encomienda de Bislig together with Cateel. Caraga and Hina-tuan of Surigao under Sargent Mayor Juan Camacho dela Peña. It was a Christian village under the diocese of Cebu. In 1849 Baganga together with other municipalities have its first Spanish Priest Fr. Gilbert, a Jesuit.\n\nDon Bibiano Dela Salde (descendant of Don Pedro Elizalde of Tago, Surigao del Sur) became the 8th Mayor of Baganga and came under the American Rule in 1901 and created into a municipality under Organic Act of October 3, 1903 with 17 barangays namely: Mahan-ub, Dapnan, Lambajon, San Isidro, Mikit, Campawan, San Victor, Salingcomot, Saoquigue, Baculin, Bobonao, Batawan, Binondo, Ban-ao, Central and Kinablagan. Lucod was the 18th barangay created under Provincial Resolution No. 110.\n\nThe destruction made by the Japanese during the World War II in 1941 has created awareness among residents for new development. The restoration of local officials in 1949 opened venue of Agri-base development. Coconut, Abaca and fruit planting were in abundance followed by root crops of various species suitable to the soil.\n\nBaganga is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\n\nThis barangay is home to a lot of waterfalls, and one of the major attraction of \"Campawan\" is the so-called \"Curtain Falls\".\n\nDapnan is home to many white-sand beaches in Baganga like the famous Agawon Beach. The major industry of this small barangay is the coconut industry.\n\nTourist spots:\n\nOn October 18 Kinablanganion celebrate the \"Araw Ng Kinablangan\" (Day of Kinablangan) or the Niyogan Festival. The economic strength is agriculture and fishing.\n\nSchools:\n\nTourist spots:\n\nMahan-ub is derived its name from the river \"mahan-ub\". This Barangay is located in a remote area, and subdivided into 12 puroks (Olin, Catabuanan II, Banahao, Pagsingitan, Abuyuan, Coog, Mercedez, R. C., Kaputian, Kasunugan, Kati-han II, Bisaya). The present Barangay Chairman is Roy Aguilon Nazareno. Their economic strength is agruculture, producing rice, coconut, abaca, and logs. They celebrate the annual fiesta every June 13 in honor of the patron San Antonio de Padua. They celebrate the \"Araw ng Mahan-ub\" every June 11 the Carabao Festival.\n\nSchools:\n\nTourist spots:\n\nSan Victor is a small barangay located on San Victor Island. The major sources of income are subsistence farming and fishing. The barangay captain is Ike Fontillas.\n\nSchool:\n\nSaoquigue is a remote barangay, subdivided into 8 purok's or wards. The present Barangay Chairman is Mr. Balug. The predominant source of income is agriculture (coconut) and fishing, with some shops and marketing businesses buying copra and charcoal from coconut shells.\n\nSchool:\n\nBaganga, as part of Davao Oriental, uses the Southern Kamayo dialect. The Southern Kamayo is quite different from the Kamayo language of Bislig, Surigao Del Sur. Southern Kamayo is also spoken in Southern Lingig, Surigao del Sur, in Cateel, Caraga and some parts of Davao Oriental. It is also related to Surigaonon and Butuanon.\n\nDialect variations are caused by mixed dialect communications between the Mandaya, Cebuano and other immigrants now living in the area. A prefix is added in most adjectives. Example: The word \"gamay\" in Cebuano (English: \"small\") is \"gamayay\" in Baganga. But you can't use the \"\"ay\"\" prefix often, like for instance the word \"dako\" (English; \"big\") is spoken as \"\"bagas-AY\"\" or \"\"bagasay\"\" instead of saying \"\"dako-ay\"\". dutayay (English: \"very small\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154647", "title": "Banaybanay", "text": "Banaybanay\n\n' (), officially the ', is a in the Province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBanaybanay is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\nBanaybanay is derived from the two native word \"\"Banay\"\", (Kalagan word) means \"sprout\" due to its main livelihood in the area which is rice farming, and \"\"Bânay\"\" (Cebuano word) means \"clans\" due to the family clans that arrived in that area that came from Visayas Islands and Luzon and settled there along together with the Kalagans and Mandayan Natives.\n\nBanaybanay was primarily inhabited by the Mandayas in the uplands of Causwagan, Panikian and Mahayag, and Kalagans in shorelines and the mouth rivers of Piso, Pongoton, Mogbongcogon and Maputi which they have a strong settlement and a Muslim governance on that area leads by a Datus or Imams.\n\nAround the 1800s before Uyanguren arrived in the Davao, there was a strong community of the Kalagans (Kagan) in the Piso which was led by a chieftain named Datu Panayangan. Their dwelling was along the Piso River along with his people who lived there peacefully.\n\nThe story of the arriving of the Kallaw people from Samal Island is very well known especially among the Kalagans of Banaybanay. They arrived in the Piso to settled there along with their Kalagan Brothers on the permission of Datu Panayangan. The Kallaw chieftain named Datu Lamaran reconciled to Datu Panayangan to settle the swampy place of Piso which later was called Barrio Pongoton from the word \"pangotanan\" which means \"a place of abundance of fish and crabs to catch\".\n\nUntil now, the grandsons or the clans of Datu Panayangan and Datu Lamaran are still living on the areas that divide into many families.\n\nOn the time of Japanese occupation, Banaybanay (formerly known as Piso) gives an important location for the Japanese on the Second World War due to its strategic location in the Davao Gulf. The Japanese established a Camp called Piso Camp in Barangay Calubihan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154648", "title": "Boston, Davao Oriental", "text": "Boston, Davao Oriental\n\n' (), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBoston is politically subdivided into 8 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154650", "title": "Cateel", "text": "Cateel\n\n' (), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCateel is the home of the Aliwagwag Falls, located at barangay Aliwagwag within the Aliwagwag Protected Landscape. It is a towering waterfalls considered by hydraulic engineers as the highest in the country and regarded as one of the most beautiful falls in the Philippines. It is a series of 84 falls appearing like stairway to heaven with various heights among the steps ranging from . One step is measured and another is . Overall Aliwagwag Falls has a height of and a width of . All these in the midst of virgin forest, with a river at the foot of the falls. 13 rapids to cross.\n\nCateel is the first municipality in Mindanao. It was the place where Spaniards first docked in Mindanao which reflects how majority of its primary inhabitants converted to Catholicism.\n\nIn 1959,the Mainit and Alegria were converted into barrios.\n\nThe municipality was one of the hardest-hit towns of Typhoon Bopha when it hit the town on December 3, 2012.\n\nCateel is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154653", "title": "Governor Generoso", "text": "Governor Generoso\n\n' (), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly known as Sigaboy.\n\nThe municipality is named after Sebastian T. Generoso, a former governor of Davao Province.\n\nMiangas, Indonesia (also known as \"Isla de las Palmas\") is located directly southeast of this municipality.\n\nGeneroso is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2154656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154656", "title": "Lupon", "text": "Lupon\n\n' (), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLupon is said to have derived its name from the native word \"\"naluponan\"\", meaning a body of land accumulated at the mouth of a river resulting from years of continued accretion. The settlers shortened the word \"\"naluponan\"\" into what is called now \"Lupon\". This \"\"naluponan\"\" area was then applied to the mouth of the Sumlug river of Lupon municipality of today.\n\nLupon is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\nLupon, like many areas of Mindanao, is inhabited by the Mandaya, Mansaka, the native Kalagans, and the local immigrants from all points of the Visayas, Luzon and Mindanao. The immigrants brought with them their culture resulting in a mixture of beliefs and practices.\n\nLupon was primarily inhabited by the Mandaya and Mansaka in the hinterlands, and the native Kalagans in the shorelines of Lupon connected to Pantukan municipality and San Isidro municipality today. But, through a wave of migration [local immigrants from Luzon and the Visayas (Christians and Muslims alike)] and the coming of logging concessions, the population of Lupon has increased through the succeeding years.\n\nThe migrants from Luzon and Visayas took advantage of the natives' kindness and ignorance. They took their lands and were even proud to tell stories that the natives (Mandayas) changed their lands for sardines and tobacco. \n\nThe land grabbers and their descendants insult Mandayas on a daily basis. They treat them like they are lower life forms. They yell at them \"Mandaya! Mandaya!\" like being a Mandaya is a shameful thing. When a person behaves stupidly they will say \"You are like a Mandaya.\" All of them does it including the educated ones. \n\nLupon first became a regular barrio of Pantukan in 1919. Two years later Governor General Francis Burton Harrison issued an Executive Order No. 8, series of 1921, creating Lupon as a Municipal District comprising eight (8) barrios that include Poblacion Lupon, Sumlog, Cocornon, Tagugpo, Piso, Maputi, Langka, and Banaybanay.\n\nFor the meantime, Datu Commara Manuel was appointed as the municipal district president from 1921 to 1929. The American Occupation in the Philippine Islands was serious about pacifying inhabitants from rebellion against the American regime. What they did was to create Mindanao into a Moro Province, at the expense of the Christians both Catholic and Protestants also inhabiting the whole region. It was on this ground that Lupon was said to have been made into a sultanate with Datu Manuel as its sultan. But such an idea of Lupon becoming a sultanate was short-lived as Datu Manuel was replaced by the succeeding municipal district presidents.\n\nThese were the municipal district presidents after Datu Manuel: Alfredo Lindo (1929–1931); Luis Yabut (1931–1933); Teodoro Panuncialman (1933–1939); Carlos Badolato (1939 to the outbreak of World War II); Sixto Carreon (1940 onward to the Japanese Occupation); Cresencio Tuballa (1944–1945 time of the Philippine Commonwealth military and Recognized Guerrillas); Claudio Libre (1945–1946); Cresencio Tuballa (1946); and Carlos Badolato (1946–1947).\n\nLupon was created into a regular municipality on August 8, 1948, by virtue of Executive Order No. 151, s. 1948 with Teodoro Panuncialman as the first appointed mayor of Lupon. But that appointment was cut short by another appointment of Crisanto Magno as mayor of Lupon from 1948 to 1950; however Panuncialman was re-appointed for 1950–1951.\n\nAt this time in 1951, a local election installed Crisanto Magno as the first elected mayor of Lupon from 1951 to 1955. Then the succeeding elected mayors were privileged to take responsibility of the unbroken mayoralty seat of Lupon. Oswaldo Barol (1955–67); Eulalio Angala Jr. (1967–79); Francisco M. dela Cruz (1979–86); then at the transition from the Marcos to the Aquino administration brought about by the February 1986 Edsa Revolution, Jose Lim was appointed Office In-Charge (1986–87); then Francisco dela Cruz was again re-elected (1988–98); Quiñones was elected in May (1998–2001); and Guiñez was elected in May 2001. But his untimely death brought the Vice Mayor Barabag to the mayoralty seat in 2002 to finish the term up until 2004. Quiñones was again elected to office during the 2004 elections and would serve the office until 2007. In 2007 Domingo Lim was first elected and served as mayor until 2016 after winning the 2010 and 2013 mayoralty elections respectively. He was replaced by this wife Erlinda Lim who won the 2016 election and became the first ever woman to serve as mayor of Lupon.\n\nHere is the list of the Mayors of Lupon:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154657", "title": "Manay, Davao Oriental", "text": "Manay, Davao Oriental\n\n' (, also spelled Man-ay), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is also pronounced as \"Man-ay\".\n\nManay is politically subdivided into 17 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154658", "title": "Mati, Davao Oriental", "text": "Mati, Davao Oriental\n\n', officially the ' () and also referred to as Mati City, is a and the capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located on the south-eastern side of Mindanao.\n\nMati is politically subdivided into 26 barangays. In 1957, the barrio then known as Cabuaya was renamed to Dawan.\n\nMati comes from the Mandayan word \"Maa-ti\" which refers to the town's creek that easily dries up even after heavy rain. Pioneer settlers were tribes Kalagan, Mandayan, and Maranao which carried strong Arabic and Indo-Malayan influences.\n\nCaptain Prudencio Garcia, the pioneer political-military head in 1861, and his comrade Juan Nazareno founded Mati and two other towns in Davao Oriental.\n\nBy 1903, Mati was declared a municipality by virtue of Act No. 21. By 1907, Act No. 189 further reaffirmed the establishment of its local government. Francisco Rojas was the first appointed mayor while the first elected mayor was Patricio Cunanan in 1923. Mati became the capital of Davao Oriental in 1967.\n\nThe Japanese Imperial forces landed in town and occupied most of eastern Davao region in 1942. Mati was liberated in 1945 by the Allied Philippine Commonwealth troops of the 6th, 10th, 101st, 102nd, 103rd, 104th, 106th, 107th and 110th Infantry Division of the Philippine Commonwealth Army, 10th Infantry Regiment of the Philippine Constabulary and the Davaoeño guerrilla units. \n\nMati celebrated its grand centennial in 2003.\n\nOn June 20, 2007, the Commission on Elections officially proclaimed the ratification of Republic Act 9408 converting the Municipality of Mati into a component city.\n\nThere were 18,267 actual voters out of the 51,287 registered voters in 26 villages and 266 polling precincts during the June 18 plebiscite. Final tabulation showed Yes – 18,267 votes (1826700/51287 round 1%); No – 846 (1.6%).\n\nMati is the fifth largest city/municipality in Davao Region, after Davao City, Tagum, Panabo, and Digos. \n\nCebuano is the most widely spoken language and the corresponding ethnicity (which includes the Boholano subgroup) accounts for 71.55% of the total household population according to a 2000 census. Mandaya ranks second with 12.74%, followed by Kalagan with 6.87%. Most residents of Mati are descendants of migrants from the Visayas who came for employment opportunities in logging, mining, farming, fishing, trading and teaching.\n\nRoman Catholicism is the major religious group, comprising the 80% of the total population. Islam comes in second with 8 percent, Iglesia Ni Cristo comes in third comprising with 6 percent. A small number of believers of other Christian groups like the United Church of Christ and Seventh Day Adventist are in the city as well.\n\nThe Cathedral of San Nicolas de Tolentino is the center of Diocese of Mati under the jurisdiction of Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Davao. Two parishes are in Mati: one in the town center and one in Barangay Dawan. \n\nThis region is linked to the markets of Mindanao, Malaysia and Indonesia. Most of the local people rely on agriculture and agro-industries for a living. Exports include bananas, pineapples, coconuts and fish. Because of its tropical nature and beaches, tourism is a rapidly growing business. Mining is also a contributor to the city's economy, due to the large deposits of copper in the city outskirts.\n\nUtilities\n\nMati is served by the Davao Oriental Electric Cooperative for its power needs. The Mati City Water District, on the other hand, is the local water provider for the city.\n\nMati offers beautiful landscapes and a number of beautiful resorts. The Provincial Capitol building and park rises atop the hill commanding a fantastic view of the Pujada Bay. Other locations that offer a bird's-eye view of the city are the Mati Tourism Complex and \"Badas\" Viewdeck.\n\nDahican Beach\n\nMati has always been known as a beach destination, with foreigners flocking to the city to enjoy what its beaches have to offer. Dahican is one of the most popular destinations in Mati with its 2-kilometer pure, fine white sand shore. It has recently become a prime destination for surfers and skimboarders. Pujada Bay boasts thousands of species of sea life and has been considered as among the richest bays in Southeast Asia. As such, locals take measures to preserve the diversity of marine life, protecting animals like lobsters, sea cows (locally known as Dugong), bottlenose dolphins, hammerhead sharks, manta rays and different kinds of turtles.\n\nRecently, skimboarding, surfing, and frisbee sports have established a wide fandom among young locals with \"Dahican\" being the favorite hub for tournaments in the region.\n\nMati is home to three protected areas, the Mount Hamiguitan Range Wildlife Sanctuary, Mati Protected Landscape, and Pujada Bay Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nMindanao SAGA Flying Club\n\nThe Mindanao SAGA Flying Club (MSFC), located at the Mati National Airport in Barangay Dahican, is an Ultralight aircraft flying facility that offers trial flights and flying lessons. Fast becoming the major attraction in Mati, MSFC has introduced a safe, affordable, and an exciting way to see the majestic scenery of the city like no one has seen before. The Quicksilver Sport 2S ultralight is the favorite of visitors owing to its open cockpit that gives the passenger an unrestricted view of the landscape and the feeling of ultimate freedom in the air.\n\nSubangan Museum\n\nInaugurated in January 2014, Subangan is the provincial museum. It features interactive, state-of-the-art exhibits. The centerpiece is a 53-feet skeleton of a sperm whale, considered the largest on display in the whole country. The museum also features exhibits on UNESCO World Heritage Site Mount Hamiguitan and Davao Oriental's history. \n\nMati celebrates two annual grand festivals: the Pujada Bay Festival every June, and the Sambuokan Festival every October. Compared to the Kadayawan of Davao and other festivals, both of Mati's are relatively new. The Pujada Bay Festival started in 2004 to promote and protect the Pujada Bay, while the Sambuokan Festival started in 2001 to unite Matinians during the commemoration of the municipality's founding anniversary every October 29. In years, both festivals have become alternative tourist destinations as competitors from various regions in the country start pouring in for competitions like streetdancing, boat racing, skimboarding, and frisbee.\n\nMati City is the educational center of the province of Davao Oriental. The state university of the province, the Davao Oriental State University, is in Dahican, as is the Davao Oriental Regional Science High School. There are two other colleges in the city: Mati Polytechnic College and Mati Doctors College. \n\nIn basic education, seven private schools, sixteen public high schools, and a number of public elementary schools are located in the city. The City Schools Division of Mati supervises these schools.\n\nThe pedicab or tricycle is the major means of transportation around the city. In recent years, underbone motorcycles have earned quite a popularity among professionals and students, thus easily becoming a public transport alternative to commuters who prefer more speed. Jeepneys are available for travels from Mati to its neighboring towns while vans and buses are still the only means of transportation from Mati to other cities.\n\nMati Airport is scheduled to operate, with Cebu Pacific offering Mati-Cebu direct flights.\n\nThere is also a seaport in Mati. The Mati Seaport in Pujada Bay is one of only three seaports in the whole province of Davao Oriental.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154661", "title": "Hornby Island", "text": "Hornby Island\n\nHornby Island of British Columbia, Canada, is a Salish Sea island located near Vancouver Island's Comox Valley.\n\nA small community of 958 residents (as of the 2011 census), Hornby is home to many artists, retired professionals, small business owners, remote workers, and young families who share a love of rural island life. Over the past 30 years, the island has become a coveted destination and its population easily quadruples in size during the summer months. The shoulder seasons are a preferred time for hiking, mountain biking, marine activities, weddings, and retreats. Most people reach the island by ferries from Buckley Bay, Vancouver Island. A growing number of private boats also visit through mooring at the Ford Cove Marina or anchoring at Tribune Bay. The closest airport is Comox Valley Airport in Comox, which provides regional, national, and international service.\n\nThe primary destinations on Hornby are Tribune Bay Provincial Park, Helliwell Provincial Park, Ford's Cove, Heron Rocks and Whaling Station Bay. The island is also a popular mountain biking destination, with a variety of designated trails in Mount Geoffrey Regional Nature Park, Mount Geoffrey Escarpment Provincial Park and Crown Land. The total land area is , of which 40% is parkland.\n\nThe island is geographically distinctive as it was formed by post-glacial rebound with the retreat of the last ice age. Before the arrival of European settlers, the island was inhabited by the Pentlatch, a Coast Salish First Nations band who called the Island Ja-dai-aich, meaning The Outer Island. The island was found and named Isla de Lerena during the 1791 voyage of the Spanish ship \"Santa Saturnina\", under Juan Carrasco and José María Narváez. The name honors the Spanish Finance Minister, Don Pedro López de Lerena, who supported the movement of Spanish Ships over there.\nIn 1850 the British renamed it after Rear Admiral Phipps Hornby, then Commander of the Pacific Station.\n\nHornby Island is mostly covered by mixed forest dominated by Douglas-fir. Western red cedar, western hemlock, grand fir and lodgepole pine are the other large conifers present. The smaller Pacific yew is scattered in the understorey. The arbutus, a broadleaf evergreen species, is plentiful. Broadleaf deciduous trees include bigleaf maple, red alder, black cottonwood, Pacific flowering dogwood, cascara and several species of willow. Populations of Garry oak occur on the southern end of the island and at Helliwell Provincial Park. Only about of undisturbed stands for older forest have been identified on Hornby Island, which amount to roughly 3.5% of the island's area. There are roughly of older second-growth stands on the island, which amount to 19% of the island.\n\nThe island's soils have developed from marine deposits of variable texture, except for the higher elevations and steeper slopes where weathered clastic sedimentary rock provides the parent material. Most of Hornby's soils are sandy or gravelly, but some deep black loams occur in the northwestern part and many of the sands at the southern end have loam-textured topsoils. Podzols are common and the bleached sand grains associated with their eluvial (A, Ae or E) horizons lend a salt-and-pepper appearance to many forest trails. In most cases, though, the E is not very thick and may be discontinuous. On this account, the soils were mostly classified as Brown Podzolic in a soil survey published in 1959. All of the island's soils are strongly acidic in their natural state except for those which have developed on shoreline shell middens.\n\nFossil collectors have found Ammonite and Baculite fossils at Boulder Point on Hornby Island.\nA species of saurodontid fish (previously considered a pterosaur) called \"Gwawinapterus beardi\" was identified based on a fossil found on a beach on Hornby Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154663", "title": "Phloroglucinol", "text": "Phloroglucinol\n\nPhloroglucinol is an organic compound with the formula CH(OH). It is a colorless solid. It is used in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and explosives. Phloroglucinol is one of three isomeric benzenetriols. The other two isomers are hydroxyquinol (1,2,4-benzenetriol) and pyrogallol (1,2,3-benzenetriol). Phloroglucinol, and its benzenetriol isomers, are still defined as \"phenols\" according to the IUPAC official nomenclature rules of chemical compounds. Many such monophenolics are often termed \"polyphenols\" by the cosmetic and parapharmaceutical industries, which does not match the scientifically accepted definition.\n\nIn 1855, phloroglucinol was first prepared from phloretin by the Austrian chemist Heinrich Hlasiwetz (1825–1875).\n\nA modern synthesis of involves hydrolysis of benzene-1,3,5-triamine and its derivatives. Representative is the following route from trinitrobenzene. \nThe synthesis is noteworthy because ordinary aniline derivatives are unreactive toward hydroxide. Because the triaminobenzene also exists as its imine tautomer, it is susceptible to hydrolysis.\n\nPhloroglucinol is a weak triprotic acid. The first two pK's are 8.5 and 8.9.\n\nAs an enol, phloroglucinol in principle exists in equilibrium with keto tautomers. Evidence for this equilibrium is provided by the formation of the oxime:\nBut it behaves also like a benzenetriol as the three hydroxyl groups can be methylated to give 1,3,5-trimethoxybenzene.\n\nFor the neutral compound, the keto tautomers are undetectable spectroscopically. Upon deprotonation, the keto tautomer predominates.\n\nFrom water, phloroglucinol crystallizes as the dihydrate, which has a melting point of 116–117 °C, but the anhydrous form melts at a much higher temperature, at 218–220 °C. It does not boil intact, but it does sublime.\n\nThe Hoesch reaction allows the synthesis of 1-(2,4,6-Trihydroxyphenyl)ethanone from phloroglucinol.\n\nLeptospermone can be synthesized from phloroglucinol by a reaction with isovaleroylnitrile in the presence of a zinc chloride catalyst.\n\nPentacarbon dioxide, described in 1988 by Günter Maier and others, can be obtained by pyrolysis of 1,3,5-cyclohexanetrione (phloroglucin).\n\nPhloroglucinol readily forms 5-aminoresorcinol (aka Phloramine) in aqueous ammonia at low temperatures.\n\nphloroglucinol & phloretic acid gives 30% yield of phloretin.\n\nPhloroglucinol is also generally found in the flavonoid ring A substitution pattern. Indeed, it was originally prepared from phloretin, a compound isolated from fruit trees, using potassium hydroxide. Additionally, the compound can be similarly prepared from glucosides, plant extracts and resins such as quercetin, catechin and phlobaphenes.\n\nPhloroglucinols are secondary metabolites that occur naturally in certain plant species. It is also produced by brown algae and bacteria.\n\nAcyl dervatives are present in the fronds of the coastal woodfern, \"Dryopteris arguta\" or in \"Dryopteris crassirhizoma\". The anthelmintic activity of the root of \"Dryopteris filix-mas\" has been claimed to be due to flavaspidic acid, a phloroglucinol derivative.\n\nFormylated phloroglucinol compounds (euglobals, macrocarpals and sideroxylonals) can be found in \"Eucalyptus\" species. Hyperforin and adhyperforin are two phloroglucinols found in St John's wort. Humulone is a phloroglucinol derivative with three isoprenoid side-chains. Two side-chains are prenyl groups and one is an isovaleryl group. Humulone is a bitter-tasting chemical compound found in the resin of mature hops (\"Humulus lupulus\").\n\nBrown algae, such as \"Ecklonia stolonifera\", \"Eisenia bicyclis\" or species in the genus \"Zonaria\", produce phloroglucinol and phloroglucinol derivatives. Brown algae also produce a type of tannins known as phlorotannins.\n\nThe bacterium \"Pseudomonas fluorescens\" produces phloroglucinol, phloroglucinol carboxylic acid and diacetylphloroglucinol.\n\nIn \"Pseudomonas fluorescens\", biosynthesis of phloroglucinol is performed with a type III polyketide synthase. The synthesis begins with the condensation of three malonyl-CoAs. Then decarboxylation followed by the cyclization of the activated 3,5-diketoheptanedioate product leads to the formation of phloroglucinol.\n\nThe enzyme pyrogallol hydroxytransferase uses 1,2,3,5-tetrahydroxybenzene and 1,2,3-trihydroxybenzene (pyrogallol) to produce 1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene (phloroglucinol) and 1,2,3,5-tetrahydroxybenzene. It is found in the bacterium species \"Pelobacter acidigallici\".\n\nThe enzyme phloroglucinol reductase uses dihydrophloroglucinol and NADP to produce phloroglucinol, NADPH, and H. It is found in the bacterium species \"Eubacterium oxidoreducens\".\n\nThe legume-root nodulating, microsymbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacterium species \"Bradyrhizobium japonicum\" is able to degrade catechin with formation of phloroglucinol carboxylic acid, further decarboxylated to phloroglucinol, which is dehydroxylated to resorcinol and hydroxyquinol.\n\nPhloretin hydrolase uses phloretin and water to produce phloretate and phloroglucinol.\n\nIt is also used as a treatment for gallstones, spasmodic pain and other related gastrointestinal disorders.\nWhether for labour pains, abortion pains or benign gynaecologic pains, the results found are insufficient to promote the use of this drug in these indications.\n\nPhloroglucinols acylated derivatives have a fatty acid synthase inhibitory activity.\n\nIt has the A03AX12 code in the A03AX \"Other drugs for functional bowel disorders\" section of the ATC code A03 \" Drugs for functional gastrointestinal disorders\" subgroup of the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System. It also has the D02.755.684 code in the D02 \"Organic chemicals\" section of the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) codes by the United States National Library of Medicine.\n\nPhloroglucinol is mainly used as a coupling agent in printing. It links diazo dyes to give a fast black.\n\nIt is useful for the industrial synthesis of pharmaceuticals (Flopropione) and explosives (TATB (2,4,6-triamino-1,3,5-trinitrobenzene), trinitrophloroglucinol, 1,3,5-trinitrobenzene).\n\nPhloroglucinolysis is an analytical technique to study condensed tannins by means of depolymerisation. The reaction makes use of phloroglucinol as nucleophile. Phlobaphenes formation (tannins condensation and precipitation) can be minimized in using strong nucleophiles, such as phloroglucinol, during pine tannins extraction.\n\nPhloroglucinol is used in plant culture media. It demonstrates both cytokinin-like and auxin-like activity. Phloroglucinol increases shoot formation and somatic embryogenesis in several horticultural and grain crops. When added to rooting media together with auxin, phloroglucinol further stimulates rooting. \n\nPhloroglucinol is a reagent of the Tollens' test for pentoses. This test relies on reaction of the furfural with phloroglucinol to produce a colored compound with high molar absorptivity.\n\nA solution of hydrochloric acid and phloroglucinol is also used for the detection of lignin (Wiesner test). A brilliant red color develops, owing to the presence of coniferaldehyde groups in the lignin. A similar test can be performed with tolonium chloride.\n\nIt is also part of Gunzburg reagent, an alcoholic solution of phloroglucinol and vanillin, for the qualitative detection of free hydrochloric acid in gastric juice.\n"}
{"id": "2154668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154668", "title": "Ruth Reichl", "text": "Ruth Reichl\n\nRuth Reichl (; born January 16, 1948), is an American chef, food writer, co-producer of PBS's \"Gourmet's Diary of a Foodie\", culinary editor for the Modern Library, host of PBS's \"Gourmet's Adventures With Ruth\", and the last editor-in-chief of \"Gourmet\" magazine. She has written critically acclaimed, best-selling memoirs: \"Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table\", \"Comfort Me with Apples: More Adventures at the Table\", \"Garlic and Sapphires: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise\" and \"Not Becoming My Mother\". In 2009, she published \"Gourmet Today\" a 1,008 page cookbook containing over 1,000 recipes. She published her first novel, \"Delicious!\" in 2014, and, in 2015, published \"My Kitchen Year: 136 Recipes That Saved My Life\", a memoir of recipes prepared in the year following the shuttering of Gourmet.\n\nBorn in New York City on January 16, 1948, to parents Ernst, a typographer and Miriam (\"née\" Brudno), the daughter of a German Jewish refugee father and an American Jewish mother, Reichl was raised in Greenwich Village in New York City and spent time at a boarding school in Montreal as a young girl. She attended the University of Michigan, where she met her first husband, the artist Douglas Hollis. She graduated in 1970 with an M.A. in Art History.\n\nShe and Hollis moved to Berkeley, California, where her interest in food led to her joining the collectively owned Swallow Restaurant as a chef and co-owner from 1973 to 1977, and where she played an important role in the culinary revolution taking place at the time. Reichl began her food-writing career with \"Mmmmm: A Feastiary\", a cookbook, in 1972. She moved on to become food writer and editor of \"New West\" magazine from 1973 to 1977, then to the \"Los Angeles Times\" as its restaurant editor from 1984 to 1993 and food editor and critic from 1990 to 1993. She returned to her native New York City in 1993 to become the restaurant critic for \"The New York Times\" before leaving to assume the editorship of \"Gourmet\" in 1999.\n\nShe is known for her ability to \"make or break\" a restaurant with her fierce attention to detail and her adventurous spirit. For Reichl, her mission has been to \"demystify the world of fine cuisine\" (CBS News Online). She has won acclaim with both readers and writers alike for her honesty about some of the not-so-fabulous aspects of haute cuisine. Through an outsider's perspective, she harshly criticized the sexism prevalent toward women in dine-out experiences, as well as the pretentious nature of the ritziest New York restaurants and restaurateurs alike.\n\nDespite her success and tales of how she used to disguise herself to mask her identity while reviewing, she is quite open about why she stopped. \"I really wanted to go home and cook for my family,\" she says. \"I don't think there's one thing more important you can do for your kids than have family dinner\". Reichl is now married to television news producer, Michael Singer; they have a son, Nick.\n\nShe has been the recipient of four James Beard Awards: in 1996 and 1998 for restaurant criticism, one in 1994 for journalism and in 1984 for \"Who's Who of Food and Beverage in America\"; as well as several awards granted by the Association of American Food Journalists. She was also the recipient of the YWCA's Elizabeth Cutter Morrow Award, celebrating the accomplishments of strong, successful women. Reichl served as host for three Food Network Specials titled \"Eating Out Loud\" which covered cuisine from each coast and corner of the United States, in New York in 2002, and Miami and San Francisco in 2003. She also frequents Leonard Lopate's monthly food radio show on WNYC in New York.\n\nFrom 2011–2013, Reichl appeared as a judge on seasons , and of the Bravo reality television show \"Top Chef Masters\".\n\nIn 2015, Reichl appeared as a Featured Author, leading a writing seminar, at the Iceland Writers Retreat in Reykjavik, Iceland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154669", "title": "NDTV", "text": "NDTV\n\nNew Delhi Television Limited (NDTV) is an Indian television media company founded in 1988 by Radhika Roy, a journalist. NDTV started off as a content provider for Doordarshan, producing the show \"The World This Week\" in November 1988. In 1998 NDTV started its own 24X7 news channel with STAR and later shifted to its own venture in 2003, launching both the English and Hindi versions of the channel. NDTV's slogan is \"Experience. Truth First\".\n\n, New Delhi Television. Securities and Exchange Board of India barred Prannoy Roy and his wife Radhika Roy from accessing the securities market for 2 years after an investigation revealed that they concealed material info from shareholders regarding loan agreements and hence, they cannot hold management positions in NDTV board. In August 2019, its CEO Suparna Singh resigned after CBI booked promoters for alleged FDI norms violation.\n\nNDTV started out as a content provider company for the public broadcaster Doordarshan. It started off in November 1988 by producing the 30 minute weekly news show \"The World This Week\" for Doordarshan. In 1989, NDTV created India's first live coverage and analysis of the general elections. In 1995 NDTV produced a national news show, \"\"Tonight\"\", which was telecast on Doordarshan.\nIn 1998 NDTV started India's first 24x7 news show in collaboration with Rupert Murdoch's STAR News Channel. Interestingly, during the initial years there was always a delay of 10 minutes which later shifted to five minutes between telecast and production of live news due to government restrictions. In 1999, NDTV launched its website.\n\nChannels of NDTV Group are:\n\n\n\nOn 20 January 1998, Central Bureau of Investigation filed various cases against New Delhi Television (NDTV) managing director Prannoy Roy, former director general of Doordarshan R. Basu and five other top officials of Doordarshan under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for criminal conspiracy and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. According to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) charge-sheet, Doordarshan suffered a loss of over Rs. 35.2 million due to the \"undue favours\" shown to NDTV as its programme \"The World This Week\" (\"TWTW\") was put in 'A' category instead of 'special A' category.\n\nIn November 2010, \"OPEN magazine\" carried a story which reported transcripts of some of the telephone conversations of Nira Radia with senior journalists, politicians, and corporate houses, many of whom have denied the allegations. The Central Bureau of Investigation has announced that they have 5,851 recordings of phone conversations by Radia, some of which outline Radia's attempts to broker deals in relation to the 2G spectrum sale. The tapes appear to demonstrate how Radia attempted to use some media persons including NDTV's Barkha Dutt to influence the decision to appoint A. Raja as telecom minister. She left the channel in January 2017.\n\nNDTV, through its foreign subsidiaries have allegedly violated numerous Indian tax and corporate laws. NDTV has denied these allegations.\n\n\"The Sunday Guardian\", a centre-left newspaper ran a story which exposed the NDTV's financial misdemeanours and malpractices in connivance with ICICI Bank. It provides details of how NDTV's major stakeholders raised funds by misdeclaration of the value of shares in NDTV. NDTV CEO claimed to the \"Sunday Guardian\" along with the threat of \"criminal defamation\". On 5 June 2017, the house of Prannoy Roy was raided by NIA and CBI.\n\nOn 19 November 2015, the ED served notice to NDTV for alleged violations under the FEMA act, however the company said it has been advised that the allegations, while true are not \"legally tenable\".\n\nThe \"Income Tax Appellate Tribunal\" (ITAT) has upheld an income tax department finding that promoters of NDTV used their own shell companies to round-trip investments of during 2009–10, making them liable for recovery of tax and penalty.\n\nRegarding an investment by the US TV network, NBC (an 80% subsidiary of GE at the time) into NDTV Networks of $150 million, both NDTV and NBC/GE insist was an absolutely legal and bona fide investment while the IT department claims it is an illegal transaction. NDTV has called it the Indian Authorities variant of \"McCarthyism\" to suppress the media.\n\nOn 5 August 2011, Comptroller and Auditor General of India's report on XIX Commonwealth Games was tabled in Parliament of India. In section 14.4.2 of the report, CAG alleged that while awarding contracts worth for production and broadcast of commercials to promote CWG-2010 to NDTV and CNN-IBN, the Commonwealth Games Organizing Committee followed an arbitrary approach. Proposals were considered in an ad-hoc manner, as and when a proposal was received; no form of competitive tendering was adopted. The CAG further said in its report that, \"We had no assurance about the competitiveness of the rates quoted by these channels and the need and usefulness of these proposals. From March 2010 to June 2010, the entire pre games publicity and sponsorship publicity was done only on NDTV & CNN-IBN.\"\n\nIn 2012, NDTV alleged that TV rating measurement company TAM had indulged in malpractice of influencing and generating favourable TV ratings for their channel. They claimed that two TAM representatives had met NDTV staff in April with an offer to fix the TV ratings in 2–3 weeks by bribing viewers in homes (which otherwise are secret) where the measuring meters were installed. NDTV claimed that this malpractice had resulted in enormous losses for the company over several years and filed a case against TAM, TAM India and its global parent firms for $1.39 billion in the Supreme Court of New York. Subsequently, in 2014, the New York Supreme Court dismissed NDTV's petition citing that since it was based on activities and impact in India, NDTV needed to pursue the case in India instead of the US.\n\nOn 4 November 2016, the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting ordered the channel to go off air on 9 November for allegedly divulging 'strategically sensitive' details while covering January's deadly attack on the Pathankot air base. Government scrapped their decision on the ban for reasons not made clear.\n\nOn 5 June 2017, the CBI raided premises of channel promoters Prannoy and Radika Roy, accusing it of \"causing an alleged loss\" to ICICI Bank of . The complainant, Sanjay Dutt, Director of Quantum Securities Pvt. Ltd., alleged that the Roys took a loan of around from ICICI in 2008–09, putting up their shareholdings in the company at an inflated value as collateral. He added that while the amount was repaid the following year, the accrued interest of remained unpaid. In its response, NDTV denied any \"default on any loan to ICICI or any other bank\", while attaching a picture of the bank's 2009 letter that confirmed that the \"entire amount due,\" amounting to , had \"been repaid in full.\" It added that, \"No matter how much the politicians attack us - We will not give up the fight for freedom and the independence of media in India.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2154678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154678", "title": "Spectrum Games", "text": "Spectrum Games\n\nSpectrum Games is the trading name of a small company that designs role-playing games (RPGs). \n\nIt was founded in 2000 (as Spectrum Game Studios, which is still the company's legal name) by Cynthia Celeste Miller and Sabrina Belle (the latter of whom is no longer involved). In 2002, Eddy Webb was brought into the fold and soon became vice-president. Two of the products created by the company have been nominated for the Indie Game Awards, Origins Awards, and the ENnie Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154681", "title": "Robert Stanley Weir", "text": "Robert Stanley Weir\n\nRobert Stanley Weir (November 15, 1856 – August 20, 1926) was a Montreal, Quebec judge and poet most famous for writing the English lyrics to \"O Canada\", the national anthem of Canada. He was educated as a teacher and lawyer and considered one of the leading experts of the day on Quebec's municipal civil law. He was appointed a municipal court judge and a judge for the Exchequer Court of Canada.\n\nWeir published several individual poems in magazines and collections in books. His lyrics for the English version of \"O Canada\" eclipsed many others' lyrical attempts and songs to quickly become the most popular patriotic song in Canada for the past century.\n\nRobert Stanley Weir was born in Hamilton, Canada West, the son of William Park Weir and Helen Craig Smith, who had emigrated from Scotland to Canada in 1852. Weir moved to Montreal, Quebec with his family as an infant, where his father became a Surveyor of Customs in the Port of Montreal. His brother, William Alexander Weir, was born there and would later become a Cabinet Minister in the Legislative Assembly of Quebec.\n\nWeir studied at McGill Normal School, Montreal, and at the age of 19, was appointed principal of Sherbrooke Street School, one of the newest and largest Montreal public schools at the time. He continued his studies at McGill University earning his Bachelor of Civil Law in 1880 and a Doctor of Civil Law in 1897.\n\nIn 1882, he married Margaret (Gertie) Alexander Douglas, daughter of wealthy Montreal businessman Alexander Douglas. They had six children, two sons, Douglas (the eldest), and Albert (Ronald) Weir, (1901 - 1944), and four daughters, Beatrice, Winnifred, Marjorie and Dorothy Douglas Weir. Marjorie Douglas Weir would become known for her role in a movement to provide children's playgrounds in Montreal. Robert himself was known to be Vice-President of the Parks & Playgrounds association, in 1922. The family divided their time between Montreal and a summer home named Cedarhurst, in Cedarville, a picturesque hamlet on the east shore of Lac Memphrémagog in the Eastern Townships of Quebec.\n\nFrom 1881, Weir practised law in Montreal and took a particular interest in municipal questions and had several of his studies published. In 1892, he ran unsuccessfully as a Liberal for the Montreal No. 4 riding of the Legislative Assembly of Quebec. In 1898, he was one of several eminent advocates appointed to revise the charter of the City of Montreal. It is believed that, in particular, he wrote many of the sections relating to expropriations and the power of the city to pass by-laws.\n\nOn May 6, 1899, he was appointed Recorder for Montreal. During this time as a recorder, he also taught liturgics and jurisprudence in the Congregational College of Canada, which was affiliated with McGill University. Weir later served as a municipal court judge and was considered an expert on the historical aspects of municipal law. He was later appointed a judge for the Exchequer Court of Canada in 1926. In 1923, he was honoured as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\nIn 1908, Weir wrote English lyrics for \"O Canada\" while at his summer home, Cedarhurst, in time to honour the 300th anniversary of the founding of Quebec City.\n\nThe French version had originally been commissioned in 1880 by the Lieutenant Governor of Quebec, Théodore Robitaille with lyrics by Sir Adolphe Basile Routhier and music composed by Calixa Lavallée in time for the \"\" which was to be held on St. Jean Baptiste Day of that year. The popularity of the song grew quickly in Quebec and was played frequently at special events in the province.\n\nEnglish versions began to appear almost immediately. The first evidence of official use of any version of \"O Canada\" in Anglophone Canada was 1901, when school children sang it for that year's tour of Canada by the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall, later King George V and Queen Mary). By the time Weir wrote his version in 1908, there were more than a hundred English quasi-translations of the French original (whose lyrics have never changed). But it was Weir's version that became the most popular one.\n\nThe tune was already popular across the country, and with Weir's popular lyrics \"O Canada\" swiftly joined \"God Save the King\" as co-national anthem by custom, though neither of them had been statutorily declared national anthems. At the time of confederation in 1867, many Anglophones advocated for \"The Maple Leaf Forever\" to be their national anthem. But while it was often used alongside \"God Save the King\" at official functions in Anglophone areas of the country, no French version was ever produced making it impossible for that song to ever become Canada's national anthem. Other alternatives faced similar problems.\n\nWeir's original 1908 lyrics were:\n\n<poem>O Canada! Our home, our native land.\nTrue patriot love thou dost in us command.\n\nWe see thee rising fair, dear land,\nThe True North strong and free;\n\nAnd stand on guard, O Canada,\nWe stand on guard for thee.\n\nO Canada! O Canada!\nO Canada, we stand on guard for thee!\nO Canada, we stand on guard for thee!</poem>\n\nWeir amended the lyrics slightly in 1913, 1914 and 1916, ultimately producing the following version:\n\n<poem>O Canada! Our home and native land.\nTrue patriot love in all thy sons command.\n\nWith glowing hearts we see thee rise,\nThe True North strong and free!\n\nAnd stand on guard, O Canada!\nWe stand on guard for thee.\n\nO Canada, glorious and free.\nWe stand on guard, we stand on guard for thee!\n\nO Canada! We stand on guard for thee!</poem>\n\nOne final change was made to the penultimate line after Weir died - and is preserved in a recording made by tenor Edward Johnson in 1928:\n<poem>O Canada, glorious and free,\nWe stand on guard, we stand on guard for thee!\nO Canada! We stand on guard for thee!</poem>\nBecame:\n<poem>O Canada! Glorious and free!\nO Canada! We stand on guard for thee!\nO Canada! We stand on guard for thee!</poem>\n\nBut the 1916 version continued to be used for official occasions until 1980, when Parliament changed the lyrics upon statutory adoption of \"O Canada\" as the national anthem (still with no change to the original French lyrics):\n\n<poem>O Canada! Our home and native land!\nTrue patriot love in all thy sons command.\n\nWith glowing hearts we see thee rise,\nThe True North strong and free!\n\nFrom far and wide, O Canada,\nWe stand on guard for thee.\n\nGod keep our land glorious and free!\nO Canada, We stand on guard for thee.\nO Canada, We stand on guard for thee.</poem>\n\nOn February 7, 2018, legislation that proposed to change the line \"True patriot love in all thy sons command\" to \"True patriot love in all of us command\" received royal assent, and the change became law.\n\nJudge Robert Stanley Weir died on August 20, 1926 at Lac Memphrémagog, Quebec, Canada.\n\nWeir's verses of \"O Canada\" were published in an official form for the Diamond Jubilee of Confederation in 1927, and gradually became the most generally accepted anthem in English-speaking Canada, completely winning out over the alternatives by the 1960s.\n\nIn seeking to enact \"O Canada\" as the national anthem officially, a Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons was struck. In 1968, the committee recommended changes to the English version–replacing one of the repeated phrases \"We stand on guard for thee\" with \"From far and wide\" and one \"O Canada\" with \"God keep our land\".\n\nThe committee also thought it appropriate for the government to acquire copyright to the words and music. Canadian copyright laws held for 50 years beyond the author's death so there was no trouble with the copyright for the music but the heirs of Weir objected to the changes to the words. Since Weir died in 1926, it would not be in the public domain until 1976. Evidence was found that the copyright had actually descended to Gordon V. Thompson, a music publisher, who agreed to sell it to the government in 1970 for the nominal sum of $1. The committee, however, still hoped to settle the matter amicably with Weir's family, if at all possible.\n\nFinally, on July 1, 1980, 100 years after Routhier and Lavallée penned the hymn, the National Anthem Act officially proclaimed the French and modified English versions as the National Anthem of Canada. Today, \"God Save the Queen\" is Canada's royal anthem, while \"The Maple Leaf Forever\" is rarely heard.\n\nTwo provinces have adopted Latin translations of phrases from the English lyrics as their mottos: Manitoba —\"Gloriosus et liber\" (glorious and free)— and Alberta —\"Fortis et liber\" (strong and free). Similarly, the motto of Canadian Forces Land Force Command is \"Vigilamus pro te\" (we stand on guard for thee). As well, the motto for the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics was \"with glowing hearts\".\n\nA postage stamp was issued in honour of Weir, Lavallée, and Routhier on June 6, 1980 and on May 24, 1999, a monument for Judge Weir was erected in Weir Memorial Park, on the shores of Lac Memphrémagog, near where he wrote the famous lyrics. A Montreal street is named \"\" in his honour.\n\nIn recent years, the English version of the anthem has been criticized, by feminists such as Senator Vivienne Poy, for being sexist (\"true patriot love in all thy \"sons\" command\"); alternate lyrics (\"in all of us command\", \"in all our hearts command\" or \"thou dost in us command\") have been proposed but are not widely supported.\n\nWeir's grandson, Steve Simpson, says the word \"son\" is not about gender, but a reference to a patriotic command from a maternal goddess.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154701", "title": "Paenibacillus", "text": "Paenibacillus\n\nPaenibacillus is a genus of facultative anaerobic, endospore-forming bacteria, originally included within the genus \"Bacillus\" and then reclassified as a separate genus in 1993. Bacteria belonging to this genus have been detected in a variety of environments, such as: soil, water, rhizosphere, vegetable matter, forage and insect larvae, as well as clinical samples. The name reflects: Latin \"paene\" means almost, so the paenibacilli are literally \"almost bacilli\". The genus includes \"P. larvae\", which causes American foulbrood in honeybees, \"P. polymyxa\", which is capable of fixing nitrogen, so is used in agriculture and horticulture, the \"Paenibacillus\" sp. JDR-2 which is a rich source of chemical agents for biotechnology applications, and pattern-forming strains such as \"P. vortex\" and \"P. dendritiformis\" discovered in the early 90s, which develop complex colonies with intricate architectures as shown in the pictures:\n\nInterest in \"Paenibacillus\" spp. has been rapidly growing since many were shown to be important for agriculture and horticulture (e.g. \"P. polymyxa\"), industrial (e.g. \"P. amylolyticus\"), and medical applications (e.g. \"P. peoriate\"). These bacteria produce various extracellular enzymes such as polysaccharide-degrading enzymes and proteases, which can catalyze a wide variety of synthetic reactions in fields ranging from cosmetics to biofuel production. Various \"Paenibacillus\" spp. also produce antimicrobial substances that affect a wide spectrum of micro-organisms such as fungi, soil bacteria, plant pathogenic bacteria, and even important anaerobic pathogens such as \"Clostridium botulinum\".\n\nMore specifically, several \"Paenibacillus \"species serve as efficient plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR), which competitively colonize plant roots and can simultaneously act as biofertilizers and as antagonists (biopesticides) of recognized root pathogens, such as bacteria, fungi, and nematodes. They enhance plant growth by several direct and indirect mechanisms. Direct mechanisms include phosphate solubilization, nitrogen fixation, degradation of environmental pollutants, and hormone production. Indirect mechanisms include controlling phytopathogens by competing for resources such as iron, amino acids and sugars, as well as by producing antibiotics or lytic enzymes. Competition for iron also serves as a strong selective force determining the microbial population in the rhizosphere. Several studies show that PGPR exert their plant growth-promoting activity by depriving native microflora of iron. Although iron is abundant in nature, the extremely low solubility of Fe at pH 7 means that most organisms face the problem of obtaining enough iron from their environments. To fulfill their requirements for iron, bacteria have developed several strategies, including the reduction of ferric to ferrous ions, the secretion of high-affinity iron-chelating compounds, called siderophores, and the uptake of heterologous siderophores. \"P. vortex's\" genome, for example, harbors many genes which are employed in these strategies, in particular it has the potential to produce siderophores under iron-limiting conditions.\n\nDespite the increasing interest in \"Paenibacillus\" spp., genomic information of these bacteria is lacking. More extensive genome sequencing could provide fundamental insights into pathways involved in complex social behavior of bacteria, and can discover a source of genes with biotechnological potential.\n\n\"Candidatus \"Paenibacillus glabratella causes white nodules and high mortality of \"Biomphalaria glabrata\" freshwater snails. This is potentially important because \"Biomphalaria glabrata\" is an intermediate host of schistosomiasis.\n\nSeveral \"Paenibacillus\" species can form complex patterns on semisolid surfaces. Development of such complex colonies require self-organization and cooperative behavior of individual cells while employing sophisticated chemical communication. Pattern formation and self-organization in microbial systems is an intriguing phenomenon and reflects social behaviors of bacteria that might provide insights into the evolutionary development of the collective action of cells in higher organisms.\n\nOne of the most fascinating pattern forming \"Paenibacillus\" species is \"P. vortex\", self-lubricating, flagella-driven bacteria. \"P. vortex\" organizes its colonies by generating modules, each consisting of many bacteria, which are used as building blocks for the colony as a whole. The modules are groups of bacteria that move around a common center at about 10 µm/s.\n\nAn additional intriguing pattern forming \"Paenibacillus\" species is \"P. dendritiformis\", which generates two different morphotypes – the branching (or tip-splitting) morphotype and the chiral morphotype that is marked by curly branches with well-defined handedness (see pictures).\n\nThese two pattern-forming \"Paenibacillus\" strains exhibit many distinct physiological and genetic traits, including β-galactosidase-like activity causing colonies to turn blue on X-gal plates and multiple drug resistance (MDR) (including septrin, penicillin, kanamycin, chloramphenicol, ampicillin, tetracycline, spectinomycin, streptomycin, and mitomycin C). Colonies that are grown on surfaces in Petri dishes exhibit several-fold higher drug resistance in comparison to growth in liquid media. This particular resistance is believed to be due to a surfactant-like liquid front that actually forms a particular pattern on the Petri plate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154704", "title": "Choke Canyon", "text": "Choke Canyon\n\nChoke Canyon (titled On Dangerous Ground outside the United States) is a 1986 movie starring Stephen Collins as a \"cowboy scientist\" trying to develop an alternative energy source. It was filmed mostly in the vicinity of Moab, Utah.\n\nHarvard educated Dr. David Lowell's (Collins) research is carried out in the canyon country of southern Utah and must be conducted at the same time Halley's Comet is passing over the earth. Lowell is trying to find a safe, cheap energy source. Lowell leased the land from the Pilgrim Corporation. However, the Pilgrim Corporation decides the same canyon would be better used as a remote place to illegally dump nuclear waste. Pilgrim's CEO (Nicholas Pryor) arranges for Lowell to be thrown off his land and destroys his laboratory. Lowell spends the rest of the film committing sabotage against the company and trying to recover his land, assisted by the daughter of Pilgrim's CEO (Janet Julian) as well as unlikely help from a hit-man sympathetic to Lowell's cause (Bo Svenson). Brook Alistair (Lance Henriksen), hired by the Pilgrim Corporation attempts to stop Lowell.\n\nParts of the film were shot at Onion Creek, Professor Valley, the Moab Sand Flats, Dead Horse Point, Byrd's Ranch, Squaw Park, and Moab in Utah.\n\nRelease of the film was delayed so it would coincide with the passing of Halley's Comet over the earth in 1986.\n\nThe Mike + The Mechanics song \"Silent Running\" was chosen to appear in \"Choke Canyon\" because its atmosphere suited the film's tone. For promotional reasons, the song's title was extended to \"Silent Running (On Dangerous Ground)\" (the parenthetical title being the title of the film in the UK), even though the lyrics have no connection to the film. The promotional video for the song features a few clips from the film, but primarily follows the story of the lyrics, which are about an astronaut trying to send a message to the past in order to warn his family of an imminent societal breakdown.\n\nTV Guide gave the movie two out of five stars, finding the film fun as it doesn't take itself too seriously, but found the directing to be somewhat lacking. Creature Feature gave the movie 3 out of 5 stars, saying that it was a rousing adventure, although light on science fiction content. It also found the aerial scenes to be well done, liked the direction of the movie more than TV Guide, but the logic of the movie was questioned.\n"}
{"id": "2154706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154706", "title": "Antarctic Adventure", "text": "Antarctic Adventure\n\nThe gameplay is similar to Sega's \"Turbo\", but plays at a much slower pace, and features platform game elements. The penguin, later named Penta, must reach the next station before time runs out while avoiding sea lions and breaks in the ice. Throughout the levels, fish jump out of ice holes and can be caught for bonus points. The game, like many early video games, has no ending – when the player reaches the last station, the game starts from the first level again, but with increased difficulty.\n\n\"Antarctic Adventure\" was followed by a sequel for the MSX computer in 1986, entitled \"Penguin Adventure\". In addition, the penguin character Penta, and his son Pentarou became a mascot for Konami through the 1980s. They have made appearances in over 10 games. Of particular note are his appearances in the \"Parodius\" series of shoot 'em up games.\n\nPenta, or his son Pentarou, had appeared in the Medal Games like Tsurikko Penta, Balloon Penta and Imo Hori Penta. Following in 2002 (not released for mobile in 2001), three mobile games , released on May 6, 2003, another titled , as part of \"Konami Taisen Colosseum\", and the fishing game as \"Penta no Tsuri Boken\", and released for i-Revo.\n\nA screenshot from this game can briefly be seen in the introduction of \"Gradius ReBirth\", released in 2008 for the Wii Virtual Console and in 2014 for the Wii U Virtual Console. An MSX Version was re-released for the Windows Store as part of EGG Project on November 25, 2014 in Japan.\n\nThere was rumored to be a coin-operated arcade version released by Konami in 1984, but the existence of an actual example has yet to be confirmed.\n\nIn 1990, Konami released only in Japan a handheld electronic game of \"Antarctic Adventure\", although it is usually listed as \"South Pole\" (a more literal translation of the Japanese title).\n\nIn 2014, \"Antarctic Adventure\" was released on a special version of the ColecoVision Flashback by AtGames. available only through Dollar General stores.\n\nIn other games, Pentarou appears as a fisherman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154713", "title": "Golden Sands", "text": "Golden Sands\n\nGolden Sands (Bulgarian: Златни пясъци, \"Zlatni pyasatsi\") is a major seaside resort town on the northern Bulgarian Black Sea Coast, adjacent to a national park of the same name in the municipality of Varna. \n\nLocated 17 km north of downtown Varna, it is virtually connected to the city by a continuous swath of resorts and villa communities. It is a popular tourist destination, drawing many visitors from Romania, Ukraine, Poland, Germany, the United Kingdom, Russia, Scandinavia, France, Central and Eastern Europe, the Persian Gulf, Israel, and other countries.\n\nGolden Sands is served by several regular bus lines of the Varna public transit system. Buses 9, 89 and 109 connect the resort to Varna Railway Station, bus 409 connects to Varna International Airport via the city centre and buses 209 and 309 connect to other areas of Varna.\n\nThe old-growth forests between ancient Odessos and Dionysopolis were first mentioned by Pliny as the home of mythical dwarfs, visited by the Argonauts. Byzantine sources name the local fortress \"Gerania\"; there are 4th-7th century AD remains of massive stone ramparts and a basilica along the edge of the Franga plateau. The cave Aladzha Monastery, 3 km to the west, was a monastic centre from antiquity through the Second Bulgarian Empire. In the days of the Ottoman Empire, \"Uzunkum\" () was known as a hideaway for outlaws. It was largely uninhabited until the 1950s, although used for outings. \n\nResort development started in 1957 and in about two decades, the place was transformed into a modern holiday complex with numerous hotels (many open year-round), villas, apartment buildings, spa centres, restaurants, clubs, casinos, attractions, shopping centres, and sports facilities, including a yacht marina, a horse riding school, and the \"Aquapolis\" water park. Golden Sands was privatized in the 1990s and attracted considerable investment through the 2000s. Designed initially for 13,000 hotel beds, it had over 30,000 beds reported in 2007; according to Varna Tourist Chamber sources, the actual number was significantly higher, by some unverified critical estimates even approaching 90,000. Currently, most hotels offer all-inclusive vacations, but there are also concerted efforts to reposition the resort as a high-end destination.\n\nThe area is labelled to have the purest quartz sand on the coast and abounds in old trees, landscaped gardens, and pedestrian malls. Golden Sands authorities resist demands to provide more automobile roads and car parks, citing the resort's reputation as family friendly, green, and a largely pedestrian place. \n\nHot mineral water springs and lush woodlands cascading from the Franga Plateau, forming the Golden Sands Nature Park, turn the town into one of the most popular tourist spots in Eastern Europe. It also comprises the Holiday Club Riviera luxury resort, several villa communities including Panorama, Chaika, Kabakum, and Alen Mak, and the historic grotto of Aladzha Monastery in the vicinity. A contemporary chapel of John the Baptist was recently added. Just north is perhaps the best known gay beach in the nation. Three 18-hole golf courses designed by Gary Player and Ian Woosnam are currently (2007) being developed around Balchik and Kavarna a short drive to the north.\n\nGolden Sands urban development took place within a protected area declared in 1943 (its original name was Hachuka State Forest); some nature landmarks were lost in the process, such as beach freshwater ponds abounding in tortoises and snakes and beach nesting bird habitats. But the bulk of the nature park was preserved and its area expanded almost twice to over 1,300 hectares. In the 2000s, although Golden Sands managed to a large extent to avoid being overdeveloped as other large resorts were, parts of the protected forest adjacent to the urban area were cleared for the construction of the \"Aquapolis\" water park. \n\nIn 2007, a larger-capacity water purification plant was also badly needed. The scenic route Varna-Golden Sands, ruptured by a small landslide caused by overdevelopment in the Lipov Kladenets villa district in 2004, remained closed and all traffic redirected to inland roads. In 2007, all roads proved inadequate to handle an unexpected surge of Romanian motorists looking for all-inclusive deals during the Easter and May Day vacations, causing massive traffic jams and accidents.\n\nIn 2007, a 1:10 replica of the Eiffel Tower with an observation deck and a restaurant was erected.\n\nThe tallest building is INTERNATIONAL Hotel Casino & Tower Suites\n\n"}
{"id": "2154716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154716", "title": "DirectSkin", "text": "DirectSkin\n\nDirectSkin is a software component that is used by software developers to add skinning capability to their applications, which may or may not be exposed to end-users. It is made by Stardock, and is derived from the WindowBlinds component of their software subscription package, Object Desktop. Being implemented as an ActiveX/COM component, it may be used by any COM-capable language, including Visual Basic, VB.NET, C#, C++ and Delphi.\n\nDirectSkin uses the \"WindowBlinds\" UIS file format, leveraging skin authors' existing knowledge. Users either contract Stardock or third party companies to create their skins, license existing skins for use with an application, or make their own using \"SkinStudio\".\n\nDirectSkin has seen use in various applications; the most public has been that of the ATI CATALYST Control Center, a graphical user interface for their graphics card device drivers running on the .NET Framework, introduced in 2004. Another example is Syncfusion, a toolkit for creating .NET applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154731", "title": "Darin Brooks", "text": "Darin Brooks\n\nDarin Lee Brooks (born May 27, 1984) is an American actor. He is best known for portraying Max Brady on the NBC daytime soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\", Alex Moran on the Spike TV series \"Blue Mountain State\", and Wyatt Spencer on the CBS soap opera \"The Bold and the Beautiful\".\n\nBrooks was born and raised in Honolulu, Hawaii. Brooks moved to Frisco, Texas in 1990 where he graduated from Frisco High School in 2002. He is of Polish descent.\n\nBrooks started his acting career with the theater program at his high school. He played Rapunzel's prince in his high school's production of \"Into the Woods\". He later enrolled in acting classes, began modeling, and worked as an extra in films. He was discovered by casting director Kathy Henderson.\n\nWhen Brooks moved to Los Angeles, California, he called Henderson immediately, took acting classes at the renowned Ivana Chubbuck Studios, and got an agent. Two years after the move, he was portraying Max Brady on the NBC drama series \"Days of Our Lives\". He later starred as Alex Moran on the Spike TV series \"Blue Mountain State\". In 2010, Brooks starred as Mr. Blake Owens on the web series \"Miss Behave\". In June 2013, Brooks began playing Wyatt Spencer on the CBS soap opera \"The Bold and the Beautiful\".\n\nBrooks enjoys playing the guitar, bass guitar, and drums. In 2010, he started dating actress Kelly Kruger. In February 2014, they partnered with an organization called Aid Still Required. In March 2016, he and Kruger got married. In April 2019, it was announced that he and Kruger were expecting their first child. The couple's child named Everleigh Jolie Brooks was born on September 22, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154734", "title": "Newark North Gate railway station", "text": "Newark North Gate railway station\n\nNewark North Gate railway station is on the East Coast Main Line in the United Kingdom, serving the town of Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire. It is down the line from and is situated on the main line between to the south and to the north. The station is Grade II listed.\n\nNewark-on-Trent is a market town, 25 miles (40 km) east of Nottingham. Newark has another station, Newark Castle, operated by East Midlands Railway and closer to the town centre.\n\nThe station is on the Great Northern Railway Towns Line from Peterborough to Doncaster which opened on 15 July 1852, the easier to construct Fens Loop Line via Boston and Lincoln had opened two years earlier.\n\nThe station opened without any ceremony. The first train of passengers from the north arrived at 6.38 am and those from the south arrived at 8.05 am. The buildings comprised a booking-office, cloak room, first and second class ladies’ and other waiting rooms, and a large refreshment room by , and a smaller one by . The platforms were long, with awnings provided for of their length. There was a coal depot, goods warehouse and sheds to accommodate 4 locomotives.\n\nThe station became a junction in 1879 with the opening of the Great Northern Railway branch to Bottesford, built as a northern extension of the Great Northern and London and North Western Joint Railway which opened at the same time. Services from Newark were provided to Northampton or Leicester and also to Nottingham. Services onto the joint line from Newark were withdrawn by 1922. The line was much used for through goods, especially between Newark and Northampton. The joint line closed in 1962 except for isolated fragments, but the Newark to Bottesford Junction section survived until 1988.\n\nOn 9 July 1928, King George V and Queen Mary arrived at the station from King's Cross where they were received by the 6th Duke of Portland.\n\nThe short connection to the Newark Castle to Lincoln line was opened in 1965 by British Rail to maintain a link between the East Coast Main Line and Lincoln following the closure of the branch from the latter to Grantham. This remains in use today by trains to Lincoln and Grimsby.\n\n\nThe station is just south of the Newark Crossing, one of the few remaining flat railway crossings in the UK. The East Coast Main Line is crossed by the Nottingham-Lincoln line. Trains on the East Coast Main Line not calling at Newark North Gate have to slow from to at the crossing. There are plans to grade-separate the crossing by providing a flyover for east-west services, with a shallow enough gradient to accommodate freight trains. A key geographical constraint on the construction of a flyover will be the proximity of the site to the River Trent and the A1 trunk road. The benefits of a flyover would include higher capacity on both the East Coast Main Line and the Nottingham-Lincoln line, for both passengers and freight; journey time improvements; and a more reliable timetable. Network Rail's final Route Utilisation Strategy for the East Midlands estimated that a flyover would have a benefit:cost ratio of 1.4, with further benefits which could not be taken account of in the standard project appraisal procedures. The RUS recommended that the provision of a flyover at Newark was further developed in Control Period 4 (2009–2014) to refine the infrastructure costs and potential benefits, with the possibility of constructing it in Control Period 5 (2014–2019).\n\nPlatforms 1 and 2, for London North Eastern Railway run intercity trains south for stations to London King's Cross, as well as to the North for stations to Leeds, Newcastle upon Tyne and Scotland. From platform 3 services continues to Lincoln Central. East Midlands Railway also runs a service to Lincoln Central and Grimsby. Occasional trains on the Nottingham to Lincoln Line also call additionally at Newark North Gate, which involves a cumbersome double reversal. This is currently practised by 2 trains a day Monday–Saturday & 5 on Sundays.\n\nThe current off-peak Service pattern is the following:\n\nLondon North Eastern Railway\n\nThere is significant ambiguity about the correct form of the station's name. Different station name signs on the platforms say \"Newark North Gate\" or \"Newark Northgate\". On exiting the station, the old British Rail sign says just \"Northgate\" and road signs towards the station say 'Northgate'. National Rail timetables show Newark North Gate.\n\nThere are three car parks in the immediate area for the railway station. They are operated by the railway car parks and National Car Parks (NCP).\n\nRailway Northgate Car Park - 289 spaces\n\nNCP Northgate Car Park - 371 Spaces\n\nOf the three main car parks in the area, the NCP and the Railway car parks are the most conveniently situated for the railway station facilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154737", "title": "Detention basin", "text": "Detention basin\n\nA detention basin or retarding basin is an excavated area installed on, or adjacent to, tributaries of rivers, streams, lakes or bays to protect against flooding and, in some cases, downstream erosion by storing water for a limited period of time. These basins are also called \"dry ponds\", \"holding ponds\" or \"dry detention basins\" if no permanent pool of water exists. Detention ponds that are designed to permanently retain some volume of water at all times are called retention basins. In its basic form, a detention basin is used to manage water quantity while having a limited effectiveness in protecting water quality, unless it includes a permanent pool feature.\n\nDetention basins are storm water best management practices that provide general flood protection and can also control extreme floods such as a 1 in 100-year storm event. The basins are typically built during the construction of new land development projects including residential subdivisions or shopping centers. The ponds help manage the excess urban runoff generated by newly constructed impervious surfaces such as roads, parking lots and rooftops.\n\nA basin functions by allowing large flows of water to enter but limits the outflow by having a small opening at the lowest point of the structure. The size of this opening is determined by the capacity of underground and downstream culverts and washes to handle the release of the contained water.\n\nFrequently the inflow area is constructed to protect the structure from some types of damage. Offset concrete blocks in the entrance spillways are used to reduce the speed of entering flood water. These structures may also have debris drop vaults to collect large rocks. These vaults are deep holes under the entrance to the structure. The holes are wide enough to allow large rocks and other debris to fall into the holes before they can damage the rest of the structure. These vaults must be emptied after each storm event.\n\nResearch has shown that detention basins built with real-time control of the outflow from the basin are significantly more effective at retaining total suspended solids and associated contaminants, such as heavy metals, when compared to basins without control.\n\nA variant basin design called an extended detention dry basin can limit downstream erosion and control of some pollutants such as suspended solids. This basin type differs from a retention basin, also known as a \"wet pond,\" which includes a permanent pool of water, and which is typically designed to protect water quality.\n\nWhile basic detention ponds are often designed to empty within 6 to 12 hours after a storm, extended detention (ED) dry basins improve on the basic detention design by lengthening the storage time, for example, to 24 or 48 hours. Longer storage times tend to result in improved water quality because additional suspended solids are removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154739", "title": "WATN-TV", "text": "WATN-TV\n\nWATN-TV, virtual channel 24 (UHF digital channel 25), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Memphis, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by Tegna Inc., as part of a duopoly with CW affiliate WLMT (channel 30). The two stations share studios at the Shelby Oaks Corporate Park on Shelby Oaks Drive in the northeast section of Memphis and transmitter facilities in the Brunswick section of unincorporated northeast Shelby County. WATN and WLMT's studio facilities also handle master control and some internal operations for Jackson-licensed former sister station and Fox affiliate WJKT (channel 16).\n\nThe station first signed on the air on September 10, 1978 as WPTY-TV, and was the first station on the UHF band and first independent station in the market, as well as the first new commercial station to sign on in Memphis since WREG-TV (channel 3) debuted 23 years earlier. Memphis had a longer wait for an independent station than other cities its size. Although Memphis itself had almost 650,000 people at the time channel 24 signed on, the Memphis market has always been a medium-sized market because the surrounding suburban and rural areas aren't much larger than Memphis itself. The station originally operated from studios located at 2225 Union Avenue in Memphis.\n\nIt was owned by Petry Television (the source of its call letters), and ran a general entertainment format featuring cartoons, movies, sitcoms, westerns and drama series. WPTY also carried CBS, NBC and ABC programs whenever WREG-TV, WMC-TV (channel 5) and WHBQ-TV (channel 13) preempted network shows in favor of local programs. By 1983, WPTY gained competition when the TVX Broadcast Group signed on WMKW (channel 30, now WLMT), sparking a rivalry between the two independents. Petry sold the station to Precht Communications in 1984.\n\nTVX signed a deal to affiliate all of its stations with Fox in 1987, which resulted in WMKW becoming Memphis' Fox affiliate. Precht Communications sold the station to Chase Broadcasting in 1988. In February 1990, Fox pulled its affiliation from channel 30 (by then known as WLMT) and gave it to WPTY. This occurred because WLMT had been sold a few months earlier, and TVX's affiliation agreement with Fox included a clause stating that if an under-performing TVX station was sold, it ran the risk of losing its affiliation. At that time, WPTY began to be carried on a few cable systems in the Mississippi portion of the Columbus–Tupelo–West Point market; this situation continued when WLOV-TV became a Fox affiliate in October 1995 and ultimately ended when WKDH signed on as an ABC affiliate in June 2001.\n\nChase Broadcasting merged with Renaissance Broadcasting in 1992. Due to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules which limited the number of stations a company could own, Renaissance was forced to put WPTY and several other stations up for sale. WPTY was purchased by Clear Channel Communications (now iHeartMedia) later that year. In 1993, Clear Channel entered into a local marketing agreement (LMA) with WLMT's then-owner MT Communications, allowing the once rivals to pool resources and programming.\n\nIn 1995, WPTY was set to be displaced as Memphis' Fox outlet after Fox unexpectedly bought longtime ABC affiliate WHBQ-TV; the purchase was finalized on July 5, 1995. However, News Corporation had to run WHBQ as an ABC affiliate for over five months after the sale was completed. ABC ultimately chose to affiliate with WPTY; the two stations switched affiliations on December 1, 1995.\n\nThe station gradually took on the look of a traditional network affiliate, running mostly first run syndicated shows and a few sitcoms while WLMT ran cartoons, movies, sitcoms and some reality/talk shows. Shortly after joining ABC, WPTY picked up a secondary affiliation with The WB, airing the network's schedule in late nights. This was because Memphis, despite its relatively large size, didn't have enough stations for a separate WB affiliate. In 2001, Clear Channel bought WLMT outright from Max Media, creating the first television duopoly in the Memphis market. Clear Channel moved WB programming to WLMT in 2003.\nOn April 20, 2007, Clear Channel entered into an agreement to sell its entire television station group to Newport Television, a company controlled by private equity firm Providence Equity Partners. Newport announced on July 19, 2012, that it would sell 12 of its stations, including WPTY and WLMT, to Nexstar Broadcasting Group. The transaction was finalized on December 3.\n\nOn June 1, 2013, WPTY, WLMT and WJKT's operations were moved to a converted former MCI call center on the city's northeast side. Nexstar invested $5 million in constructing the new facilities, which included high definition cameras and other new studio equipment, a new set repurposed from sister station KLRT-TV in Little Rock (which consolidated its news department with KARK-TV earlier that year after Nexstar purchased the station through Mission Broadcasting as a result of the Newport deal), equipment to allow reporters from its new sister station KARK to appear on-air, and a shift away from automation for the production of its newscasts (the station formerly used Ross Overdrive for newscast automation, but continues to use other Ross products in the new facilities). As a result of these changes, WPTY became the final station in the Memphis market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. Alongside the new studio and HD transition, WPTY re-launched as \"Local 24\" and changed its call letters to WATN-TV as part of a campaign coinciding with the move.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Chicago-based Tribune Media—which has owned WREG-TV since December 2013—for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar was precluded from acquiring WREG directly or indirectly while owning WATN/WLMT, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. (Furthermore, any attempt by Nexstar to assume the operations of WREG through local marketing or shared services agreements would have been subject to regulatory hurdles that could have delayed completion of the FCC and Justice Department's review and approval process for the acquisition.) As such, Nexstar decided to sell WATN to a separate, unrelated company to address the ownership conflict. WLMT does not rank among the top four in total-day viewership and therefore is not in conflict with existing FCC in-market ownership rules; however, Nexstar opted to sell that station alongside WATN. On March 20, 2019, McLean, Virginia-based Tegna Inc. announced it would purchase WATN-TV and WLMT (excluding WJKT) from Nexstar upon consummation of the merger, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Tegna and the E. W. Scripps Company in separate deals worth $1.32 billion; this would make the duopoly sister stations to NBC affiliate WBIR-TV in Knoxville and CBS affiliate KTHV in Little Rock. The sale was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nFrom April 2011 to July 30, 2012, the station carried TheCoolTV on its second digital subchannel, which was available locally on Comcast digital channel 915. After the expiration of Newport's deal to carry the network, the subchannel affiliated with the Live Well Network, which was carried on WPTY-DT2 until mid-March 2013, when it was pulled from the station.\n\nOn June 15, 2016, Nexstar announced that it has entered into an affiliation agreement with Katz Broadcasting for the Escape, Laff, Grit, and Bounce TV networks (the last one of which is owned by Bounce Media LLC, whose COO Jonathan Katz is president/CEO of Katz Broadcasting), bringing one or more of the four networks to 81 stations owned and/or operated by Nexstar, including WATN-TV (Bounce TV and Grit are already available in Memphis on digital subchannels of WMC-TV).\n\nWATN-TV (as WPTY-TV) discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 24, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 25, using PSIP to display WATN-TV's virtual channel as 24 on digital television receivers.\n\nWATN-TV carries most of the ABC network schedule. Current syndicated programming on the station includes \"The Doctors\", \"Dr. Phil\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" and \"Blackish\".\n\nWATN airs any Memphis Grizzlies games that are selected for \"NBA on ABC\" broadcasts.\n\nWATN-TV presently broadcasts 24½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 4½ hours each weekday and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays). In addition, WATN produces an hour-long extension of its weekday morning newscast at 7 a.m. and a nightly at 9 p.m. newscast (in addition to a sports highlight program padding out the final 15 minutes of the latter program) for WLMT. Fox affiliate WJKT simulcasts WLMT's 9 p.m. newscast and sports program. That station has microwave facilities at its studios in Jackson which allows the transmitting of live shots from the area. During weather segments, WATN and WLMT use live radar data from the National Weather Service Weather Forecast Office on Farm Road (officially Walnut Grove Road) in Memphis.\n\nAfter becoming an ABC affiliate, Clear Channel decided to invest in a news department for WPTY. When it launched on December 1, 1995, newscasts were initially branded as \"NewsWatch 24\" and featured an energetic, youthful and almost \"grunge\" look. From the start, in addition to the newscasts on channel 24, the station has also produced a prime time newscast on WLMT, initially titled \"NewsWatch 30 at 9\", in competition with the in-house 9 p.m. newscast that WHBQ debuted when it joined Fox. Several years later, WPTY rebranded as \"ABC 24 News\" (with the WLMT newscast being renamed \"UPN 30 News at 9\") and began to modify its style to reach a broader audience.\n\nIn 2002, WPTY adopted the \"Eyewitness News\" format (which was previously used by WHBQ until 1997), and adopted a harder-edged, more aggressive and often \"confrontational\" approach to its reporting style. The change resulted in most of its original news anchors and reporters leaving or being laid off, with a complete overhaul in the station's image and presentation. During this time, WPTY's news operation had its share of recognition and awards. It was honored in 2005 with Associated Press broadcasting awards for \"Best Breaking News\", \"Best Newscast\", \"Best Reporter\" and \"Best Sportscast\". The station was also honored in 2005 with an Edward R. Murrow and regional Emmy Award as the \"Best Weekend Newscast\".\n\nIn 2006, the Associated Press honored WPTY with nine awards including \"Best Overall Newscast\". However, since its news department began, WPTY's newscasts have lagged in last place in the ratings, placing far behind long-dominating rivals WREG, WMC and WHBQ. In 2009, with continued low ratings, and under its new Newport Television ownership, the station brought in new management, leading to several staff layoffs. Gradually, WPTY's newscasts dropped most of the confrontational and aggressive style. In November 2010, after eight years of operating under the \"Eyewitness News\" name, WPTY reverted to the previous \"ABC 24 News\" brand. On April 29, 2012, WPTY began broadcasting its newscasts in widescreen standard definition.\n\nWhen the station became WATN on June 1, 2013, it ushered in a complete overhaul of its news programming. With the move to its new Shelby Oaks studio, WATN began broadcasting newscasts in high definition on that date; the newscasts were also rebranded as \"Local 24 News\". On October 7, 2013, WATN debuted a local talk program, \"Local Memphis Live\" (replacing \"Live! with Kelly and Michael\", which was dropped in early September) that competes with WHBQ's newscast and WREG's own news/talk program in the 9 a.m. timeslot. WMC-TV now airs \"Live! with Kelly and Michael\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154742", "title": "Oligomorphic code", "text": "Oligomorphic code\n\nAn oligomorphic code is generally used by a computer virus to generate a decryptor for itself in a way comparable to a simple polymorphic code. It does this by randomly selecting each piece of the decryptor from several predefined alternatives.\nThe pieces used to build the decryptor are usually too common to be detected with signatures. However, most oligomorphic viruses aren't able to generate more than just a few hundred different decryptors, so detecting them with simple signatures is still possible. Another method to detect an oligomorphic decryptor is to make a signature for each possible piece of code, group pieces that can substitute each other together and scan the file for a chain of decryptor pieces from alternating groups. Emulation may be used to detect the virus, but it can take more resources than necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154743", "title": "KDPH-LP", "text": "KDPH-LP\n\nKDPH-LP is a low-power television station in Phoenix, Arizona, owned and operated by Community Television Educators, Inc., a board set up by Daystar to manage their non-commercial license in accordance with FCC regulations. The station operates in analog on UHF channel 48 and in digital on UHF channel 46 with its transmitter atop South Mountain. It is carried in the Phoenix metro area by the Qwest Choice cable system in the basic tier, but is not carried by Cox Cable, as they have opted to carry the national Daystar feed on their digital tier.\n\nAn original construction permit for low-power television station K64DR, channel 64, was granted to Broadcasting Systems, Inc. on August 23, 1989. The station was quickly built and was licensed on October 31, just two months later. It was affiliated with Telemundo and aired very little local programming. In December 1990, the station was sold to Hispanic Broadcasters of Arizona, Inc., and in 1996, when LPTV stations were allowed to acquire four-letter calls, they changed their call letters to KDRX-LP, which incorporated their original assigned calls, K64DR. In October 1997, KDRX-LP added a Spanish-language newscast produced locally by English-language ABC affiliate KNXV. They would begin producing their own newscast a few years later, after moving into KNXV's former Phoenix studio facility.\n\nThe station was sold to Apogeo Television Phoenix LLC in 1999 and moved to channel 48 later that year, improving over-the-air reception. They became a Class A television station a year later when that class of station was approved by the FCC. The locally produced newscast and the move to in-core channel 48 helped them to qualify for the new status, giving them primary station protection during the digital television conversion of full-service stations, and guaranteeing them an opportunity to upgrade to digital TV. In December 2002, NBC Telemundo acquired KDRX-LP, and a few months later, changed its call letters to KDRX-CA to reflect its Class A status.\n\nHowever, Telemundo in Phoenix was up against one of the country's most dominant Univision outlets, full-powered KTVW. In 2005, Univision cornered 89% of the Spanish-language ratings in Phoenix, which was the last major market where it enjoyed such an advantage. In order to compete, NBC reasoned, the station needed to upgrade to a full-powered signal. Thus NBC filed an application with the FCC to move the license of full-power NBC Telemundo-owned KPHZ (now KTAZ) from Holbrook channel 11 to Phoenix channel 39. In exchange, Daystar-owned station KDTP would move from Phoenix channel 39 to Holbrook channel 11, and KDRX-CA would be transferred to Daystar in order to keep a Daystar Television Network outlet in Phoenix. It was an unusual request and complicated, involving not only a swap of licenses, but also non-commercial reservations in Phoenix and Holbrook, plus the 2 LPTV stations (KPHZ-LP - now KDTP-LP - would be added to the deal later), but in October 2005, the FCC agreed to the proposal, over the objection of Univision.\n\nIn June 2006, the station's license was transferred to Community Television Educators, Inc., while the intellectual unit moved to KTAZ. Later that month, KDRX-CA's call letters changed to KDTP-CA, reflecting the station's new owner, Daystar. The station continued to air Telemundo programming pending completion of new facilities for KTAZ, but changed its programming to the Daystar Television Network in July 2006 when the construction was complete.\n\nOn February 4, 2008, KDTP-CA converted its Class A license back to a standard low-power license, likely because a Class A license requires local programs and the schedule for channel 48 was entirely the national Daystar schedule. No longer able to use the \"-CA\" suffix, and with \"KDTP-LP\" already belonging to its sister station on channel 58, the station changed its call sign to K48LK and then to KDPH-LP on March 1. The station also has a construction permit to build a digital companion on UHF channel 46, which it has designated as KDTP-LD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154746", "title": "Daniel Brühl", "text": "Daniel Brühl\n\nDaniel César Martin Brühl González Domingo (; born 16 June 1978) is a Spanish-German actor. He began his work at a young age in a German soap opera called \"Verbotene Liebe\" in 1995. In 2003, his starring role in the German film \"Good Bye, Lenin!\" received wider recognition and critical acclaim which garnered him the European Film Award for Best Actor and the German Film Award for Best Actor. Brühl has worked in both European and American productions in several different languages.\n\nHe was introduced to mainstream U.S. audiences with his breakout role of Fredrick Zoller, a German war hero in Quentin Tarantino's \"Inglourious Basterds\" (2009), and appeared in such films as \"The Bourne Ultimatum\" (2007), \"The Fifth Estate\" (2013) and \"A Most Wanted Man\" (2014). Brühl received widespread critical acclaim and further recognition for his portrayal of former Formula 1 driver Niki Lauda in the Ron Howard biographical film \"Rush\" (2013). In 2016, Brühl made his Marvel Cinematic Universe debut in \"\" (2016), portraying Helmut Zemo. Brühl will return to portray the role in the upcoming Disney+ series, \"The Falcon and the Winter Soldier\" (2020). He also starred in the period drama television series \"The Alienist\" in 2018. \n\nBrühl was born in Barcelona, Spain, His father was TV director Hanno Brühl, who was born in São Paulo, Brazil, of German origin. His Spanish mother is Marisa González Domingo, a Spanish teacher. He has a brother and a sister, Oliver and Miriam. Shortly after his birth, his family moved to Cologne, Germany, where he grew up and attended the Dreikönigsgymnasium. A fluent English-speaker, he grew up speaking German, Spanish, French, and Portuguese, and understands Catalan.\n\nBrühl began acting at a young age, with a debut role in 1995 as street kid Benji in the soap opera \"Verbotene Liebe (Forbidden Love)\". His international breakthrough role came in 2003 as Alex Kerner in the German Golden Globe-nominated tragicomedy \"Good Bye, Lenin!\", which reached an estimated six million cinema-goers worldwide. In 2003, Brühl won the European Film Academy award trophies for Best Actor (Critics/Audience Awards) for the role. Brühl made his English-speaking film debut in 2004's \"Ladies in Lavender\", starring alongside English actresses Judi Dench and Maggie Smith. The same year, he won the People's Choice trophy for Best Actor for the film \"Love in Thoughts\" while at the same time, he was nominated for Best Actor (critics) for \"The Edukators\". Brühl featured as Lieutenant Horstmayer, a central character in the 2005 film \"Joyeux Noël\", a trilingual World War I film based on the experiences of French, German and Scottish soldiers during the Christmas truce of 1914. The film shows Brühl's linguistic ability as he ably communicates in German, French and English throughout.\n\nIn 2006, he was invited to be part of the short film and Cinéfondation juries of the Cannes Film Festival. Brühl made a cameo appearance in \"2 Days in Paris\", a romantic comedy film directed by French actress Julie Delpy. In September 2006, his Cannes-nominated film \"Salvador (Puig Antich)\" premiered in Spain. In the film, he played Salvador Puig Antich, a Spanish anarchist executed during the Franco era. In 2007, he appeared in a small role in the film \"The Bourne Ultimatum.\" He was in \"Krabat\", based on a popular German children's story, which premiered in German cinemas in October 2008.\n\nHe was introduced to mainstream U.S. audiences in the role of Frederick Zoller, a German war hero in Quentin Tarantino's \"Inglourious Basterds,\" starring Brad Pitt, which premiered at Cannes 2009. He and his co-stars won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture. In 2009, he also starred in Julie Delpy's third directorial film, \"The Countess\".\nIn May 2009, Brühl decided to become active in a different field of filmmaking by launching production company Fouronfilm together with Film1. Brühl starred in the 2010 British-Russian production \"In Transit\", in which he played a young Nazi soldier opposite John Malkovich. He also co-starred with Clive Owen in the 2011 horror thriller \"Intruders\", which was directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo.\n\nIn 2013, he co-starred in \"The Fifth Estate\", a film based on the founding of WikiLeaks. Brühl played Daniel Domscheit-Berg, alongside Benedict Cumberbatch as Julian Assange. In the same year, Brühl portrayed former Formula 1 driver Niki Lauda in the Ron Howard biographical film \"Rush\". The film was a commercial and critical success, and for his role he received multiple award nominations, including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor, the Critic's Choice Award for Best Supporting Actor, the Screen Actors Guild Award and the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role.\n\nIn 2015, he starred in \"Colonia\", a thriller by Academy Award winner Florian Gallenberger. The film was shot October to December 2014 in South America, Germany and Luxembourg. His co-stars were Emma Watson and Michael Nyqvist, and the film was produced by Academy Award nominee Benjamin Herrmann. Brühl played Helmut Zemo in \"\", released in 2016, and is set to reprise his role in the Disney+ series \"The Falcon and the Winter Soldier\". In Niki Caro's World War II film \"The Zookeeper's Wife\" (2017), he played Nazi zoologist Lutz Heck, who forces Jan and Antonina Żabiński (Jessica Chastain and Johan Heldenbergh) to abandon the Warsaw Zoo. The film is based on Diane Ackerman's non-fiction book.\n\nSince 2011, Brühl has been the joint operator of a tapas bar in the Kreuzberg district of Berlin. From February to October 2017, he was also joint operator of a similar bar in Prenzlauer Berg, named \"Bar Gracia\" after Barcelona's nightlife district Gràcia, but the bar closed in October 2017 because of little economic success.\n\nIn 2006, Brühl separated from his longtime girlfriend and later fiancée, actress Jessica Schwarz, whom he had met on the set of the 2001 film \"\". Since 2010, he has been in a relationship with practicing psychologist and former model Felicitas Rombold. They have a son together, Anton Hanno (b. October 2016), and married sometime between then and early 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154748", "title": "Battle of Manila (1762)", "text": "Battle of Manila (1762)\n\nThe Battle of Manila (; Filipino: \"Labanan sa Maynila\", ) was fought during the Seven Years' War, from 24 September 1762 to 6 October 1762, between the Kingdom of Great Britain and the Kingdom of Spain in and around Manila, the capital of the Philippines, a Spanish colony at that time. The British won, leading to a twenty-month occupation of Manila.\n\nThe British Ministry approved Col. Draper's plans for invading the Philippine Isles and , under Capt. Cathcart Grant, was sent to intercept Manila bound vessels. The first portion of the invasion fleet sailed from India on 21 July, under Commodore Teddinson, followed by the remainder under Admiral Sir Samuel Cornish, 1st Baronet, and Col. Draper on 1 August. served as the admiral's flagship.\n\nOn 1 August 1762, a British fleet of eight ships of the line, three frigates, and four store ships, sailed away from Madras with a force of 6,839 regulars, sailors and marines. The commander of the expedition was Brigadier-General William Draper. He was assisted by Colonel Monson as second in command, Major Scott as adjutant-general and Captain Fletcher as brigade-major of the East India Company. The expeditionary force consisted of:\n\nManila was garrisoned by the Life Guard of the Governor-General of the Philippines, the 2nd Battalion of the King's regiment under Don Miguel de Valdez, Spanish marines, a corps of artillery under Lt. Gen. Don Felix de Eguilux, seconded by Brig. the Marquis de Villa Medina, a company of Pampangos, and a company of cadets.\n\nAdmiral Cornish's fleet, fourteen vessels, of which ten carried more than fifty guns apiece, anchored in Manila Bay on 23 September. A landing was planned two miles south of the city, covered by , under Captain King, HMS \"Seahorse\", under Captain Grant, and under Captain Pelghin. The three-pronged landing force of 274 marines was led by Colonel Draper, center, Major More, right, and Colonel Monson, left. The next day, they were joined by 632 seamen under Captains Collins, Pitchford and Ouvry.\n\nFort Polverina was captured on 25 September. Further reconnaissance revealed that the fortifications of Manila were not formidable, in fact they were incomplete. \"In many places the ditch had never been finished, the covered way was out of repair, the glacis was too low, some of the outworks were without cannon...\"\nOn 30 September, a British storeship arrived with entrenching tools, but was driven ashore by a gale. She had run aground so that she screened the rear of Draper's camp from a large force of Filipinos. Her stores were landed with greater speed and safety than would have been possible had she remained afloat for the gale continued for several days and forbade the passage of boats through the surf.\n\nA strong gale started on 1 October, cutting off communication with the British fleet. On the morning of 4 October, a force of 1,000 local Pampangos attacked a cantonment built by the British overnight but was beaten back with 300 Filipinos killed. After this failure, all except 1,800 of the Pamgangos abandoned the city. \"The fire from the garrison now became faint, while that of the besiegers was stronger than ever, and ere long a breach became practicable.\" On 6 October, 60 volunteers under Lieutenant Russell advanced through the breach in the Bastion of St. Andrew. Engineers and pioneers followed, then came Colonel Monson and Major More with two divisions of the 79th, the seamen and then another division of the 79th.\n\nPreventing further slaughter, acting Governor-General Archbishop Manuel Rojo del Rio y Vieyra surrendered both Manila and Cavite to Draper and Cornish.\n\nThe British occupation of Manila lasted until Manila was returned to Spain according to the 1763 Treaty of Paris. News that it had been lost did not reach Spain until after the cessation of hostilities between the two powers. Oidor Don Simon Anda y Salazar had been dispatched to Bulacan in order to organize resistance. There he organized an army of 10,000 Filipinos under the command of Jose Busto.\n\nManila was placed under the authority of civilian Deputy Governor Dawsonne Drake, appointed by the East India Company as the leader of the Manila Council. Major Fell commanded the garrison as another member of the council\n\nDuring their time in the Philippines, the British found themselves confined to Manila and Cavite in a deteriorating situation, unable to extend British control over the islands and unable to make good their promised support for an uprising led first by Diego Silang and later by his wife Gabriela, which was crushed by Spanish forces.\n\nThe British expedition was rewarded after the capture of the treasure ship \"Filipina\", carrying American silver from Acapulco, and in a battle off Cavite on October 2, 1762 the Spanish ship \"Santísima Trinidad\" which carried China goods. However, when Cornish sailed for Madras with the East Indies Squadron in early 1763, he had only collected $516,260 of the $2 million ransom. The balance consisted of bills of exchange, though Spain never did pay the Manila ransom.\n\nThe city remained under British rule for 18 months and was returned to Spain in April 1764 after the 1763 Treaty of Paris.\n\nDraper and Cornish were thanked by Parliament on 19 April 1763; Cornish was made a Baronet of Great Britain, and Draper eventually received as Knighthood of the Bath.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154751", "title": "Toledo Express Airport", "text": "Toledo Express Airport\n\nToledo Express Airport is a civil-military airport in Swanton and Monclova townships west of Toledo in western Lucas County, Ohio. It opened in 1954-55 as a replacement to then Toledo Municipal Airport southeast of Toledo. TOL is near the crossing of State Route 2 and the Ohio Turnpike (Interstate 80/Interstate 90, exit 52).\n\nTOL is used by passenger and cargo airlines, general aviation, and is home to the Ohio Air National Guard's 180th Fighter Wing. The airport is a secondary airport for Detroit Metropolitan Airport (DTW) and the surrounding region, including as a primary diversion point for DTW. The airport is operated by the Toledo–Lucas County Port Authority on a lease agreement from the City of Toledo. The airport also serves as headquarters and ground cargo hub for BX Solutions.\n\nIn 2015 Toledo Express recorded its third straight year of passenger growth reaching 179,911.\n\nIn 2018, buoyed by growing service to and from Charlotte, air travel through Toledo Express Airport increased by more than 22 percent for its sixth straight year of growth. Total passenger service reached 241,299 passengers in 2018.\n\nToledo Express Airport covers and has two runways:\n\n\n\nToledo Express has one passenger terminal with 9 gates of which three (Gates 3, 4, and 5) in the central part of the terminal are primarily used on a daily basis. The terminal features an east wing that comprises one upper-level gate (Gate 2) and two lower level gates (Gates 1 and 1A). The ground level gates are capable of supporting up to 5 total aircraft at once combined. The oldest part of the terminal is the western wing, which comprises Gates 6 through 8 (originally 5 through 7); these are rarely used. During the terminal upgrades that introduced a new gate area for Gate 4 and a brand new Gate 5, the original Gate 5 was renumbered to Gate 6. Previous Gate 6 (now 7) is inoperative and no longer has a jetbridge attached to it; previous Gate 7 (now 8) remains a stairwell to ramp-level boarding.\n\nThe terminal is mostly original from the 1950s, but several upgrades have taken place. This includes the remodeling and construction of the east wing as well as the new central gate area.\n\nThe terminal has two levels with the passenger waiting area, beyond security, on the upper level. In that area, the passengers have access to a food court and bar on the second level. There is also a children's play area. Prior to security, there is a gift shop near the front entrances of the terminal near the airline ticket counters. Baggage claim is on the lower level on the east side of the terminal with two baggage carousels. The rental car counters are between the arrivals waiting area and the baggage claim. Free wireless (Wi-Fi) is available terminal-wide.\n\nThe Port Authority commissioned a true market study of the Toledo catchment area to determine opportunities for air service development. The study found 510,000 people are within 30 minutes of Toledo Express. The total catchment area encompasses 981,000 residents. The actual passengers per day each way for the Toledo market is 3,241, of which TOL only captures 5.7%. Detroit Metro captures the most of 64.3%, with the remaining traveling to other airports in Cleveland and Columbus. There are also 372 international passengers per day, of which Toledo captures only 2.8%.\n\nDelta Air Lines was the largest airline in the Toledo area, with 44% of the traffic; United Airlines was second with 12.4%, and American Airlines (the only legacy airline serving TOL directly at the time) with 10.3%.\n\n\nTaxi service at the airport is currently contracted to A1 Accurate Limousine and Airport Service. While other taxi operators are available in Toledo, none are currently able to stage at the airport.\n\nToledo Express is currently served by Alamo, Avis, Budget, Enterprise, Hertz, and National.\n\nThe airport offers two parking lots: short term and long term. Both are located on the north side of the airport and offer covered walkways to the passenger terminal. The parking lot is operated by Republic Parking Systems and it is also a partner of the Thanks Again rewards program.\n\nThe airport is also home to Toledo Air National Guard Base and the 180th Fighter Wing (180 FW), an Air Combat Command (ACC)-gained unit of the Ohio Air National Guard.\nToledo ANGB consists of a Federal enclave of leased by the Department of Defense for the State of Ohio and the Ohio Air National Guard, housing combat-ready F-16C Fighting Falcon jet fighters and associated Air National Guard support units. Physical facilities consist of 3 administrative, 13 industrial and 7 services building (including hangar facilities), totaling nearly 322,000 square feet.\n\nThere are 21 military aircraft based at TOL, supported by 290 full-time Air Reserve Technician (ART) and Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) personnel. Over 600 additional part-time Traditional Air National Guardsmen round out the balance of the 180 FW, capable of deploying worldwide to meet Air Force and combatant commander requirements as part of the Air Reserve Component of the U.S. Air Force. Concurrently, the 180 FW also provides traditional National Guard state support roles in the event of local and state emergencies to the Governor of Ohio.\n\n\n\n\nToledo–Lucas County Port Authority:\n\n\nIn 2013, the Port Authority backed a plan collect income tax from businesses and employees on property at the airport owned by the Port Authority and other entities that sign on to the agreement. The income tax would be distributed to an airport fund in addition to the participating communities of the city of Toledo and Monclova and Swanton townships. The airport fund would take 55% of the first $500,000, 52.5% of the next $250,000, and declining from there. If revenues are over $1.5 million, the airport would see roughly 24.12% according to reports. A Port Authority Airport Committee meeting also stated that the City of Toledo's share would also be redirected back to the airport fund boosting revenues.\n\nThe Cargo Development Zone is an area on the south side of the airport to the south of Runway 7–25, west of Runway 16–34, and north of US-20A. The site features onsite customers and a foreign trade zone. The development area will also provide access to the 78-acre air cargo ramp.\n\n\nToledo Express served as the main North American hub for DB Schenker, which acquired BAX Global, an international air cargo company, from 1993 until September 2011. DB Schenker leased a warehouse facility with direct access to the runways at Toledo Express. They operated approximately 20 flights on average (with a peak of 42) per night from across the United States. Toledo Express was the 22nd busiest cargo hub in North America in 2009 with 241,472 tons handled. The facility is now home to the headquarters of BX Solutions, a ground logistics and shipping company started up by former BAX Global employees with plans to re-establish the former domestic BAX Global ground and eventually air networks.\n\n\nDuring the afternoon of August 14, 2003, Toledo Express served as a primary diversion point for Detroit Metro and Northwest Airlines. During that time Toledo accepted 6 DC-9-30s, 4 Saab 340s and 2 CRJ-200s. Passengers were deplaned and bused to Detroit for the remainder of their trip. The aircraft remained in Toledo until power was restored.\n\nDuring the time when Northwest maintained the hub at Detroit Metro, Toledo Express served as the primary diversion point for inbound aircraft including international arrivals. The airport has accepted, on numerous occasions, the diversions of 747s, DC-10s, DC-9s, and A320s.\n\nToledo Express has also accepted diversions for other airports in the regional including both Chicago O'Hare and Midway if a suitable alternative isn't available closer. During a significant fog event in 2004 that caused ground stops in the Chicago area, American Eagle diverted 4 ERJ-145s to Toledo and ATA (American Trans Air) diverted a Boeing 757-200 operating from Washington National to Midway.\n\nToledo has had a few air service announcements made that never materialized or were dropped prior to being operated.\n\nAirline service before 1955 operated from present day Toledo Executive Airport formerly known as Toledo Municipal Airport and Toledo Metcalf Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154754", "title": "Macquarie perch", "text": "Macquarie perch\n\nThe Macquarie perch (\"Macquaria australasica\") is an Australian native freshwater fish of the Murray-Darling river system. It is a member of the family Percichthyidae and is closely related to the golden perch (\"Macquaria ambigua\").\n\nThe Macquarie perch derives its scientific name from the Macquarie River where the first scientifically described specimen was collected (\"Macquaria\") and a derivation of the Latin word for \"southern\" (\"australasica\").\n\nMacquarie perch are a medium-sized fish, commonly 30–40 cm and 1.0–1.5 kg. Maximum size is about 2.5 kg and 50 cm. Their body is elongated, deep, and laterally compressed. The caudal fin, anal fin and soft dorsal fin are rounded. Spiny dorsal fin medium height and strong. Mouth and eyes are relatively small. Colouration can vary from tan to (more commonly) dark purplish-grey to black. The irises of the eyes are distinctly silver.\n\nMacquarie perch are a relatively placid native fish species with the bulk of their diet consisting of aquatic invertebrates such as caddisfly, stonefly and mayfly species, with a small quantity of terrestrial insects taken as well.\n\nThe Macquarie perch is primarily an upland native fish and has a breeding biology clearly adapted to flowing upland rivers and streams. (For this reason, the species has proven difficult to breed artificially, as captive females do not produce ripe eggs when kept in still broodponds or tanks). Macquarie perch breed in late spring at temperatures of 15 to 16 °C, in flowing water over unsilted cobble and gravel substrate. The demersal (sinking) eggs fall into the interstices (spaces) between the gravel and cobble, where they lodge and are then protected and incubated until hatching. This is a breeding strategy similar to that used by introduced species of trout.\n\nMacquarie perch appear to have inherited the sexual dimorphism of other \"Macquaria\" species where females reach a larger maximum size than males. Females also reach sexual maturity at older, larger sizes than males.\n\nLimited ageing work on Macquarie perch has recorded fish to 20 years of age. Maximum age for Macquarie perch is probably similar to the maximum age recorded for the closely related golden perch (26 years).\n\nMacquarie perch were originally found in the larger upland rivers and streams in the south-eastern corner of the Murray-Darling system, which they usually co-inhabited with trout cod and one or both of the blackfish species.\n\nMacquarie perch continue a pattern found in native freshwater fish of the Murray-Darling system of specialisation into lowland and upland stream inhabitants. Macquarie perch are a speciated, more specialised upland version of the golden perch, which is \"primarily\" a lowland fish. (Having said this, the \"primarily\" lowland golden perch, being highly adaptable species, did extend into upland habitats) in some situations.\n\nMacquarie perch are found in the eastern coastal Shoalhaven and Hawkesbury-Nepean river systems as well as the Murray-Darling Basin, indicating that, as with some other native fish genera in south-eastern Australia, Macquarie perch have managed to cross the Great Dividing Range through natural river capture/connection events. Genetic research now indicates the Shoalhaven River population was the ancestral Macquarie perch population and colonised the Hawkesbury-Nepean system ~2 million years ago, and the Hawkesbury-Nepean population then colonised the Murray-Darling Basin — possibly through a \"wet divide\" in the Breadalbane Plains region, ~657,000 years ago (Faulks et al., 2008).\n\nMajor differences between the eastern coastal populations and the Murray-Darling population are that the eastern coastal populations display a far smaller average and maximum size (15 and 20 cm respectively) and are reported to have one less vertebra than the Murray-Darling species. Recent evidence suggest the Shoalhaven population is now extinct after a rapid decline due to damming of their habitat and subsequent encroachment of legally and illegally stocked fish species. The Hawkesbury-Nepean population appears to be threatened by introduced trout and other exotic fish, river damming and regulation, siltation, and urban encroachment, but does not appear to be as threatened as the Murray-Darling species. Information on this page relates primarily to the Murray-Darling population.\n\nThere is also a translocated self-sustaining breeding population of Macquarie Perch located in the middle and upper reaches of the Yarra River on the outskirts of Melbourne. They highest numbers are found lowest reaches, which also support a mix of translocated native and introduced fish including trout. In this stretch however no fish species is particularly dominant, and introduced trout are not numerous.\n\nMurray-Darling Macquarie perch are now listed as endangered on state and Commonwealth listings. Gross overfishing by anglers, habitat degradation through siltation, and regulation of flow and \"thermal pollution\" by dams have all been major causes of decline. A mysterious but endemic disease called Epizootic Haemotopoeitic Necrosis virus (EHN virus), now vectored by introduced redfin perch, has been proven to be fatal to Macquarie perch, and may have contributed to the decline of some populations of Macquarie perch in upland impoundments. What has become clear however is that total domination of the Macquarie perch's upland habitats by introduced brown trout (\"Salmo trutta\") and rainbow trout (\"Oncorhynchus mykiss\") have also been a major cause of decline. Indeed, Macquarie perch populations have failed in significant stretches of relatively pristine upland river that offer excellent habitat, are not silted, dammed or overfished, and where there are no possible explanations for their demise except introduced trout species. Dietary studies have documented significant overlap between the diet of Macquarie perch and introduced trout species, and anglers have observed predation of Macquarie perch juveniles by introduced trout species. Several publications in the 1940s through to the 1960s by the director of the Victorian Fisheries and Game Department (A.D.Butcher) documents predation on juvenile trout cod, Macquarie perch and other upland native fish species by introduced trout species, and major dietary overlaps. Recent research (Lintermans, 2006) records dietary overlaps that are significant by scientific criteria between Macquarie perch and introduced trout species.\n\nOver the last 20 or 30 years, the last few remaining Macquarie perch populations in upland habitats have faltered. All of these populations appear to be in extinction vortices and may disappear completely over the next several of decades.\n\nMacquarie perch have proved difficult but not impossible to breed. However, no Australian government agency is breeding Macquarie perch in significant numbers, and some government agencies are stocking upland habitats containing remnant Macquarie perch populations with introduced trout species. Not only do these stockings threaten Macquarie perch by competition and predation, but rainbow trout fingerlings have been shown to carry significant levels of EHN virus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154755", "title": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events", "text": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events\n\n\"Dates of Epoch-Making Events\" is an entry in \"The Nuttall Encyclopaedia\" for its listing of the most important turning points in history, particularly western history. The work's list illustrates western culture's turning points and James Wood's views from the early 20th century. The events are listed as in the original listing, with modern footnotes.\n\nThe events chosen, with few errors, are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154758", "title": "Paul Wenneker", "text": "Paul Wenneker\n\nPaul Werner Wenneker (27 February 1890 – 17 October 1979) was a German admiral and diplomat. Born in Kiel, Wenneker died in Bergstedt, Hamburg.\n\nHaving joined the Kaiserliche Marine in 1909, Wenneker twice served as German Naval Attaché to Japan, first from 1935 to 1937 and again from 1940 to 1945. In-between these terms, from 1937 to 1940, he was commanding officer of the .\n\nAs Naval Attaché, Wenneker advocated the use of U-Boats to disrupt American supply routes, but his advice went largely unheeded by the Japanese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154767", "title": "KDRX", "text": "KDRX\n\nKDRX (106.9 FM) is a radio station licensed to serve Laughlin Air Force Base, Texas, United States. The station airs a country music format and serves the Del Rio, Texas area. KDRX is currently owned by MBM Radio Del Rio, LLC.\n\nOn June 18, 2009, the station was sold to Frequency Collaboration Corp. Effective June 15, 2012, the station was sold to MBM Radio Del Rio, LLC, a subsidiary of R Communications.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154774", "title": "Minerva Pious", "text": "Minerva Pious\n\nMinerva Pious (March 5, 1903 – March 16, 1979) was an American radio, television and film actress. She was best known as the malaprop-prone Pansy Nussbaum in Fred Allen's famous \"Allen's Alley\" current-events skits. In his book, \"Treadmill to Oblivion\", Allen called Pious \"the most accomplished woman dialectitian ever to appear in radio.\"\n\nMinnie Pious, as she was originally known, was born in Odessa, Czarist Russia, and moved to the United States with her parents when she was 2 years old, becoming a U.S. citizen in 1918 through her naturalized citizen father.\n\nShe attended high school in Bridgeport, Connecticut, where she was active in the Players Club dramatic organization. An article in the December 6, 1919, issue of the \"Bridgeport Telegram\" reported, \"Miss Minerva Pious delighted the school with her dramatic reading ...\" and added \"Miss Pious has given very many successful story readings through the past year and will continue the community work.\"\n\nPious's excellent typing and shorthand in high school led to a job as a stenographer for a judge in Bridgeport. She later wrote for a national syndicate. Next she was a writer for Loew's. She spent the majority of her life and career in New York City and worked extensively as a radio comedian.\n\nPious obtained her first regular job as part of Allen's Mighty Allen Art Players in the 1930s when Allen hosted the hour-long \"Town Hall Tonight\". Playing a number of dialect roles in Allen's clever news spoofs and various other satires, Pious developed them into the Russian-Jewish housewife Mrs. Nussbaum by 1942, the year in which Allen's news spoofs finally developed into the \"Allen's Alley\" routines.\n\nIn a review published in Billboard October 18, 1947, Jerry Franken praised her performance, writing, \"Mrs. Nussbaum's malapropisms and occasionally inspired twists, sharpened by Minerva Pious's sock performance, are still boff.\"\n\nPious became a fixture in the routines until Allen's show ended in 1949. Invariably, she greeted Allen's knock on her door with her Yiddish \"Nuuuuuu,\" then answered Allen's cheery \"Mrs. Nussbaum!\" with lines like: \n\nPious's portions of the \"Alley\" segments usually involved one or another joke at the expense of Mrs. Nussbaum's never-heard husband, Pierre. In one episode, Pierre had a bad cold, and one of the remedies involved vegetables of all types. According to Mrs. Nussbaum, the vegetables included \"Carrots, stringle-a-beans and rutta-bagels.\" Her distinctive accented voice and Jane Ace-like knack for malaprops made her a series trademark.\nPious was often invited to play Nussbaum on other radio programs, such as \"The Jack Benny Program\" (inviting him to her new restaurant: \"We feature soft lights and hard salami\") and \"Duffy's Tavern\". She was cast in the radio plays of Norman Corwin (especially playing a Brooklynese crime solver in \"Murder in Studio One\") and on the \"Columbia Workshop\". In addition to comedy routines on Kate Smith's series, she was heard on shows hosted by Ed Wynn and Bob Hope, along with roles on \"The Goldbergs\" and the soap opera \"Life Can Be Beautiful\". She also was heard on \"The Alan Young Show\". \"Minnie could do a million things,\" remembered \"Fred Allen Show\" writer Bob Weiskopf to author Jordan R. Young in \"The Laugh Crafters\", a book gathering interviews with vintage radio comedy writers. \"Nice lady. She had a physical affliction—she had a bad hip, a severe limp. She was very concerned about television; she never worked very much. But radio was fine.\"\n\nThe hip condition didn't stop Pious from making occasional television appearances, on shows such as \"The Colgate Comedy Hour\" and \"The Chevrolet Television Theatre\". She appeared briefly in the television soap \"The Edge of Night\" in 1956, playing a landlady. \n\nHer few film credits included playing Mrs. Nussbaum on camera in Allen's \"It's in the Bag!\" and a featured voice role in \"Pinocchio in Outer Space\". She had small roles in the films \"Joe MacBeth\" (1955) and \"Love in the Afternoon\" (1957).\n\nPious recorded with Bud Freeman a skit based on Noël Coward's \"Private Lives\" called \"Private Jives\" for the Commodore Records label in 1938. Also on the record were Joe Bushkin (piano and trumpet) and announcer Everett Sloane. The record, according to Commodore, sold only 150 copies, all to friends of the artistes!\n\nPious died March 16, 1979, at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, aged 76.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154778", "title": "Piratic flycatcher", "text": "Piratic flycatcher\n\nThe piratic flycatcher (\"Legatus leucophaius\") is a passerine bird, the only member of the genus \"Legatus\". It is a resident breeder from southern Mexico and Trinidad south to Bolivia and Argentina. At least some birds from Central America and Trinidad are migratory, and this species also visits Tobago.\n\nThis tyrant flycatcher is found in savannah and other semi-open habitat with large trees. It gets its name because it does not build its own nest, but appropriates the domed or enclosed nests of other, often far larger, bird species, such as yellow-rumped cacique or crested oropendola. Once the persistence of the flycatchers has driven the rightful owners away, their eggs are removed, and the female flycatcher lays up to four, but usually two, black-streaked brown eggs. She incubates these on her own for 16 days to hatching, with a further 18–20 days to fledging.\n\nThe adult piratic flycatcher is 15 cm long and weighs 23 g. The upperparts are unstreaked plain brown, although the flight feathers have narrow white edges. The head has a long whitish supercilium, a concealed yellow crown stripe, and a dusky mask through the eyes. The throat is white, and there is a white malar stripe. The underparts are whitish with touches of light yellow, besides blurred brownish streaking on the breast and flanks. The dark bill is short and broad.\n\nThe call is an upslurred \"weeEEE\" given from a high perch for long periods of the day, or sometimes a monotonous \"weep weep weep\".\n\nPiratic flycatchers wait on an exposed perch high in a tree, occasionally sallying out to feed on fruit, their staple diet. The young are fed on insects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154780", "title": "Tarragona, Davao Oriental", "text": "Tarragona, Davao Oriental\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTarragona is politically subdivided into 10 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154782", "title": "Jocelyn Angloma", "text": "Jocelyn Angloma\n\nJocelyn Angloma (born 7 August 1965) is a French-Guadeloupean former footballer who played as a defender. He is the head coach of the Guadeloupe national team.\n\nAngloma began his professional football career in France, and was a member of the Marseille team which won the 1992–93 UEFA Champions League. He played more than 400 games in European first divisions, including spells in Italy, and 120 appearances with Valencia in Spain, where he played until his retirement in 2002. He played in the UEFA Champions League Finals of 2000 and 2001 for the Spanish club, but was on the losing side on both occasions.\n\nAngloma played 37 times for France between 1990 and 1996, scoring one goal. Angloma was part of the squad at Euro 92 and Euro 96.\n\nIn 2006, Angloma came out of retirement to play for his native région, Guadeloupe, and help them qualify for the 2007 Caribbean Nations Cup. He was allowed to represent Guadeloupe because Guadeloupe is not a FIFA member and only participates in regional competitions. After his return from retirement, Angloma moved from his natural position as a right back and played as a midfield playmaker for Guadeloupe.\nIn December 2017, he was appointed Guadeloupe's coach.\n\nJocelyn Angloma's son Johan plays in several youth teams of Guadeloupe and was member of the Guadeloupe under-14 national football team at the Coupe National Under-14 2008.\n\nFor France\n\nFor Guadeloupe\n\nMarseille\n\nInter Milan\n\nValencia\n\nFrance U21\n\nIndividual\n"}
{"id": "2154783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154783", "title": "Least I Could Do", "text": "Least I Could Do\n\nLeast I Could Do (\"LICD\") is a humor webcomic by Ryan Sohmer and Lar deSouza (also the creators of the fantasy webcomic \"Looking for Group\"). The strip debuted on February 10, 2003. Past artists for the strip include John Horsley from y2cl, who dropped out before the strip launched, Trevor Adams, who was on board for about six months, then Chad W. M. Porter, who drew the strip for two years. \n\n\"Least I Could Do\" is produced by Blind Ferret Entertainment, which owns the rights to the strip. The primary theme of the strip is sexuality, especially the promiscuity of the primary character, Rayne Summers, who is loosely based upon Sohmer himself.\n\nThe strip updates every day. Sunday features \"Least I Could Do: Beginnings\", a strip following Rayne at age 8 with storylines unrelated to the main strip. Story lines tend to last for only a few strips, but some have gone several weeks.\n\nThe original artist for the strip was Trevor Adams, who drew the strip from its debut until July 18, 2003, later moving on to create his own comic \"Gemini Paradox\". Chad Porter took over on July 28, 2003. In late 2004, \"I Have My Moments\", a full-color book featuring the first year of \"LICD\" with Porter as the artist, was published.\n\nIn early 2005, the strip underwent a major change with the introduction of a new character, Noel, Rayne's friend. Noel was often given roles that previously would have gone to the character John Gold, whose frequency in the strip had been reduced. Rayne soon became a business executive on falsified credentials, with the intent of sleeping with the CEO of IDS Enterprises, Marcy McKean.\n\n\"Least I Could Do\" \"3.0\" launched on August 15, 2005 with the departure of Porter as the artist. Lar deSouza, a long time friend of Sohmer and his artistic partner on the daily comic \"In Other News\", took over as the artist. The comic and website have been undergoing some major changes as a result.\n\nDecember 2005 marked the publication of \"My Will Be Done\", the complete 2nd-year collection featuring Chad Porter's final strips for the comic. It also included a mini-comic drawn by Lar, depicting the origins of \"Bra-Man\". In July 2006 the first Bra-Man comic was released.\n\nIn November 2006, \"Because I Can\", the 3rd year collection, and the first to feature current artist Lar deSouza was published.\n\nIn the July 9, 2007 strip, the cast opened a \"letter\" from the writer and artist which stated that from that moment on, they would age normally rather than remain a perpetual age 24 or so. Since then, the strip's characters have enacted major life changes: notably, Noel moved in with and later married his girlfriend, and Rayne, in a plot arc beginning in September, experimented with monogamy.\n\nIn 2010, Sohmer announced that deSouza will be re-drawing the original strips done by Trevor Adams in the current artistic style.\n\nThough the primary character is Rayne, there are a large number of supporting characters, and the strip will sometimes go for up to a week without a strip featuring Rayne. These usually involve large story arcs involving the other characters, though \"Least I Could Do\" still specializes in the one strip joke.\n\nRayne Summers is the protagonist of \"Least I Could Do\". He is a shallow, childlike, and sexually driven 24-year-old (now ) with an underdeveloped emotional intelligence as well as a severe superiority complex. Rayne shares a joyful sibling rivalry with his older brother Eric Summers, who is a surgeon. In the 2006 storyline, Rayne and Eric found out they had a sister they never knew about, and a niece named Ashley. Rayne eventually takes a liking to his niece, despite a rocky start, and eventually comes to care for her as a surrogate father, with Ashley considering him her favourite \"Unca\".\n\nAs the comic progressed, Rayne's character developed and has been dealing with increased maturity and vulnerability. It was revealed that much of Rayne's promiscuity and childishness came as a reaction to severe depression caused by his inability to settle down and his fear of change. His promiscuity has become less and less of a theme as the strip has progressed, and as of March 8, 2014, he is in an exclusive relationship with the character Jumpmaster Julie who first appeared on August 23, 2006.\n\nNoel is Rayne's best friend, a later addition to the strip, first appearing on January 5, 2005. Noel's first appearances lined up with a period in which the Rayne character needed a comedic foil. Noel is the calm, sardonic yin to Rayne's yang, and although he is more than willing to participate in Rayne's insane schemes, he has learned to sit back and watch the carnage rather than get too involved. Although introduced as Rayne's wingman, Noel soon found himself in a serious relationship with Kate, a woman he met at a speed dating event. Over the course of the comic, they married and had three children: A boy, Logan (named after the X-Man) and twins Lucas and Leia\n\nMelissa \"Issa\" Allie is one of Rayne's few platonic female friends. An extremely gorgeous redhead with a voluptuous figure and natural yellow eyes, Issa is the object of Rayne's frequent sexual advances which she continually rejects. Despite this, it sometimes seems as though she has a slight subconscious crush on him. When she introduced her friends to her farmer-boyfriend, Huck, the crew noted his resemblance to Rayne. Despite her attractiveness and continual disgust at some of their antics, Issa still manages to play the voice of reason and fits in with Rayne and the rest of the boys. She is not above manipulating her male friends, such as offering to try on underwear at Victoria's Secret for Rayne, in exchange for him accompanying her to the mall.\n\nIssa has known Rayne since at least his teenage years, offering him advice after the relationship that started his womanizing streak, showing her to be one of Rayne's oldest friends. Issa holds the record for holding out against Rayne's advances. Rayne got her a job at IDS as a replacement for a staff member on maternity leave, although it remains to be seen if this is a permanent post. She and Michael Von Huntington, an IDS employee, are married and have a daughter.\n\nMick Alfa is an overweight and socially awkward friend of Rayne's, who is often used as a wingman. Rayne often enlists Mick in elaborate (and occasionally bizarre) charades to help him get laid. Mick is a TV program director, and has had a greater number of steady relationships than Rayne, Noel and John combined. Mick has been dating Tamara, a young college co-ed, for two years. Mick also has a passion for potato chips. Recently, it has been revealed that Mick's father was murdered by his mother's lover, after which his mother went to prison and became a lesbian. In July 2011 it was revealed that Mick will be marrying Tamara (Tammy) after a six-year relationship.\n\nJohn Gold is Rayne's childhood friend and roommate, who often acts as his foil. He continually expresses a resigned discontent with Rayne's promiscuity. John is looking for a wife, which has been shown to lead him into being somewhat needy and over-hasty in relationships. He is a grade school teacher. One relationship of John's was with a woman named Hannah, who became a major part of his life and even moved in with him, but eventually left him due to Rayne's antics. John's temptations are represented by a small Darth Vader, a parody of the shoulder devil cliché. The Darth Vader character frequently appears, not only to tempt him, but also to voice the darker thoughts that John represses. As of 2015, he moved from Rayne's apartment to a new house to start a family with his girlfriend Laura, whom he met in 2013.\n\nAs of 2009, there were six \"Least I Could Do\" collections published, which include the two years that the comic was drawn by Chad and the three years of deSouza's work. The second book includes a mini-comic drawn by Lar that explains the origins of Bra-Man. They have also printed the first edition of Bra-Man, a spin-off comic based on Rayne's drunken alter-ego and a book of \"Least I Could Do: Beginnings\" which tells stories about Rayne's childhood along with his friends and family.\n\n\n\n\n\nSince February 2004, Least I Could Do has had a yearly event in which fans can submit themselves to be 'dates' for one of the strip's characters, either primary or secondary. The selection process is shown in the comic, with the cast sorting through letters and often with Rayne attempting to be the selected date. Upon the decision, the fan is drawn into the strip, sharing a date with the cast member of their choice. If supporting cast members are selected, the date storyline often involves Rayne attempting to sabotage things, primarily out of jealousy for not being selected. The Valentine's storyline runs for roughly a week's time. In recent years, three of the five primary characters (Issa, Noel & Mick) are now officially in committed relationships, which calls into question whether or not the contest will be run differently and if said characters can still be selected by fans.\n\nStarting in 2006, Sohmer and DeSouza began a comic-fantasy webcomic called \"Looking For Group\". Characters from \"Looking for Group\" have appeared in the background of a May 7, 2008 \"Least I could Do\" strip. Richard the Warlock and his rabbit also appeared during the CRISIS Arc on April 6, 2009 and incinerated a future version of Rayne. Krunch Bloodrage also appeared in the same arc, fighting Rayne's Audibot in the background of the April 10, 2009 strip.\n\nIn July 2006, the first \"Bra-Man\" comic was released. The 24-page comic showcases the adventures of Bra-Man, Rayne Summers' alter-ego. Bra-Man No. 1 was written by Ryan Sohmer, drawn by Lar deSouza, and coloured by Marc Brunet.\n\nOn November 9, 2008, Sohmer and DeSouza announced that a new strip would appear on Sundays, thus having a strip every day of the week. Sohmer said, \"For quite some time now, Lar and I have been toying with the idea of going to a 7-day a week schedule with LICD. While other creators seem to be cutting back on their output lately, we wanted to do more.\"\n\nBut, not wanting to do just another normal strip, Sohmer and DeSouza decided to start up \"Beginnings,\" a Sunday-only strip on the website with storylines separate from the rest of the comic based around Rayne's childhood, specifically at 8 years old. Beginnings is similar in both format and artistic style to \"Calvin & Hobbes\", which has been occasionally referenced in LICD, including Calvin's sled (with a stuffed tiger clearly visible) running over Noel and Rayne offering Calvin money to run him over again.\n\nBlind Ferret Entertainment and Teletoon had a development deal for an animated version of \"Least I Could Do\"; however, Blind Ferret opted out of the deal because it believed they would have to surrender too much creative control. Following the collapse of that deal, Sohmer entered into negotiations with an American network for a potential development deal. In response to the failed Teletoon deal, Sohmer subsequently created a Kickstarter project, asking fans for donations to produce a television pilot consistent with the original vision for an animated series. The project garnered over $100,000 in pledges in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154786", "title": "Ronald L. Haeberle", "text": "Ronald L. Haeberle\n\nRonald L. Haeberle (born circa 1940) is a former United States Army photographer best known for the photographs he took of the My Lai Massacre on March 16, 1968.\n\nThe monochrome photographs he took were made using an Army camera and were either subject to censorship or did not depict any South Vietnamese casualties when published in an Army newspaper. On the other hand, Haeberle took color photographs with his own camera while on duty the same day, which he kept and later sold to the media. The then-Sgt. Haeberle, having returned to his hometown of Cleveland, Ohio after an honorable discharge, offered them to \"The Plain Dealer\"; the newspaper published some of them on November 20, 1969. Haeberle soon after sold the photos to \"Life\" magazine, which were published in the December 1, 1969 issue. One of the photos in particular became iconic of the massacre, in large part because of its use in the \"And babies\" poster, which was distributed around the world used in protest marches where it was televised and reproduced in newspapers.\n\nLieutenant General Peers' contrary statement to the press in 1970 notwithstanding, in 2009, Haeberle admitted that he destroyed a number of photographs he took during the My Lai Massacre. Unlike the photographs of the dead bodies, the destroyed photographs depicted Americans in the process of murdering South Vietnamese civilians.\n\nAccording to Camilla Griggers, professor of Visual Communication and Linguistics at California State University:\n\nThe Army photographer, Ronald Haeberle, assigned to Charlie Company on March 16, 1968 had two cameras. One was an Army standard; one was his personal camera. The film on the Army-owned camera, i.e., the official camera of the State, showed standard operations ­ that is \"authorized\" and \"official\" operations including interrogating villagers and burning \"insurgent\" huts. What the film on the personal camera showed, however, was different. When turned over to the press and Government by the photographer, those \"unofficial\" photographs provided the grounds for a court martial. Haeberle's personal images (owned by himself and not the US Government) showed hundreds of villagers who had been killed by U.S. troops. More significantly, they showed that the dead were primarily women and children, including infants.\n\nAs is evident from comments made in a 1969 telephone conversation between United States National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger and Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird, revealed recently by the National Security Archive, the photos of the war crime were too shocking for senior officials to stage an effective cover-up. Secretary of Defense Laird is heard to say, \"\"There are so many kids just lying there; these pictures are authentic.\"\"\n\nHaeberle later testified that he personally saw about 30 different U.S. soldiers kill about 100 civilians.\n\nAccording to the investigation, Haeberle previously \"withheld and suppressed from proper authorities the photographic evidence of atrocities he had obtained\" despite \"having a particular duty to report any knowledge of suspected or apparent war crimes\".\n\nHowever Haeberle had claimed in his testimony that he did not turn in his photographic film of the atrocities to the brigade information office, because \"if you take a photograph of a general smiling wrong in the photograph, you destroyed that photograph\", therefore Haeberle felt his photographs would have been destroyed if he had turned them in as was standard practice.\n\nDuring the summer of 2012, Ron Haeberle visited Vietnam and My Lai hamlet, where he met with Tran Van Duc, a survivor of the My Lai massacre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154793", "title": "Jason Armstead", "text": "Jason Armstead\n\nJason Armstead (born September 18, 1979) is a former professional Canadian football and American football kick returner and wide receiver. Armstead is currently a free-agent. He was most recently a member of the Calgary Stampeders in the Canadian Football League. He was signed by the Pittsburgh Steelers as an undrafted free agent in 2003. He played college football for Mississippi.\n\nHe has also been a member of the Ottawa Renegades, Saskatchewan Roughriders, Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Montreal Alouettes, Winnipeg Blue Bombers, Las Vegas Locomotives, and the Edmonton Eskimos. \n\nIn 2003, Armstead played three pre-season games as a kick returner for the Pittsburgh Steelers of the National Football League. Armstead was signed by the Ottawa Renegades of the CFL in 2004 and he was named to the CFL All-Star team for the 2005 CFL season. Armstead was selected third overall by Saskatchewan in the Renegades dispersal draft in 2006. On August 19, 2007, he was traded to the Hamilton Tiger-Cats for running back/returner Corey Holmes and receiver Chris Getzlaf. On July 21, 2008, Armstead was released from the Montreal Alouettes.\n\nOn August 31, 2009, he was again signed by the Saskatchewan Roughriders. On February 13, 2010, Armstead was charged with several criminal offenses stemming from an incident in Pascagoula, Mississippi involving his former girlfriend's purse. On April 15, 2010, it was announced that the Roughriders had released Armstead.\n\nOn October 21, 2010, Armstead was signed by the Edmonton Eskimos. After being released in the following off-season, Armstead was re-signed on August 8, 2011, following injuries to Fred Stamps and Adarius Bowman. He was again released on January 19, 2012.\n\nOn September 12, 2012, the Calgary Stampeders signed Armstead as a receiver/kick returner. Armstead is entering his ninth CFL season and has recorded 13,812 combined yards and 24 touchdowns in 106 games played with Ottawa, Saskatchewan, Hamilton, Montreal, Winnipeg and Edmonton. On February 25, 2013 Armstead was released by the Calgary Stampeders. \n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2154796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154796", "title": "Pityriasis rubra pilaris", "text": "Pityriasis rubra pilaris\n\nPityriasis rubra pilaris refers to a group of chronic disorders characterized by reddish orange, scaling plaques and keratotic follicular papules. Symptoms may include reddish-orange patches (Latin: \"rubra\") on the skin, severe flaking (Latin: \"pityriasis\"), uncomfortable itching, thickening of the skin on the feet and hands, and thickened bumps around hair follicles (Latin: \"pilus\" for hair). For some, early symptoms may also include generalized swelling of the legs, feet and other parts of the body. PRP has a varied clinical progression and a varied rate of improvement. There is currently no known cause or cure for PRP. \n\nIt was first described by Marie-Guillaume-Alphonse Devergie in 1856, and the condition is also known as Devergie's disease.\n\nDr. W.A.D. Griffiths, from Great Britain, classified six forms of PRP in the early 1980s. At this time, the causes of PRP are still unknown and symptoms can be difficult to diagnose. Frequently, more than one medical professional will be consulted before an accurate PRP diagnosis is made.\n\nDermatologists have identified both an acquired form and an inherited form (familial) of PRP and have described them in medical journals. The acquired form usually shows a spontaneous or gradual remission of symptoms within several years although long-term symptoms may continue for years. The inherited form starts early in childhood with persistent long-term symptoms into adulthood.\n\nAlthough most people who develop PRP are over age 50, individuals of any age, race, and nationality can be affected. Women and men seem to be equally affected.\n\nTreatment with emollients is used to relieve symptoms of cracking and dryness. Application of lubricants under plastic occlusion before bedtime appears to aid removal of scales on hands and feet. Other topical options include: topical corticosteroids alone, or combined with keratolytics, such as urea and vitamin D3 analogues. \nThe most effective therapy is long term use of oral retinoids, such as acitretin and isotretinoin. Other effective systemic approaches include: methotrexate, cyclosporin and corticosteroids. There are also reports that the monoclonal Ab ustekinumab (blocks IL-23/ IL-12) may be effective.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154797", "title": "Curly Page", "text": "Curly Page\n\nMilford Laurenson \"Curly\" Page (8 May 1902 – 13 February 1987) was a New Zealand Test cricketer and rugby union player, who represented his country in both sports.\n\nBorn in Lyttelton on 8 May 1902, Page was the son of Olga Marguerite Smith and her husband, David Joseph Page, a produce and coal merchant. He was educated at Christchurch Boys' High School where he was a champion all-round sportsman.\n\nPage had one sister and two brothers, including Frederick Page who was a professor of music, pianist and music critic.\n\nIn a first-class career extending from 1920–21 to 1942–43, Page was New Zealand's second Test captain, and captained the side in seven of the Tests in which he played. He toured England in 1927, 1931 and 1937, and was captain of the team on the latter tour. He was the only player to appear in all 14 of New Zealand's Test matches before World War II.\n\nHe usually batted at number four or five, bowled useful slow-medium, and according to Dick Brittenden, his \"slip fielding was magnificent, sometimes incredibly swift\". His highest first-class score was 206, for Canterbury against Wellington in 1931–32, when he added 278 for the fourth wicket with Alby Roberts in the second innings after Canterbury had trailed by 277.\n\nIn the First Test at Lord's in 1931 he made 104 after New Zealand had trailed by 230 on the first innings. He added 118 for the third wicket with Stewie Dempster, then Page and Roger Blunt added 142 in 105 minutes for the fourth wicket.\n\nA halfback and first five-eighth, Page represented at a provincial level in two stints: in 1922 and 1923, and then in 1928 and 1929. He played just one match for the New Zealand national side, the All Blacks, against the touring New South Wales team at Lancaster Park in 1928. He did not appear in any rugby Test matches.\n\nPage died in Christchurch on 13 February 1987.\n"}
{"id": "2154798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154798", "title": "Paul Dixon (entertainer)", "text": "Paul Dixon (entertainer)\n\nPaul Dixon (October 2, 1918 – December 28, 1974) was a daytime television personality and talk show host in Cincinnati, Ohio. He began his career with radio shows in New York City and Chicago before being enticed to come to then-radio station WCPO in Cincinnati as a news reporter and announcer around 1945. He was chosen best newscaster in Cincinnati in 1947 after conducting an interview with men trapped in a collapsed downtown building.\n\nEventually abandoning radio news in favor of entertainment, he spent his first few years in television as host of \"Paul Dixon's Song Shop\", a three-hour daily show he co-hosted with Dottie Mack and Wanda Lewis pantomiming to records of the day. By 1954 his show was so popular that Dumont Television enticed Dixon to come to New York to do the show nationally. After a year a homesick Dixon returned to Cincinnati, and hired on at WLWT to host a new daytime TV show geared to housewives.\n\n\"The Paul Dixon Show\", after having aired on the DuMont network from September 29, 1952 to April 8, 1955, premiered on Cincinnati's WLWT in 1955. The show began as a half-hour program, but later expanded to 90 minutes with co-hosts Bonnie Lou and Colleen Sharp. Avco Broadcasting Corporation, who owned WLWT, syndicated Dixon's show in other markets where they owned TV stations, including Columbus and Dayton, Ohio and Indianapolis, Indiana. \"Paul Baby\", as he came to be known (the nickname was given him by a prop boy) had a breezy style and a sense of humor that appealed to housewives and others alike.\n\nHis show reached its peak on Tuesday, March 11, 1969, when he staged a wedding for two rubber chickens, that had become longtime props on the show (they were mainly used for in-house commercials for Kroger). Fellow Cincinnati TV personality Bob Braun appeared as Best Man, with Colleen Sharp and Bonnie Lou as Matrons of Honor. To this day the chicken wedding remains a significant piece of WLWT's (and Cincinnati's) television history. Former late night TV host David Letterman, who grew up in Indianapolis, cited Dixon's comedic talent as inspiration for his own antics.\n\nDixon wrote and published two books:\n\nDixon and his wife Marge had two children; Pamela and Greg.\n\nDixon suffered his first heart attack in 1970, shortly after his son Greg was killed in a car accident. On the heels of his son's death, a grieving Dixon had to be helped on stage to do his show one day.\n\nComplications later led to a ruptured aneurysm, which claimed Dixon's life on December 28, 1974. Avco executives concluded that Dixon could not be replaced, so following a month of reruns, \"The Paul Dixon Show\" quietly ended its near-20 year run by the end of January 1975. Dixon is buried in Gate of Heaven Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154804", "title": "Shreya Ghoshal", "text": "Shreya Ghoshal\n\nShreya Ghoshal (born 12 March 1984) is an Indian singer, composer and music producer. She has received four National Film Awards, four Kerala State Film Awards, two Tamil Nadu State Film Awards, seven Filmfare Awards including six for Best Female Playback Singer and ten Filmfare Awards South. She has recorded songs for film music and albums in various Indian languages and has established herself as a leading playback singer of Indian cinema.\n\nGhoshal aspired to become a playback singer from an early age. At the age of four, she started learning music. At the age of six, she started her formal training in classical music. At the age of sixteen, she was noticed by the mother of film-maker Sanjay Leela Bhansali when she entered and won the television singing reality show \"Sa Re Ga Ma\". Following that, she made her Bollywood playback singing debut with Bhansali's romantic drama \"Devdas\" (2002) for which she received a National Film Award, a Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer and a Filmfare RD Burman Award for New Music Talent.\n\nApart from playback singing, Ghoshal has appeared as a judge on several television reality shows and she also appears in music videos. She performs in musical concerts around the world. She has been honored by the United States state of Ohio, where Governor Ted Strickland declared 26 June 2010 as \"Shreya Ghoshal Day\". In April 2013, she was honoured in London by the selected members of House of Commons of the United Kingdom. She also featured five times in the Forbes list of the top 100 celebrities from India. In 2017, Ghoshal became the first Indian singer to have her wax figurine in Madame Tussauds Museum.\n\nShreya Ghoshal was born on 12 March 1984 to a Bengali Hindu family in Berhampore, Murshidabad district, West Bengal. She grew up in Rawatbhata, a small town near Kota, Rajasthan. Her father, Bishwajit Ghoshal is an electrical engineer and works for the Nuclear Power Corporation of India, and her mother, Sarmistha Ghoshal, is a literature post-graduate. She has a younger brother, Soumyadeep Ghoshal. At the age of four, she started learning music.\n\nGhoshal completed her schooling up to eighth grade at the Atomic Energy Central School in Rawatbhata. In 1995, she won the All India Light Vocal Music Competition, New Delhi, organised by Sangam Kala Group, in Light Vocal group in sub-junior level. In 1997, when her father was transferred to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, she was relocated to Mumbai, with her family and studied at the Atomic Energy Central School in Anushakti Nagar. She joined the Atomic Energy Junior College to study science. She dropped out from the junior college and enrolled at the SIES College of Arts, Science, and Commerce in Mumbai, where she took up arts with English as her major.\n\nGhoshal's mother used to help her in rehearsals and accompany her on the Tanpura, starting with mostly Bengali songs. At the age of six, Ghoshal started with her formal training in classical music. She acquired training from Late Kalyanji Bhai for 18 months and continued her classical music training with Late Mukta Bhide in Mumbai. Her first stage performance was made at a club's annual function. When she turned six, she started her lessons in Hindustani classical music. In 2000, at the age of sixteen, she participated and won the television music reality show \"Sa Re Ga Ma\" (now \"Sa Re Ga Ma Pa\") on the channel Zee TV.\n\nOn 5 February 2015, Ghoshal married her childhood friend Shiladitya Mukhopadhyaya in a traditional Bengali ceremony. Before getting married, Ghoshal dated him for almost 10 years. According to Ghoshal, apart from being a singer, she loves to travel and read books but it's cooking that has a healing effect on her.\n\nHer first ever recorded song was \"Ganraj Rangi Nachato\" which is a cover version of a Marathi song originally sung by Lata Mangeshkar. Her first studio album was \"Bendhechhi Beena\", which was released on 1 January 1998, with 14 tracks. Some of her earlier albums are \"O Tota Pakhi Re\", \"Ekti Katha\" (1999), and \"Mukhor Porag\" (2000). Ghoshal recorded Bengali studio album Rupasi Raate (2002). Ghoshal recorded devotional songs in albums like \"Banomali Re\" (2002), and later, \"Krishna Bina Ache Ke\" (2007).\n\nGhoshal caught the attention of director Sanjay Leela Bhansali when she participated in the 75th children's special episode of \"Sa Re Ga Ma\". Bhansali's mother was watching the show and during Ghoshal's performance, she called him to watch her performance, after which he decided to give her a chance in his next film. According to Bhansali, Ghoshal's voice had the innocence needed for the character of Paro in \"Devdas\" (2002).\n\nIn 2000, Bhansali and music director Ismail Darbar offered her the opportunity to be the voice of Paro, the lead female character of \"Devdas\", who was portrayed by Aishwarya Rai. Ghoshal sang five songs in the film, namely, \"Silsila Ye Chaahat Ka\", \"Bairi Piya\", \"Chalak Chalak\", \"Morey Piya\", and \"Dola Re Dola\", with established singers such as Kavita Krishnamurthy, Udit Narayan, Vinod Rathod, KK, and Jaspinder Narula. She was sixteen when she recorded the first song for the film, \"Bairi Piya\" with Udit Narayan. Her Higher Secondary Examinations were nearing that time and she would take her books and notebooks to the studio to study during downtime.\n\"Bairi Piya\" was an instant success and topped the charts. The film garnered her first Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer for \"Dola Re\" (shared with Kavita Krishnamurthy) and a National Film Award for Best Female Playback Singer for \"Bairi Piya\". Her performance also won her the Filmfare RD Burman Award for New Music Talent. \n\nShe was an immediate success and was called by various regional film industries for recording songs in her voice. Ghoshal was next heard in Darbar-composed \"Desh Devi\", where she performed three tracks for the film.\n\nAfter rendering traditional semi-classical songs for her previous ventures, Ghoshal performed two seductive numbers for M. M. Kreem's \"Jism\", which prevented her from being stereotyped. According to Ghoshal, \"Jaadu Hai Nasha Hai\" and \"Chalo Tumko Lekar Chale\" from the film \"made everyone look at [her] in a new light\", opening the doors to a \"versatile image\". She was awarded with another Filmfare trophy for \"Best Female Playback Singer\" for the song \"Jaadu Hai Nasha Hai\". She thereupon worked with Anu Malik, where she performed the female version of \"Aye Meri Zindagi\", \"Seena Pada\" and \"Aai Jo Teri Yaad\", along with the bhajan-styled \"Har Taraf\". In addition to providing vocals for \"Har Taraf\", Ghoshal also made her first on-screen appearance in \"Saaya\", as the school girl singing the song. Apart from \"Inteha\", Ghoshal provided vocals for Malik in two other films, \"Munna Bhai M.B.B.S.\" and \"LOC Kargil\", where she recorded the song \"Chann Chann\" for the former and \"Pyaar Bhara Geet\" for the latter, along with Sonu Nigam. Besides, Ghoshal made her first collaboration with Shankar–Ehsaan–Loy by performing the female version of the song \"Tu Hi Bata Zindagi\". Calling her singing \"effortless\" in the song, \"The Hindu\" mentioned that she was \"able to impart the required emotions\" for the song.\n\nIn 2004, Ghoshal contributed to the soundtrack album of \"Thoda Tum Badlo Thoda Hum\" by performing four tracks, which were labelled with an \"average\" tag by Joginder Tuteja from Bollywood Hungama. However, he was \"impressed\" with Ghoshal's rendition from her songs in \"Khakee\", where he affirmed that Ghoshal's voice suits Aishwarya Rai to the \"core\" and she \"lends credibility to the entire song\" in \"Wada Raha\". Besides, the two duets with Nigam; \"Dil Dooba\" and \"Youn Hi Tum Mujhse\", were equally favored by music critics. Further complimenting her vocals in the song \"Hum Tumko Nigahon Mein\" and \"Soniye\" from \"Garv\", Tuteja asserted that Ghoshal's \"vocals have started to suit the current breed of actresses better and better with each passing day\". Apart from \"Dil Bechara Pyaar Ka Maara\", Ghoshal worked with Nikhil–Vinay in other projects, by recording \"Betab Dil Hai\" from \"Phir Milenge\", and \"Woh Ho Tum\" from \"Muskaan\".\n\nDuring the time, Nadeem–Shravan composed \"\" was considered to be the biggest album for Ghoshal, as she sang all the numbers with an exception of one song. She performed a wide variety of songs—from a jazzy number to soft romantic tunes—in the album. According to Ghoshal, the album allowed her to \"experiment with the entire range\" of her \"singing capabilities\". Besides, Ghoshal lent her voice for Malik, where she sang \"Tumhe Jo Maine Dekha\" and \"Gori Gori\" for \"Main Hoon Na\" apart from the title track. \"Mid Day\" affirmed that Ghoshal provided \"perfect accompaniment\" for the track, while Rediff.com was \"impressed with her rendition\". The year marks her first collaboration with Rajesh Roshan and Daboo Malik by singing the melodious track for the former composed \"Saansein Ghulne Lagi\" from \"Aetbaar\" and performing the track \"Shikdum\" from \"Dhoom\", for the latter.\n\nGhoshal was bestowed with her second National Film Award for her rendition of \"Dheere Jalna\" in \"Paheli\". As claimed by \"Daily News and Analysis\", the song \"treads the fine balance between the classical and popular genre of Hindi film music\". Barring the song \"Dheere Jalna\", Ghoshal was heard in two other tracks \"Kangna Re\" and \"Minnat Kare\", composed by M.M. Kreem. She provided vocals for Kreem in one of his another compositions: \"Guzar Na Jaye\" from \"Rog\". With the film \"Parineeta\", she made her first collaboration with Shantanu Moitra. She performed four tracks from the film alongside Nigam, which includes \"Piyu Bole\", \"Kasto Mazza\" and \"Soona Man Ka Aangan\". Thereupon, the duo worked for the soundtrack album of \"Yahaan\", performing a soulful track \"Naam Adaa Likhna\", \"Urzu Urzu Durkut\" and a Punjabi track \"Mele Chaliyan\". Ghoshal's work in both the films was widely acclaimed, subsequently being nominated for the Filmfare Awards with the song \"Piyu Bole\". Reportedly, Ghoshal was selected to sing the female rendition of the track after being auditioned by many other artistes. In an interview, Moitra stated; \"Pradeep wanted a little trill of laughter in the middle of the song and she did it effortlessly\".\n\nAlong with \"Piyu Bole\", Ghoshal received another Filmfare nomination for her rendition of the song \"Agar Tum Mil Jao\" from \"Zeher\". The song along with \"Jaane Ja Jaane Ja\" from the same film was acclaimed by music critics. Apart from providing supporting vocals for Himesh Reshammiya's \"Aashiq Banaya Aapne\", Ghoshal's voice had been used in some of his other compositions released during the year. However, while reviewing Malik-composed \"Pehle Se\", Bollywood Hungama wrote: \"Ghoshal sings in a mature manner and does well once again to prove herself as a dependable playback singer\". Similar sentiments were echoed for the song \"Bolo To\" from \"Shabd\" which was composed by Vishal–Shekhar.\n\n2006 marks Ghoshal's first collaboration with Ravindra Jain in film Vivah, where she performed three duets with Narayan titled \"Mujhe Haq Hai\", \"Do Anjaane Ajnabi\" and \"Milan Abhi Aadha Adhura Hai\". For the album, she also recorded \"Hamari Shaadi Mein\" with Babul Supriyo and two sisters conversation song \"O Jiji\" with Pamela Jain, along with a bhajan performed with Jain. Ghoshal's \"obsessive\" vocals were appraised in Roop Kumar Rathod's composition, \"So Jaoon Main\" from \"Woh Lamhe\". Despite the length, the version was particularly acclaimed from the album. During the year, Ghoshal performed her first ever duet with Sunidhi Chauhan—though they have contributed in multi-singer songs together—with the Salim–Sulaiman's composition, \"Imaan Ka Asar\" from \"Dor\". In spite of providing backing vocals for \"Lage Raho Munna Bhai\"s \"Bande Mein Tha Dum\", Ghoshal and Nigam performed a romantic duet titled \"Pal Pal\", a composition by Moitra. For the song, she received a Best Female Playback Singer nomination at the 52nd Filmfare Awards. She was next heard with Vishal Bhardwaj in the song \"O Saathi Re\", which exudes the feeling of intimacy and deep love. Ghoshal's low pitch rendition in the song was positively noted by critics.\n\nIn 2006, Ghoshal sang \"Pyaar Ki Ek Kahani\", \"Koi Tumsa Nahin\" and \"Chori Chori Chupke Chupke\" for Rajesh Roshan-composed \"Krrish\" which were also favored by the critics. Reviewing the album, Bollywood Hungama wrote: \"Ghoshal is extremely competent and justifies her continued presence in the big league\". They also mentioned that Ghoshal has reached to a similar level of Alka Yagnik in terms of \"class, quality and style\".\nIn 2007, Ghoshal recorded a thumri in the mujra style for \"Khoya Khoya Chand\". Titled \"Chale Aao Saiyan\" and composed by Moitra, the song was particularly praised for Ghoshal's \"different\" vocal structure. She even lent her voice for two other songs for the album; \"Sakhi Piya\" and \"Thirak Thirak\". She reunited with Moitra for \"Laaga Chunari Mein Daag\", where she performed \"Hum To Aise Hain\" along with Chauhan which also had Swanand Kirkire and Pranab Biswas lending supporting vocals. Raja Sen found \"Kachchi Kaliyaan\" song from the film less appealing with its \"bad remix background\" though praised Ghoshal, Chauhan, KK and Nigam for giving the song \"the vim it requires\". Apart from providing background alaap in Monty Sharma's composition \"Masha-Allah\", Ghoshal was heard in the classically oriented numbers \"Jaan-E-Jaan\" and \"Sawar Gayi\", included in the album \"Saawariya\". She also recorded her first track in a Sanjay Leela Bhansali's composition, \"Thode Badmaash\" for the same album, providing a \"feminine quality\" to her \"temperate nuances\".\n\nDuring the same year, Ghoshal sang the peppy rain song, \"Barso Re\" for Mani Ratnam's \"Guru\", a composition by A.R. Rahman. A Review from Oneindia praised Ghoshal's rendition of the song and opined that it was a different incarnation of her in comparison to her previous records. The song won her third Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer. The same year, she came up with the song \"Yeh Ishq Haaye\" from \"Jab We Met\", composed by Pritam which was successful in earning her a third National Film Award for Best Female Playback Singer.\n\nThe duo also worked with the classical track \"Mere Dholna\" for \"Bhool Bhulaiyaa\" (2007), performed beside M. G. Sreekumar, which was acclaimed with special mention to the taan towards the \"climax of the song\". Ghoshal also lent her voice for Vishal–Shekhar with few of his compositions and was particularly praised for the theme song of \"Ta Ra Rum Pum\" along with the romantic song \"Main Agar Kahoon\" and the dance song \"Dhoom Taana\" from film Om Shanti Om, where some critics compared her singing style of the latter with S. Janaki. In the year, Ghoshal worked with Ilaiyaraaja for the album \"Cheeni Kum\".\n\nAfter singing for films such as \"U Me Aur Hum\", \"Sirf\", \"Ghatothkach\", \"Dashavatar\", \"Mere Baap Pehle Aap\", \"De Taali\", \"Haal-e-Dil\", \"Thoda Pyaar Thoda Magic\" and \"Kismat Konnection\", Ghoshal recorded another hit song for \"Singh Is Kinng\" (2008), titled \"Teri Ore\", composed by Pritam Chakraborty. It received mixed reviews from music critics. The song earned her a fourth Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer and overall fifth Filmfare Award. After that, she lent her voice for films like \"Bachna Ae Haseeno\", \"God Tussi Great Ho\", \"Welcome to Sajjanpur\", \"Kidnap\", \"Karzzzz\", \"Ek Vivaah... Aisa Bhi\", \"Dostana\", \"Yuvvraaj\" and others. She won her fourth National award for singing \"Pherari Mon\" for the Bengali film \"Antaheen\" (2008), and \"Jeev Rangla\" for the Marathi film \"Jogwa\" (2008).\n\nShe debuted in the Tamil cinema through the song \"Yen Chellam\" in Vasanthabalan's film \"Album\" (2002), and she received success after singing \"Munbe Vaa\" from \"Sillunu Oru Kaadhal\" under composer A. R. Rahman. She received her first Tamil Nadu State Film Award. She made her Telugu debut for music director Mani Sharma in \"Okkadu\" (2003). She made her debut in Kannada cinema with the song \"Krishna nee begane baaro\" in the movie \"Paris Pranaya\" (2003). Ghoshal debuted in Malayalam cinema through a studio album of composer Alphons Joseph and later gave voice to his song \"Vida Parayukayano\" from \"Big B\" (2007). In 2010, Ghoshal sang for the English independent film \"When Harry Tries to Marry\". In the same year, Ghoshal rendered her voice for a song \"Aadha Ishq\" from film Band Baaja Baaraat which composed by Salim-Sulaiman. Satyajit of Glamsham stated, \"Shreya Ghoshal's feminine vocal textures have always been reliable in ballads\".\n\nIn 2011, Ghoshal recorded hit duet song \"Saibo\" in film Shor in the City with Tochi Raina, a composition by Sachin-Jigar. Satyajit from \"Glamsham\" reported, \"Sweetly toned and mesmerized with mellifluous flows of Shreya Ghoshal singing, the first outing \"Saibo\" is a smoothening surprise that extols the feel of romanticism to perfection\". Later that year, Ghoshal sang the duet \"Teri Meri\" in film Bodyguard with Rahat Fateh Ali Khan. A Himesh Reshamiya composition, the song received positive to mixed reviews. NDTV labelled the song as \"moderately paced and average\". Ghoshal later collaborated with Bappi Lahiri in the duet \"Ooh La La\" from film The Dirty Picture. Abid from \"Glamsham\" stated that Shreya Ghoshal manage to keep up the fun tempo with an improvised and highly entertaining and excellent renditions. Ghoshal received further two nominations that year at Filmfare Awards for songs \"Saibo\" and \"Teri Meri.\n\nIn 2012, Ghoshal rendered her voice for popular item song, \"Chikni Chameli\" from film Agneepath. The song was composed by Ajay-Atul and was a remake of their own Marathi song \"Kombdi Palali\" from film \"\". Joginder Tuteja of Bollywood Hungama stated, \"A special word for Shreya Ghoshal too who changes her singing style in a big way and comes up trumps. She gets the kind of rustic flavour that was the need of the hour and is superb in her rendition.\" Ghoshal received her one of the two Filmfare nominations of the year for the song. Later, she revealed that she \"wasn't very comfortable\" singing the song because of its vulgar lyrics and requested the makers to change few words in it. The same year, she performed four songs, all composed by Sajid–Wajid for film Rowdy Rathore which received mixed reviews from critics. For the duet song \"Dhadang Dhang Dhang\" performed by Ghoshal alongside Sajid, Devesh Sharma of Filmfare remarked, \"Shreya Ghoshal puts the ’90s ka tadka' in her rendition\" and for lullaby song \"Chandaniya\" he said, \"Shreya Ghoshal sounds uncannily like Alka Yagnik and proves that she is a singer for all occasions\". Joginder Tuteja from Bollywood Hungama stated in relation to \"Chandaniya\", \"Shreya Ghoshal can fit into any mode as per the demand of the situation\". The song \"Tera Ishq Bada Teekha\" received mixed reviews from music critics. Ghoshal then lent her voice in a Four-part harmony song, \"Radha\" from \"Student of the Year\" alongside Udit Narayan, Vishal Dadlani and Shekhar Ravjiani which garnered critical appreciation. In the same year, she again collaborated with A.R. Rahman for a duet song \"Saans\" from film Jab Tak Hai Jaan along with Mohit Chauhan. The song received positive to mixed reviews by critics. At the poll conducted by Indiatimes, the song \"Saans\" won the title of \"Most Romantic Song of the year 2012\". The song earned Ghoshal second of her two Filmfare nominations of the year.\nIn early 2013, Ghoshal sang two duet songs \"Naino Mein Sapna\" and \"Taki O Taki\" for film Himmatwala. The songs were originally composed by Bappi Lahri and re-created by Sajid–Wajid. Both songs received positive reviews from music critics. For \"Naino Mein Sapna\", critics of NDTV mentioned, \"Ghoshal sounds tailormade for the track\" and for \"Taki Taki\" they remarked, \"Ghoshal proves yet again her mettle in the industry\". For \"Naino Mein Sapna\", Shivi from Komoi stated, \"Shreya Ghoshal replace Lata Mangeshkar and do a decent job\". Ghoshal sang the female version of Sunn Raha Hai in Aashiqui 2 composed by Ankit Tiwari and written by Sandeep Nath. She garnered critical praise over Ankit Tiwari who sang the male version of the song. Apart from rendering vocals for A.R. Rahman composed \"Banarasiya\" in Raanjhanaa, Ghoshal lent her voice for duet \"God, Allah aur Bhagwan\" in Krrish 3 alongside Sonu Nigam. Though the former song was met with largely positive reviews, the latter was poorly received. Ghoshal next performed two tracks in Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela namely \"Dhoop\" and \"Nagada Sang Dhol\" both composed by the director of film, Sanjay Leela Bhansali. She earned positive to mixed response for former and mostly positive reviews for the latter. Mohar Basu of Koimoi stated in regards to \"Dhoop\", \"Shreya Ghoshal's voice croons hauntingly and this song evokes a range of deep emotions. Passionately sung and flatteringly themed, this song makes evident the reason why Ghoshal can be compared to music veterans of the industry.\" Ghoshal received two Filmfare nominations for songs \"Sunn Raha Hai\" and \"Nagada Sang Dhol\" that year.\n\nIn 2014, Ghoshal recorded three songs for film PK namely the solo \"Nanga Punga Dost\" and duets \"Chaar Kadam\" and \"Love is a Waste of Time\" with Shaan and Sonu Nigam respectively. Later in the same year, she sang the duet \"Manwa Laage\" with Arijit Singh for film Happy New Year composed by Vishal-Shekhar duo and written by Irshad Kamil. After its release, \"Manwa Laage\" crossed two millions views in 48 hours on YouTube worldwide. Ghoshal got another nomination at Filmfare Awards for the song.\n\n2015 started with Ghoshal's another collaboration with A.R. Rahman in Tamil film \"I\". Besides rendering vocals for original Tamil duet \"Pookkalae Sattru Oyivedungal\" alongside Haricharan, she also dubbed its Hindi version \"Tu Chale\" alongside Arijit Singh and Telugu version \"Poolane Kunukeyamantaa\" alongside Haricharan. The original Tamil version song \"Pookkalae Sattru Oyivedungal\" was met with positive reviews by critics, with most critics praising the vocals of Ghoshal. Nicy V.P. from International Business Times commented on Tamil version, \"Haricharan's crystal clear voice, Shreya's Hindustani driven singing lead to a chart-buster, here. With regards to Shreya Ghoshal, we have to dig deep the dictionary to come up with some new adjectives to praise her singing.\" Later that year, Ghoshal sang the female version of song \"Hasi\" from film Hamari Adhuri Kahani composed by Ami Mishra which got critical precedence over male version sung by Ami Mishra himself. Devesh Sharma from Filmfare remarked, \"The female version of Hasi, sung by Shreya Ghoshal, works better than the male version, sung by guest composer Ami Mishra himself. Ghoshal elevates it with her superb effort and the softer arrangement works better for it overall.\" Ghoshal also performed the female version of the song \"Gaaye Jaa\" for the film Brothers composed by Ajay-Atul which received positive reviews from music critics. The Times of India stated, \"Shreya Ghoshal scores brownie points for her rendition\". Glamsham praised Ghoshal's vocals labelling them \"sugary sweet and superbly controlled\". Bollywood Life commented, \"Shreya Ghoshal amazes the listener by making this situational song such a great listen and just for her lovely voice, one has to put this song on a loop\" The same year saw Ghoshal again collaborating with Sanjay Leela Bhansali in Bajirao Mastani.\n\nShe performed three songs in the film, namely \"Mohe Rang Do Laal\", \"Deewani Mastani\" and \"Pinga\". She also dubbed these songs in Tamil and Telugu versions of the film's soundtrack. The qawwali interlude song \"Deewani Mastani\" in the film fetched her sixth Filmfare Award, fifth for Best female playback singer.\n\nIn early 2016, Ghoshal provided vocals for duet \"Tere Bin\" from film Wazir alongside Sonu Nigam. Composed by Shantanu Moitra and written by Vidhu Vinod Chopra, the song opened to positive reviews by critics. Labelling the song as \"a beautiful start for the film\", critics from Bollywood Hungama commented, \"Though the sound of song is quite classical for a film which is set in the current times, one can well expect that it would fit in well into the narrative.\" Ghoshal was next heard in song \"Tum Bin Jiya\" in film Sanam Re, composed by Jeet Ganguly. It was a recreation of a song with same title from 2001 film Tum Bin sung by K.S. Chitra and composed by Nikhil-Vinay. The song received positive to negative reviews. Ghoshal sang the songs \"Mere Aankhon Se Nikle Aansoo\" and \"Ishq Ki Baarish\" written by Sameer and composed by Nadeem Saifi in the film Ishq Forever for which critics compared Ghoshal singing style to veteran singer Alka Yagnik. For the song \"Mere Aankhon Se Nikle Aansoo\", The Times of India commented, \"Shreya create magic in [the song], which is straight from the heart. Ghoshal provided vocals for song \"Aatach Baya Ka Baavarla\" in Marathi film Sairat composed by Ajay-Atul which was well received by critics. Ghoshal's collaboration with Ankit Tiwari in song \"Jab Tum Hote Ho\" from film Rustom was critically well received. Devesh Sharma of Filmfare labelled the song \"sombre\" and praised use of Ghoshal's \"melodious\" voice in the song. Ghoshal was next heard in Tamil film Devi in which she rendered her vocals for song \"Rang Rang Rangoli\". Ghoshal also dubbed Hindi version of the song titled \"Ranga Re\" as the film was released along with Tamil in Hindi and Telugu as well with Telugu version \"Rang Rang Rangare\" being sung by Swetha Mohan. India West praised the Hindi version by quoting, \"Ghoshal proves that she can tread Sunidhi Chauhan terrain effortlessly in parts of the song, and her strong vocals once again put up a strong case for playback singers (females)\". The Tamil version of song also opened to positive reviews.\n\nIn early 2017, Ghoshal rendered \"Aashiq Surrender Hua\" duet along with co-singer and composer Amaal Mallik from the film Badrinath Ki Dulhania. the song in itself was much appreciated for its quirky lyrics which were penned down by lyricist: Shabbir Ahmed. \"Aashiq Surrender Hua\" was one of the rare songs in which Ghoshal was heard in a lower register than what she usually sings in. As Swetha Ramakrishnan from Firstpost reiterated, \"The best thing about the song is Shreya Ghoshal singing in a lower pitch; something one rarely gets to hear.\" In regards to the singers, Gaurang Chauhan from Bollywood Life stated, \"Both are a unique choice for such a song and they nail it.\" Ghoshal was next heard in \"Rozana\" from the film Naam Shabana for which Ghoshal's vocals were specifically met with critically positive reviews. Shriram Iyengar from Cinestaan mentioned, \"Ghoshal's voice brings a mesmerising touch to the song, with a perfect balance of happiness and contentment.\" Praising Ghoshal's vocals in \"Rozana\", India West commented, \"To say that she makes the best out of this increasingly rare occasion in film music is superfluous.\" Apart from rendering vocals for A R Rahman composed 'Do Dilon Ke' duet along with Hariharan in the Hindi dubbed version of the film: Viceroy's House, Ghoshal also lent her voice for duet 'Hans Mat Pagli 'in alongside Sonu Nigam. Both songs were critically acclaimed. Joginder Tuteja from Bollywood Hungama stated that \"The combination of Sonu-Shreya takes the song to a different altogether and worthy of repeat hear.\"\n\nIn 2017, Ghoshal also sang the duet \"Thodi Der\" with co-singer and music director Farhan Saeed for the film \"Half Girlfriend\". She received a Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer nomination for the song. Komoi stated, \"Ghoshal's voice as sweet as honey mesmerizes the listener in Thodi Der\". Glamsham reported, \"Ghoshal is simply fantastic and [song] can be put on repeat mode\". In the same year, Ghoshal sang two songs in fifth episode of Mixtape, a web series launched by T-Series for which she received positive response. Ghoshal's four Kannada songs were included in \"The Times of India\" list of \"10 Best Romantic Songs of 2017\", which are \"Usire Usire\" from \"Hebbuli\", \"Ondu Malebillu\" from \"Chakravarthy\", \"Ninna Snehadinda\" from \"Mugulu Nage\" and \"Chippinolagade\" from \"Maasthi Gudi\". Her Telugu song \"Blockbuster\" from \"Sarrainodu\" was voted as number one in \"10 Best Party Songs of 2017\" by the same.\n\n2018 started for Ghoshal collaborating with S. Thaman for the song \"Mandhaara\" from \"Bhaagamathie\". She later provided her rendition for \"Allasani Vaari\" from \"Tholi Prema\". She also lent her voice to four songs for the delayed film \"Phir Se...\" (2018). Ghoshal continued with song Ghoomar from the period drama \"Padmaavat\", along with Swaroop Khan. Composed by film's director Sanjay Leela Bhansali himself, it was based on the traditional music and dance forms performed by the Rajput queens of Rajasthan. The song was well received, with critics praising Ghoshal for her rendition. Gaurang Chauhan from Times Now noted that the song \"is appealing and will be, if not already, a favourite among dance performers across India.\" \"Ghoomar\" went on to earn Ghoshal the Filmfare Award for Best Female Singer. She was next heard in the recreated version of \"Ek Do Teen\" from \"Tezaab\" (1988) in \"Baaghi 2\" and the title track of \"Dhadak\" (2018).\n\nGhoshal started 2019 with two classical numbers, \"Ghar More Pardesiya\" and \"Tabah Ho Gaye\" for Abhishek Varman's period drama \"Kalank\", for which she won numerous awards and accolades including a Zee Cine Award for Best Female Playback Singer. Later, sang \"Yeh Aaina\" for the film \"Kabir Singh\", composed by Amaal Mallik and written by Irshad Kamil, which was picturised on the film's lead Shahid Kapoor and supporting actress Nikita Dutta, and \"Habibi Ke Nain\" along with Jubin Nautiyal, composed by Sajid-Wajid, for the film \"Dabangg 3\". Later that year, she was also heard as the lead singer, in a first, alongside fellow singer and rapper Mellow D, on \"Kiske Liye Tu Marega\" and \"Dega Jaan\", two versions of the upbeat title track of Raj Nidimoru and Krishna D.K.'s Manoj Bajpayee - starrer Amazon Prime Video original series \"The Family Man\", composed by Sachin-Jigar. Her rendition of the tracks was widely praised, with the lyrics receiving appreciation for being an ode to middle class struggles in the Indian society.\n\nGhoshal performs in musical concerts around the world. In 2013, she went to Australia and New Zealand and gave performances at the Brisbane Convention Center, Dallas Brooks Center in Melbourne, the Sydney Opera House and Vodafone Events Centre in Auckland. In the same year, she performed at the Sharjah Cricket Association Stadium in United Arab Emirates. The same year, she paid her respects to the casualties of an excessive rainfall in Mauritius with a concert at the Swami Vivekananda International Convention Centre in Pailles. Along with Hrishikesh Ranade, she also made a stage performance during the 18th annual day celebration of Airports Authority of India. She made London tours where she performed twice in Royal Albert Hall in 2013 and 2014. On the first tour in 2013, she also celebrate 100 years of Bollywood by performing many of the old Bollywood hits songs.\n\nIn 2006, along with Sonu Nigam, Sunidhi Chauhan and Shiamak Davar, Ghoshal performed the theme song of 2010 Commonwealth Games at its closing ceremony, as an invitation to everyone to the following Commonwealth Games in Delhi. The same year, she along with Nigam, recorded the title track \"Haath Se Haath Milaa\" for the album put together by the BBC World Service Trust as part of an AIDS awareness campaign, where profits garnered through the album, was donated to HIV charities. In 2011, she became the brand ambassador for Joyalukkas jewellery.\n\nIn 2016, Ghoshal performed a charity event to support a 17 years old patient of Acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In the same year, Ghoshal performed her concert in Sydney Olympic Park. In 2017, she performed concerts in the US with a forty member live Symphony band at the Fox Theatre in Detroit.\n\nOne of Ghoshal's earliest musical memories is listening to her mother, Sarmistha Ghoshal, singing classical Bengali songs at clubs. As a very young child, she was introduced to music by her mother, whom she refers as her first \"guru\". She states that her mother is her best critic.\n\nGhoshal has acknowledged K S Chitra, Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhosle, Geeta Dutt, Mohammed Rafi, Kishore Kumar, Ilaiyaraaja and Mukesh as her inspirations. She has also named Jagjit Singh as her inspiration to perform songs in the genre of Ghazal.\n\nGhoshal has performed songs with a lower vocal range. However, \"Metro Times\" calls her voice a \"sweet and smokey soprano\". Her voice has been described as \"sweet\" with \"slight huskiness\". In an interview, Ghoshal noted that her voice has transformed from the \"girlish tenor\" of the earlier days to a more matured texture. Her voice is characterized in the media for being most suitable for higher-pitched renditions, although some critics have said that her voice tends to screech when she reaches a higher note of scale. Similarly, in the book \"Confession of a Coward – an Indian Adventure\", it was stated that Ghoshal's high-pitched vocals are interesting and impressive, but \"certainly take some time getting used to it\". Ghoshal has voiced against correcting pitch with Auto-Tune. About her singing and rehearsing style, she has said, \"I have a special way of writing the lyrics when it is dictated to me. No matter what the language of the song, even if it is Bengali, I write it in Hindi. I have certain notations and markings to indicate the way it should be pronounced. I feel the Devanagari script is the closest to the phonetics of the language. English letters are not very good for that purpose. Moreover, I listen carefully and try to grasp as much as possible when the lyrics are read to me\".\n\nWhat makes Ghoshal remarkable among her contemporaries, according to \"The Indian Express\" is, the \"serenity in her voice\" and the \"enviable range\". Further complimenting her versatile vocal range, they noted: \"The honey-dipped inflection of [her voice], which once put in the recording studio, can turn into naughty, sensuous, serious, sad, comic and pure classical, depending on the requirement of the job\". Naming her as the \"most versatile singer of this generation\", \"India West\" remarked the smoothness of her voice when flowing from \"lower registers to higher notes\". According to \"The Times of India\", Ghoshal maintains the \"touch of versatility\" with her music by singing different style of songs from classical to pure commercial music. In 2003, Ghoshal admitted that she modulates her voice well, hence \"none of the music directors have yet been able to label me\".\n\nGhoshal took vocal lessons and did workshops with Kalyanji Virji Shah, where she learnt the technique about \"throw of voice, straight notes, vibratos\". She considers classical music training as an asset in playback since it \"keeps one's voice fit and fresh\". Music director Shekhar Ravjiani praised Ghoshal for her singing versatility. According to Sonu Nigam, the best quality about Ghoshal is that the expressions come perfectly along with mannerisms. Music director and singer M. Jayachandran praised Ghoshal by saying, \"It is amazing how she writes down the lyrics in Hindi and then gives her signature nuanced expressions to Malayalam words\". During her interviews, Ghoshal mentioned, \"I cannot sing double meaning songs or the songs which have vulgar lyrics\".\n\nGhoshal's work has been praised by music directors Ankit Tiwari, Jeet Gannguli,\nGhoshal's contemporary singers Papon, Palak Muchhal, Sukhwinder Singh,\nBombay Jayashri, Javed Ali, Neha Kakkar, Richa Sharma, Pakistani singers Ghulam Ali, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, Asrar, A cappella band Penn Masala, film actress Dia Mirza, cricketer MS Dhoni. Film makers Vishal Bharadwaj, Karan Johar, and Vidhu Vinod Chopra, have picked Ghoshal as the best female singer from the generation. Canadian singer Nesdi Jones, UK singer Roma Sagar, British Indian singer Tripet Garielle, Ananya Nanda, mentioned Ghoshal as their inspiration.\n\nUsha Uthup named her among the \"voice for the future\". Veteran singers Vani Jairam and Manna Dey has praised her musical abilities. Senior singers Alka Yagnik, Asha Bhosle, Lata Mangeshkar, Hemlata, Kavita Krishnamurthy, Kumar Sanu, also picked Ghoshal as the best female singer from the generation. \nSonu Nigam mentioned Ghoshal as his favourite singer: \"If there'll be best all-time singers, Shreya will surely be included among them\". Asjad Nazir, the editor of \"Eastern Eye\" called her undisputed queen of playback singing.\n\nGhoshal was also honored from the U.S. state of Ohio, where the governor Ted Strickland declared 26 June as \"Shreya Ghoshal Day\". The first Shreya Ghoshal Day (26 June 2010) was celebrated among her fans on popular microblogging and social networking sites. In April 2013, she was awarded with the highest honour in London by the members of House of Commons of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2012, Ghoshal appeared in the \"Forbes\" Celebrity 100, a list based on income and popularity of India's celebrities. She remained in the top fifty spots for five consecutive years, listed at the forty-second spot in 2012–13, the twenty-eighth spot in 2014, the thirty-third spot in 2015 and the twenty-eighth spot in 2016. In 2013, \"Forbes India\" placed her in their \"Top 5 Celeb100 Singers and Musicians\" list. She is the only Indian singer to include in the list of \"Verve\"’s 50 Power Women Of 2016\" list.\n\nGhoshal is also known for her style and fashion sense. Ghoshal has said that she has been offered acting roles which she has declined, citing her lack of interest in it. In 2013, the UK-based newspaper \"Eastern Eye\" placed her forty-third in their \"50 Sexiest Asian Women\" list. In 2015, it placed her seventh in their \"Greatest 20 Bollywood Playback Singers\" list. She was listed third among the \"Top Ten Hottest Female Bollywood Lead Singers\" by MensXP.com, an Indian lifestyle website for men.\n\nGhoshal is active on social media. She is the sixth most liked Indian personality on Facebook and 47th most followed Indian personality on Twitter, according to the statistics of Socialbakers. She is among the top ten most searched Indian singers on Google Search. In March 2017, she became the first Indian singer to have a wax figure of her made for the display in Indian wing of Madame Tussauds Museum in Delhi.\n\nGhoshal has appeared as a judge on several television reality shows and she also appears in music videos.\n\nGhoshal has won four National Film Awards for Best Female Playback Singing: \"Bairi Piya\" for \"Devdas\" (2002), \"Dheere Jalna\" for \"Paheli\" (2005), \"Yeh Ishq Haaye\" for \"Jab We Met\" (2007), and one award for both songs \"Pherari Mon\" for the Bengali film \"Antaheen\" (2008) and \"Jeev Rangla\" for the Marathi film \"Jogwa\" (2008). She has won seven Filmfare Awards: one RD Burman Award for New Music Talent , and six awards in Best Female Playback Singer category for \"Dola Re Dola\" for \"Devdas\" (2003), \"Jaadu Hai Nasha Hai\" for \"Jism\" (2004), \"Barso Re\" for \"Guru\" (2008), \"Teri Ore\" for \"Singh Is Kinng\" (2009), \"Deewani Mastani\" for \"Bajirao Mastani\" (2016) and \"Ghoomar\" for \"Padmaavat\" (2019). Ghoshal has also won ten Filmfare Awards South for Best Female Playback Singer to date.\n"}
{"id": "2154808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154808", "title": "Josh Ranek", "text": "Josh Ranek\n\nJosh Ranek (born May 11, 1978) is a former Canadian football player.\n\nRanek was a running back in the Canadian Football League for the Ottawa Renegades (2002–2005), the Hamilton Tiger-Cats (2006), the Edmonton Eskimos (preseason 2007), and the Saskatchewan Roughriders (November 2007). In 2002, he attended the training camp of the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League. Ranek played college football at South Dakota State University.\n\nA term was coined by Chris Walby, color commentator for the CFL broadcasts on CBC, called \"Ring around the Ranek\" to describe Ranek's power running, and his being an integral part to his team. Ranek won the \"CFL Player of the Week\" award on August 9, 2006 for a win over the Winnipeg Blue Bombers. \n"}
{"id": "2154812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154812", "title": "Skank (dance)", "text": "Skank (dance)\n\nSkanking is a form of dancing practiced in the ska, ska punk, hardcore punk, reggae, drum and bass and other music scenes. \n\nThe dance style originated in the 1950s or 1960s at Jamaican dance halls, where ska music was played. Ska music has a prominent backbeat played by the electric guitar on beats two and four of a 4/4 bar of music. When ska became popular amongst British mods and skinheads of the 1960s, these UK youth adopted these types of dances and altered them. The dancing style was revived during the 1970s and 1980s 2 Tone era, and has been adopted by some individuals in the hardcore punk subculture.\nOriginally, skanking consisted of a “running man” motion of the legs to the beat while alternating bent-elbow fist-punches, left and right. Over time, variations emerged. The punk version features a sharp \"striking out\" look with the arms, and is sometimes used in moshing to knock around others doing the same. However, this is rarely seen as an act of true aggression but rather a consensual release of emotion.\n\nThis rough appearance tends to lead to negative stereotypes of violence, though they are rare at best and almost never tolerated by venue operators, bands, or other audience members. While the flailing, swinging, and pushing may appear dangerous, there is almost always a conscious effort by each dancer in the 'pit' to refrain from actually striking or hurting each other. Additionally, should any one person trip and fall, others in the group tend to avoid trampling them, or even help them to get back up.\n\nThe style, speed, and moves used when skanking are as diverse as the music it is performed to, usually dictated by its rhythm and genre. For example, the skanking done at a reggae concert would typically be slower and more restrained than the skanking done at a hardcore punk show. An example of this is the lighter style known as 'stroll' which has become popularized by American ska-punk bands, mainly Big D and the Kids Table. In this style, dancers tend to 'stroll' in a circle around the center 'pit' while rhythmically swaying from side to side with arms bent and marching in sync to the music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154814", "title": "Digital Cinema Initiatives", "text": "Digital Cinema Initiatives\n\nDigital Cinema Initiatives, LLC (DCI) is a joint venture of major motion picture studios, formed to establish a standard architecture for digital cinema systems.\n\nThe organization was formed in March 2002 by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, 20th Century Fox, Universal Studios, The Walt Disney Company and Warner Bros.\n\nThe primary purpose of DCI is to establish and document specifications for an open architecture for digital cinema that ensures a uniform and high level of technical performance, reliability and quality. By establishing a common set of content requirements, distributors, studios, exhibitors, d-cinema manufacturers and vendors can be assured of interoperability and compatibility. Because of the relationship of DCI to many of Hollywood's key studios, conformance to DCI's specifications is considered a requirement by software developers or equipment manufacturers targeting the digital cinema market.\n\nOn July 20, 2005, DCI released Version 1.0 of its \"Digital Cinema System Specification\", commonly referred to as the \"DCI Specification\". The document describes overall system requirements and specifications for digital cinema. Between March 28, 2006, and March 21, 2007, DCI issued 148 errata to Version 1.0.\n\nDCI released Version 1.1 of the DCI Specification on April 12, 2007, incorporating the previous 148 errata into the DCI Specification. On April 15, 2007, at the annual NAB Digital Cinema Summit, DCI announced the new version, as well as some future plans. They released a \"Stereoscopic Digital Cinema Addendum\" to begin to establish 3-D technical specifications in response to the popularity of 3-D stereoscopic films. It was also announced \"which studios would take over the leadership roles in DCI after the current leadership term expires at the end of September.\"\n\nSubsequently, between August 27, 2007, and February 1, 2008, DCI issued 100 errata to Version 1.1. So, DCI released Version 1.2 of the DCI Specification on March 7, 2008, again incorporating the previous 100 errata into the specification document. An additional 96 errata were issued by August 30, 2012, so a revised Version 1.2 incorporating those additional errata was approved on October 10, 2012. DCI approved DCI Specification Version 1.3 on June 27, 2018, integrating the 45 errata issued to the previous version into a new document. The previous versions are also archived on the DCI web site.\n\nBased on many SMPTE and ISO standards, such as JPEG 2000-compressed image and \"broadcast wave\" PCM/WAV sound, it explains the route to create an entire Digital Cinema Package (DCP) from a raw collection of files known as the Digital Cinema Distribution Master (DCDM), as well as the specifics of its content protection, encryption, and forensic marking.\n\nThe specification also establishes standards for the decoder requirements and the presentation environment itself, such as ambient light levels, pixel aspect and shape, image luminance, white point chromaticity, and those tolerances to be kept.\n\nEven though it specifies what kind of information is required, the DCI Specification does not include specific information about how data within a distribution package is to be formatted. Formatting of this information is defined by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) digital cinema standards and related documents.\n\n\n\n\nDCI has additionally published a document outlining recommended practice for High Frame Rate digital cinema. This document discloses the following proposed frame rates: 60, 96, and 120 frames per second for 2D at 2K resolution; 48 and 60 for stereoscopic 3D at 2K resolution; 48 and 60 for 2D at 4K resolution. The maximum compressed bit rate for support of all proposed frame rates should be 500 Mbit/s.\n\nThe idea for DCI was originally mooted in late 1999 by Tom McGrath, then COO of Paramount Pictures, who applied to the U.S. Department of Justice for anti-trust waivers to allow the joint cooperation of all seven major motion picture studios.\n\nUniversal Pictures made one of the first feature-length DCPs created to DCI specifications, using their film \"Serenity\". Although it was not distributed theatrically, it had one public screening on November 7, 2005, at the USC Entertainment Technology Center's Digital Cinema Laboratory in the Pacific Theatre, Hollywood. \"Inside Man\" was Universal's first DCP commercial release, and, in addition to 35mm film distribution, was delivered via hard drive to 20 theatres in the United States along with two trailers.\n\nThe Academy Film Archive houses the Digital Cinema Initiatives, LLC Collection, which includes film and digital elements from DCI's Standard Evaluation Material (StEM), a 12-minute production shot on 35mm and 65mm film, created for vendors and standards organizations to test and evaluate image compression and digital projection technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154815", "title": "Bhavatharini", "text": "Bhavatharini\n\nBhavatharani Raja is an Indian Tamil singer and music director. She is the daughter of film composer Ilaiyaraaja and her brothers are the noted film composers Karthik Raja and Yuvan Shankar Raja. She has mostly sung songs under the direction of her father and brothers. She was awarded the National Film Award for Best Female Playback Singer in 2000 for her rendition of the song \"Mayil Pola Ponnu Onnu\" from the film \"Bharathi\", composed by her father Ilaiyaraaja.\n\nBhavatharini Raja made her debut as a singer for \"Raasaiya\". Her song was a major hit. From then onward, she has sung in albums composed by her father and brothers.\n\nShe has also lent her voice in songs composed by Deva and Sirpy.\n\nIn 2001, she won the National Award for the song \"Mayil Pola Ponnu Onnu\" in the movie \"Bharathi\" (the music director was her father).\n\nShe turned music director for the 2002 film \"Mitr, My Friend\", directed by Revathi, starring Shobhana. She then forayed into the Telugu film industry with \"Avunaa\". She has also composed music for \"Phir Milenge\", directed by Revathi, starring Shilpa Shetty, Abhishek Bachchan and Salman Khan. In June 2012, she was roped in to score the tunes for \"Vellachi\", a village-based project.\n\nShe is married to an advertising executive, R. Sabariraj, son of S.N. Ramachandran. Ramachandran is a former journalist who went into publishing and started \"Kannan Advertising\". Bhavatharani studied at Rosary Matric School in Chennai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154818", "title": "WLMT", "text": "WLMT\n\nWLMT, virtual channel 30 (UHF digital channel 31), is a CW-affiliated television station licensed to Memphis, Tennessee, United States. The station is owned by Tegna Inc., as part of a duopoly with ABC affiliate WATN-TV (channel 24). The two stations share studios at the Shelby Oaks Corporate Park on Shelby Oaks Drive in the northeast section of Memphis and transmitter facilities in the Brunswick section of unincorporated northeast Shelby County. There is no separate website for WLMT; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WATN-TV.\n\nWLMT and WATN's studio facilities also handle master control and some internal operations for Jackson-licensed former sister station and Fox affiliate WJKT (channel 16).\n\nThe station first signed on the air as WMKW-TV on April 18, 1983. It was the second independent station in the Memphis market. The \"KW\" in its call sign referred to Kemmons Wilson, founder of Holiday Inn, which was then based in Memphis. The station was founded by the TVX Broadcast Group, which at that time, owned UHF independent stations in several medium-sized markets. WMKW ran a general entertainment format featuring afternoon cartoons, sitcoms, old movies, drama shows and some sports. Right from the start, it began a viewership rivalry with fellow independent outlet WPTY. In April 1987, WMKW became the market's original Fox affiliate as part of an affiliation deal involving the rest of the TVX stations, and began branding as \"Fox 30\" on-air. It was at this point that WMTU (now WJKT) in Jackson became a semi-satellite of WMKW.\n\nAlso in 1987, WMKW was placed up for sale by TVX to finance the company's purchase of other television stations. MT Communications bought the station in 1988 and changed its call letters to WUMT on October 1, 1989. Fox pulled its affiliation from WUMT in the spring of 1990 and moved it to WPTY making WUMT an independent station once again. The station's call sign became WLMT on April 2 of that year. WMTU also continued to simulcast WLMT's programming except during prime time as WMTU remained with Fox until 1995. MT Communications sold the station to Max Media in 1992. WLMT then established a local marketing agreement (LMA) with WPTY (then owned by Clear Channel Communications), with the two stations pooling resources and programming.\n\nThe station became a charter UPN affiliate upon the network's launch on January 16, 1995, while WMTU took on the network as a secondary affiliation until later that year when Fox was taken off that station. In 2001, WLMT was bought outright by Clear Channel making WPTY and WLMT full sisters. In 2003, programming from The WB moved from WPTY (where it was a secondary affiliation and shown during late night slots) to WLMT where it also aired out of pattern.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, CBS Corporation (which split from Viacom in December 2005) and Time Warner's Warner Bros. Entertainment (the division that operated The WB) announced that they would dissolve UPN and The WB, and move some of their programming to a newly created network, The CW. On February 22, 2006, News Corporation announced the launch of a new \"sixth\" network called MyNetworkTV, which would be operated by Fox Television Stations and its syndication division Twentieth Television. MyNetworkTV was created to compete The CW as well as to give UPN and WB stations that were not mentioned as becoming CW affiliates another option besides converting to independent stations.\n\nWJKT declined to affiliate with The CW or MyNetworkTV choosing instead to become a separate station, rejoining Fox on August 21. The area's Ion Television owned-and-operated station, WPXX-TV (channel 50), began carrying MyNetworkTV as a secondary affiliation on September 5. Meanwhile, WLMT affiliated with The CW when the network launched on September 18 and began branding on-air as \"CW 30\". On April 20, 2007, Clear Channel entered into an agreement to sell its entire television station group to Newport Television, a broadcast holding company controlled by Providence Equity Partners. On March 26, 2007, it began offering Newport's Variety Television Network on a new second digital subchannel. After that service shut down in January 2009, it switched to the Retro Television Network (RTV).\n\nThe station picked up \"WWE Smackdown\" from MyNetworkTV after WPXX ended its affiliation with the network (by then a programming service) in September 2009 and aired the program at 7 p.m. on Saturday nights. Initially, WLMT did not carry any other MyNetworkTV programs and the agreement to carry \"WWE Smackdown\" ended with the broadcast's October 2010 move to cable's Syfy. At some point that month, the station began carrying MyNetworkTV on its second digital subchannel. WLMT therefore joined the handful of stations that cleared the entire CW and MyNetworkTV lineups on separate subchannels (and, by July 2011, was the only station in the country that carried The CW as a primary affiliation and MyNetworkTV as a digital multicast channel). RTV was replaced with MeTV on digital channel 30.2 (which is also carried on Comcast digital channel 911) on November 14, 2011. On July 19, 2012, Newport announced that it would sell 12 of its stations, including WLMT and WPTY, to Nexstar Broadcasting Group. The sale was finalized on December 3.\n\nIn 2013, Nexstar announced that it would move WPTY, WLMT and WJKT's operations from their existing, aging five-story building in midtown Memphis into a former MCI call center on the city's northeast side. Nexstar invested $5 million to convert the call center into a repurposed television studio facility with modern, up-to-date equipment. The move was completed on June 1. At that time on WPTY (whose calls were changed to WATN)'s new website, WLMT's presence on that site was reduced solely to schedule listings, FCC-required disclosures and a link to the CW network's website. During the move, WLMT's second subchannel temporarily ran the full MeTV schedule for several weeks while the equipment for reception of MyNetworkTV was re-established. As of October 2016, KPMF-LD (in Paragould, Arkansas) has since assumed the MyNetworkTV affiliation (from WLMT-DT2) for the Memphis market; as a result, WLMT-DT2 has resumed airing the full MeTV schedule. In 2018, KPMF-LD moved their transmitting operations from Marion, Arkansas to a lease with the WATN/WLMT tower.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Chicago-based Tribune Media—which has owned CBS affiliate WREG-TV (channel 3) since December 2013—for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar was precluded from acquiring WREG directly or indirectly while owning WATN/WLMT, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. (Furthermore, any attempt by Nexstar to assume the operations of WREG through local marketing or shared services agreements would have been subject to regulatory hurdles that could have delayed completion of the FCC and Justice Department's review and approval process for the acquisition.) As such, Nexstar decided to sell WATN to a separate, unrelated company to address the ownership conflict. WLMT does not rank among the top four in total-day viewership and therefore is not in conflict with existing FCC in-market ownership rules; however, Nexstar opted to sell that station alongside WATN. On March 20, 2019, McLean, Virginia-based Tegna Inc. announced it would purchase WATN-TV and WLMT (excluding WJKT) from Nexstar upon consummation of the merger, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Tegna and the E. W. Scripps Company in separate deals worth $1.32 billion; this would make the duopoly sister stations to NBC affiliate WBIR-TV in Knoxville and CBS affiliate KTHV in Little Rock. The sale was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWLMT discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 30, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 31, using PSIP to display WLMT's virtual channel as 30 on digital television receivers.\n\nSyndicated programming on WLMT includes \"Steve Wilkos\", \"Jerry Springer\", \"Maury\" and \"The People's Court\".\n\nFrom 2014 to 2018, WLMT carried programming from the syndicated ACC Network by Raycom Sports, providing coverage of Atlantic Coast Conference football and men's basketball. This replaced coverage of Southeastern Conference football and basketball from ESPN Plus-oriented SEC TV, which was run from 2009 until the launch of the cable-exclusive SEC Network in 2014. The SEC syndication package by Raycom Sports (and before that, Jefferson Pilot Sports/Lincoln Financial Sports) was run by WLMT from the 1990s until Raycom lost the rights to ESPN Plus in 2009.\n\nIn January 2018, it was announced that WLMT would air Tennessee Titans preseason games that August, taking over from long-time affiliate WMC-TV (channel 5).\n\nWATN-TV presently produces 12 hours of locally produced newscasts each week for WLMT (with two hours each weekday and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays). Fox affiliate WJKT in Jackson simulcasts WLMT's nightly 9 p.m. newscast and sports highlight program. During weather forecast segments, the station utilizes live Doppler weather radar data from the National Weather Service Weather Forecast Office on Farm Road (officially Walnut Grove Road) in Memphis.\n\nWPTY established a news department in 1995, with newscasts debuting on December 1 of that year, after it became the market's ABC affiliate. The station also began producing nightly prime time newscast for WLMT titled \"NewsWatch 30 at 9\". This program competed with WHBQ's new hour-long 9 p.m. newscast and was formatted with an energetic, youthful and almost \"grunge\" look. Several years later, WPTY rebranded its newscasts (with the WLMT newscast being renamed \"UPN 30 News at 9\") and began modifying its format to reach a broader audience.\n\nIn 2002, WPTY (and by association, WLMT) adopted the \"Eyewitness News\" format for its newscasts. The stations' news format was modified once again to feature a harder-edged, more aggressive and often \"confrontational\" approach to its reporting. The change resulted in most of the original news anchors and reporters leaving or being laid-off as well as a complete overhaul in the station's imaging and presentation. The WLMT 9 p.m. newscast – which began as a half-hour newscast – expanded to a full hour around this time, with a sports highlight program filling out the final 15 minutes of the broadcast. In 2006, when WPTY launched a weekday morning newscast, the station began producing an hour-long extension of the program for WLMT that airs at 7 a.m.\n\nIn 2009, with continued low ratings (newscasts on both stations remain far behind WREG, WMC and WHBQ in the ratings) and under control by Newport Television, the station brought in new management that led to several layoffs of on-air staffers. Gradually, WPTY and WLMT dropped most of its confrontational and aggressive reporting style. In November 2010 after eight years under the \"Eyewitness News\" brand, WPTY rebranded its newscasts yet again with WLMT's newscasts being retitled as \"CW 30 News\", after briefly branding as \"ABC 24 News on CW 30\". On April 29, 2012, WPTY began broadcasting its local newscasts in widescreen standard definition, the WLMT newscasts were included in the upgrade.\n\nOn June 1, 2013, WPTY changed its calls to WATN-TV (rebranding as \"Local 24\") upon its move into a new studio facility. The relaunch included the introduction of a new graphics package along with a modified high-definition set originally used by sister station KLRT-TV in Little Rock until that station's news department was consolidated with KARK-TV earlier that year after Nexstar partner company Mission Broadcasting's 2012 purchase of that station. The WLMT newscasts remain branded as \"CW 30 News\". With the move, WATN (along with WLMT) became the last station in the Memphis market to begin broadcasting its newscasts and other local programming in high definition.\n\nSince 1995, WLMT remained the default over-the-air WB/CW affiliate for the Jackson, Tennessee market until WNBJ-LD2 signed on The CW Plus on August 6, 2018, replacing cable-only affiliate, \"WBJK\".\n\nAlso, WLMT remained the default over-the-air CW affiliate for the Jonesboro, Arkansas market, until KAIT-DT3 signed on The CW Plus on September 1, 2018, replacing cable-only affiliate, \"KJOS\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154819", "title": "Paradise fish", "text": "Paradise fish\n\nThe paradise fish, paradise-fish, paradisefish, or paradise gourami (\"Macropodus opercularis\") is a species of gourami found in most types of fresh water in East Asia, ranging from the Korean Peninsula to northern Vietnam. This species can reach a standard length of , though most are only about .\nParadise gouramis were one of the first ornamental fish available to western aquarium keepers, having been imported 1869 to France by the French aquarium fish importer Pierre Carbonnier in Paris. The paradise fish is one of the more aggressive members of its family. It is more aggressive than the three spot gourami, yet less pugnacious in nature than the less commonly kept combtail.\n\nParadise fish are fairly combative, harassing and attacking each other, as well as potentially killing small fish. During a fight, the paradise fish will often change its color, usually displaying dark blue lateral lines on the sides of their bodies; extend its fins; and spread out its operculum. Paradise fish are more likely to show aggressive behavior towards other paradise fish than to fish of a different species. Acts of aggression tend to increase as the distance to the fish's home increases. In the wild, they are predators, eating insects, invertebrates, and fish fry. The popularity of this species has waned in recent decades as much more colorful (and often less pugnacious) species of gouramis have become widely available to hobbyists. This species is one of the few fish that can change its color (lighter or darker) in response to stimuli. It also appears that paradise fish are capable of learning through a type of restrictive process. Most forms of active teaching seem to hinder the paradise fish's ability to learn.\n\nParadise fish are tolerant of a wide range of water conditions, surviving in cool and warm waters alike. In the wild, they are most commonly found in shallow water containing dense vegetation, such as a marsh or rice field.\nHowever they can be kept in outdoor ponds, or even the simplest of unheated aquaria. They will accept virtually any food, but should be given a reasonably high-protein diet (as opposed to vegetable-based foods.) They also eat mosquito larvae, black worms, brine shrimp, and small flies.\n\nIn Taiwan, the native populations of paradise fish have been reduced to low levels by pollution in the rivers, and are now listed as a threatened species. The local population of yellow fever mosquitoes (\"Aedes aegypti\") has since increased in the absence of one of its main predators. The infection rate for dengue fever has subsequently increased in the human population, caused in part by to the lack of natural mosquito predators.\n\nParadise fish are also considered to be an ideal subject for behavioral genetic studies and have been used to study Iridoviridae type viruses.\n\nMale paradise fish should be kept apart, since they will fight aggressively by locking jaws. A male can be kept with females; females may also be kept together in groups. A tank that includes paradise fish should be at least 20 gallons in size for a single male or 20–30 gallons for a community tank. The tank should be well planted and covered; bogwood and rockwork may be included.\n\nParadise fish tankmates must be chosen with care. Suitable ones include giant danios, large tetras, most smaller catfishes, and even some of the less aggressive cichlids, such as firemouth cichlids. Slow-moving or long-finned fish such as fancy goldfish and freshwater angelfish are likely to be attacked by males; bettas and gouramis may also be victimized due to their resemblance to paradise fish. Male paradise fish may also attempt to court female bettas and gouramis.\n\nFish less than 3 cm are likely to be consumed. If kept with significantly larger but non-aggressive fish, such as \"Geophagus\" cichlids, large \"Synodontis\" catfishes, or larger gouramis, they are usually submissive and do not act nearly as aggressively as when they are the dominant species in the aquarium. However, they themselves can be bullied by similar sized or even smaller fish if that fish has already established territory in the tank which it is not willing to share or give up. If this is the case they will not even attempt to fight and will take to hiding behind filters, plants, or in décor, and will succumb to stress.\n\nAs is typical of most bettas and gouramis, spawning involves a male building a bubble nest (a floating mat of saliva-coated air bubbles, often incorporating plant matter) and attracting a female to it. If the female accepts the male's advances, the fish will 'embrace' in open water, releasing both eggs and sperm into the water. The male gathers the fertilized eggs after each embrace, spitting them up into the bubble nest. After spawning, the male may violently attack his mate or any other fish that might approach the new fertilized eggs or hatched fry, which are both a common source of food in the natural habitat. A breeder usually chooses to move the female to a separate tank to improve the chances of survival of both the female and the hatched fry. After the fry have begun to swim freely, the male's protective behavior subsides, so the breeder removes the male for the protection of the fry, and they are raised on infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp.\n\nAn albino form of \"Macropodus opercularis\" is available. Many aquarists consider this form to be less aggressive than the wild type, but also less hardy, having more trouble with low temperatures.\n"}
{"id": "2154820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154820", "title": "Chris Kratt", "text": "Chris Kratt\n\nChristopher Frederick James Kratt (born July 19, 1969) is an American-Canadian zoologist and educational nature show host. A grandson of musical-instrument manufacturer William Jacob \"Bill\" Kratt, he and his older brother Martin grew up in Warren Township, New Jersey, and together created children's television series \"Kratts' Creatures\", \"Zoboomafoo\", and \"Be the Creature\" (which aired on the National Geographic Channel and CBC), as well as \"Wild Kratts\" (which airs on PBS Kids and TVOKids). He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Biology from Carleton College. Chris co-hosts all of his educational childhood programs with his older brother Martin Kratt.\n\nKratt and his brother Martin attended Watchung Hills Regional High School. Both brothers were inducted into the school's hall of fame in 2013.\n\nIn 1990, Chris served as an intern at Conservation International in Washington, D.C. A year later, he started the Carleton Organization for Biodiversity. His ecology studies have been funded by the Explorers Club and the National Science Foundation. He was also the recipient of the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship.\nChris also starred alongside with his brother Martin in the show \"Zoboomafoo\", which aired from 1999 to 2000. On this PBS kids show, they went on many adventures with animals with the help of Zoboomafoo, a Coquerel's sifaka lemur (Propithecus coquereli).\n\nFrom June 13 to August 3, 2008, Chris appeared along with his brother Martin in \"Creature Adventures\", a stage show at Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee. They also appear as themselves in the \"Odd Squad\" episode \"Night Shift\".\n\nChris was born on July 19, 1969 in New Jersey to Linda (born 1939) and William Kratt (born 1928). He is the grandson of musical instrument maker William Jacob Kratt. Chris and his brother Martin have lived in Ottawa, Ontario since 2008, where they film and animate their TV series \"Wild Kratts.\" Chris has two sons, Aidan and Nolan, with his wife Tanya, whom he married in 2000 in the country of Botswana. Chris' older son, Aidan Kratt, played a child named Aidan in the \"Wild Kratts\" episode \"Build It Beaver\", though his character was unrelated to Chris and Martin in the show. Nolan's character made a brief cameo as a Wild Kratts Kid, and appears later on in the series as the little brother of Aidan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154821", "title": "Alexander Mitchell (Wisconsin politician)", "text": "Alexander Mitchell (Wisconsin politician)\n\nAlexander Mitchell (October 17, 1817 – April 19, 1887) was a Scottish-born banker, railroad financier and Democratic politician in Milwaukee.\n\nMitchell was born in Ellon, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, the son of Margaret (Lendrum) and John Mitchell, and immigrated to the United States in 1839. He pursued a career in banking in Milwaukee, and founded the Marine Bank of Wisconsin.\n\nMitchell was president of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway from 1864-1887. With fellow director Jeremiah Milbank (1818–1884) he built this railroad into one of the most profitable in the United States, and Mitchell was considered the wealthiest person in Wisconsin.\n\nMitchell represented Wisconsin's 1st congressional district in the Forty-second United States Congress. After redistricting he represented Wisconsin's 4th congressional district in the Forty-third United States Congress. He was nominated for Governor of Wisconsin in 1877, but he declined.\n\nHe was an avid curler, and helped popularize the sport in the United States. Mitchell helped found the Milwaukee Curling Club in the 1840s, and shortly before his death was elected Patron of the Grand National Curling Club.\n\nMitchell died in New York City and was buried at Forest Home Cemetery in Milwaukee.\n\nMitchell owned a mansion across the street from the Milwaukee County Courthouse, which is now the site of the Wisconsin Club.\n\nThe Historic Mitchell Street neighborhood was named in his honor, as was the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, incorporated in 1881.\n\nThe Mackie Building, which was constructed by Mitchell as an investment property, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Additionally, the Mitchell Building, which he also built, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as well.\n\nHis papers, along with those of his son John, are in the archives of the Wisconsin Historical Society.\n\nMitchell was married to Martha Reed, sister of Harrison Reed, who served as Governor of Florida during Reconstruction. Mitchell's son, John L. Mitchell, was a Congressman and United States Senator, and his grandson, Billy Mitchell, was a United States Army officer prominent during the early days of military aviation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154824", "title": "Walter Hadlee", "text": "Walter Hadlee\n\nWalter Arnold Hadlee (4 June 1915 – 29 September 2006) was a New Zealand cricketer and Test match captain. He played domestic first-class cricket for Canterbury and Otago. Three of his five sons, Sir Richard, Dayle and Barry played cricket for New Zealand. The Chappell–Hadlee Trophy, which is competed for by Test teams from New Zealand and Australia is named in honour of the Hadlee family and the Australian Chappell family.\n\nHadlee captained one of New Zealand's most highly regarded teams, the 1949 side which toured England in an era when New Zealand had yet to win a Test. As an administrator, he guided New Zealand cricket in the mid-1970s during years of increasing professionalism, the Kerry Packer threat and the sporting boycott of South Africa.\n\nHe was awarded the Bert Sutcliffe Medal in 2001.\n\nHadlee was born in Lincoln, Canterbury. His father was a blacksmith with 9 siblings, whose parents arrived in Dunedin in 1869. The young Hadlee fell in love with cricket when he was about 10. He read cricket history avidly, kept scorebooks of all the big games at Lancaster Park, and practised assiduously. Though he initially appeared awkward, at Christchurch Boys' High School, he also played hockey and rugby, and developed into a punishing batsman, particularly strong on the drive. He finished his school career by captaining the first eleven. He trained as a chartered accountant.\n\nIn his first season for Canterbury (1933–34) Hadlee averaged over 50, and 94 in his second; he eventually scored 10 centuries for the province. Hadlee played 44 matches for Canterbury before retiring in 1951–52, having scored 3,183 runs at an average of 43.60. His highest score was 194 not out.\n\nAfter playing against touring MCC teams, Hadlee made his Test debut for New Zealand against England at Lord's in 1937, only 11 years after New Zealand joined the Imperial Cricket Conference, and 7 years after it played in its first Test match. Tall and elegant, he was known as an upright and attacking opening batsman. He missed the opportunity to play during the Second World War. His short sight prevented him from joining the Armed Forces.\n\nHe scored 198 for Otago against the touring Australian team in 1945–46, and was appointed captain of New Zealand for the first Test in peacetime, against Australia that year. On a rain-affected pitch in Wellington, New Zealand were bowled out for 42 and 54, losing by an innings, and did not play Australia again in Tests until 1973–74.\n\nAlthough he made 1,225 runs in 1937, including an innings of 93 in the Test at Old Trafford which ended after he trod on his stumps, it was his captaincy of the 1949 New Zealand team to England that proved to be the pinnacle of his playing career. The 1949 team is still cited as one of the finest New Zealand has sent abroad and there were some illustrious names in the side, including Bert Sutcliffe, Martin Donnelly, John Reid, Jack Cowie, Tom Burtt, Harry Cave, Merv Wallace, Verdun Scott, Geoff Rabone and Frank Mooney. During the tour, he scored 1,439 runs, averaging 36 an innings, with two centuries. Out of 35 matches, his team lost just one, to Oxford University, on a rain-damaged pitch, and drew the four-Test series 0–0.\n\nAs leading English writer John Woodcock noted: \"Hadlee was a courageous and enterprising batsman, a popular and successful captain who played his cricket in the sporting manner usually associated with his country\". John Arlott called him a \"strategic commander of real ability\".\n\nIn all, Hadlee played 19 innings in 11 Tests, scoring 543 runs at an average of 30.16. He was never dismissed in Tests in single figures. His last Test was against England in Wellington in 1950–51. His only Test century, 116, was scored against England at Christchurch in 1946–47 as an opening batsman. He retired from first-class cricket in 1952. He continued playing senior club cricket in Christchurch for another 15 years, eventually scoring a record 15,391 club runs.\n\nIn his first-class career, he scored 7523 runs from 117 matches, averaging 40.44 and notching up 18 centuries.\n\nHadlee was a national selector, a New Zealand team manager, and a member of the management committee and Board of Control of New Zealand cricket from 1950–83. He was chairman from 1973–78 and president from 1981–83.\n\nHe was a member of the \"No Maoris, No Tour\" protest movement, protesting against the All Blacks tour to South Africa in 1960. He was later blacklisted by the South African Non-Racial Olympic Committee (SANROC) for writing an article in the 1982 \"Wisden\" which called for South Africa be permitted to play international cricket. In the 1950 King's Birthday Honours, Hadlee was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services in the field of sport, and he was promoted to Commander of the same order in 1978.\n\nHadlee married Lilla Monro in 1940. They had met on the ship to England in 1937. They had five sons. He took great pride in the fact that three of his five sons represented New Zealand: Dayle, a Test fast bowler, and Barry, a batsman in the inaugural 1975 Cricket World Cup, were eclipsed by Richard, who became a leading all rounder: he took 431 Test wickets – a world record at the time – and 1,490 first class wickets, and also finished with a Test batting average of 27.16. Richard was knighted for services to cricket. A fourth son, Martin, played club cricket in Christchurch.\n\nHe published an autobiography, \"Innings of a Lifetime\", in 1993.\n\nIn later life, he enjoyed lawn bowls. He died, aged 91, at the Princess Margaret Hospital in Christchurch, reportedly from a stroke, some six weeks after hip replacement surgery.\n\nOn 20 January 2017, Walter Hadlee's son, Sir Richard Hadlee, spoke about a project he has undertaken about his father 's 1949 England tour as New Zealand captain. He shared how Walter Hadlee was an important figure in his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154825", "title": "Brazilian imperial family", "text": "Brazilian imperial family\n\nThe Brazilian Imperial Family is a branch of the Portuguese Royal House of Braganza that ruled the Empire of Brazil from 1822 to 1889, after the proclamation of independence by Prince Pedro of Braganza who was later acclaimed as Pedro I, \"Constitutional Emperor and Perpetual Defender of Brazil\". The members of the family are dynastic descendants of Emperor Pedro I. Claimants to headship of the post-monarchic Brazilian Imperial legacy descend from Emperor Pedro II, including the senior agnates of two branches of the House of Orléans-Braganza; the so-called \"Petrópolis\" and \"Vassouras\" lines. Prince Pedro Carlos of Orléans-Braganza (born 1945) heads the \"Petrópolis\" line, while the \"Vassouras\" branch is led by his second cousin, Prince Luiz of Orléans-Braganza. \n\nRivalry within the family erupted in 1946 when \"Dom\" Pedro Gastão (1913–2007) repudiated the renunciation to the throne of his late father, Pedro de Alcântara, Prince of Grão-Pará (1875–1940), for himself and his future descendants, when he made a non-dynastic marriage in 1908. Pedro de Alcântara was the eldest son of the Princess Imperial Isabel (1846–1921) who, as Pedro II's elder daughter and heir presumptive when he was dethroned, became the last undisputed head of the family after her father's death in exile in 1891. Pedro Carlos is \"Dom\" Pedro Gastão's eldest son. \"Dom\" Luiz descends from Isabel's younger son, Prince Luís (1878–1920) who, by a Bourbon princess, fathered Prince Pedro Henrique (1909–1981). Dom Luiz is Pedro Henrique's son by a Bavarian princess and upholds his dynastic claim to the same legacy. \n\nFollowing the tradition of the Portuguese monarchy, the closest relatives of the Brazilian Emperor are considered members of the Brazilian Imperial Family, disregarding those who renounced their dynastic rights.\n\nFounded by Pedro of Braganza, until then Prince Royal of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves, member of the House of Braganza, heir apparent to the Portuguese throne and the King's representative in the Kingdom of Brazil as Prince Regent, the Imperial House of Brazil was sovereign from 7 September 1822, when Prince Pedro proclaimed the independence of the Kingdom of Brazil from the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves and was subsequently acclaimed as Emperor of Brazil on 12 October that same year until 15 November 1889, when a military coup d'état took place and the proclamation of the Brazilian republic overthrew the monarchy.\n\nPrince Pedro, then, was acclaimed as Emperor of Brazil throughout the land. The constitution of the Brazilian Empire of 1824 - the first Brazilian constitutional charter - was organized two years after independence, with the emperor being the head of state and head of government of the Empire of Brazil, as well as head of the moderator power and the executive power. He reigned until 7 April 1831 when he abdicated due to a long ideological conflict between with a sizable parliamentary faction over the role of the monarch in the government and other obstacles. Pedro I's successor in Brazil was his five-year-old son, Pedro II. As the latter was still a minor, a weak regency was created. The power vacuum resulting from the absence of a ruling monarch as the ultimate arbiter in political disputes led to regional civil wars between local factions. Having inherited an empire on the verge of disintegration, Pedro II, once he was declared of age, managed to bring peace and stability to the country, which eventually became an emerging international power. Even though the last four decades of Pedro II's reign were marked by continuous internal peace and economic prosperity, he had no expectation to see the monarchy survive beyond his lifetime and made no effort to maintain support for the institution. The next in line to the throne was his daughter Isabel, but neither Pedro II nor the ruling classes considered a female monarch acceptable. Lacking any viable heir, the Empire's political leaders saw no reason to defend the monarchy. After a 58-year reign, on 15 November 1889 the Emperor was overthrown in a sudden \"coup d'état\" led by a clique of military leaders whose goal was the formation of a republic headed by a dictator, forming the First Brazilian Republic.\n\nWith the proclamation of the Brazilian republic on 15 November 1889, the Imperial Family went into exile in Portugal, Spain, France and Austria-Hungary. In the party that accompanied the Imperial Family were included many loyal subjects and nobles, as politicians such the Viscount of Ouro Preto, the deposed last Prime Minister of the Empire, as well the Emperor's particular doctor. Prince August Leopold of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, grandson of Emperor Pedro II was the only member of the imperial family not boarded to exile because he was on board the cruiser \"Almirante Barroso\", on a circumnavigation trip. Subsequently, upon receiving the news of the deposition of the monarchy, he was sent into exile. In addition to the ban, the Republican government confiscated and auctioned many of the assets of the imperial family. In 1890, thirteen auctions of Imperial House goods were made. Empress Teresa Cristina died in the first months of exile. Later Emperor Pedro II died in France, where he receive a head of state's funeral by the French government. The Imperial Family settled in the Château d'Eu, former residence of King Louis Philippe of France and property of Gaston of Orléans, Count d'Eu, husband of Isabel, Princess Imperial of Brazil, heiress of Pedro II and \"de jure\" Empress-in-Exile of Brazil.\n\nDespite the prohibition then in force, Prince Luiz of Orléans-Braganza tried to disembark in Rio de Janeiro in 1906, but was prevented by local authorities. Finally, President Epitácio Pessoa, by presidential decree of 3 September 1920, revoked the Banishment Law. The Imperial Family was then able to return to Brazilian soil. The occasion was used to repatriate the remains of the last emperor and his consort, who would be transferred from Portugal a year later. Of the nine members of the Imperial Family originally exiled, only two returned to Brazil alive: Pedro de Alcântara, Prince of Grão-Pará and his father, Prince Gaston, Count of Eu, who died the following year aboard the ship Massilia, on their way to Brazil to celebrate the centenary of independence. Prince Pedro de Alcântara acquired one of its former palaces, the Palácio do Grão-Pará in Petropolis, where it resided until his death and where his descendants still live. On the other hand, not all the family returned immediately to Brazil, and the \"Vassouras\" branch, present clamoring to the Brazilian throne, could only return after the end of World War II.\n\nCurrently, the remains of five members of the Imperial Family are buried in the Imperial Mausoleum in Petrópolis: Emperor Pedro II and Empress Teresa Cristina, whose mortal remains were transferred from the Royal Pantheon of the House of Braganza in Lisbon, in 1921, on the occasion of the centenary of the Independence of Brazil, Princess Isabel, removed from the cemetery of Eu in 1953 with her husband, Prince Gaston, and the Prince of Grão-Pará, transferred from the cemetery of Petrópolis in 1990, together with his wife. Prince Luiz and Prince Antônio are buried in the Royal Chapel of Dreux, France, where the wife of the first, Princess Maria Pia, was buried in 1973. Princes Pedro Augusto, August Leopold and Ludwig Gaston are buried in the crypt of the Church of St. Augustine, in Coburg, Germany, where the latter's mother, Princess Leopoldina, had been buried in 1871.\n\nIn 1954, the remains of the first Empress, Maria Leopoldina, were transferred to the Imperial Crypt and Chapel in São Paulo, which were in the Santo Antônio Convent, Rio de Janeiro. Some of the children of both emperors are buried in the Santo Antônio Convent: Prince Miguel, Prince João Carlos, Princess Paula Mariana, Prince Afonso Pedro and Prince Pedro Afonso, as well as Princess Luísa Vitória. In 1972, on the occasion of the sesquicentenary of Independence, the remains of Emperor Pedro I were transferred from the Royal Pantheon of the House of Braganza to the Imperial Chapel. The body of his second wife, Empress Amélie, was transferred from the Braganza Pantheon to the Imperial Chapel in 1982. In that same year the body of her daughter, Princess Maria Amélia, was transferred from the Braganza Pantheon to the .\n\nThe so-called Brazilian dynastic question concerns inheritance rights to the titles of Head of the Brazilian Imperial House, Prince Imperial of Brazil, Prince of Grão-Pará and Prince of Brazil, who consequently would indicate the preferred heirs of to the Brazilian imperial throne. The primacy in the line of succession is disputed by some members and partisans of the dynastic branches of \"Petrópolis\" and \"Vassouras\".\n\nIn 1908, Dom Pedro de Alcântara, then Prince Imperial of Brazil in exile, wanted to marry Countess Elisabeth Dobržensky de Dobrženicz (1875–1951), whose family had belonged to the nobility of the kingdom of Bohemia since 1339, and whose legitimate members, male and female, bore the title of baron since 1744 and of count or countess since issuance of Austrian letters patent on 21 February 1906. The countess did not, however, belong to a reigning or formerly reigning dynasty, as both Orléans and Braganza traditions expected of brides. Although the constitution of the Brazilian Empire did not require dynasts to marry equally, it made the marriage of the heir to the throne dependent upon the sovereign's consent. As Prince Dom Pedro wanted to marry with his mother's blessing, he renounced his rights to the throne of Brazil at Cannes on 30 October 1908. The resignation document, signed in three copies, was sent to the Brazilian Monarchical Directory, an official body created to manage monarchical interests in the country. To solemnize this, Dom Pedro, aged thirty-three, signed the document translated here:\n\nThis renunciation was followed by a letter from Isabel to royalists in Brazil:\nIf the 1908 renunciation of Pedro de Alcântara was valid, his brother Luiz (and eventually, Pedro Henrique) became next in the line of succession after their mother. Isabel's headship of the Brazilian Imperial House lasted until her death in 1921, when she is widely considered to have been succeeded by her grandson, Prince Pedro Henrique of Orléans-Braganza. Pedro Henrique was the elder son of Prince Luiz, second child of Isabel and a veteran of World War I who had died in 1920 from an illness he contracted in the trenches.\n\nPrince Pedro de Alcântara did not dispute the validity of the renunciation. Though he did not claim the headship of the Imperial House himself, in 1937 he did say in an interview that his renunciation \"did not meet the requirements of Brazilian Law, there was no prior consultation with the nation, there was none of the necessary protocol that is required for acts of this nature and, furthermore, it was not a hereditary renunciation.\"\n\nThe dynastic dispute over the Brazilian crown began after 1940 when Prince Pedro Gastão of Orléans-Braganza, eldest son of Pedro de Alcântara repudiated his father's renunciation and claimed the headship of the Brazilian Imperial House.\n\nPedro Gastão actively campaigned in support of Brazil's 1993 referendum on restoration of the Brazilian monarchy, which would have postponed for subsequent decision by Parliament of which descendant of the former imperial family should occupy the throne if monarchy had been re-instated, but the option of restoration was defeated despite garnering approximately 17 million votes. After the death of Pedro Gastão in 2007, his eldest son Prince Pedro Carlos and younger children declared themselves republicans. Several of Pedro Gastão's grandchildren also have dual citizenship.\n\nWith the marriage of Isabel of Braganza, Princess Imperial of Brazil, with Prince Gaston of Orléans, Count d'Eu in 1864, the Imperial House associated itself with the House of Orléans, that composes the French royal family. Thus began a new dynastic branch of Brazil: Orléans-Braganza, which never had the opportunity to reign in Brazil.\n\nOf the four children of the couple, two have generated offspring and this branch of the family has more than thirty members. Many are those who renounced for themselves and their descendants any rights in succession to the imperial throne, losing titles and precedence in the imperial family.\n\nIn 1909, Prince Gaston engaged in negotiations with Philippe, Duke of Orléans, resulting in a document signed by nearly all the male-line princes descended from France's citizen-king, Louis Philippe, called the \"Pacte de Famille\" (or \"Declaration of Brussels\"): the title of was created, and the style of \"Royal Highness\" recognized, exclusive to male-line descendants of that branch of the family.\n\nThe Saxe-Coburg-Braganza branch is descended from Princess Leopoldina of Brazil, second daughter of Dom Pedro II, and her husband, Prince Ludwig August of the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha-Koháry. Due to several years of difficulties that the Princess Imperial Isabel experienced in producing an heir to the throne, clauses were included in the marriage contract between Leopoldina and her husband to ensure that the couple should, among other things, reside part of the year in Brazil and have their children on Brazilian territory, as heirs presumptive of Isabel: Pedro Augusto, Augusto Leopoldo, and José Fernando. With the birth of Dom Pedro de Alcântara, Prince of Grão-Pará and eldest son of Princess Isabel, the Saxe-Coburg-Braganza branch yielded first place in the line of succession to the Orleans-Braganza branch.\nThe only members of the Saxe-Coburg-Braganza branch who still retain Brazilian nationality, which was a constitutional requirement to succeed to the now defunct Brazilian throne, are the descendants of Princess Teresa Cristina of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, daughter of Augusto Leopoldo. Her Brazilian nationality was recognized by the government of Brazil only in 1922; her four children were registered in the consulate of Brazil in Vienna as Brazilian citizens. , Baron Taxis-Bordogna-Valnigra and son of Princess Teresa Cristina, is the current head of this branch.\n\nThe Empire of Brazil remained a constitutional monarchy until 1889 - when the republic was proclaimed after a military coup d'état, and had two reigning emperors, both from the House of Braganza:\n\n\nTheir full style and title were: \"His Imperial Majesty, Constitutional Emperor and Perpetual Defender of Brazil\".\n\n\n\n\nGenealogical tree of the Brazilian branch House of Braganza and the subsequent House of Orléans-Braganza, cadet branch and current Imperial Family.\n\nSome of the most important Brazilian palaces that were built to the Brazilian Imperial Family to private or governmental use. These palaces were taken by the government of the republic when it was proclaimed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154829", "title": "Scott Kinworthy", "text": "Scott Kinworthy\n\nScott Kinworthy (born 1974) is an American actor. He was best known for his short-lived role as Josh Madden on \"All My Children\" from June 17, 2005 until September 15, 2005.\n\nHe has since had a small role in the 2003 film \"House of Sand and Fog\", which starred Jennifer Connelly and Ben Kingsley. In 2005, he had a small role in the 2005 film \"Serenity\". In 2008 he co-starred with Benny Ciaramello and Erica Shaffer in \"The Fall\".\n\nHe also played Bruce Wayne in \"Nightwing: The Series\" on YouTube.\n\nOn the stage, he has appeared in the off-Broadway production of \"Blue Man Group\" in New York City and Las Vegas.\n"}
{"id": "2154844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154844", "title": "Hedy d'Ancona", "text": "Hedy d'Ancona\n\nHedwig \"Hedy\" d'Ancona (; born 1 October 1937) is a retired Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA) and political activist.\n\nd'Ancona applied at the University of Amsterdam in June 1956 majoring in Sociology and obtaining an Bachelor of Social Science degree in June 1958 before graduating with an Master of Social Science degree in July 1962. d'Ancona worked as a television producer for the \"VARA\" from November 1962 until September 1965 and as a researcher at the University of Amsterdam from September 1965 until November 1972. d'Ancona also worked as a political activist in the feminism movement and co-founded the feminist action group Man Woman Society in October 1968. d'Ancona worked as editor-in-chief of the feminist magazine \"Opzij\" from November 1972 until September 1981.\n\nd'Ancona was elected as a Member of the Senate after the Senate election of 1974, taking office on 17 September 1974 serving as a frontbencher chairing the and and spokesperson for Emancipation and Gender equality. After the election of 1981 d'Ancona was appointed as State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment in the Cabinet Van Agt II, taking office on 11 September 1981. The Cabinet Van Agt II fell just seven months into its term on 12 May 1982 and continued to serve in a demissionary capacity until the first cabinet formation of 1982 when it was replaced by the caretaker Cabinet Van Agt III on 29 May 1982 and she subsequently returned as a Member of the Senate following the resignation of Clovis Cnoop Koopmans, taking office on 31 August 1982 serving as a frontbencher and spokesperson for Health, Emancipation, Gender equality and Abortion. In June 1983 d'Ancona announced that she wouldn't stand for the Senate election of 1983 and continued to serve until the end of the parliamentary term on 13 September 1983. d'Ancona Rooy was elected as a Member of the European Parliament after the European Parliament election of 1984, taking office on 24 July 1984. After the election of 1989 d'Ancona was appointed as Minister of Welfare, Health and Culture in the Cabinet Lubbers III, taking office on 7 November 1989. In April 1994 d'Ancona announced that she wouldn't stand for the election of 1994 but wanted tot return to the European Parliament. On 16 July 1994 d'Ancona resigned as Minister of Welfare, Health and Culture after she was elected again as a Member of the European Parliament, serving from 19 July 1994 until 20 July 1999.\n\nHedwig d'Ancona was born in The Hague in the Netherlands on 1 October 1937.\n\nFrom 1989 to 1994 she was the Minister of Health, Welfare and Culture (presently known as the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport as the responsibility for culture was transferred to the reorganized Ministry of Education, Science and Culture in 1994). She acted as State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment for issues concerning women's liberation. She also served in the European Parliament and in the first chamber of the Dutch parliament, for the Labour Party.\n\nOutside of government, she is known for starting the feminist monthly Opzij as well as the special interest lobbying group, \"Man-Vrouw-Maatschappij\" (\"Man-Woman-Society\"), which she co-founded with Joke Smit. d'Ancona gave the 2015 Mosse Lecture, titled \"Voorbij de M/V-maatschappij?\" (\"Beyond the M/F society?\").\n\nFrom April 1995 through June 2004, d'Ancona was Chairwoman of Oxfam Novib (Oxfam Netherlands), serving also as Vice-Chairman of Oxfam International during part of her tenure.\n\n\nIn 1992, Hedy d'Ancona was awarded the Harriet Freezerring, a women's liberation prize, by the monthly \"Opzij\" she started. In 1994, she was named as a Knight of the Order of the Netherlands Lion. In 2002, she won the \"Aletta Jacobsprijs\", a women's emancipation prize awarded by University of Groningen every two years. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2154848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154848", "title": "Hugh Dykes", "text": "Hugh Dykes\n\nHugh John Maxwell Dykes, Baron Dykes, (born 17 May 1939) is a British politician and member of the House of Lords. Initially a Europhile Conservative, he later defected to the Liberal Democrats.\n\nDykes was educated at Weston-super-Mare Grammar School, Somerset, followed by Pembroke College, Cambridge.\nHe married Susan Margaret Smith in 1966 and they had three sons. They divorced in 2000. Dykes has been with Sarah Allder since 2003.\n\nAfter unsuccessfully contesting Tottenham in 1966, Dykes served as a Conservative Member of Parliament for Harrow East from 1970 until he lost his seat at the 1997 general election. He also served as a Member of the European Parliament between 1974 and 1977. While an MP, Dykes served in the Ministry of Defence and the Cabinet Office in Edward Heath's government.\n\nFollowing the defeat of Kenneth Clarke in the Conservative leadership contest following the 1997 general election, Dykes joined the Liberal Democrats. Within a year of joining the party, he came to serve as an adviser to Paddy Ashdown on European Union affairs.\n\nHe has served as chairman of the European Movement-UK and as vice president of the British-German Association. In 1991 he was awarded the German Order of Merit, followed by the Luxembourg Médaille pour l'Europe in 1993.\n\nIn 2004, Dykes was raised to the peerage as Baron Dykes, of Harrow Weald in the London Borough of Harrow. The same year he received the French Légion d'Honneur.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154849", "title": "Bert Sutcliffe", "text": "Bert Sutcliffe\n\nBert Sutcliffe (17 November 1923 – 20 April 2001) was a New Zealand Test cricketer. Sutcliffe was a successful left-hand batsman. His batting achievements on tour in England in 1949, which included four fifties and a century in the Tests, earned him the accolade of being one of Wisden's Five Cricketers of the Year. He captained New Zealand in four Tests in the early 1950s, losing three of them and drawing the other. None of Sutcliffe's 42 Tests resulted in a New Zealand victory. In 1949 Sutcliffe was named the inaugural New Zealand Sportsman of the Year, and in 2000 was named as New Zealand champion sportsperson of the decade for the 1940s.\n\nSutcliffe was born at Ponsonby, New Zealand. He was a brilliant schoolboy cricketer, and spent two years at teacher training college before joining the army. He scored heavily in matches he was able to play while serving with New Zealand forces in Egypt and Italy in the Second World War. His first-class career didn't get under way until he returned to New Zealand in 1946 from service in Japan after the war.\n\nSutcliffe established himself when he scored 197 and 128 in the same match for Otago against MCC at Dunedin in 1946–47. He made 722 runs at 103.14 in 1946–47 with three centuries, 911 runs at 111.22 in 1947–48 with four centuries, and 511 runs at 85.16 in 1948–49 with three centuries.\n\nOn the 1949 tour of England, he scored 243 and 100 not out in the same match against Essex at Southend, going on to total 2,627 runs on the tour at an average of 59.70. He made two triple-hundreds in his career with 355 for Otago against Auckland in 1949–50 and 385 against Canterbury in 1952–53. The score of 385 stood as the record highest score by a left-handed batsman until 1994, when Brian Lara hit 501. Playing for New Zealand against India at New Delhi in 1955–56, he scored 230 not out which was then a record for New Zealand.\n\nSutcliffe is especially noted for an innings of 80 not out against South Africa in Johannesburg on Boxing Day 1953. New Zealand's batsmen were routed by South African fast bowler Neil Adcock on a green wicket. Sutcliffe was hit in the head by Adcock and, having left the field to receive hospital treatment, returned to the crease swathed in bandages. He took on the bowling, hitting a number of sixes, until the ninth wicket fell. The New Zealand fast bowler Bob Blair, next man in, was understood to be back at the team hotel distraught as his fiancee had been killed in the Tangiwai disaster two days earlier. Sutcliffe started to walk off only to see Blair walk out. Despite the presence of 23,000 fans, silence enveloped the ground. 33 runs were added in 10 minutes before Blair was out. New Zealand lost the Test match by a considerable margin. Notwithstanding this, the noted New Zealand cricket writer Dick Brittenden said: \"It was a great and glorious victory, a story every New Zealand boy should learn at his mother's knee\".\n\nHe wrote his memoirs, \"Between Overs: Memoirs of a Cricketing Kiwi\", in 1963, although his Test career still had two years to go.\n\nAfter Sutcliffe retired from cricket he became a coach.\n\nIn the 1985 New Year Honours, Sutcliffe was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire, for services to cricket.\n\nIn 2010 \"The Last Everyday Hero: The Bert Sutcliffe Story\", a biography by Richard Boock, was published. The Cricket Society chose it as its cricket book of the year in 2011.\n\nNew Zealand Cricket awards the Bert Sutcliffe Medal annually to those it deems have made outstanding service to cricket in New Zealand over a lifetime.\nSutcliffe is described in \"Barclays World of Cricket\" as one of New Zealand's \"most productive and cultured batsmen\". He is also noted to be moving back and across the stumps more than many batsmen in his time like Geoffrey Boycott, which lays a foundation to more modern and contemporary batsmen since the 80's to deal with fast bowlers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154852", "title": "Dovecot (software)", "text": "Dovecot (software)\n\nDovecot is an open-source IMAP and POP3 server for Unix-like operating systems, written primarily with security in mind. Timo Sirainen originated Dovecot and first released it in July 2002. Dovecot developers primarily aim to produce a lightweight, fast and easy-to-set-up open-source email server.\n\nThe primary purpose of Dovecot is to act as mail storage server. Mail is delivered to the server using some mail delivery agent (MDA) and stored for later access with an email client (mail user agent, or MUA). Dovecot can also act as mail proxy server, forwarding connection to another mail server, or act as a lightweight MUA in order to retrieve and manipulate mail on remote server for e.g. mail migration.\n\nAccording to the Open Email Survey, as of 2020, Dovecot has an installed base of at least 2.9million IMAP servers, and has a global market share of 76.9% of all IMAP servers. The results of the same survey in 2019 gave figures of 2.6million and 76.2%, respectively.\n\nDovecot can work with standard mbox, Maildir, and its own native high-performance dbox formats. It is fully compatible with UW IMAP and Courier IMAP servers’ implementation of them, as well as mail clients accessing the mailboxes directly.\n\nDovecot also includes a mail delivery agent (called \"Local delivery agent\" in Dovecot's documentation) and an LMTP server, with optional Sieve filtering support.\n\nDovecot supports a variety of authentication schemas for IMAP, POP and message submission agent (MSA) access, including CRAM-MD5 and the more secure DIGEST-MD5.\n\nWith version 2.2, some new features have been added to Dovecot, e.g. additional IMAP command extensions, dsync has been rewritten or optimized, and shared mailboxes now support per-user flags.\n\nVersion 2.3 adds a message submission agent, Lua scripting for authentication, and some other improvements.\n\nApple Inc. includes Dovecot for email services since Mac OS X Server 10.6 Snow Leopard.\n\nIn 2017, Mozilla, via the Mozilla Open Source Support program, conducted a security audit on the Dovecot software, the first public audit of the Dovecot code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154853", "title": "University of Salerno", "text": "University of Salerno\n\nThe University of Salerno (, UNISA) is a university located in Fisciano and in Baronissi. Its main campus is located in Fisciano while the Faculty of Medicine is located in Baronissi. It is organized in ten faculties.\n\nSalerno's Schola Medica Salernitana was the most important medical school in Europe between the 10th and 13th centuries. Following the rise of university medical schools, it briefly merged with the University of Naples, which moved to Salerno from 1253 to 1258 before returning to Naples and establishing its own medical school there. Meanwhile, the University of Montpellier displaced Salerno as the most prestigious medical school internationally and by the 14th century the latter had ceased to exist.\n\nThe modern University of Salerno traces its origin to the Istituto Universitario di Magistero “Giovanni Cuomo”, a teacher training college founded in 1944 with this renowned and ancient tradition in mind. In 1968 the institute became a State university, the University of Salerno, and it has since seen a great increase in student numbers.\n\nThe University of Salerno offers degrees in 10 faculties:\n\n\nThe library \"biblioteca Eduardo R. Caianiello\" offers students over 400,000 volumes and constitutes one of the major collections of books in Italy.\n\nIn May 2015 the University of Salerno saw the establishment of a new research institute, the International Centre for Studies and Research \"Mediterranean Knowledge\", composed by 14 Research Units located in universities of the Mediterranean countries. The ICSR, that has its administrative office at the University of Salerno, aims at favouring research and dissemination of knowledge about the most important topics of the Mediterranean Basin. For that purpose it publishes the book series \"Mediterranean, Knowledge, Culture, Heritage\", the\"Journal of Mediterranean Knowledge\" and a series of Working Papers. \nThe ICSR, moreover, periodically organizes national and international conferences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154869", "title": "Arteche, Eastern Samar", "text": "Arteche, Eastern Samar\n\n', (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn the southeast, it is bounded by Oras, to the south by San Policarpo. To the north, it is bounded by Pacific Ocean and in the north-west by Lapinig.\n\nArteche was created in 1950 from the barrios of San Ramon, Carapdapan, Beri, Tangbo, Catumsan, Bego, Concepcion, Casidman, Tawagan, and Tibalawon of the Municipality of Oras.\n\nArteche is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Arteche, Eastern Samar, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154873", "title": "Borongan", "text": "Borongan\n\n', officially the ', (Waray: \"Siyudad han Borongan\"; ; ), or simply referred to as City, is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is also nicknamed as the \"City of the Golden Sunrise/Sunshine\" and aspiring to be the \"King City of the East\". Its cityhood was settled by the Supreme Court of the Philippines when it decided with finality on April 12, 2007, the constitutionality of its city charter, Republic Act 9394, which conferred upon and elevated the status of the municipality of Borongan into a component city of the province of Eastern Samar.\n\nPronounced \"bo-róng-gan\", the name Borongan was taken from the local word \"\"borong\"\", which in the Waray-Waray language means \"fog\". The mountainous terrains surrounding Borongan is covered by a heavy veil of fog which can usually be seen during the cold and raining seasons and in the early hours of the morning. Because of this characteristic, the pre-hispanic natives attributed the name \"borongan\" to the place, which was then a fragmented commune of households.\n\nIts development into a town, and eventually into a city, is traced back to the early 1600 out of the scattered hamlets located on the banks of the adjacent Guiborongani (Borongan or Sabang) River and Lo-om River. Guiborongani was the larger settlement and was later on called Borongan because of the heavy fog that usually covered the place. The people inhabiting the eastern coast of Samar were originally called \"Ibabao\" during the pre-Spanish period.\n\nAs early as 1595, or 74 years after Ferdinand Magellan's landing in Homonhon (now an island barangay of Guiuan, Eastern Samar) Spanish Jesuit missionary priests from mission centers in Leyte began to evangelize the southern portion of the island of Samar. The first evangelical mission was established in Tinago, Western Samar and gradually expanded to Catubig. In 1614 Palapag was selected as the mission center of the Ibabao region or the north-eastern coast of the island; from this mission center in turn was the eastern coast of Samar subsequently evangelized. The missionaries proselytized to the inhabitants in the faith, raised stone churches, and protected the people from the Muslim predatory/piratical raids from the south. This is probably the reason why the town itself was established some distance away from the shoreline and built on a hill overlooking the northern banks of the Lo-om River. In fact, the old Catholic church convent has its own self-contained water supply: a deep dugout well lined with big blocks of ancient hewn stones located underneath the convent building itself. The major settlements then were Borongan, Bacod/Jubasan/Paric (now Dolores), Tubig (Taft), Sulat, Libas/Nonoc (now San Julian), Butag (now Guiuan) and Balangiga.\n\nThe development of Borongan was greatly influenced by the religious missions of the Jesuits during the period 1604–1768, and the Franciscans from 1768 to 1868. Borongan was established as a \"pueblo\" on September 8, 1619. On this date, the Commandancia and the Very Reverend Father Superior of the Jesuits from Palapag, a town of Northern Samar, went to Ibabao to install the first priest of Borongan, Fr. Manuel Martinez, who served up to 1627.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Philippine Revolution in 1898, Borongan was the site of an uprising led by the Pulahanes. The first public municipal officials were Sr. Magno Abenis, President, and Sr. Andres Hipe, Vice-President, who held office from 1899 to 1903. After the Japanese occupation in 1941-1945, the town was henceforth led by a mayor and a vice mayor. Hilarion Basada and Ignacio Brozas were the first mayor and vice mayor, respectively, from 1945 to 1947.\n\nBorongan was legally constituted as a capital town when Eastern Samar was created as a separate province under Republic Act No. 4221 which was enacted on June 19, 1965. Its first municipal mayor as the capital town of Eastern Samar was Luis Capito.\n\nOn June 21, 2007, Borongan became the first city in Eastern Samar. However, it subsequently lost its cityhood, along with 15 other cities, after the Supreme Court of the Philippines granted a petition filed by the League of Cities of the Philippines, and declared the cityhood law (RA 9394) which granted the town its city status, unconstitutional. The said 16 cities, the court ruled, did not meet the requirements for cityhood.\n\nThe City of Borongan is located along the middle coastal part of the province of Eastern Samar. The city center itself is situated along the northern banks of the Lo-om River and is set back a little distance away from the shoreline of Borongan Bay. The province itself comprises a part of the Eastern Visayas region (Region VIII) of the Republic of the Philippines.\n\nThe city is bounded on the north by the municipality of San Julian, in the south by the municipality of Maydolong, in the west by the Samar municipalities of Hinabangan, Calbiga, Pinabacdao and Basey, and in the east by the Pacific Ocean. The city's territory include the islands of Ando, Monbon, and Divinubo in Borongan Bay.\n\nThe city is subdivided into 61 Barangays:\n\nAccording to the 2007 census conducted by the CBMS, Borongan had a total population of 59,354 people in 10,699 households. This rose to 64,457 people in the 2010 census. As of the , it has a population of .\n\nThe local dialect is Waray-Waray and some locals are able to speak and understand Cebuano, locals are literate in both English and Filipino. Boronganons are predominantly Roman Catholic, but it also has other small Christian as well as minority religious sects.\n\nBorongan's main product is copra. It has lively commercial activity throughout the year not only catering to the needs of the local city populace but serving as well as the central business hub of the entire province of Eastern Samar. Many families rely on coastal and deep-sea fishing as well as lowland and upland farming as means of livelihood. Others have spouses, children, parents or other relatives working in Manila or in other places within the Philippines or abroad either as professionals, contract workers or domestic helpers who regularly remit part of their earnings to their families back home. The single biggest employer of its local populace is the government.\n\nBorongan City has a wet market located a little upstream and beside the northern bank of the Lo-om River in the Puray district of Barangay H (Tarusan) selling the usual foodstuffs like rice & corn grains, dried & fresh fish (either caught locally or brought in frozen from Catbalogan City or Guiuan as well as other nearby towns), pork, beef, chicken, carabeef, preserved meats, vegetables, fruits, condiments & spices, rootcrops, native cakes and the like. The place also sells locally-made and beautiful native basketware.\n\nIn 2005, the municipality (then) saw the opening of the largest and only Mall in Eastern Samar, the Uptown Mall which opened in 2005 for business operations and is located along the national highway in Barangay Songco at the northern fringe of the city. Appliance stores, mini-groceries and 'sari-sari' stores also abound throughout the length and breadth of the city selling items ranging from basic necessities to supplies for recreational and entertainment activities.\n\nThere are several hardware stores that also operate catering to the needs of the city's construction industry. The city has numerous restaurants and eateries offering local cuisine randomly located throughout the city limits while nightspots can be found mostly along the length of Baybay Boulevard at the eastern edge of the city immediately abutting the shoreline of Borongan Bay. Major and new oil companies have their own oil refueling stations within the city limits selling engine lubricants, kerosene as well as regular, unleaded and premium gasoline and diesel fuels.\n\nNow, Borongan City boasts several large establishments that opened throughout the years. These includes several department stores and another Mall that opened in 2017. Most of these establishments are located within the city proper such as GrandMart, Novo Shirts and Jeans, and the recently opened 576 Emporium. The second mall that opened in the city is the J&F Mall, which houses a Puregold Franchise. A Jollibee Franchise also opened in 2016, located in the city proper.\n\nBorongan City's pristine and undisturbed forests contain spectacular streams, river rapids, waterfalls and caves sought after by nature lovers, trekkers and spelunkers - locals and foreign visitors alike. With its vast virginal landscape, most of its scenic spots can be reached by those who have the time and energy.\n\nThere is said to be a famed hidden cave in one of the offshore islands of Borongan Bay containing the long-boned remains and antique artifacts (i.e. necklaces, porcelain, etc.) of apparently ancient people whose true history have been obscured by the mists of time and only snippets of which have survived to this day in tales and legends among the local folk who continue to zealously preserve as well as guard and protect them from the curious and from the occasional vandal/looter, believing that allowing such remains and artifacts to be disturbed or taken away will bring bad luck or misfortune to the nearby local inhabitants.\n\nThe City celebrates its annual Fiesta celebration in honor of its Patroness, the Blessed Virgin Mary. Albeit the actual Feast day is on September 8, the celebration is usually a month long as each Barangay will hold its own \"Barangay Night\" where barangays would have a barangay-wide party through programs held in their respective Barangay Plazas. At the same time, schools would also have their annual reunions and respective \"School Night\". The series of celebrations is in anticipation of the actual Feast day.\n\nBeing part of Eastern Samar, the surfing capital of the Visayas, Borongan is blessed with several surfing spots. More often than not, these spots are uncrowded, easily making it a surfer's paradise. The city's waves are at their best during the Amihan season which runs from November to April.\n\nAmong the numerous surf sites in the City, the following are considered to be the top pick for surfers and tourists:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBorongan City has many beaches, the most notable of which can be found in Divinubo Island and in Ando Island, both of which boast of white sand beaches, vibrant coral formations alive with teeming marine life in sparkling clear blue waters, incidentally ideal also for diving and snorkeling. Cabong gray-sand beach is a favorite destination of the locals, with excursionists, bathers and picnic-goers spilling over from one end of the beach to the other especially during special occasions, weekends and holidays. The strip of white-sand beach in Guintagican or Punta Maria is also a good bet, although it takes some effort to get there as it is several kilometers away from the town proper and accessible only through a feeder road, the final stretch of which can be reach on foot only because of the narrow width of the footpath.\n\n\nThe Hamorawon park is located at the center of the city proper itself and can easily be located by the presence of the giant acacia tree beside it. It contains the stylized rendition of a concrete giant clamshell the upper half of which being held up by two mermaids while at its base are two crocodiles with their mouths agape. This giant clamshell served as the then town's cultural stage where social presentations were held while the fenced grounds fronting it served as the venue for social gatherings. This was the brainchild of then Mayor Pablo \"Buaya\" Rosales. On its left side but still within the park grounds is the city tourism building.\n\nFrom underneath this giant clamshell bubbles and flows the Hamorawon natural spring, the only one place in the entire province of Eastern Samar which has a naturally occurring fresh-water spring, flowing from the very center of the city itself towards the Lo-om River a short distance downstream. The waters of this spring has been said to be miraculous the site itself having allegedly been the place where appearances of a lady in white (supposed to be the patroness saint of the city) have reportedly been seen. Unfortunately, access to this natural water source has of late been impeded and virtually blocked, its previous access road having been long fenced off leaving the spring almost unnoticeable already to busy passersby.\n\nAs the provincial capital, provincial government institutions are located in the city. The city government also has its own executive, legislative and judicial bodies.\n\n\nThe seat of the executive branch of the local government of Borongan is at the city hall located at the city proper itself with the city mayor acting as the local chief executive.\n\n\nThe legislative department is represented by the local Sangguniang Panglungsod composed of ten (10) elected members headed by the city vice mayor as the presiding officer thereof.\n\n\n\n\nThe local inhabitants are generally peace-loving and law-abiding citizens who follow all the laws, ordinances, rules and regulations promulgated by the duly-constituted authorities, be they national or local. Except for the lingering insurgency problem, which however is restricted to the hinterland barangays, does not affect the normal course of political and business activities of the city. The place has no major peace and order nor internal security problems.\n\nThe City of Borongan can be reached from Manila or Tacloban primarily by means of land or sea transport. The Borongan Airport is already minimally serviceable.\n\nThe Port of Borongan is classified as a national port and can accommodate medium-draft sea vessels, linking the town with the other coastal and riverine towns of the province as well as major coastal cities of Eastern Visayas, Central Visayas and Bicol regions. Access to and from the outlying inhabited offshore islands of Borongan Bay is either through motorized as well as sail- or oar-driven outrigger bancas.\n\nBus transport, airconditioned and ordinary, is the dominant means of public land conveyance to Borongan City from Manila (and vice versa) passing overland through the Pan-Philippine Highway (Maharlika Highway) through southern Luzon, a short roll on, roll off 1-hour boat ride across the San Bernardino Strait from Matnog, Sorsogon to Allen, Northern Samar, then southwards to Catbalogan City, Western Samar, east across the mountainous and forested geographical spine of the island, then southwards again from the town of Taft until finally entry into the city on the eastern coast of Samar. There are also ordinary mini-buses and air-conditioned shuttle vans from Tacloban City going to Borongan City (and vice versa).\n\nAnother route from Tacloban City is through the Pan-Philippine-Japan Friendship Highway on a west-to-east-to-north course that traverses the southern coastal fringe of the island of Samar crossing the San Juanico Bridge from Tacloban City turning right at the junction southwards to Basey and then Marabut, Samar then eastward across the provincial boundary to Lawa-an in Eastern Samar passing by the famous municipality of Balangiga, turning left at the junction past Quinapondan town northward to the municipality of Gen. MacArthur and onwards to Borongan City itself. The main forms of public mass transport in and around the city are motorized tricycles, motorcycles, passenger jeepneys, multicabs and bicycles. There is no taxicab service available within the city.\n\nThe Borongan City Airport is located at Barangay Punta Maria. The Airport has undergone several improvements through the years since its construction during the Second World War, where it was constructed as an emergency air strip for the military. The Air strip is serviceable to smaller aircraft, such as turbo-propelled Airplanes, which was seen when the airport had chartered flights on different occasions. Currently there is once a week commercial flight Borongan-Cebu-Borongan and Borongan-Clark-Borongan by Leading Edge Air Services Corporation (LEASCOR). Booking is done through Budgetmate Travel and Tours, Pashada Travel and Tours and King Aces Travel and Tours.\n\nLandline telephone, cellular phone as well as internet (both landline and wireless) connections are available within the city limits and up to a certain limited distance from the city proper. Cable television is also available to city subscribers as well as to inhabitants up to a certain limited distance from the city proper. The city has a government-run FM radio station although it operates only on limited broadcast time at certain hours of the day.\n\nMain electric power supply to the city is through an interconnection with the Leyte electric power grid that comes from the electricity generated by the Tongonan geothermal power plant located in the adjacent island of Leyte. The distribution of the power supply within the city and the entire province of Eastern Samar is operated and managed by the Eastern Samar Electric Cooperative (ESAMELCO)\n\nBorongan City has many elementary schools, high schools, colleges and a lone university. It has the highest literacy rate among the municipalities in the whole province of Eastern Samar.\n\n\n\n\nThe University offers undergraduate and graduate course in sciences, technology, literature, humanities, philosophy, agriculture, education, forestry, arts and science, and other degrees/courses within it areas of specialization and according to its capabilities as the Board of Regents may deem necessary to carry out its objectives, particularly to meet the needs of the Province of Eastern Samar and the Region. Its main campus is located in Borongan City.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154874", "title": "Balangkayan", "text": "Balangkayan\n\n', (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBalangkayan is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\n\n\nIn the , the population of Balangkayan, Eastern Samar, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe Minasangay Island Marine Ecological Park and Resort known for its cliff diving, scuba diving, mangroves and coral reefs is a popular gateway for the locals of the province.\n\nBalangkayan has many elementary schools and a lone high school.\n\nElementary schools:\n\nSecondary school:\n\n"}
{"id": "2154875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154875", "title": "Can-avid", "text": "Can-avid\n\n', (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCan-avid is politically subdivided into 28 barangays.\nCan-avid was created in 1948 from the barrios of Can-avid, Carolina, Barok, Cansangaya, Mabuhay, Camantang, Canilay, Pandol and Balagon, formerly part of Dolores, Eastern Samar, by virtue of Republic Act No. 264.\n\nIn the , the population of Can-avid, Eastern Samar, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154876", "title": "Dolores, Eastern Samar", "text": "Dolores, Eastern Samar\n\n' (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDolores is a coastal town bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean in the Eastern Visayas region of the Philippines. It has many beaches and small islands. Most of the populace speak and understand English.\n\nIn 1948, the barrios of Can-avid, Carolina, Barok, Cansangaya, Mabuhay, Camantang, Canilay, Pandol and Balagon, formerly part of this town, were separated into the municipality of Can-avid, Eastern Samar, by virtue of Republic Act No. 264.\n\nDolores is politically subdivided into 46 barangays.\nThe population of Dolores in the was people, with a density of .\n\nMajor sources of livelihood in Dolores include farming and fishing, according to the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Region VIII.\n\nThe languages spoken are Waray-Waray, Bisaya and others Cebuano, locals are also literate in both English and Filipino. Most of the people are predominantly Roman Catholic, and some belonging to other Christian denominations as well as minority religious sects.\n\nPedicabs and tricycles are the means of transportation within the town, while multi-cabs, jeepneys, and vans are the means of transportation to neighboring and distant towns within the province. Several bus companies are also operating from the town going to Manila or Tacloban City and vice versa.\n\nDolores has an airfield where the abandoned Picardo Airport is located. The airport has an unusable short runway.\n\nDolores has 32 public elementary schools, 4 public high schools with 1 Tech-Voc (Technical and Vocational) high school, and 1 private college.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154877", "title": "General MacArthur, Eastern Samar", "text": "General MacArthur, Eastern Samar\n\n' (IPA pronunciation in Waray-waray: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town was created from the barrios of Pambujan Sur, Calutan, San Isidro, Vigan, Binalay, Camcueves, Domrog and Pingan of the town of Hernani by virtue of Republic Act No. 193, enacted on June 22, 1947. It is created in honor of General Douglas MacArthur, who is instrumental in the victory of the Battle of Leyte Gulf during World War II.\n\nGeneral MacArthur is politically subdivided into 30 barangays.\n\nThe population of General MacArthur, Eastern Samar, in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154878", "title": "Giporlos", "text": "Giporlos\n\n' (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nFormerly Giporlos was a barangay of the municipality of Balangiga, named San Bernardino.\n\nThe name of the municipality was taken from the Waray-waray word \"Hi Podlos\" ('the sly one'), the nickname given to a woman who was nearly kidnapped by marauding \"\"Moros\"\" (Muslims). A folk story in the town tells of two women who went to a coastal area called \"Rawis\" to gather seashells only to be confronted by Moro men. One of the women, who was quite observant to her surroundings, was able to escape with haste. The other woman, who was already being dragged by the Moros to their vinta, squirmed her way out of their clutches like an eel (, 'to slip from capture'), leaving them clutching her skirt while she fled triumphantly, earning the name \"Hi Podlos\". It is said that this name was changed to \"Hi Porlos\" to name the place or the whole area of settlement and was modified further by the Spaniards into its current spelling: \"Giporlos\".\n\nGiporlos is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\nThe population of Giporlos in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154879", "title": "Guiuan", "text": "Guiuan\n\n' (] ; , ), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nGuiuan played a significant part in Philippine history. In the 16th century, when Ferdinand Magellan discovered the Philippines, it is believed that he first landed on the island of Homonhon, which lies within the municipality. It is probably because of this that the majority of the population of the town are Catholics. The town's church, the Church of the Immaculate Conception, is one of the oldest in the country.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Guiuan served as one of the Alliance's bases. Now all that is left of the American occupation are concrete slabs which once served as the foundations of a vast supply depot, and an air strip, which now serves as the town's own airport.\n\nAs well as a rich historical background, Guiuan has many scenic spots. Being a coastal town on the Pacific side, the town has many white-sand beaches that are suitable for swimming and surfing.\n\nThe Guiuan Church is currently in the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage Sites under the \"Baroque Churches of the Philippines (Extension)\". A proposal has been suggested by scholars to make a separate UNESCO inclusion for the \"Old Centre of Guiuan which includes the Guiuan Church\". The same would be made for other churches listed in UNESCO's tentative sites, where each town plaza and surrounding heritage buildings would be added. No government agency has yet to take action on the proposal.\n\nIn 8 November 2013, it was the first town in the Philippines that was hit by Typhoon Haiyan (Super Typhoon Yolanda).\n\nThe municipality of Guiuan is located at the southeasternmost tip of Samar Island. It is bounded on the north by the municipality of Mercedes, on the east by the Philippine Sea and the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Surigao Strait, and on the west by the Leyte Gulf.\n\nClustered around the municipality are numerous islands and islets such as Manicani, Calicoan, Sulangan, Candulo, Homonhon, Suluan and Tubabao. They are protected as part of the marine reserve known as the Guiuan Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nGuiuan is south of Borongan and from Tacloban. It has a total land area of 175.49 square kilometres. It is composed of sixty (60) barangays and the only town in the province with biggest number of island barangays.\n\nGuiuan is politically subdivided into 60 barangays, 37 of which is located in the mainland of Guiuan, i.e. the portion of Guiuan that is contiguous with the Samar Island, and the remaining 23 in the islands surrounding the mainland.\n\nPoblacion barangays: The poblacion, or town center, is located on the southwestern coastal area of the Guiuan mainland, facing the Leyte Gulf.\nOther mainland barangays:\nBarangays in Calicoan Island and neighboring islets:\n\nBarangays in Tubabao Island and neighboring islets:\n\nBarangays in Manicani Island:\n\nBarangays in Homonhon Island:\n\nOther island barangays:\n\nGuiuan is widely known for two significant events in history 423 years apart. In 1521, Ferdinand Magellan, first European to set foot on Philippine soil, landed in Homonhon, now part of Guiuan. In 1944, the American Forces landed on the island of Suluan where they fought their first battle in the Philippine territory three days before Gen. Mac Arthur stormed the beaches of Leyte.\nThe name of the town originated from its geographical location. The first settlers named the town \"Guibang\" when they discovered a sharp break in the mountain range (, 'partly chiseled off') which screens the town from the Pacific Ocean in the East. Subsequently, settlers modified its name to Guiuan.\n\nThe occurrence of World War II shook the town and people moved to the mountains to find comfort. On June 28, 1943, several Japanese soldiers set foot on Guiuan soil. Not as fearful and brutal as they were thought of by the local populace, a cordial relation soon existed between the conquered and the conquerors. Evacuees came down from the mountains and resumed a normal urban life.\n\nExcept for a few killings of suspected traitors by both Japanese, Filipino soldiers and local guerillas, not a drop of blood was shed needlessly. This made Guiuan one of the few places in the islands where World War II did not leave so many tragic memories.\n\nThe first sign of liberation of the town came on November 27, 1944, when a US Navy submarine chaser steamed the harbor for reconnaissance duty. On December 1, 1944, a fleet of LCTs, Liberty ships and barges poured into the Guiuan Bay to unload machines that was to transform Guiuan into one of the biggest Naval Bases in the Far East that time.\n\nIn 1949, the International Refugee Organisation made an appeal to tackle the displacement crisis caused by the war and a precursor to the UNHCR. It wanted new homes for thousands of White Russians in the aftermath of the Bolshevik Revolution (Russian Revolutions) and subsequent civil war. More than 5,000 of them, under the care of John Maximovitch (Saint John of Shanghai and San Francisco), the Orthodox Archbishop of Shanghai who would later be canonised, were taken to the island of Tubabao, located a couple of hundred metres from the coast of Guiuan.\n\nIn 1952, the sitios of Talisay, Bagambang, Calamrisan, Lo-ok and Barawalti, belonging to Barrio Tubabao, were separated and created into the barrio of Trinidad.\n\nOn November 10, 1978, Proclamation No. 1801 was issued declaring Guiuan as a Tourist Zone and Marine Reserve under the administration and control of the Philippine Tourism Authority (PTA).\n\nOn November 8, 2013, the city suffered heavy damage, along with 107 fatalities, 16 missing and over 3,626 injuries, as it was hit by the eye of Typhoon Haiyan (Super Typhoon Yolanda) with maximum ten-minute sustained wind speeds of 230 km/h (145 mph). Haiyan made its first landfall over Guiuan at 04:40 PhST.\n\nAlmost every building was heavily damaged or deroofed, including the designated typhoon shelters, the Catholic Church, hospital and gymnasium. However, one house in Lactason remained intact because of the owner's effort to hold it in place with her bare hands. The woman was later identified as Mana Maring, a moron (a Filipino delicacy) maker and vendor.\n\nGuiuan recorded a total population of 38,694 in 2000, which rose to 47,037 in 2010 and 52,991 in 2015. It has the second largest population in Eastern Samar (after Borongan) with a population density of 270 persons per km.\n\nMajority or 97.7% of the Guiuananons speak the Waray-Waray language. Less than 3.0% speak Cebuano (including the Boholano dialect) and Tagalog. A few percentage can converse in English, with varying degrees of proficiency.\n\nGuiuan is classified as a second income class municipality as of CY 2008. Its Total Financial Resources amounted to 67.71 million pesos. Its Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) represents 78.0% of its total financial resources.\nBeing a fishing community and the only municipality with the most number of island barangays, the town is rich in fishery and aquatic resources. It is considered by the fisheries authorities as the best fishing belt in the region.\n\nThe coastal waters offer almost all species of marine life: euchuema, abalone, ornamental fish, lobster and the golden cowry (known for its extraordinary golden sheen). They also offer delicacies, shellcraft products as well as fresh and processed marine products.\n\nExisting land use indicates a predominance of agriculture which covers 38.2% of the total land area. Most of the agricultural lands are dominantly planted with coconut trees. Other major crops include vegetables, root crops, palay, corn, banana and other fruit trees, coffee and pineapple.\n\nThe municipality is likewise rich in mineral resources. It has an estimated mineral reserve of bauxite, nickel and titaferous magnitie of more than 26.7 million metric tons.\n\nGuiuan Airport has a 2,800-metre (9,200-ft) runway which can service light private planes, chartered cargo and military planes. The Guiuan Airport was upgraded in 2010. Cebu-based airline Mid-Sea Express had scheduled flights from Cebu City to Guiuan twice weekly on Saturdays and Mondays, using a 19-seater Jetstream 32 aircraft. Service started in 2012 but has now been discontinued.\n\nThe town is accessible by land with highway connection from Tacloban City, about three-four hours travel. Several buses and vans regularly shuttle passengers to Guiuan. It is also accessible from Borongan City. Alternatively, several bus companies have daily trips to Guiuan from Manila. Travel time is approximately twenty-one hours.\n\nSince the town is a coastal municipality, it has a small seaport operational throughout the year.\n\nThe church is also known as The Shrine of St. Anthony of Padua. It is known to both the locals and pilgrims around Eastern Visayas because of being miraculous. Saint Anthony of Padua is considered the patron saint for lost items, articles, people, or even spiritual goods. Many people visit the church to ask Saint Anthony even the most impossible wishes and the saint is believed to grant them.\n\n\nLinao Cave is one of the most famous attractions in Guiuan because of its crystal clear water. The cave is named \"linao\" which means “clear” in Waray.\n\nTelephone companies operating in the municipality includes TELECOM, Globelines and Bayantel. Smart and Globe cellular phone companies are also operational. The town also has a local radio station, Radyo Natin Guiuan (103.7 MHz), serving Guiuan and neighboring areas in Eastern Visayas.\nIn 2004, Eastern Samar Electric Cooperative (ESAMELCO) was able to energize Guiuan, Calicoan Island up to Sulangan covering 37 out of 60 barangays. Island barangays are served with electricity through generator sets either privately owned or operated by the barangay council. However, electricity shortages are frequent and subscribers experience weekly power failures, lasting for 10 to 12 hours or for 24 hours in severe cases.\n\nGuiuan is also the site of one of the weather stations of the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration, located in Barangay Sapao. Positioned at above sea level, the facility consists of a Surface Synoptic Station for usual weather observation and a Doppler weather radar station for detecting intensity (reflectivity) and velocity (by Doppler effect) of distant weather elements. The radar station was built and renovated with the aid of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).\n\n"}
{"id": "2154880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154880", "title": "KTAZ", "text": "KTAZ\n\nKTAZ, virtual channel 39 (UHF digital channel 29), is a Telemundo owned-and-operated television station licensed to Phoenix, Arizona, United States. The station is owned by the Telemundo Station Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal (itself a subsidiary of Comcast). KTAZ's studios are located on South 33rd Place in Phoenix, and its transmitter is located atop South Mountain on the city's south side.\n\nKHRR (channel 40) in Tucson operates as a semi-satellite of KTAZ, extending the Telemundo signal into Southern Arizona. As such, it simulcasts all Telemundo programming as provided through KTAZ but airs separate commercial inserts and legal identifications, and has its own website. Local newscasts, produced by KTAZ and branded as \"Noticiero Telemundo Arizona\", are simulcast on both stations. Although KHRR maintains its own studios on North Stone Avenue in downtown Tucson, master control and most internal operations are based at KTAZ's facilities.\n\nIn 1986, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) designated VHF channel 11 as a commercial allotment for Holbrook. The allotment lay vacant until April 1996, when Channel 11 LLC applied for a permit to build a TV station. The application was granted on January 23, 1998, and in March, Channel 11 requested KBCZ for its call sign., In August 2000, Channel 11 struck an agreement to sell the station to Venture Technologies Group, LLC, which was approved in November and consummated in December. Venture immediately changed the call letters to KPHZ and requested a waiver of the Main Studio Rule so that they could operate their new station out of existing facilities in Phoenix, used for stations KPHZ-LP (channel 58, now KDTP-LP channel 48) and KPSW-LP (channel 41, now KPDF-CD), instead of having the added expense of studio facilities in Holbrook. Venture signed the station on air in January 2001 as an affiliate of the home shopping channel America's Collectibles Network (ACN)—now Jewelry Television (JTV). The FCC granted a license to KPHZ on December 5, 2001. The station was never profitable, and in April 2002, shortly after its acquisition by NBC, Telemundo reached an agreement with Venture to acquire KPHZ, along with Venture's two Phoenix low power stations. The FCC granted the request on August 23 and the purchase was consummated on September 26. KPHZ was Telemundo's second full-power station in Arizona, after KHRR in Tucson), but it continued to air ACN programming until July 2003, when it switched to Telemundo programming.\n\nBy 2004, NBCUniversal concluded that in a small town like Holbrook (which had a population of 4,917, according to the 2000 U.S. Census), KPHZ was losing money and would likely have to be shut down. At the same time, the company had determined that its Phoenix-based Class A LPTV station, KDRX-CA (channel 48, now KDPH-LP), could not adequately compete with Univision's full-power station KTVW-TV.\n\nNBCUniversal reached an agreement with the Daystar Television Network, and the two broadcasters together filed an application with the FCC to move the KPHZ license from Holbrook to Phoenix, where it would broadcast on channel 39. Daystar's KDTP license would move from Phoenix to Holbrook, broadcasting on channel 11. It was an unusual and complicated request that involved not only a swap of cities of license and frequencies, but would also require removing the non-commercial reservation from channel 39 in Phoenix and creating a non-commercial reservation on channel 11 in Holbrook. Holbrook already had a non-commercial allocation on channel 18 which had never been built, and most likely never would be. In addition, NBCUniversal would transfer KDRX-CA and KPHZ-LP to Daystar, preserving a Daystar outlet in Phoenix.\n\nThe FCC is extremely reluctant to remove a non-commercial reservation from a market, and naturally, Univision objected to the proposal, but in October 2005, the FCC agreed to allow the switch, saying that the benefit of having competing full-power Spanish-language television stations in the Phoenix market outweighed the loss of the non-commercial reservation. In April 2006, the FCC granted construction permits to move the licenses.\n\nOn May 27, 2006, the KTAZ call letters were moved to the channel 39 license. There were a few complications with the move, requiring newly named KTAZ to move to a different broadcast tower. KTAZ temporarily kept the Daystar programming and the Telemundo programming remained on channel 11, which became KDTP-CA (now KDPH-LP), while KTAZ's permanent transmitter facilities were being constructed; the move was completed on July 23, 2006, and on August 9, KTAZ resumed carrying Telemundo programming, and Daystar programming began airing on KDTP-CA. The FCC licensed the changes to KTAZ on November 7, 2006.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nBecause it was granted an original construction permit after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) finalized the DTV allotment plan on April 21, 1997, the station did not receive a companion channel for its digital signal. Instead, at the end of the digital conversion period for full-power television stations, KTAZ was required to turn off its analog signal and turn on its digital signal (called a \"flash-cut\"). The station's digital signal went into operation on its former analog-era UHF channel 39 on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate.\n\nThe first news on Telemundo Phoenix debuted in October 1997, produced by local ABC affiliate KNXV. Several years later, after then-KDRX had moved into KNXV's former studio facilities, the station began to produce its own news. Under cost-cutting measures in 2007, KTAZ's news began to be produced from a news hub in Dallas; the production of the shows was restored to Phoenix several years later, and until 2014, KTAZ additionally produced the local newscasts seen on KBLR in Las Vegas. That later ended in July 2014 when KBLR debuted its own local newscast. On July 26, 2014, KTAZ began producing weekend newscasts to air at 5:00p.m. and 10 p.m.\n\nKTAZ's newscasts are also aired on KHRR in Tucson. Tucson news and weather is incorporated into the broadcasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154881", "title": "The Eiger Sanction (film)", "text": "The Eiger Sanction (film)\n\nThe Eiger Sanction is a 1975 American action thriller film directed by and starring Clint Eastwood. Based on the 1972 novel \"The Eiger Sanction\" by Trevanian, the film is about an art history professor, mountain climber and former assassin once employed by a secret United States government agency who is blackmailed into returning to his deadly profession and do one more \"sanction,\" a euphemism for killing. He agrees to join an international climbing team in Switzerland planning an ascent of the Eiger north face in order to complete a second sanction to avenge the murder of an old friend. The film was produced by Robert Daley for Eastwood's Malpaso Company, with Richard D. Zanuck and David Brown as executive producers, and co-starred George Kennedy, Vonetta McGee and Jack Cassidy.\n\nPrincipal photography started on August 12, 1974, and ended in late September 1974. The picture was filmed on location on the Eiger mountain and Zurich in Switzerland, in Monument Valley and Zion National Park in the American Southwest, and in Carmel-by-the-Sea and Monterey in California. Special equipment and handheld cameras were employed to film the climbing sequences. Eastwood did his own climbing and stuntwork under dangerous conditions. Twenty-six-year-old British climber David Knowles died on the Eiger during the production. The film score was composed by John Williams.\n\n\"The Eiger Sanction\" was released in New York City on May 21, 1975, and received mixed reviews. The general reaction among many reviewers offered criticism of the story and screenplay, and praise for the climbing footage and action sequences. The film, which was made with a budget of $9 million, earned $14,200,000 at the box office. \"The Eiger Sanction\" was first released in DVD format on December 15, 1998, and in Blu-ray format on November 10, 2015 by Universal Studios.\n\nArt professor and mountaineer Jonathan Hemlock (Clint Eastwood) is a retired government assassin called on to return to work for two more \"sanctions,\" a euphemism for officially approved killings. During his career with a secret government agency called \"C2,\" Hemlock amassed a private collection of 21 rare masterpiece paintings, paid for from his previous sanctions. The director of C2, Dragon (Thayer David), is an albino ex-Nazi confined to semi-darkness and kept alive by blood transfusions. Dragon wants Hemlock to kill two men responsible for the death of another government agent, code name Wormwood. Insisting he is retired, Hemlock refuses until Dragon threatens to expose Hemlock's art collection to the IRS. Hemlock agrees, and travels to Zurich, where he carries out the first sanction for $20,000, twice his usual fee (), and a letter guaranteeing no trouble from the IRS.\n\nReturning from Europe, Hemlock meets C2 courier Jemima Brown (Vonetta McGee), who seduces him and, while he is asleep, steals his money and IRS exemption letter. Dragon agrees to return them if Hemlock completes the second sanction. Hemlock is reluctant, but agrees when he learns that the C2 agent killed, Wormwood, was in fact his old friend Henri Baq. Hemlock is an ex-Green Beret and he and Baq served together during the Vietnam War, where Baq saved his life. Dragon agrees to pay him $100,000 () plus expenses, and tells him the target is a member of an international mountain climbing team that will soon attempt an ascent of the north face of the Eiger mountain in Switzerland. Hemlock will be the American member of the team, and must kill one of the climbers—Dragon is unsure of the target's identity other than the man walks with a limp.\n\nHemlock travels to Arizona to train at a climbing school run by a friend, Ben Bowman (George Kennedy), who whips him back into shape with the help of an attractive Native American woman named George (later revealed to be Bowman's daughter). Hemlock also encounters an enemy, Miles Mellough (Jack Cassidy), a former ally from the military who years before had betrayed him in Southeast Asia. Mellough somehow knows a great deal of what Hemlock is planning. He tries to kill Hemlock by hiring George to drug him, but Hemlock survives. Later Hemlock lures Mellough and his bodyguard into the desert, shoots the bodyguard, and leaves Mellough to die in the sun.\n\nHemlock travels to Switzerland with Bowman, the \"ground man\" or supervisor of the climb, and meets the other members of the climbing party at the Hotel Bellevue des Alpes at Kleine Scheidegg. The headstrong and condescending German member, Karl Freytag (Reiner Schöne), presents his proposed route up the mountain, and the team agrees that he will lead the party. The following morning, the men begin their ascent of the Eiger north face, but soon the weather conditions become poor. The French climber is struck by falling rocks and later dies. With Hemlock now leading, the surviving members retreat towards a tunnel window that connects to a railroad station inside the mountain, carrying the dead climber between them. At the last moment, Freytag and the Austrian, Anderl Meyer (Michael Grimm), fall to their deaths. Hemlock is saved, dangling alone a few meters from the tunnel window.\n\nBowman and a rescue crew make their way through the Eiger to the tunnel window, where they attempt to throw a rope to Hemlock. Hemlock notices Bowman is limping, a sign that identifies him as Hemlock's target. Hemlock says, \"You're limping, Ben,\" reluctant to trust that Bowman will rescue him. Bowman throws him the rope, and Hemlock attaches it, then reluctantly cuts his own rope. He falls onto Bowman's rope, and is pulled into the tunnel to safety. On the train back to Kleine Scheidegg, Bowman admits he became involved with \"the other side\" years earlier but claims he had no idea that Hemlock's friend would be killed. Bowman explains he had become involved with Miles Mellough, to whom he was indebted for getting his daughter, George, off drugs.\n\nBack at Kleine Scheidegg, Bowman approaches Hemlock, looking to mend his relationship with the assassin. Hemlock takes a phone call from Dragon, who is convinced that Hemlock killed all three of the other climbers intentionally to ensure he killed the target. Hemlock tells Bowman that C2 believes the target died on the mountain, and that there is no reason to tell them otherwise. After Bowman leaves, Jemima Brown joins Hemlock and wonders if Dragon was correct.\n\nThe film is based on the 1972 thriller novel \"The Eiger Sanction\" by Trevanian, a pseudonym for Rodney William Whitaker, a University of Texas film professor. It was Trevanian's first novel and was written as an intentional spoof of James Bond novels. Universal Studios purchased the film rights in November 1972, soon after the novel was published. In late November 1972 screenwriter Hal Dresner was hired to adapt the novel with the author Trevanian, credited as Rod Whitaker as a screenwriter. In April 1973 Paul Newman was cast in the lead role of Jonathan Hemlock. Dresner and Trevanian prepared two drafts of the screenplay, which were provided to Newman. Disappointed with the results and believing the story was too violent, Newman opted out of the project. In late 1973 Universal producers Richard D. Zanuck and David Brown approached Eastwood with the project. Eastwood saw serious flaws with the novel and the script, which had gone through three revisions and a rewrite by the time he read it. Eastwood was never interested in espionage as a subject or the spy thriller as a genre, but he was attracted to the project for two reasons. Disappointed with the way Universal handled his first directorial efforts—\"Play Misty for Me\" (1971) and \"Breezy\" (1973)—he was looking to move to Warner Bros. where studio head Frank Wells was offering an open invitation, and \"Eiger\" represented a way to close out his contract. More importantly, the project offered him the opportunity to work in relative isolation on location in Switzerland away from the distractions of the studio and to work efficiently with a small cast and crew. On January 31, 1974, Universal announced that Eastwood was contracted to both star in and co-produce \"The Eiger Sanction\" with his own Malpaso Productions and Universal Pictures.\n\nIn a 1976 interview with author Patrick McGilligan for \"Focus on Film\", Eastwood described the essential problems with the novel: \"The book has no ties. In other words, the character that is killed at the beginning has no relationship to anybody else. I just took it and tried to make the guy relate to the hero so the hero had some motivations. The way the book was written, he had no motivations for anything. He just went up there strictly for monetary gain, no other motivation, period.\" Believing that improvements could be made to the script, Eastwood contacted novelist Warren B. Murphy — known for his \"The Destroyer\" assassin series — in February 1974 and asked for his assistance, despite Murphy's having never read the book nor written for a film before. Murphy read the novel and agreed to write the script, but he was unhappy with the novel's tone, which he believed patronized readers. Murphy completed a draft in late March and a revised script a month later. Eastwood also felt that the authenticity of the climbing sequences he envisioned would compensate for the narrative's shortcomings. From the beginning, Eastwood planned to shoot the mountaineering scenes on location, and that he would do his own climbing without a stunt double. \"The challenge of it for me,\" he would later explain, \"was to actually shoot a mountain-type film on a mountain, not on sets. The only ones done in the past were all done on sets; the mountains were all papier-mâché mountains.\" In late May 1974, Universal announced that Eastwood would also direct the film, and that principal photography was scheduled to start on August 1, 1974, at the Eiger mountain in Switzerland. Universal's vice-president Jennings Lang would supervise the production.\n\nAs soon as he signed on to the project, Eastwood took complete control of the production. He worked with soundman Peter Pilafian to develop lightweight, disposable batteries to power a specially adapted camera and sound equipment needed to film on the mountain. He also hired Mike Hoover to serve as climbing adviser for the film. Hoover had made an Academy Award nominated documentary short titled \"Solo\" about his lone ascent of El Capitan in Yosemite National Park. Eastwood had seen and admired the documentary, and hired Hoover to train him on how to look professional during the climbing scenes, and to serve as principal cameraman on the more dangerous climbing sequences. Intent on doing his own climbing for the film, Eastwood accompanied Hoover to Yosemite in early July to train and climb the Lost Arrow Spire, a detached pillar in Yosemite Valley located adjacent to Upper Yosemite Falls. While he had done some rock climbing in his youth, the forty-four year old Eastwood was not prepared for the levels of difficulty presented by the climb. Hoover would later recall, \"He looked up at me and said, 'Gee, I don't think I can make it.' I said, 'Well, Clint, you really don't have much choice, do you?' Then he reacted characteristically—he got pissed off. He pulled in his chin and gritted his teeth and with absolutely no technique at all, just blood and guts, he mossed his way up. No skill, no brains, just pure muscle.\"\n\nMeanwhile, George Kennedy, who had recently finished filming \"Thunderbolt and Lightfoot\" with Eastwood, was cast as Ben Bowman, Hemlock's friend and former climbing partner. Jack Cassidy was cast as the colorful and flamboyantly gay assassin Miles Mellough. Thayer David, a year before his role as a boxing promoter in \"Rocky\", was cast as the albino Dragon (named \"Yurasis Dragon\" in the novel). Just prior to the start of filming, Vonetta McGee was cast as the African-American female C2 operative, Jemima Brown. In late July 1974, Eastwood, Kennedy, Hoover, and a small crew traveled to Monument Valley—director John Ford's favorite location for his Westerns—on the Arizona-Utah border to film a sequence that would be used in the film as a practice climb by the main characters of the Totem Pole, a rock spire with an diameter. Located within the lands of the Navajo Nation, the Totem Pole had religious significance to the Navajos who prohibited climbs on the formation. Hoover negotiated permission from the tribal authorities for his team to climb the Totem Pole to remove pitons and other climbing hardware embedded in the structure by previous climbers, restoring the monolith to pristine condition. The ascent was made by two climbers from Moab, Eric Bjornstad and Ken Wyrick, who were tasked with preparing the summit for the helicopter film crew and removing existing hardware. Upon attaining the summit, they were helicoptered off and Eastwood and Kennedy were lowered onto the eighteen-foot wide summit for one of Eastwood's happiest film-making memories, watching the sun setting over Monument Valley where many classic Westerns were filmed.\n\nPrincipal photography began on August 12, 1974 in Grindelwald, Switzerland, with a team of climbing experts and advisers from the United States, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The climbers were based at the Hotel Bellevue des Alpes at Kleine Scheidegg, located below and between the Eiger and Lauberhorn peaks in the Bernese Oberland region. At in elevation, the north face of the Eiger, which means \"ogre\" in German, is renowned for its treacherous climbing, earning the German nickname \"Mordwand\" or \"murder wall\". By 1974, forty-one climbers had lost their lives trying to climb the forbidding edifice. Eastwood decided to take on the most dangerous work during the first two days of shooting. By midafternoon on August 13, as light began to fail, a wrap was called after shooting a rock slide sequence. While the team was preparing to be helicoptered off the north face, Hoover remembered they had not taken any footage from the climbers' point of view of the boulders crashing down on them. With his handheld camera, Hoover and twenty-six-year-old British climber David Knowles rappelled down to the ledge and took the needed footage. As they were gathering their gear, a huge rock broke free and smashed into the climbers, killing Knowles and leaving Hoover with a fractured pelvis and severely bruised muscles. Following an impromptu wake for Knowles, Eastwood considered canceling the production, but the climbers persuaded him to continue on, assuring him that they all knew the risks of their trade and did not want Knowles' death to be meaningless.\n\nEastwood insisted on doing all his own climbing and stunts—a decision met with disapproval by the director of the International School of Mountaineering, Dougal Haston, who experienced the dangers of the Eiger first hand having been with American climber John Harlin when he fell to his death. Cameraman Frank Stanley also thought climbing the perilous mountain to shoot a film was unnecessary. While filming on the Eiger, Stanley fell and sustained injuries that forced him to use a wheelchair for some time. Stanley blamed Eastwood for the accident because of lack of preparation, describing him as a director and actor as a \"very impatient man who doesn't really plan his pictures or do any homework\". One of the most dangerous stunts that Eastwood ever attempted involved him hanging from a rope four thousand feet above the valley floor in the penultimate scene. The scene required him to cut himself free so he could be pulled to safety by his rescuers. As he cuts the rope supporting his weight, he drops precariously before being saved by a rigged cable. Eastwood would later say, \"I didn't want to use a stunt man, because I wanted to use a telephoto lens and zoom in slowly all the way to my face—so you could see it was really me.\" After five weeks at the Eiger, the production unit traveled to Zurich to film the opening scenes of the film around the area of the Grossmünster cathedral and the Limmat river, the Münsterbrücke bridge, the Café Bauschänzli, the Kirchgasse, the Napfgasse, and the Restaurant Karl der Grosse.\n\nEastwood and company returned to the United States to the American Southwest where filming resumed in Zion National Park in Utah, where scenes were shot at Zion-Mount Carmel Highway, Zion Lodge, Checkerboard Mesa, the Narrows, the Hanging Gardens, the bridge over the Virgin River, and the Cave Route below the Cerberus Gendarme. Additional scenes were also shot in Monument Valley at the Tyrolean Transfer, where a rope had been rigged by climber Eric Bjornstad, who noted that Eastwood was not only very fit but very capable when it came to performing physical stuntwork like this. Scenes were also shot at Rock Door mesa above Goulding's Lodge, where Eastwood and company stayed. After completing principal photography in late September 1974 in Carmel-by-the-Sea and Monterey in California, Eastwood hosted the cast and crew at his restaurant, the Hog's Breath Inn, for a wrap party. \"The Eiger Sanction\" was filmed in Technicolor, and was released to theaters with an aspect ratio of 2.35 : 1.\n\nEastwood chose John Williams to compose the original music soundtrack for \"The Eiger Sanction\"—his only score in the spy thriller genre. A main theme is presented initially on piano evoking a sense of sophistication and mystery, then given a much jazzier or pop rendition reminiscent of Lalo Schifrin's material. The most impressive sections of the score are the grand orchestral cues composed for the mountain scenes—pieces such as \"The Icy Ascent\" and \"The Top of the World\" capture both the beauty of the alpine surroundings and the inherent dangers. The latter title presents the kind of rapturous orchestral celebration now commonly associated with Williams' music. The pseudo-baroque piece \"Training with George\" presents a lovely string arrangement \"demonstrating Williams's remarkable versatility while retaining that musical signature that makes all of his scores so recognisably his\", according to writer James Southall. The main theme is reprised in \"George Sets the Pace\" as a guitar solo with flute harmony. \"Microfilm\" is a low key action piece, and \"Up the Drainpipe\" is pure suspense music—different in tone from the rest of the album. The album concludes with \"The Eiger\", a triumphant and beautiful finale. Although not considered among Williams' finest scores, \"The Eiger Sanction\" soundtrack has a certain stylish allure different from anything else he's done, and is \"memorable in some places, beautiful and orchestral in others\", according to Southall. The original soundtrack album was released in 1975 on the MCA label, and in 1991 it was issued as a CD on the Varèse Sarabande label.\n\n\"The Eiger Sanction\" premiered in New York City on May 21, 1975.\n\n\"The Eiger Sanction\" received mixed reviews upon its theatrical release. The general reaction among many reviewers offered criticism for the story and screenplay, and praise for the climbing footage and action sequences. \"Variety\" concluded, \"Eastwood ... manages fine suspense both in the Swiss and Monument Valley climbs, as well as delineation of character. His direction displays a knowledge that permits rugged action.\" \"The New York Times\" reviewer described the film as \"a long, foolish but never boring suspense melodrama\" that compensates for its plot shortcomings with \"stunning\" climbing sequences that look \"difficult and very beautiful\". In his review in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Roger Ebert gave the film three out of four stars, writing, \"It has a plot so unlikely and confused that we can't believe it for much more than 15 seconds at a time, but its action sequences are so absorbing and its mountaintop photography so compelling that we don't care ... and so we get wrapped up in the situations, and we're seduced by the photography, and we enjoy the several pretty girls who happen along in the hero's path, and if the plot doesn't make any sense well, no movie's perfect.\" \"Playboy\" magazine described the film as \"a James Bond reject.\" Some critics were less forgiving, such as Joy Gould Boyum of \"The Wall Street Journal\" who complained that the film \"situates villainy in homosexuals and physically disabled men\", and Pauline Kael of \"New York\" magazine who described the film as \"a total travesty\".\n\nMore recent critics have treated the film and Eastwood's direction in a more positive light. Film critic David Sterritt, for example, concluded that \"Eastwood's unsubtle directing hammers the story home effectively, with commendable attention to details of performance\". In his review on the Combustible Celluloid website, Jeffrey M. Anderson gave the film three and a half out of four stars, calling it \"surprisingly effective, even by today's standards\". Anderson found the climbing footage \"truly gripping\" and that the film was \"underrated, high-water mark for the great director\". Christopher Granger in the \"Tampa Bay Movie Examiner\" gave the film four out of five stars, writing, \"The scenery in the Alps is breathtaking and the action in this spy thriller is end of your seat viewing.\" Jason Ivey in the \"Tea Party Tribune\" found the later sequences of the film \"truly breathtaking\" and wrote, \"There's simply something more suspenseful, more dramatic, when you know you're watching Clint Eastwood hanging from a rope 1,000 feet above the rocky earth.\" Ivey concluded:\n\nThe film, which was made on a budget of $9 million, earned $14,200,000 at the box office.\n\n\"The Eiger Sanction\" was first released in DVD format on December 15, 1998 by Universal Studios, with subsequent re-releases on April 14, 2003, February 10, 2009, and May 5, 2015. The film was released in Blu-ray format on November 10, 2015 by Universal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154883", "title": "Saltarello", "text": "Saltarello\n\nThe saltarello is a musical dance originally from Italy. The first mention of it is in Add MS 29987, a late-fourteenth- or early fifteenth-century manuscript of Tuscan origin, now in the British Library. It was usually played in a fast triple meter and is named for its peculiar leaping step, after the Italian verb \"saltare\" (\"to jump\"). This characteristic is also the basis of the German name \"Hoppertanz\" or \"Hupfertanz\" (\"hopping dance\"); other names include the French \"pas de Brabant\" and the Spanish \"alta\" or \"alta danza\".\n\nThe saltarello enjoyed great popularity in the courts of medieval Europe. During the 15th century, the word saltarello became the name of a particular dance step (a double with a hop on the final or initial upbeat), and the name of a meter of music (a fast triple), both of which appear in many choreographed dances. Entire dances consisting of only the saltarello step and meter are described as being improvised dances in 15th-century Italian dance manuals. (The first dance treatise that dealt with the saltarello was the 1465 work of Antonio Cornazzano.) A clearer, detailed description of this step and meter appears in a 16th-century manuscript in the Academia de la Historia in Madrid. During this era, the saltarello was danced by bands of courtesans dressed as men at masquerades. The saltarello gave birth to the \"quadernaria\" in Germany, which was then fused into the \"saltarello tedesco\" (German saltarello) in Italy. This \"German saltarello\", in contrast to the Italian variety, was in duple time and began on the downbeat, and was also known by the name \"quaternaria\".\n\nIn 1540, Hans Newsidler published an Italian dance under the name \"Hupff auff\" (introductory skip), and identified it with a parenthetical subtitle: \"saltarella\".\n\nAlthough a Tuscan court dance in origin, the saltarello became the typical Italian folk dance of Ciociaria and a favorite tradition of Rome in the Carnival and vintage festivities of Monte Testaccio. After witnessing the Roman Carnival of 1831, the German composer Felix Mendelssohn incorporated the dance into the finale of one of his masterpieces, the Italian Symphony. The only example of a saltarello in the North is \"saltarello romagnolo\" of Romagna.\n\nThe saltarello is still a popular folk dance played in the regions of southern-central Italy, such as Abruzzo, Molise (but in these two regions the name is feminine: \"Saltarella\"), Lazio and Marche. The dance is usually performed on the zampogna bagpipe or on the organetto, a type of diatonic button accordion, and is accompanied by a tambourine.\n\nThe principal source for the medieval Italian saltarello is the Tuscan manuscript Add MS 29987, dating from the late 14th or early 15th century and now in the British Library. The musical form of these four early saltarelli is the same as the estampie. However, they are in different metres: two are transcribed in , one in , and one in . Because no choreographies survive from before the 1430s, it is doubtful whether these four dances have any relationship to later saltarellos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154886", "title": "Jipapad, Eastern Samar", "text": "Jipapad, Eastern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nJipapad is politically subdivided into 13 barangays.\n\n\nThe population of Jipapad in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154887", "title": "Lawaan, Eastern Samar", "text": "Lawaan, Eastern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAn enterprising young couple by the names of Juan (Guingot) Gabrillo and his wife Etifania Halbay, together with their children, set sail one day in a small sailboat from Guiuan, in search of a greener pasture of an ideal place to settle. On their westward journey along the wooded coastline of Southern Samar, they reached a small island known as “Monbon” which was bordering the mouth of what is now the Lawa-an river. It was just in time to see that a severe storm was brewing from the western horizon. They decided to move inland, hastening towards the coastal jungle in their immediate front, to seek shelter behind the trunk of a towering tree which was clearly visible from the sea. It was behind that great tree that the frantic family was divinely protected from the roaring fury of the storm and a dire calamity was happily averted. When the typhoon subsided the next day the couple noticed that another tree of the same height and stature was also growing on the opposite bank of the river, twin sister to that of the other side - both so majestic and impressive in appearance, such that the branches up above completely overshadowed the river in-between.\n\nAfter a hasty and meager breakfast of hot porridge, the small family looked askance of their surroundings and was deeply impressed by their new environment. The jungle growth even along the seashore bespoke fertility of the soil; the abundance of rattan and “hagnaya” vines was easy source of income and the shallow sea beside them was teeming with marine life of all kinds. All these offered suggestions that the place was ideal haven for habitation. So they abandoned their journey westward, instead, started building a makeshift hut at the foot of the same Lawa-an tree where they took refuge, at the same time, collecting whatever few belongings they could salvage from the wreckage of their boat. The days and weeks that followed were a series of trips inland by Juan Guingot - to cut rattan and hagnaya vines hereabouts or, perchance, he might find some edible fruits or root-crops nearby. Still further, he found unmistakable signs that the area was infested with wild life. The presence of these predators posed quite a problem to his intended plan of growing a vegetable farm; nevertheless, Guingot presently started his clearing (caingin) and the making of traps to capture some wild hogs or monkeys for food.\n\nAs was predictable in situations like this, Guingot reconstructed his sailboat, loaded it with rattan and hagnaya vines and sailed back to Guiuan where he sold his cargoes, telling the people and his friends along the way how he, with his family, was overtaken by a dreadful storm and escaped disaster behind the trunk of a giant Lawa-an tree. He emphasized to them the bright prospect of settling in the area partly as a token of gratitude and reverence to that haven of refuge - the enormous trunks of the twin Lawa-an trees; but most importantly, that the surrounding area was abundant and ideal for habitation. “Mamatay lak О-toy”, Juan Guingot would excitedly employ the slang and flavor of the Guiuan vernacular, “mamatay lak, dadi okoy ha Lawa-an (naming the place Lawa-an for the first time), ayaw pag-alang. Di ka mawawara hit doro-ongan kay kita gud iton hita-as nga kahoy ha dagat.” (Boy, when I die, stay here in Lawa-an, don’t hesitate. You will never get lost of the loading dock because the tall trees can be seen from the sea.) Indeed, there was no other point of reference more appealing to the settlers this outstanding landmark conspicuous from the sea.\n\nThat was how the present town of Lawa-an at first received its name. Ironically, five wide centuries have come and gone; people have lived and died along with generations in accordance with the short span of human life, but the name “LAWA-AN”, a former barrio of Balangiga, province of Eastern Samar, has remained, to this day, unchanged.\n\nThe town is strategically located in the central part of southern Samar Island. It is sandwiched between the town of Balangiga in the east and Marabut, Samar in the west. Barangay Bolusao, the town's largest settlement located right at the east-west Samar boundary, serves as the premier barangay of Eastern Samar for those people coming from Tacloban City or Province of Samar traversing Samar Circumferencial Road. Hence, being dubbed as 'The Gateway to Eastern Samar'.\n\nLawaan is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\nThe population of Lawaan in the was people, with a density of .\n\nLawaan's main product is copra. Many families rely on coastal and deep-sea fishing as well as lowland and upland farming as means of livelihood. Others have spouses, children, parents or other relatives working in Tacloban City, Metro Manila or in other places within the Philippines or abroad either as professionals, contract workers or domestic helpers who regularly remit part of their earnings to their families back home. The single biggest employer of its local populace is the government.\n\nLawaan is known for its spectacular waterfalls and thriving wildlife. Being a coastal town, it features an unobstructed amazing view of Leyte Gulf in its southern shores.\n\nThere are four waterfalls in the Bolusao watershed which lies within the SINP Buffer Zone. These falls are Amandaraga, Pange, Amanjuray, and Ban-Awan Falls. Amandaraga and Ban-awan Falls are the main source of the municipality's water system. Meanwhile, Amanjuray Falls is the alternate hydro-electric power source of Lawaan wherein a mini-hydro power plant is existent nearby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154888", "title": "Llorente, Eastern Samar", "text": "Llorente, Eastern Samar\n\n' (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality was named after Julio Aballe Llorente (1863–1940), a Cebuano Politician who was instrumental in the establishment of the American Government in Cebu. He was the 1st Governor of Cebu, who once became a Governor of Samar in the early 1900s.\n\nLlorente is politically subdivided into 33 barangays. \nThe population of Llorente in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154889", "title": "Maslog, Eastern Samar", "text": "Maslog, Eastern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMaslog is politically subdivided into 12 barangays.\n\n\nThe population of Maslog in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154890", "title": "Merv Wallace", "text": "Merv Wallace\n\nWalter Mervyn Wallace (19 December 1916 – 21 March 2008), known as Merv Wallace, was a New Zealand cricketer and former Test match captain.\n\nFormer New Zealand captain John Reid called him \"the most under-rated cricketer to have worn the silver fern.\" He was nicknamed \"Flip\" by his teammates, because that was the strongest expletive they ever heard him say.\n\nWallace was born in Grey Lynn, Auckland. He left school aged 13, and was coached at Eden Park by Ted Bowley and Jim Parks. He played cricket with his brother, George Wallace, with the Point Chevalier Cricket Club, and then the Auckland under-20 side.\n\nHe made his first-class debut for Auckland in the Plunket Shield in December 1933. He toured to England in 1937, in a team weakened by a policy of refusing to select professional cricketers. He scored two half-centuries (52 and 56) on his Test debut, at Lord's. He headed the tour batting averages, scoring 1,641 runs at an average of 41.02. The peak years of his cricketing career were lost to the Second World War, and he did not play Test cricket again until March 1946.\n\nHe scored 211, his highest first-class score, against Canterbury in January 1940, making his runs in 292 minutes. He joined the New Zealand Expeditionary Force, but was invalided out due to stomach muscle problems caused by an appendix operation.\n\nHe played in New Zealand's first Test against Australia, in Wellington in March 1946, which Australia won by an innings within two days. He also played against the English tourists in 1947. He joined the four-Test tour to England in 1949 as vice-captain to Walter Hadlee. He scored 1,722 first-class runs at an average of 49.20, including centuries against Yorkshire, Worcester, Leicester, Cambridge University and Glamorgan. He scored 910 runs before the end of May, narrowly failing to join Donald Bradman (twice) and Glenn Turner as the only touring batsmen to pass 1,000 runs before the end of May. He was less successful in the Tests.\n\nHe made his Test best score of 66 against England at Christchurch in 1951, and played his last two Tests as captain against the touring South Africans in 1953. Short but quick, he was able to score all round the wicket, with a particularly notable cover drive. His Test batting average of 20.90 was widely considered to fail to reflect his batting abilities.\n\nWallace began coaching in his early twenties, when he was employed by the Auckland sporting gods store Wisemans to coach in schools. He continued to coach at school and club level for most of his life. During the 1949 tour of England he acted as unofficial team coach.\n\nWallace was the official coach of New Zealand's first victorious Test team, against the West Indies at Eden Park in 1956. He was retained for the series against the Australian team in 1956-57. Afterwards, however, his coaching prowess was overlooked by the New Zealand administrators. \n\nJohn Reid, the captain of the unsuccessful touring team to England in 1958, said it was a mistake not to include Wallace as player-coach in the team: \"Our 1958 team was desperately short of experience and technical expertise. In those circumstances, Merv would have been a priceless asset.\" \n\nWallace ran a sports shop in Auckland with tennis player Bill Webb from 1947 to 1982. The Wallace & Webb Ltd shop included a tea room, so the many sportsmen who dropped in could stay for advice or a chat and could bring their wives or children. It became a popular meeting place for sporting people.\n\nIn the 2004 Queen's Birthday Honours, Wallace was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to cricket. He was awarded the Bert Sutcliffe Medal in 2005.\n\nMerv Wallace married Yvonne (\"Vonnie\") Page in Auckland on 10 March 1948 – a Wednesday, so that their friends, most of whom were cricketers and busy on Saturdays, could attend. His brother, George Wallace, and son, Gregory Wallace, both played first-class cricket for Auckland. His daughter, Adele, married rugby union player Grant Fox; one of their children is the golfer Ryan Fox.\n\nA biography, \"Merv Wallace: A Cricket Master\" by Joseph Romanos, was published in 2000.\n\nWallace suffered from diabetes in later life, becoming blind and losing several toes. He died in Auckland on Good Friday in 2008. As a mark of respect, the New Zealand team playing England in the Third Test at McLean Park in Napier wore black armbands on Saturday 22 March.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154891", "title": "Maydolong", "text": "Maydolong\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThere are two stories about the naming of Maydolong. Officially accepted by the Sangguniang Bayan is the story of a fisherman who used to travel to the village of Matnog. Because they needed to rest from their travel along the east coast of Samar, these fisherman used to say \"\"Matnog it Dolong\"\" which means \"the bow must point to Matnog\" in the local dialect. This saying got shortened to Maydolong, which eventually became the name of the village.\n\nMaydolong comprised barrios Maydolong, Balogo, Maybocog, Omawas, Tagaslian, Kampakirit, Suribao, Mayburak, Kanmanungdong, Malobago, Tabi, Maytigbao, and Kanluterio, which used to belong to the Municipality of Borongan, Eastern Samar.\n\nMaydolong is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\n\nThe population of Maydolong in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154892", "title": "Mercedes, Eastern Samar", "text": "Mercedes, Eastern Samar\n\n', (IPA: ]; , ), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAct No. 960 of the Philippine Commission incorporated the town of Mercedes comprising the barrios of Busay, Anoron, Sungan, Bobon, Banoyo and Boyayawon into Guiuan. In 1948, Republic Act No. 262 recreated the town.\n\nMercedes is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\nThe population of Mercedes, Eastern Samar, in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154893", "title": "Oras, Eastern Samar", "text": "Oras, Eastern Samar\n\n' (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn 1948, Oras was created from the barrios of San Policarpo, Bahay, Alugan, Pangpang, Japonan, Tabo, Binogawan and Cajag-wayan, which used to belong to this town. The territory of the town was further reduced two years later, when Arteche was created from the barrios of San Ramon, Carapdapan, Beri, Tangbo, Catumsan, Bego, Concepcion, Casidman, Tawagan, and Tibalawon.\n\nIn 1952, the sitios of Trinidad, Tula, Pota, Palao, Sinalo-an, Tamse-on, Cagmalobago, and Maycorot, in the barrio of Agsam, were separated from said barrio and created into the barrio of Trinidad. In the same year, Santa Monica was transferred to the town of San Policarpo.\n\nOras is politically subdivided into 42 barangays.\n\nThe population of Oras in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154895", "title": "Quinapondan", "text": "Quinapondan\n\n' (IPA: ]), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nQuinapondan is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\nThe population of Quinapondan in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154896", "title": "Salcedo, Eastern Samar", "text": "Salcedo, Eastern Samar\n\n' (IPA: ]; , ), officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn 1959, the sitio of Balud was converted into a barrio.\n\nSalcedo is politically subdivided into 41 barangays.\n\nThe population of Salcedo, Eastern Samar, in the was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2154897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154897", "title": "San Policarpo, Eastern Samar", "text": "San Policarpo, Eastern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn the north-west, it is bounded by Arteche, in the north-east by the vast Pacific Ocean and in the south by Oras. \n\nSan Policarpo was established as a barrio in 1837. The Municipality of San Policarpo was created from the barrios of San Policarpo, Bahay, Alugan, Pangpang, Japonan, Tabo, Binogawan and Cajagwayan of the municipality of Oras in 1948 under Republic Act No. 281 and inaugurated on February 5, 1949. In 1952, the barrio of Santa Monica was transferred from Oras to San Policarpo.\n\nThe town was formerly named \"Bunga\", derived from the plant called \"bunga\" which was very abundant in the present site of the town. \"\"Bunga\"\" means fruit, thus the name indicates the fruit of the toils of its founders.\n\nSan Policarpo is politically subdivided into 17 barangays.\n\nThe population of San Policarpo, Eastern Samar, in the was people, with a density of .\n\nThe local economy of San Policarpio, one of the country's poorest towns, is dependent on fishing and farming.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154898", "title": "Sulat, Eastern Samar", "text": "Sulat, Eastern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSulat is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\nThe population of Sulat in the was people, with a density of .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154899", "title": "Taft, Eastern Samar", "text": "Taft, Eastern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is bounded on the north by the town of Can-avid and on the south-southeast by the town of Sulat.\n\nThe municipality was named in honor of former United States President William Howard Taft, who served as Governor-General of the Philippines during the first decade of the 20th century.\n\nTaft is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\nTaft is one of the ancient \"pueblos\" in Samar situated in the eastern coast which was called Tubabao or Tubabaw in early times. This town was originally named after the river called Malinaw, but since the river causes heavy floods during rainy season, people began calling the place Tubig, which means water in Waray-Waray.\n\nThe population of Taft, Eastern Samar, in the was people, with a density of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154902", "title": "Natalia Cigliuti", "text": "Natalia Cigliuti\n\nNatalia Cigliuti (born September 6, 1978) is an Uruguayan-American actress, best known for her roles as Lindsay Warner on \"\" and as Anita Santos Warner on \"All My Children\".\n\nCigliuti was born in Montevideo, Uruguay. She spent her childhood years in South America until her family moved to New York. She started her acting career at the age of 14 after a local talent agency discovered her at a fashion show. At the age of 15, Cigliuti landed her first series, playing the role of Lindsay Warner on \"\". This led to other television work, including a starring role on \"Pacific Palisades\", \"Beverly Hills, 90210\", \"Odd Man Out\", \"The Random Years\" and numerous guest star appearances on programs such as \"\".\n\nCigliuti joined the cast of the \"All My Children\" in February 2004, playing the role of Anita Santos. In March 2006, she was let go from \"AMC\" after only two years due to declining story lines. She was taken off the show officially on April 12. Cigliuti appeared in the TNT series \"Raising the Bar\" as Roberta \"Bobbi\" Gilardi. She had a recurring role as Detective Sam Harper on the A&E's \"The Glades\" in 2011.\n\nCigliuti married Rob Rizzo in 2004 but in 2013 it was revealed that they had since divorced. They have one child. She married actor Matt Passmore on January 3, 2016.\n\n2020 Deputy \n\n"}
{"id": "2154904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154904", "title": "Sunnyside, Toronto", "text": "Sunnyside, Toronto\n\nSunnyside is a lakefront district in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It includes a beach and park area along Lake Ontario's Humber Bay, from west of Exhibition Place to the mouth of the Humber River. The area has several recreation uses, including rowing clubs, sports clubs, picnic areas, playgrounds, a nightclub, a bathing pavilion and public pool. The area is a long strip along the lakeshore, bounded by the Gardiner Expressway and rail lines, which separate it from the Parkdale, Roncesvalles and Swansea neighbourhoods to the north. The name originates in a local farm owned by John Howard, which was situated just to the north, on the location of the current St. Joseph's Health Centre hospital.\n\nThe area is first noted in Toronto history as the location of the landing of an 1813 attack in the War of 1812. As Toronto grew, High Park preserved the open space to the north, while the Sunnyside area along the lake was taken over by new rail lines and a hydro-electric line serving Toronto, although the area remained popular for boating and swimming. By 1900, there were calls to clean up the area and in the 1910s, the area was the site of a massive waterfront reclamation public works project which expanding the land area by , provided a breakwater for boating and built several beaches. Its popularity grew as a summertime recreation area and from 1922 to 1955, the reclaimed land was home to the popular Sunnyside Amusement Park which ran every summer. The amusement park was demolished to facilitate the building of the expressway, leaving behind several shoreline recreation uses from the era of the park, including the pool, the beaches and the sports clubs, all of which remain popular and well-used each summer.\n\nThe area is within the traditional lands of several First Nations. An archeological find early in the 1900s near High Park found evidence of an indigenous burial mound similar to those of the Red Paint People dating back over 2,000 years. The Wendat were known to move within the Toronto area, until the Iroquois displaced them. The remains of several First Nation villages have been found in Toronto, attributed to the Wendat and the Iroquois.\n\nIn 1615, it is believed that French explorer Étienne Brûlé was the first European to visit the area. His party first passed through Teiaiagon, an Iroquoian village situated at the site of modern-day Baby Point. Teiaigon was located along the Toronto Carrying-Place Trail, a portage route that extended from approximately the area of today's Sunnyside Pavilion north to the Lake Simcoe area. Part of the trail is presumed to be along the route of today's \"Indian Road\", to the east of High Park. The Teiaiagon site was abandoned by the Iroquois, who were displaced by the Mississauga.\n\nThe first European settlement of the area originated in 1750 with the founding of Fort Rouillé by the French on today's Canadian National Exhibition (CNE) grounds. During the Seven Years' War, the French destroyed the fort in July 1759 to prevent it falling into the hands of the British. Its foundations were excavated in the 1980s.\n\nIn the War of 1812, American troops attacked the then-town of York. The troops arrived by water and landed on the Sunnyside waterfront east of Roncesvalles. The troops attacked Fort York to the east the next morning and looted the town. The looting of York led to a retaliatory raid on, and looting of Washington, D.C., burning the White House.\n\nEuropean settlement came in the early 19th century. Land grants were given in the area of Swansea, High Park and east of High Park. Colborne Lodge, located within High Park, just north of the lake and owned by John Howard was built in 1837.\n\nIn the 1850s, the Great Western Railway built the first rail line along the waterfront, between High Park and the waterfront. At first, the rail line was built at ground level with level crossings and was not a physical barrier. Starting just east of Roncesvalles the rails used to rise the hill to the level of today's Springhurst Avenue to the South Parkdale railway station. A major change came with the 'Parkdale Grade Separation Project'. The rail lines along the waterfront were evened up to a level grade along the waterfront, with a large digging project from Dowling to east of Dufferin. The hill necessitated that trains travel at full throttle to climb the hill, a factor in an 1870s train collision. In 1910, the station was relocated to the foot of Roncesvalles and named Sunnyside. The rail lines were widened and elevated above the shoreline from Sunnyside station west to the Humber, taking more of the waterfront area, nearly to the shoreline. This necessitated the removal of a level crossing between Queen Street and Lakeshore Road and a bridge over the tracks was built, with subways at several road intersections.\n\nThe first lakeshore road, a toll road along the waterfront, was built in the 19th century, prior to the incorporation of Parkdale. The Village of Parkdale extended King Street to its intersection at Queen Street to bypass the toll road. A road connection was built from the intersection of Roncesvalles, King and Queen Streets to the lakeshore road on or about 1900, giving access to trams to deliver visitors to High Park. There was a level crossing of the tracks south of today's St. Joseph's Hospital. The bridge over the tracks was completed in July 1914 and the level crossing closed. The trams then followed the new route across the bridge to King and Queen.\n\nThe crossing was the location where a busker, Charlie Soley, performed for many years to those passing to High Park. Less than tall, and weighing , he had a grey beard and wore a cabbage leaf to cover his head from the sun. Soley played fiddle music on the violin and his death was front-page news in 1916, when he died at the age of 54 from bronchitis.\n\nAlong the south side of the lakeshore road, commercial uses such as Dean's Boat House (a boat factory) and Meyer's Hotel were built on or around 1900. The Parkdale Canoe Club, today's Boulevard Club was inaugurated in 1905. With the coming of hydro-electric power from Niagara Falls hydro-electric lines and towers were erected along the waterfront. The area to the south of the rail lines was narrow, but as the Parkdale area grew in population, the foot of Roncesvalles became a popular swimming area. A series of changing booths was built in 1911 along the waterfront for bathers. A slide was built alongside the new bridge to the lake for swimmers. In 1916, the City started providing free streetcar service to take children to bathe at Sunnyside.\n\nBy this time very little lands were left along the waterfront, and the lands were used for buildings on piers, rail lines, road ways, hydro towers and temporary changing booths for bathers. The general sentiment was that the lakeshore was in a dismal state. Thomas Joseph Stewart, a federal MP in 1913, remarked that Sunnyside was a \"dirty, filthy hole.\" In 1914, the Toronto Harbour Commission started a million ($ in dollars) project to improve the waterfront from Ashbridge's Bay in the east, to the Humber in the west. Following this plan, most of the 1910s and early 1920s was spent on construction and most of the waterfront lands were little used. All of the buildings on the water west of Roncesvalles were demolished. The Commission extended the shoreline about to the south, from Wilson Park Road to the Humber River (the western boundary of Toronto at the time), using landfill brought from Pickering, Ontario and sand dredged from the lake bottom. The hydro-electric lines and the Canoe Club building, previously located on the water, were now inland.\n\nThe new lands were divided between roadway expansions and park land. The shoreline itself was converted to beach along most of the length. A 'breakwater' would serve to create a protected waterway along the shore from the Humber to Bathurst Street. Lakeshore Road, now connected to King and Queen by bridge, was widened to four lanes from the Humber to the Jameson Avenue area.\n\nThe Harbour Commission made waterfront land available for lease and several of the waterfront businesses returned. Dean's Boat House would be rebuilt in the eventual Palais Royale building. The location of Meyer's Hotel became the site of the Sunnyside Pavilion Restaurant. The new Beach and its Bathing Pavilion would open in 1922.\n\nThe Beach grew in popularity and the Harbour Commission leased land for rides on a temporary basis, eventually leading to the construction of the Sunnyside Amusement Park in 1922 and its permanently located rides. The Park's popularity grew, leading to more rides, night clubs and outdoor bandshells. Dean's Boat House was converted fully into the Palais Royale night club, the Sunnyside Pavilion into the Top Hat night club. The Sunnyside Pool (known also as the \"Tank\") was opened in 1925. Events such as ship burnings, tight-rope walkers and outdoor concerts made the Park a popular spot into the 1950s. Ambitious plans were planned to build a massive \"Palace Pier\" amusement area on a pier at the Humber River, although only a dance hall was ever built.\n\nIn 1954, Marilyn Bell a 16-year-old marathon swimmer from Toronto became the first swimmer to swim across Lake Ontario. Her arrival at the foot of Roncesvalles was greeted by an estimated crowd of 300,000. She had joined a swim challenge sponsored by the CNE for another swimmer and was the only one of the three that attempted it to finish. Marilyn Bell Park at the foot of Jameson Avenue is dedicated in her honour.\n\nAs suburbs to the west were built, and the Queen Elizabeth Way (QEW) to Fort Erie was built, the Lakeshore Road became very busy with traffic. The QEW eastern terminus connected with the existing Lakeshore Road at the Humber, meaning that travellers from points west would have to travel through Sunnyside to get to Queen Street to get to central Toronto. Transportation engineers studied the problem beginning in the 1940s. Plans were discussed with various routes for a highway along the lakeshore or as far north as Bloor Street. While the Amusement Park was popular, there was considerable opposition to its demolition. However, its popularity started to decline in the 1950s.\n\nWhen the new \"Metro\" government of Toronto was formed in 1953, one of its first priorities was to build the Lakeshore Expressway, connecting the Queen Elizabeth Way to downtown Toronto in partnership with the provincial government. Under the leadership of Fred Gardiner, the project, which necessitated the demolition of the Park and a waterfront neighbourhood south of Jameson Avenue to the east, was pushed through, starting in 1955. The Toronto Harbour Commission cancelled all land leases in the area after some off-season fires and demolished all but the Palais Royale and the Sunnyside Bathing Pavilion and Pool. The highway required most of the Amusement Parklands along the railway right-of-way and the Lakeshore to Queen Street bridge was demolished. Where the road link from King, Queen and Roncesvalles existed, a narrow, high pedestrian bridge over all of the roads was built to link the foot of Roncesvalles to the waterfront.\n\nAt the same time, other roadways were built or expanded, including the new Queensway, with a dedicated streetcar right-of-way to the north, using some of the High Park lands on the north side of the railway right-of-way. The Lake Shore Boulevard was doubled in width to six lanes and redesigned into a 'scenic drive' style with the two directions separated by a grassy boulevard with no facilities for pedestrians. Today, a majority of the lands are given over to transportation uses.\n\nWhat was left was converted to parklands, eventually subdivided into Budapest Park and Gzowski Park. Two children playgrounds were built and numerous trees were planted. In the 1960s, the parklands were transferred from the Harbour Commission to the City of Toronto government. While a small children's amusement park next to the Palais Royale on the waterfront was attempted in the 1960s, the amusement park idea was finally abandoned for good and the Centreville Amusement Park was built on the Toronto Islands.\n\nThe area north of the rail lines is no longer a connecting point for different modes of transportation. Sunnyside railway station closed in 1971 and the Sunnyside Bus Terminal, which handled intercity coach traffic, closed in 1990. The changes in traffic patterns and the closing of the amusement park also affected businesses in the Queen and Roncesvalles area, leading to much upheaval.\n\nThe changes in the area led to a decline in its usage. Increasing pollution of Lake Ontario also led to a decline in use of the waterfront for swimming. The boardwalk was removed. This changed in the 1970s, when local environmental groups organized regular clean-ups of the waterfront, removing trash from the lakeshore. Interest in cleaning the water to allow swimming in the Lake again was raised. The Bathing Pavilion was renovated in 1980 and its cafe became a popular local spot to enjoy the waterfront. A pedestrian bridge was built at the foot of Jameson Avenue, restoring a link to the waterfront that had been lost in the demolition of the waterfront neighbourhood. In the 1990s, the Martin Goodman Trail for cyclists was inaugurated, including a pedestrian bridge over the Humber. A new boardwalk was built out of recycled plastic planks along the water.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, there has been renewed local political interest in the waterfront. Neighbourhood associations raised concerns about private land usage including proposals to lease more waterfront by the Boulevard Club and other organizations. Concerns were raised about the Palais Royale renovation and subsequent parking lot development. The building of the Gardiner and the road expansions effectively put a barrier between the neighbourhoods and the waterfront, and this remains unresolved.\n\nIn the 2010s, Dowling Avenue's connection to Lake Shore Boulevard was closed. The Dowling Avenue bridge over the Gardiner was demolished. The bridge was replaced with a pedestrian bridge to give another connection from Parkdale to the waterfront.\n\nThe Sunnyside Bathing Pavilion was renovated in 1980 and now houses a cafe with patio on the boardwalk and a tea garden. The beach to the south of the pavilion now hosts beach volleyball. The Pavilion and surrounding park hosts regular multicultural events and a Canada Day celebration. The pool was rededicated as the 'Gus Ryder Pool', named after the founder and coach of the Lakeshore Swim Club of New Toronto. At the foot of Roncesvalles, the former nightclub Palais Royale is operated on a special events rental basis.\n\nIn 1964, to commemorate the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the parklands between the Palais Royale and the Sunnyside Pavilion were named Budapest Park. The area has a major monument to the conflict, picnic lands, a children's playground and wading pool.\n\nA boardwalk existed in the 20th century. A new boardwalk was built in the 1910s by the Harbour Commission, in the Amusement Park area. In the 1930s, the boardwalk was re-constructed as a make-work project and extended from the Humber to Jameson Avenue to the east. This was eventually removed in the 1960s. In the 1990s, a new boardwalk, constructed of planks of recycled plastic was built along the shore from the foot of Roncesvalles west to the Humber River. The route of the boardwalk was changed to be closer to the water. Along the path of the old boardwalk, the Martin Goodman Trail recreational pathway path has been constructed. These meet at the Humber River mouth where the Humber Bay Arch Bridge was constructed to cross the Humber River to lakeshore parks to the west of the river.\n\nSunnyside's western section, from the Humber River to west of the Bathing Pavilion is named in honour of Casimir Gzowski, a pioneer engineer in the building of railways in Canada. The park houses a monument built in the 1960s that has displays of his personal history. The park contains a children's playground and picnicking areas, a food concession stand a stormwater catchment pond, and a leash-free dog area. At the western end of Gzowski Park is the Queen Elizabeth Way Monument, relocated from its location between the east and west lanes of the then Queen Elizabeth Way, which had its starting point from the Humber River. The monument was relocated to the park and rededicated by Queen Elizabeth in 1989. The park is now the site of another relocation, a Joy Oil heritage gas station from the 1930s. It has been moved from its original location north of Lake Shore Boulevard to the south side at the intersection with Ellis Avenue.\n\nA small parkette located east of The Boulevard Club with a small beach\n\nThe \"Sunnyside Bike Park\" is a recreational bicycling facility providing legal dirt biking activities in the area. It is situated on the land north of Lake Shore Boulevard between Ellis Avenue and Colborne Lodge Drive, west of the storm water pond. It has several different sections: a skills zone, pump tracks, jump lines and a \"drop and wall ride\". The park opened in July 2014.\n\nA small dog friendly park located to the east of the mouth of the Humber River.\n\nA protected waterway from Ontario Place to the Humber River exists behind the 1912 breakwater along the full length. In 2006, a special watercourse was built at the foot of Jameson Avenue at Marilyn Bell Park for a Dragon Boat Championships. At 600 metres, it is too short for other boating races and may be extended to 1300 metres in length.\n\nThe waters of Humber Bay are popular for boating. Several canoe, rowing and dragon boating clubs exist. The Boulevard Club, the former Parkdale Canoe Club operates a large facility to the east of Roncesvalles Avenue with a marina and tennis courts. The Argonaut Rowing Club is headquartered at the foot of Dowling Avenue on the waterfront and trains in the area.\n\nThere are several beaches along the Sunnyside waterfront. A small beach exists to the east of the Boulevard Club. At its easternmost point, a small area of the original bluff still exists. This is the last vestige of the original shoreline in the area.\n\nThe main beach is located to the south of the Bathing Pavilion. There is room for several courts of beach volleyball. Paddleboards are available for rental here. A dragon boat club exists at the site. The water is safe for swimming, except after major rainfalls, when swimming is closed for several days due to high bacteria counts attributed to run-off into the Humber River. The beach is open for swimming most of the summer, although Lake Ontario's water temperature does not rise above 25 degrees Celsius.\n\nThe water at the beach was long considered too polluted for swimming, but efforts are being made to reduce pollution further. A major tunnel was built to contain most of the storm water that was polluting the river, diverting the water to wastewater treatment. Two storm water management ponds were built north of Lake Shore Boulevard West in 2007. Water conditions are indicated by flags posted along the beach.\n\nIn 2012, the City of Toronto water department proposed using landfill from soil excavated during the construction of the Eglinton Crosstown LRT to construct a chain of artificial islands near the mouth of the Humber River to divert its flow away from the beach.\nHeavy rains can flush pollutants down the river, temporarily making the beaches near its mouth unsafe for swimming. The proposed Humber Islands would extend approximately one kilometre off shore, and would be connected by an underwater berm, directing the river's flow into deep water.\n\nThe City of Toronto government City Council has commissioned a study of this area of the waterfront entitled the \"Western Waterfront Public Consultation\". Plans include the realignment of Lake Shore Boulevard West to free up space for pedestrian, recreational and cycling uses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154914", "title": "Whiteface Mountain", "text": "Whiteface Mountain\n\nWhiteface Mountain is the fifth-highest mountain in the U.S. state of New York, and one of the High Peaks of the Adirondack Mountains. Set apart from most of the other High Peaks, the summit offers a 360-degree view of the Adirondacks and clear-day glimpses of Vermont and even Canada, where the skyscrapers of Montreal, away, can be seen on a very clear day. Located in the town of Wilmington, about from Lake Placid, the mountain's east slope is home to a major ski area which hosted the alpine skiing competitions of the 1980 Winter Olympics. Unique among the High Peaks, Whiteface features a developed summit and seasonal accessibility by motor vehicle. Whiteface Memorial Highway reaches a parking area at an elevation of , with the remaining being obtained by tunnel and elevator.\n\nConceived and initiated prior to the Great Depression, Whiteface Castle and the Whiteface Mountain Veterans Memorial Highway were funded entirely by the state of New York, though the timing of the project led to a widespread belief that they were Depression-era public works projects arising from the New Deal. Construction on the toll road began in 1929, after passage of a necessary amendment to the state constitution, with a groundbreaking ceremony featuring then-New York State Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt. Eventually costing 1.2 million dollars ( million in dollars) and ending vertically within of the summit the roadway is long and features an impressively steep 8% average grade. Officially opened July 20, 1935, in a ceremony featuring Roosevelt, by then President, the highway was dedicated to veterans of the Great War. The Highway is usually open to vehicles from May to October.\n\nWhiteface Castle, built with granite excavated during the road construction, dominates the summit area. From the adjacent parking lot there are two routes to the summit proper. The first route is the Stairway Ridge Trail, a footpath with handrails and intermittent cement and stone steps approximately long. The second is a long tunnel into the core of the mountain. At the end of the tunnel is an elevator, which rises , approximately 27 stories, to the summit.\n\nWhiteface was part of the post-World War II growth in recreational skiing attributed to the efforts of returning veterans of the U.S. Army's 10th Mountain Division. It is a major ski area, run by the Olympic Regional Development Authority. Known for its big-mountain skiing, Whiteface is consistently ranked as one of the top ski resorts in the Northeast. It was a prime venue of the 1980 Winter Olympics, hosting all six of the alpine ski events. Whiteface regularly hosts major alpine ski events, such as the US Alpine Skiing Championships, most recently in 2010, and is a U.S. Olympic Training Site.\n\nWhiteface's highest lift unloads at , a vertical drop of to the base area at . Its hike-to terrain, \"The Slides,\" is higher at , providing Whiteface with the greatest continuous vertical drop in eastern North America at . Its neighbor, Little Whiteface, tops in elevation at . Whiteface has a total of of ski terrain, spread out over 88 trails. of skiing area includes 35 in-bounds, off-piste double-black diamond wilderness terrain skiing on \"The Slides\" (conditions permitting), of tree skiing, of expert extreme adventure terrain. The Slides is an unmaintained wilderness area that is rarely open due to safety hazards. They can only be accessed by hiking from the top of the Summit Quad. Whiteface has a separate area for beginners known as Bear Den Mountain (formerly Kids Kampus).\n\nIn recent years there have been major improvements in snowmaking and grooming. Whiteface contains 88 trails accessible by one gondola, nine chairlifts, and one conveyor lift. Some 98% of the trails are covered by snowmaking, excluding the glades and the Slides. The Slides are double-black diamond runs that are usually only open at the end of the skiing season due to avalanche danger. They are between 35 and 40 degrees with high natural hazards (such as waterfalls, rocks, cliffs, trees, and variable conditions) vertically for over . The Slides are considered to be one of the most challenging ski slopes that are marked on a trail map in the Northeast.\n\nIn summer, Whiteface Mountain offers gondola rides and mountain biking.\n\nWhiteface Mountain has a subarctic climate (Dfc) according to the Köppen climate classification, with very cold, snowy winters and mild summers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154922", "title": "New Zealand women's national cricket team", "text": "New Zealand women's national cricket team\n\nThe New Zealand women's national cricket team, nicknamed the White Ferns, represents New Zealand in international women's cricket. One of eight teams competing in the ICC Women's Championship (the highest level of international women's cricket), the team is organised by New Zealand Cricket, a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC).\n\nNew Zealand made its Test debut in 1935, against England, becoming the third team to play at that level. With Australia and England, New Zealand is one of only three teams to have participated in all ten editions of the Women's Cricket World Cup. The team has made the final of the tournament on four occasions, winning in 2000 and placing second in 1993, 1997, and 2009. At the Women's World Twenty20, New Zealand were runners-up in 2009 and 2010, but are yet to win the event.\n\nThe following list of players are named in the squad for ICC Women's T20 World Cup 2020:-\n\nOther notable players who also featured in recent WODI and WT20I matches for New Zealand:-\n\nHead Coach: Robert Carter<br>\nAssistant Coaches: Matthew Bell, Jacob Oram<br>\nPhysiotherapist: Helen Littleworth\n\nMedia Correspondent: Willy Nicholls\n\nInternational Match Summary — New Zealand Women\n\n\nMost Test runs for New Zealand Women \n\nMost Test wickets for New Zealand Women \n\nHighest individual innings in Women's Test\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in Women's Test\n\nWomen's Test record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to Women's Test #123. Last updated 24 August 2004.\"\n\n\nMost WODI runs for New Zealand Women \n\nMost WODI wickets for New Zealand Women \n\nHighest individual innings in Women's ODI\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in Women's ODI\n\nWODI record versus other nations\n\n\"Last updated 30 January 2020.\"\n\n\nMost WT20I runs for New Zealand Women\n\nMost WT20I wickets for New Zealand Women\n\nHighest individual innings in Women's T20I\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in Women's T20I\n\nWT20I record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to WT20I #858. Last updated 2 March 2020.\"\n\n\"Note: New Zealand Women lost a Super Over against Australia Women and won a Super Over against West Indies Women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154927", "title": "One Song a Day Takes Mischief Away", "text": "One Song a Day Takes Mischief Away\n\nOne Song a Day Takes Mischief Away is a 1970 Croatian comedy/drama film. Its original title is Tko pjeva zlo ne misli, which means \"He Who Sings Means No Harm\". Directed by Krešo Golik and based on a novella by Vjekoslav Majer, the film achieved considerable critical and commercial success at the time of its release. In 1999, a poll of Croatian film critics found it to be the best Croatian film ever made.\n\nSet in mid-1930s in Zagreb, the story is seen through the eyes of 6-year-old Perica Šafranek (played by Tomislav Žganec). A dandy from Zagreb, Mr Fulir (played by Relja Bašić), starts flirting with Perica's mother during a family picnic and wants to marry off Perica's aunt because of her money. At first, Perica's father doesn't notice anything and invites Fulir to their residence, but after multiple rendezvous, he becomes aware of Fulir's attempts to seduce his wife.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154931", "title": "Gold Spot", "text": "Gold Spot\n\nGold Spot was one of the three brands of carbonated soft drink started in India by Parle Bisleri under the initiative of its founder Ramesh Chauhan in 1977 after the exit of Coca-Cola and PepsiCo from the Indian market. Gold Spot was introduced along with Thums Up and Limca. \n\nIt was artificially flavoured and coloured orange. Parle sold Gold Spot along with Thums Up, Limca, Citra and Maaza to Coca-Cola in 1993 (which had just relaunched in the Indian market), reportedly for $40 million. In spite of its wide popularity, Gold Spot was withdrawn by Coke from the market in order to re-make space for Coca-Cola's Fanta brand.\n\nGold Spot's slogan was \"The Zing Thing.\"\n\nThe Los Angeles-based band Goldspot is supposed to be named after this fizzy drink. According to one of the interviews with Siddhartha Khosla (the core member of band), Gold Spot was very popular back in India at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154936", "title": "Charvel", "text": "Charvel\n\nCharvel is a brand of electric guitars founded in the 1970s by Wayne Charvel in Azusa and headquartered in Glendora, both cities in California. Presently it is owned by Fender.\n\nCharvel guitars became popular in the 1980s due to their association with famous rock and heavy metal guitarists such as Eddie Van Halen (Van Halen), Richie Sambora (Bon Jovi), Warren DeMartini (Ratt), Randy Rhoads, Jake E. Lee (Ozzy Osbourne), Vinnie Vincent (Kiss), Eddie Ojeda (Twisted Sister), George Lynch (Dokken), Criss Oliva (Savatage), Allan Holdsworth, Shawn Lane, and others. Modern Charvel players include Mike Orlando (Adrenaline Mob), Guthrie Govan (The Aristocrats), Joe Duplantier (Gojira), Angel Vivaldi (Angel Vivaldi), and Satchel (musician) (Steel Panther).\n\nHaving worked at Fender for three years in the early 1970s, Wayne Charvel started \"Charvel's Guitar Repair\" in 1974 to refinish and repair out-of-warranty Fender instruments. The shop earned a solid reputation among performing artists for its repair work, custom finishes, and upgraded parts manufacturing. When Asian companies began copying Charvel's parts and selling them at a discount, Charvel decided to begin building complete guitars. Charvel guitars were constructed from wood components outsourced to Boogie and Schecter bodies, and various Charvel and aftermarket hardware. Wayne Charvel sold the company to Grover Jackson in 1978, and ceased all working associations with the brand name from that point forward.\n\nAfter purchasing the company, Grover Jackson tooled to produce guitar bodies, which he sold to Mighty Mite and Dimarzio. He used the proceeds to fund an expansion into making necks. During this time BC Rich, SD Curlee, and Music Man approached Charvel to contract manufacture various wood parts. The income from these sales provided the Charvel shop with additional tooling and experience that gave Jackson the footing required to grow the Charvel brand.\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s, Charvel popularized custom revamps of the Fender Stratocaster design - often consisting of a Strat-shaped body with a single humbucking pickup and Fender style tremolo bridge systems. This modernized Stratocaster configuration (commonly referred to as the \"superstrat\") was particularly well suited to the heavy metal style of music that was very popular at the time. Charvel guitars became renowned for its use of creative graphics, unfinished maple necks, and various innovative appointments.\n\nIn 1980, Grover Jackson met Randy Rhoads, who had recently joined Ozzy Osbourne's new band as a guitarist. They worked together to develop a guitar to complement the polka-dotted Flying V built for Rhoads by Karl Sandoval. The prototype was not angular enough for Rhoads, but the second design produced a shape that Randy referred to as the \"Concorde\". Jackson worried that the radically styled neck-through guitar was too different from Charvel's familiar 'Superstrat' theme, so he labeled the instrument with his own name on the headstock in case the design proved unpopular. Contrary to Jackson's concerns, the visual impact of this guitar spawned the \"Rhoads Model\" that soon became iconic in the industry and inspired Jackson to found Jackson Guitars.\n\nCharvel (and Jackson) guitars remained in production at the Gladstone Street shop in Glendora, California until 1986. In 1986, the manufacturing facilities moved to Ontario, California, and production of U.S.-built Charvel guitars ceased shortly thereafter.\n\nThe success of Charvel in the 1980s led to Jackson's planning to mass-produce popular configurations in Asia. Each California-produced Charvel guitar was essentially a hand built custom instrument—but the Japanese assembly line versions that appeared in 1986 were categorized into model numbers.\n\nIn 1989, Jackson sold Charvel/Jackson to the Japanese manufacturer IMC (International Music Corporation), who made Charvel brand guitars exclusively in Japan from 1986 to 1991.\n\nThe Japanese made Charvels that appeared in 1986 are easily distinguished from San Dimas instruments by several distinct differences:\n\n\nFender Musical Instruments Corporation bought Charvel in 2002, and the Charvel brand entered a renaissance, with several U.S. made \"San Dimas\" models—named to recapture the original association of the Charvel name with high-quality, American made professional guitars. Charvel offers several series of guitars, including both lower-priced Mexican made and boutique-priced American made instruments, and operates a full-service custom shop. Perhaps the most notable product of Charvel's present custom shop is the Eddie Van Halen signature \"Striped Series\" model short run of guitars paint stenciled by Van Halen. These guitars are known among collectors, Vendors and Industry People as \"CharBel\" with a \"B\", due to the B letter located in the body of the guitar and the hard cases. This is a Homage from Wayne Charvel to Grover Jackson, known as \"GroB\".\n\n\n\n\nChinese-built line introduced in 2011 and expanded since. The Charvel Desolation series guitars all have an oiled neck and 24 frets. Different versions of Desolation guitars were available:\n\nIn 1989, the Charvel line was expanded into a number of different series, including the \"Classic\", \"Fusion\" and \"Contemporary\".\n\n\nMost of the guitars at the time were equipped with Schaller hardware, including a licensed Floyd Rose locking tremolo.\n\nThe Korean-made Charvette brand also came into being to service the entry-level. In the 1990s, the Charvel CX series was imported as a lower priced instrument.\n\nThe collectible status and escalating market prices of early U.S.-made Charvels resulted in counterfeit \"San Dimas Charvels\" being misrepresented as genuine. These fakes were often created by swapping necks and/or \"San Dimas\"-stamped neck plates onto Asian-made Charvels or other inexpensive guitars, adding a reproduction San Dimas era \"Charvel - Made in USA\" headstock decal. The problem became widespread enough to become a frequent topic of discussion amongst knowledgeable collectors of early Charvel guitars.\n\nWayne Charvel resurfaced in the realm of guitar manufacturing with varying degrees of success several times since selling the brand in 1978. He created a namesake model offered through Gibson: the \"Gibson W.R.C. Signature Model\". Only several hundred were produced, and they were short-lived, mainly because of a lawsuit filed by Jackson. Gibson made the W.R.C. models from 1987 to 1988, in three standard colors: red, black, and white. Of those produced, 200 were 'show case' models that featured Wayne Charvel's signature on the bell and were accompanied by a letter from him. The WRC model came with a tan faux leather case with hot pink interior and combination locks. Earlier models had a Kahler Spyder tremolo, while later models featured a Floyd Rose Original. All featured a maple bolt-on neck with ebony fingerboard.\n\nToday, Charvel and his son Michael Charvel own and operate Charvel Music, a full line music store in Paradise, California, and manufacture guitars as a joint venture under the name Wayne Guitars. Their houses and shop burned down in the 2018 Camp Fire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154940", "title": "England women's cricket team", "text": "England women's cricket team\n\nThe England women's cricket team represents England and Wales in international women's cricket. The team is administrated by England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB); they played their first Tests in 1934–35, when they beat Australia 2–0 in a three-Test series. Their current captain is Heather Knight. There is also an England Women's Academy team, consisting of players just below the full England squad.\n\nIn 2017, they won the BBC Sports Personality Team of the Year Award.\n\nEngland were a part of the first Women's Test series, as their team led by Betty Archdale touring Australia in the summer of 1934–35, three years after the Bodyline tour by the men. The team and their captain received \"warm\" responses from the Australian crowds. Winning both the first two Tests and drawing the third, England won the first women's test series, and also beat New Zealand by an innings and 337 runs on the way home, where Betty Snowball contributed an innings of 189, which was to remain a women's Test record for half a century. However, their leading player, and one of the best-known women cricketers of the era, was the allrounder Myrtle Maclagan. She scored the first ever century in a woman's Test match on 7 January 1935.\n\nTwo years later, England suffered their first Test defeat, at the hands of Australia at Northampton. As Australia made their inaugural tour, an England team including seven debutantes conceded 300 on the first day, and despite bowling Australia out for 102 in the second innings they lost by 31 runs. England recovered to take the second Test after a first-innings 115 from Myrtle Maclagan, who also took five wickets opening the bowling, and the third Test was drawn to ensure a 1–1 series tie.\n\nEngland began playing women's Test cricket again in 1948–49, when they toured Australia for a three-Test match series. An England team with seven debutantes, lost the Women's Ashes to Australia after losing the first Test and drawing the final two. Two of their eleven made half-centuries on tour: Molly Hide, who also batted out the third day of the final Test to make England's only century in Australia this season to draw the game, and Myrtle Maclagan, who hit 77 in the second Test. Both had Test experience from before the War. Maclagan was also England's leading wicket-taker on tour, with nine wickets, ahead of Hide and Mary Johnson who took six each. However, England still beat New Zealand in their Test one month after the conclusion of the Ashes.\n\nIn 1951, Australia toured England for the first time in 14 years. After drawing the first Test at Scarborough, England gained a lead of 38 on first innings after Mary Duggan's five wickets, and set a target of 159, larger than any score in the previous three innings, and a record of that time. Australia were 131 for eight after Duggan took four more wickets, but England conceded 29 for the ninth wicket. Thus, they surrendered the Ashes again, despite winning the final Test by 137 runs after another Duggan nine-wicket-haul to draw the series at 1–1.\n\nEngland's next international series involve a visit from New Zealand in 1954. England won the first Test, despite giving up a deficit of 10 on first innings, but drew the second and third; the third Test saw a whole day's play lost to rain. Excluding one-offs, this was England's first series win since their inaugural series.\n\nEngland went on tour of Australasia once again in 1957–58, nine years after their previous tour, but by now Mary Duggan had taken over as captain. For a change, they began against New Zealand, where they drew both Tests; despite Duggan's five-for in the final innings, New Zealand closed on 203 for nine after being set 228 to win. They then moved on to Australia, where their series began with an abandoned match at North Sydney Oval in February, and the second Test at St Kilda had the first day rained off. When the teams came in to bat, though, Duggan set a women's Test record; she claimed seven Australian batters, all for single-digit scores, and in 14.5 overs she conceded six runs, bettering Maclagan's previous best of seven for 10. The record stood for 38 years. However, Betty Wilson replied with seven for seven as England were bowled out for 35, three short of Australia's total, and then made a second-innings hundred as Australia set a target of 206 in 64 overs. England lost eight wickets for 76, but still managed the draw, while Wilson claimed four wickets to become the first Test player to score a hundred and take ten wickets in a match.\n\nWilson also hit a hundred in the third Test at Adelaide, but Cecilia Robinson replied with a hundred of her own, lasting into the final day's play. With Ruth Westbrook and Edna Barker also scoring half-centuries, England gained a first-innings lead, but Australia batted out to make 78 for two and draw the game. The fourth Test was also drawn; England trailed by 27 going into the final day, but Robinson carried her bat to 96 not out as England survived 102.5 overs and set Australia a target of 162. England only got one wicket in reply, however, to draw the game.\n\nAfter the 1950s, where England had lost two and won two Tests, England went through the 1960s without losing any of their 14 Tests, with the majority, ten, drawn. Their first series were against Test debutantes South Africa. Once again, the series had a majority of draws, but an England side captained by 23-year-old Helen Sharpe won the series 1–0 after claiming the third Test at Durban by eight wickets. South Africa gained first innings leads in the first and last Test, however, but followed on in the second Test which was affected by rain.\n\nIn 1963 England took what was to be their last series win over Australia for 42 years. In the first Test, England made 91 for three in the final innings, but in the second match at the North Marine Road Ground in Scarborough England were 97 behind with nine second-innings wickets in hand by the close of the second day. Wickets fell steadily throughout the third day, and England fell from 79 for four to 91 for nine; however, Eileen Vigor and June Bragger held on for the tenth wicket to draw the game. Three weeks later, the teams met for the third and final decider at The Oval, and captain Mary Duggan, in her last Test, scored her second Test century as England declared on 254 for eight. Australia replied with 205, then took two English wickets on the second day, and were set a target of 202. With Duggan and Anne Sanders doing the brunt of the bowling, England took the first nine wickets for 133, before Australia's No. 10 and 11 built a partnership. However, Edna Barker was brought on as the seventh bowler of the innings, and with her fourteenth ball she had Marjorie Marvell lbw to win the game for England.\n\nRachael Heyhoe-Flint took over the captaincy for the 1966 series against New Zealand, and made her first Test century in her very first Test as captain. New Zealand batted out the match losing twelve wickets, however, and the first Test was drawn. In the second, New Zealand recovered from a first innings deficit to set England a target of 157, which resulted in another draw, and in the third Test England were five for three overnight on the second day, trailing by 65. Another wicket was lost on the third morning, but England held on for 100 overs and set New Zealand 84 in nine overs to win the series. England conceded 35 and could not take a wicket, but still drew the game and the series 0 – 0.\n\nEngland next went on an Oceanian tour in 1968–69, defending the Ashes successfully after another 0 – 0 draw. Debutante Enid Bakewell, aged 28, made a hundred in the first Test, but Australia declared 69 ahead, and England batted out the third day to make 192 for seven; in the second Test Edna Barker registered a hundred, and England set a target of 181, but could only take five wickets for 108 in Australia's final innings. The decider at Sydney also saw a declaration, from Australia, who made 210 for three declared in their second innings, but England lost only six wickets in the chase to draw again.\n\nIn New Zealand, the same procedure followed: Bakewell scored her second Test hundred and took five wickets in the first drawn Test, where the third innings lasted 4.4 overs before the game was called off as a draw. She followed that up with 114 and eight wickets in the second Test, where England bowled out New Zealand for 186 on the final day, and chased 173 in 42.3 overs after 66 not out in the second innings from Bakewell, and in the third Test New Zealand were bowled out for 214 in 68.3 overs after being set 252 to win. Bakewell made 412 runs in her five Test innings in New Zealand, and coupled that with 19 wickets, and headed both the runs and wickets tally. On the entire tour, also including matches against other opposition, Bakewell scored 1,031 runs and took 118 wickets.\n\nWest Indies had not been granted Test status yet, but England went on two tours there in 1969–70 and 1970–71, sponsored by Sir Jack Hayward. Hayward had received letters from England captain Heyhoe-Flint asking for sponsorship, and after a conversation between the two in 1971, Hayward and the Women's Cricket Association agreed to organise the inaugural Women's World Cup, which was to become the first World Cup in cricket. England fielded two sides: a Young England side, who were bowled out for 57 by Australia in the first Women's One-day International, and the senior side. In addition, three English women, Audrey Disbury, Wendy Williams and Pamela Crain played for the International XI.\n\nThe youngsters won one game, against Young England, while the full-strength England side won four of their first five games. In the match with New Zealand, rain forced them off after 15 overs, at 34 for one needing 71 from the last 20, and New Zealand were declared winners on \"average run rate\". New Zealand were not a threat, however, having lost with two balls to spare against the International XI and by 35 runs against Australia. With the match between Australia and the International XI rained off, Australia went into the final game with a one-point advantage on England, but in \"gloriously\" fair weather at Edgbaston Enid Bakewell scored her second century of the tournament, and England tallied 273 for three. Bakewell also bowled 12 overs for 28, taking the wicket of top-scorer Jackie Potter, as England limited Australia to 187 in their 60 overs and won the World Cup.\n\nIn the 2005 World Cup, England lost in the semi-finals to eventual winners Australia. However, England went on to win the two-Test series against Australia 1–0, claiming the Women's Ashes for the first time in 42 years. The One-Day series between the two sides was closely contested, with Australia winning the final match to take the series 3–2. The Women's team participated in the parade and celebrations held in Trafalgar Square alongside the victorious men's team.\n\nWith Clare Connor missing the 2005 winter tour, fluent middle order batsman Charlotte Edwards was named captain for the series against Sri Lanka and India, with England easily winning the two ODIs against Sri Lanka before drawing the one Test against India while losing the 5-match ODI series 4–1. Connor announced her retirement from international cricket in 2006, with Edwards now the official captain for the series against India in England.\n\nDespite being written off as underdogs before the Australian tour began, England drew the one-day international series against Australia, two all, and retained the Ashes with a six wicket victory in the one-off test match at Bowral. Isa Guha took nine wickets in the test match, and won the player of the match award, while long serving middle order batsman, Claire Taylor scored two gritty fifties. Captain Charlotte Edwards hit the winning runs, as she had at the Sydney Cricket Ground in her 100th one day international.\n\nEngland won the 2009 World Cup, held in Australia, defeating New Zealand by 4 wickets in the final at North Sydney Oval. They lost only one match in the tournament, against Australia, while they defeated India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and the West Indies. Claire Taylor was the most prolific batsman in the tournament and Laura Marsh the most successful bowler. Vice captain Nicki Shaw, restored to the team only due to injury to Jenny Gunn, took 4 wickets and hit a vital 17 not out to win the man of the match award in the final. Caroline Atkins, Sarah Taylor and captain Charlotte Edwards were prolific with the bat while bowlers Holly Colvin and Katherine Brunt dominated with the ball. Five England players were named in the composite ICC team of the tournament. Claire Taylor was named one of Wisden's five cricketers of the year, the first woman to be honoured with the award in its 120-year history.\n\nEngland underlined their dominance of the women's game with victory in the inaugural Twenty/20 World Championship at Lords. After qualifying top of their preliminary group, defeating India, Sri Lanka and Pakistan, they overcame a formidable Australian total in the semi-final, thanks to Claire Taylor's unbeaten 76. A spell of 3 for 6 by fast bowler Katherine Blunt saw New Zealand dismissed for 85 in the final at Lords and Player of the Series Claire Taylor saw England to victory with an unbeaten 39. England completed the season by retaining the Ashes with a draw in the one off test at New Road, Worcestershire thanks to the fast bowling of Katherine Brunt, who took seven wickets, and dogged defensive batting from Beth Morgan, who batted nearly eight hours in the match.\n\nHeading into the 2012 World Twenty20 in Sri Lanka, England were considered favourites after an 18-month unbeaten streak that only ended in the weeks before the tournament, in a series against the West Indies which England won 4-1. England were forced into a late change for the tournament during this series, when Susie Rowe fractured her thumb and was replaced by the uncapped Amy Jones. England were grouped with Australia, India and Pakistan in Group A, following their group stage exit in the previous World Twenty20.\n\nEngland began with a win over Pakistan, although they were somewhat unconvincing. After an opening stand of 102 between captain Charlotte Edwards and Laura Marsh, England only scored 31 runs in their final 7 overs to finish 133-6. Pakistan never really threatened to cause an upset, and were bowled out for 90 including 4-9 for Holly Colvin. However, Danielle Wyatt suffered an ankle injury whilst bowling and this limited her bowling input for the remainder of the group stage. Any unease at England's first performance was quashed with a thumping nine wicket win over India in their second game, which saw them qualify for the knockout stage. India were limited to 116-6 off their 20 overs, before another impressive stand of 78 from Edwards and Marsh ended the game as a contest, with Edwards ending on 50* and winning the player of the match award.\n\nEngland's final group game was against Australia, and whilst both sides had already qualified, the game was seen as a good chance to get a psychological advantage before a potential final match-up. Australia posted an impressive 144-5, despite an economical performance from Katherine Brunt, thanks to scores of 39 from Meg Lanning and 38 from Lisa Sthalekar. This time Marsh departed early, bringing Sarah Taylor to the crease, although England continued to struggle to keep with the run rate, losing both Edwards and Arran Brindle. However, Wyatt's arrival at the crease saw a partnership of 65 off 33 balls, leading England's to a comfortable victory, Taylor ending on 65* and Wyatt on 33*. England carried this momentum into their semi-final with New Zealand, Lydia Greenway effecting a run out in the first over to dismiss New Zealand captain Suzie Bates, and thereafter New Zealand were only able to post a disappointing effort of 93-8. England comfortably scored the runs, with contributions from Edwards, Taylor (who finished not out for the third successive game) and Greenway, and reached their second World Twenty20 final.\n\nThe final took place on 7 October, between England and Australia in Colombo. England maintained their tactic of bowling first when Edwards won the toss, although it was Australia who made the far better start, scoring 47 off their first 6 overs during the powerplay without losing a wicket. Lanning and Alyssa Healy were dismissed soon afterwards, with Colvin taking 2-21 off her 4 overs, but Jess Cameron scored 45 off 34 balls. Although after Cameron's dismissal Australia only scored 23 runs off their final 23 balls, they posted a competitive score of 142-4. England were unable to match Australia's fast start, and with the run rate climbing, Australia were able to take crucial wickets at important times, Ellyse Perry making a huge impact in having Taylor caught behind and taking the catches for both Edwards and Greenway's dismissals. When Brunt was bowled by Jess Jonassen first ball of the 17th over, England needed 42 off 23 balls with just 3 wickets left. Despite valiant efforts from Jenny Gunn and Danielle Hazell, Hazell was unable to hit the final ball of the match for six off Erin Osborne, and Australia won by 4 runs.\n\nDespite the defeat, Charlotte Edwards ended as the highest run scorer across the tournament, and was thus named player of the tournament. She was joined in the team of the tournament by Laura Marsh, Sarah Taylor and Katherine Brunt.\n\nFollowing on from the disappointment of not winning the world Twenty20, England headed to India for the 2013 Women's Cricket World Cup, defending their 2009 title. England added Georgia Elwiss to their squad from the World Twenty20, and were in Group A with Sri Lanka, West Indies and hosts India. England's tournament got off to a disastrous start, losing a thrilling match to the unfancied Sri Lanka. Sarah Taylor, Laura Marsh and Anya Shrubsole all missed the game injured, and Sri Lanka won the toss and inserted England to bat. The toss would prove crucial many times in this tournament, as the early start times meant that batting during the first hour was extremely difficult, and so it proved in this match, with Charlotte Edwards, Danielle Wyatt and Lydia Greenway all out within the first eight overs. Arran Brindle (31) and Heather Knight (38) lead the recovery, but as soon as England had gained the ascendancy they were both dismissed. It was left to vice-captain Jenny Gunn and debutant Amy Jones to get England to a defendable score, and they did, with Gunn making 52 and Jones 41. Some late hitting from Katherine Brunt and Danielle Hazell lifted England to 238-8, and it seemed as though the disaster the early wickets had promised had been averted. Sri Lanka however pulled off a stunning victory, Chamari Atapattu scoring 62, and supported by Mendis and Siriwardene, put Sri Lanka in an extremely strong position. Brunt and Elwiss struck back for England, before a brutal 56 from Eshani Lokusuriyage took Sri Lanka to within a run of victory. She was run out in the final over, but Dilani Manodara hit the final ball of the match from Elwiss for six as Sri Lanka won by just one wicket, their first every victory over England.\n\nWhilst this result did not put England's chances of qualification in too much danger, it highlighted potential weaknesses for other sides to exploit. Taylor, Marsh and Shrubsole all returned for the second game against India, although England again lost the toss and found themselves batting. Whilst Goswami dismissed Wyatt cheaply, Edwards and Taylor both survived and then prospered. Taylor was run out for 35, but Edwards carried on, and reached her 7th ODI hundred, and when Brindle added 37*, England had reached 272-8. Despite 107* from Harmanpreet Kaur, England won by 32 runs, with the outstanding Brunt taking 4-29 from her 9 overs, and Holly Colvin's miserly spell where she conceded just 29 runs from her 10 overs. England's final game was against the West Indies, with only the winner guaranteed a spot in the super sixes. West Indies won the toss and surprisingly elected to bat, which soon backfired against Brunt and Shrubsole. West Indies were reduced to 31-6 and ended 101 all out, Shrubsole taking 4-21 and Brindle 3-0, although this was not achieved without worry for England as Edwards left the field ill and Brunt injured herself celebrating the wicket of Deandra Dottin. England achieved the target with 40 from Wyatt, taking them through to the next stage. However, Sri Lanka then gained another shock victory, over hosts India, taking them through along with England and West Indies. This result meant England carried through one win and one defeat instead of two wins, which would soon prove crucial.\n\nEngland's first game in the Super Sixes was against Australia, and the game began well for England, who won the toss having found out Australia would be missing their star pace bowler, Ellyse Perry, injured. Brunt and Shrubsole soon reduced Australia to 32-5, taking full advantage of early swing, before Lisa Sthalekar and Sarah Coyte managed to get Australia to a poor but not wholly uncompetitive 147 all out. England began poorly, and found themselves 39-6, including a second successive first ball duck for Taylor. Greenway made a gutsy 49, but her dismissal seemingly marked the end of the match. England needed 34 when their last pair of Holly Colvin and Anya Shrubsole came together, but they took England to within three runs of victory, before Erin Osborne crucially dismissed Colvin to win the game for Australia. England now needed other results to go in their favour to reach the final, but responded superbly, bowling South Africa out for just 77 in their next match, with Shrubsole again to the fore, taking outstanding figures of 10-5-17-5, and Wyatt picking up three cheap wickets. England achieved the target in just 9.3 overs, boosting their net run rate, vital should they finish level on points with another team.\n\nEngland went into their last Super Sixes match against New Zealand knowing that if Australia beat the West Indies and they beat New Zealand, they would reach the final. However, during the early stages of the match news came through that West Indies had staged a remarkable comeback victory over Australia, meaning those two teams would contest the final, and England and New Zealand would finish 3rd and 4th. The game lost some of its intensity after the news came through, but England posted 266-6, with Taylor scoring 88 and Edwards 54. New Zealand appeared to be well on the way to victory at 145-1, but good spells of bowling from Gunn and Colvin saw New Zealand collapse and England win by 15 runs. The same sides then contested the 3rd/4th place playoff, where the once again impressive Colvin helped limit New Zealand to 220-8. England successfully chased this target down to finish 3rd in the tournament, with Taylor, Greenway and Brindle supporting a match winning hundred from Edwards, who became the first woman to score 5,000 runs in ODIs as she finished 106*. Edwards, Brunt, Colvin and Shrubsole all were named in the team of the tournament, giving England the most representatives with four.\n\nEngland's summer began with a change in coaching structure, with the coach of the previous five years Mark Lane leaving, to be replaced by Paul Shaw. England began the summer with a 2 ODI, 2 Twenty20 international series against Pakistan, which was used as a chance to give some of the fringe and younger players international experience due to the need to expand the squad along with some residual injuries to senior players. England won the ODI series 2-0 and tied the Twenty20 series 1-1, with international debuts for Natalie Sciver, Lauren Winfield and Natasha Farrant.\n\nThe Ashes began with the four-day Test match at Wormsley, with Australia making strong progress on the first day, reaching 243-3 at the close on a slow pitch. This was extended to 331-6 declared before lunch on the second day, Sarah Elliott completing her maiden Test century. Arran Brindle departed early, but a flowing fifty partnership from Heather Knight and Sarah Taylor put England in the ascendancy. Taylor was dismissed by Holly Ferling as England dramatically slumped to 113-6 and were in sudden danger of being forced to follow on. That they did not was due to a partnership of 156 between Knight and Laura Marsh, which ultimately saw England cede only a lead of 17 to Australia. Knight, in only her second Test, scored 157 in nearly seven hours of chanceless batting, winning her the player of the match award. Marsh's innings, 55 off 304 balls and 343 minutes, was one of the slowest international fifties recorded but helped England escape from the trouble they were in. From the close of England's 1st innings the match petered out into a draw, the slow pitch preventing either side from forcing victory.\n\nWith the Ashes now contested across all three formats, the drawn Test meant that England would have to win the combined ODI and Twenty20 match series at least 8-4 (2 points for a win) to win back the Ashes. They began badly in the first ODI at Lords, where Australia batted first and scored 203-8, due to good performances from Katherine Brunt and Marsh with the ball. England began well if a little slowly but faded against the Australian spinners, as despite 61 from Edwards, they slumped to a 27 run defeat. England came back strongly in the second ODI at Hove, batting first and making 256-6 in their 50 overs. Edwards led the way with her 6th consecutive ODI fifty, with all of the top six making at least 26. Brunt and Anya Shrubsole then dismissed both openers, including the dangerous Meg Lanning for zero, and despite 81 from Jess Cameron, England won by 51 runs, although Marsh injured her shoulder and missed the remainder of the series. The final ODI again took place at Hove, and after rain reduced the game to 36 overs a side, Australia scored an imposing 203-4, led by Lanning's 64. The Australia innings was notable for the remarkable dismissal of Australian captain Jodie Fields, who was brilliantly caught one-handed by Taylor as Fields attempted to reverse sweep Danielle Hazell. England chased down this target impressively, as after Edwards early dismissal, Knight and Taylor combined for a partnership of 126 in 18 overs. They fell for 69 and 64 respectively, but Sciver and Gunn saw England home and into a series lead.\n\nThe Twenty20 series began at a packed Chemlsford, and England posted 146-4, owing much to Taylor, who made 77. Australia's reply never got started until some late hitting from Perry and Haynes, but England won by 15 runs despite to loss of Shrubsole to injury to move within one victory of winning the series. In the next game at the Rose Bowl, Australia batted first and made 127-7, Hazell bowling well to take 2-11 off her 4 overs. England's reply began poorly when they slumped to 9-3, but Lydia Greenway, who made an unbeaten 80 off 64 balls, led England to both victory in the match and series, with the number of commentators praising her innings for its quality under pressure. England then thumped a deflated Australia in the final match of the series, taking the Ashes 12-4. Australia could only manage 91-7 off their 20 overs against a very disciplined performance from England's bowlers and fielders, and after the loss of three early wickets, Greenway and Sciver saw England to a comfortable win. Knight, who tore her hamstring in the final match, collected the player of the series award.\n\nIn February 2014 the ECB decided to invest in the women's game providing central contracts to 18 players by May.\n\n\n\n\"(Note: England sent a Development Squad to every European Championship tournament, but it was only specifically referred to as such in 2005 & 2007).\"\n\n\nThe ICC Women's Rankings incorporates results from Tests, ODIs and T20Is into a single ranking system.\nThis is a list of players who have central contracts or recently (2016 onwards) represented England. \n\n\"Players shown in bold are in the current squad\"\n\n\"Players shown in bold are in the current squad\"\n\n\"Players shown in bold are in the current squad\"\n\n\"*Included a hat-trick\"\n"}
{"id": "2154941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154941", "title": "Ulothrix", "text": "Ulothrix\n\nUlothrix is a genus of green algae in the family Ulotrichaceae.\n\nUlothrix is a genus of non-branching filamentous green algae, generally found in fresh and marine water. Its cells are normally as broad as they are long, and they thrive in the low temperatures of spring and winter. They become attached to surfaces by a modified holdfast cell. Reproduction is normally vegetative. They are Eukaryotic and unicellular. They are one of the five classes of microorganisms.\n\nThe genus includes:\n\n\nThe plant body consists of unbranched, uniseriate filaments. The cells of the filaments are arranged end to end. They are cylindrical or barrel-shaped. The apical cell is somewhat rounded at its terminal end whereas the basal cell is elongated. It is also called the basal holdfast, which attaches the filament to the substratum. The cell wall is composed of propectin and cellulose and it lacks mucilage. Each cell has a single girdle-like and parietal chloroplast and two to many pyrenoids are present in each chloroplast\n\nReproduction in \"Ulothrix\" takes place by means of vegetative, asexual and sexual methods.\n\nThe common vegetative methods of reproduction are fragmentation and akinete formation.\n\nVegetative cells of \"Ulothrix\" break into small pieces accidentally. Each fragment develops into a new filament.\n\nSome of the vegetative cells of \"Ulothrix\" are converted into thick walled akinetes. Food reserves are accumulated within the akinetes. When the conditions are favourable each akinete develops into a new plant.\n"}
{"id": "2154944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154944", "title": "Michael Rother", "text": "Michael Rother\n\nMichael Rother (born 2 September 1950) is a German experimental musician, best known for being a founding member of the influential bands Neu! and Harmonia, and an early member of the band Kraftwerk.\n\nBorn in 1950, Rother was educated in Munich, Wilmslow (England), Karachi, and Düsseldorf. He also resided in Pakistan in the early 1960s where he was exposed to Pakistani music that would influence his own music in the late 1960s and early 1970s. From 1965 Rother played in the band Spirits of Sound, from which other members would later go on to join Kraftwerk (Wolfgang Flür) and Wunderbar.\n\nRother is a multi-instrumentalist (primarily guitar and keyboards) who, along with a catalog of several solo albums starting in 1977, is best known for having co-founded the German group Neu! with drummer Klaus Dinger (five albums between 1971 and 1996), and his collaborative efforts with Hans-Joachim Roedelius and Dieter Moebius (aka Cluster) under the name Harmonia (two albums, one in 1974 and 1975, with later 1976 sessions recorded with Brian Eno; the studio tapes for the latter disappeared but were found by Roedelius two decades later; he remixed the tapes and released the results as \"Tracks and Traces\" in 1997; Rother was the main producer for the version re-released in 2009).\nRother and Dinger were also in a short-lived version of Kraftwerk in 1971, with Florian Schneider, during a time when founding member Ralf Hütter had temporarily left the band (this version of the group was filmed during an appearance on the German music show \"Beat Club\", which has been available sporadically on VHS and DVD).\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s, Rother began issuing LPs under his own name: \"Flammende Herzen\" (1977), \"Sterntaler\" (1978), and \"Katzenmusik\" (1979) all featured drums by Can drummer Jaki Liebezeit. Further releases included \"Fernwärme\" (1982), \"Lust\" (1983), \"Süssherz und Tiefenschärfe\" (1985) and \"Traumreisen\" (1987). Rother regained the rights to these releases in the late 90s, and re-released CD versions of them, all of which contained bonus tracks, usually in the form of then-current remixes of original album tracks. Along with these reissues were a best-of compilation, \"Radio\", and a new release, \"Esperanza\" (1996). His most recent album; \"Remember\" featured vocals (a first for Rother's solo work) and was released in 2004.\n\nOn 1 July 2007, Rother joined the Red Hot Chili Peppers for a live jam at the end of their concert in Hamburg. Together they played for nearly 25 minutes in front of 35,000 people. In November 2007 he toured with Dieter Moebius (another member of Harmonia) as \"Rother & Moebius\". On 27 November 2007, a Harmonia reunion concert was announced for Berlin, where they performed together live for the first time since 1976.\n\nIn 2010, Rother played five shows in Europe with Sonic Youth drummer Steve Shelley and Tall Firs guitarist Aaron Mullan (who played bass in the trio). This group, known as Hallogallo, performed the music of Neu! live for the first time in many years. They also played the ATP New York 2010 music festival in Monticello, New York and Incubate 2010 in Tilburg, Netherlands in September 2010. In December 2012 Rother performed the music of Neu! and Harmonia at the ATP festival in Camber Sands, England, accompanied by the Berlin-based band Camera. In November 2013, he performed at the final UK holiday camp edition of ATP.\n\nIn 2015, Rother recorded scores for the German film \"Die Räuber\" (\"The Robbers\") by Paul Cruchten and Frank Hoffmann and the German TV film \"Houston\" by Bastian Günther.\n\nThe discography of Michael Rother consists of nine studio albums, three compilations, a boxset and nine singles.\n\nAs a member of Neu! Rother released three studio albums, two albums of studio outtakes (\"Neu! 4\"/\"Neu! '86\") and a rehearsal recording. As a member of Harmonia, Rother released two studio albums, one live album, a studio out-takes album and a remix album. In 2010 Rother released the \"Blinkgürtel\" single with his live group Hallogallo 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154946", "title": "Australia women's national cricket team", "text": "Australia women's national cricket team\n\nThe Australian women's national cricket team represent Australia in international women's cricket. They were nicknamed Southern Stars, but in 2017 this name was dropped and are now known only as the Australian women's cricket team in an attempt to promote gender equality with the men, who have no nickname for their team.\n<br>\n\nThe team is currently captained by Meg Lanning and coached by former Victoria and Queensland batsman Matthew Mott. As of 21 August 2018, they are ranked first in all forms of women's international cricket.\n<br>\n\nThe team played their first Test match in 1934–35, when they lost to England two-nil in a three-Test series. They now compete against England for the Women's Ashes. They have won more World Cups than any other side — winning in 1978, 1982, 1988, 1997, 2005 and 2013. The team has also be crowned champions of the ICC Women's World Twenty20 tournament more than any other side – winning in 2010, 2012, 2014, 2018 and 2020.\n<br>\n\nIn 2003, Women's Cricket Australia (WCA), and the Australian Cricket board (ACB) merged to form a single national cricket board (now known as Cricket Australia), which remains to this day. This merger has been a positive influence on women's cricket, providing more financial support and gathering more exposure for the sport.\n\nThe team played their first Test match in 1934–35, when they lost to England two-nil in a three-Test series. They now compete against England for the Women's Ashes. They have won more World Cups than any other side — winning in 1978, 1982, 1988, 1997, 2005 and 2013. The team has also be crowned champions of the ICC Women's World Twenty20 tournament more than any other side – winning in 2010, 2012, 2014, 2018 and 2020.\n\nIn 2003, Women's Cricket Australia (WCA), and the Australian Cricket board (ACB) merged to form a single national cricket board (now known as Cricket Australia), which remains to this day. This merger has been a positive influence on women's cricket, providing more financial support and gathering more exposure for the sport.\n\nThis is a list of players who have contracts with Cricket Australia and/or have recently played for Australia (2019–20)\n\nKey\n\nInternational Match Summary — Australia Women\n\n\nMost Test runs for Australia Women \n\nMost Test wickets for Australia Women \n\nHighest individual innings in Women's Test\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in Women's Test\n\nWomen's Test record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to Women's Test #140. Last updated 21 July 2019.\"\n\n\nMost ODI runs for Australia Women \n\nMost ODI wickets for Australia Women \n\nHighest individual innings in Women's ODI\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in Women's ODI\n\nWODI record versus other nations\n\n\"Records complete to WODI #1166. Last updated 9 October 2019.\"\n\n\nMost WT20I runs for Australia Women\n\nMost WT20I wickets for Australia Women\n\nHighest individual innings in Women's T20I\n\nBest bowling figures in an innings in Women's T20I\n\nWT20I record versus other nations\n\n\"Last updated 8 March 2020.\"\n\n\"Note: Australia Women won a Super Over against England Women and won a Bowl-out against New Zealand Women. They lost a Super Over against England Women as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154948", "title": "Dykes (surname)", "text": "Dykes (surname)\n\nDykes is a British surname which may originate from the hamlet of Dykesfield in Burgh-by-Sands, Cumbria in the north of England. Due to its close proximity to the English and Scottish borders, the surname Dykes has also been found in Scottish lowlands throughout the ages. \nThe first family to bear the surname (for which written records survive) are said to have lived in the area prior to William the Conqueror's Norman conquest of England, with the oldest surviving written document placing them in Dykesfield at the end of the reign of Henry III. The family took their surname from Hadrian's Wall, also referred to in some texts as Hadrian's Dyke. The great wall crossed Great Britain from the mouth of the Tyne to the Solway Firth and forms part of the border for Dykesfield. \n\nAt this early period of history, however, the surname existed in a different form from the modern day; del Dykes, literally meaning 'of the Dykes', indicating the region from where the family came. A charter, bearing the first known recorded instance of the surname, comes from either the reign of Henry III or Edward I, though the exact date of the record is unknown. It does, however, reveal that land owned by one Robert del Dykes at Burgh was conveyed to one William del Monkys.\n\nAn alternative derivation for the name is that it is from the common personal name \"Dick\" (a diminutive of \"Richard\"). It would therefore share its origin with a number of similar names such as Dike, Dicks, Dix, Dickson, Dixon, Dickins, Dickens and Dickinson.\n\nThe earliest historical records are from a family which was moderately wealthy for the time. Robert del Dykes owned land during the reign of Edward I, and in 1379, during the reign of Richard II, Adam del Dykes owned land further east in Yorkshire.\n\nAnother family member bearing the name William del Dykes is noted as having represented the Earl of Cumberland in the English Parliament during the reign of Henry VI. More is known about this William than those who had previously bore the surname. Records indicate that he married Elizabeth, the daughter of William de Leigh, Lord of the Manor of High Leigh. William del Dykes is also known to have received the manor and lands at Wardhall, Cumbria (also referred to as Warthole Hall and Wardale), subsequent generations would come to use the land but would later move to Dovenby Hall in Cumbria.\n\nBy the 17th century it appears that majority of those bearing the surname del Dykes had dropped the prefix of 'del' and had begun simply using the surname Dykes, as it is most commonly found today. Thomas Dykes is one such family member who was responsible for the formation of the family motto and symbol used by the majority of his descendants and others bearing the surname. Thomas, a Royalist at the time of the English Civil War during the reign of Charles I, secreted himself at Wardhall after the defeat of his party at the Battle of Marston Moor. Thomas is reputed to have hid in many areas of his land, including in a mulberry tree, which stands to this day. It was all in vain, however, has he was soon captured by the Parliamentarians and imprisoned at Cockermouth Castle. Thomas was offered his freedom and the restoration of his property if he would become a traitor to his King by joining the Parliamentarians, but responded with \"Prius frangitur quam flectitur\" - Sooner broken than bent. Thomas died at Cockermouth Castle and, such was the strength of the story, the family adopted \"Prius frangitur quam flectitur\" as the family motto, and the mulberry tree as the family symbol.\n\nWhile the surname had changed from del Dykes to Dykes by the 17th century further changes can be charted and, Dykes aside, other incarnations include Dawkes, Dyke, Dikes and Dike, though instances of the surname del Dykes can still be found.\n\nIt is still most common in the northern counties of the United Kingdom, particularly in Lancashire and Cheshire. Areas such as Liverpool and Warrington are some of the most populous to this day, records show that members of the family moved to these areas as early as the 18th century. \n\nOutside of the United Kingdom, the surname can also be found in most parts of the Commonwealth and other former British Empire nations including Australia, the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Ireland (particularly Co. Sligo).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154958", "title": "Great Blue Heron Casino", "text": "Great Blue Heron Casino\n\nThe Great Blue Heron Casino is located on Scugog Island, just east of the community of Port Perry, Ontario, and northeast of Toronto. Both the Casino and the land on which it is built are owned by the Mississaugas of Scugog Island First Nation. The First Nation theme is carried throughout the facility, in the interior art and is especially noticeable in the signature red, blue and cream colour roof. \n\nThe Great Blue Heron Gaming Company, a partnership of Casinos Austria, the Steiner Family, and Sonco Gaming, operates the Casino. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation manages the slots, while the Baagwating Community Association, a non-profit, charitable organization formed by the Mississaugas of Scugog Island First Nation, manages the table games. Revenues and profits are distributed among the parties, and to various charitable organizations, based upon contractual sharing arrangements.\n\nOpened originally in 1997, with slots and a 650-seat bingo hall, the Casino was extensively renovated in 1999 and 2000. Its floor area is approximately , in which there are now two bars, one restaurant, a slots' room with 545 machines and a 60 table games. The table games include: Roulette, Blackjack, Spanish 21, Mini Baccarat, Let it Ride Poker, Texas Hold Em Poker, Pai Gow Poker, Three & Four Card Poker and Texas Hold Em Bonus Poker. As of 2007, there is no longer a bingo hall on premises.\n\nThe Casino is currently receiving renovations that will be completed in July of 2020. The expansion includes a 100 room hotel as well as a 20,000 square foot addition to hold more slots and tables and a 500 seat entertainment centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154963", "title": "Interior product", "text": "Interior product\n\nIn mathematics, the interior product ( interior derivative, interior multiplication, inner multiplication, inner derivative, insertion operator, or inner derivation) is a degree −1 (anti)derivation on the exterior algebra of differential forms on a smooth manifold. The interior product, named in opposition to the exterior product, should not be confused with an inner product. The interior product \"ι\"\"ω\" is sometimes written as .\n\nThe interior product is defined to be the contraction of a differential form with a vector field. Thus if \"X\" is a vector field on the manifold \"M\", then \nis the map which sends a \"p\"-form \"ω\" to the (\"p\"−1)-form \"ι\"\"ω\" defined by the property that\nfor any vector fields \"X\", ..., \"X\".\n\nThe interior product is the unique antiderivation of degree −1 on the exterior algebra such that on one-forms \"α\"\nwhere is the duality pairing between \"α\" and the vector \"X\". Explicitly, if \"β\" is a \"p\"-form and \"γ\" is a \"q\"-form, then\nThe above relation says that the interior product obeys a graded Leibniz rule. An operation satisfying linearity and a Leibniz rule is called a derivation.\n\nBy antisymmetry of forms, \n\nand so formula_6. This may be compared to the exterior derivative \"d\", which has the property .\n\nThe interior product relates the exterior derivative and Lie derivative of differential forms by the Cartan formula (a.k.a. Cartan identity, Cartan homotopy formula or Cartan magic formula):\n\nThis identity defines a duality between the exterior and interior derivatives. Cartan's identity is important in symplectic geometry and general relativity: see moment map. The Cartan homotopy formula is named after Élie Cartan. \n\nThe interior product with respect to the commutator of two vector fields formula_8, formula_9 satisfies the identity\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154969", "title": "Anicetus (pirate)", "text": "Anicetus (pirate)\n\nAnicetus was the leader of an unsuccessful anti-Roman uprising in Colchis in AD 69. He claimed to be acting on behalf of Vitellius, and destroyed a cohort and part of the Roman fleet stationed at Trapezus. The revolt was put down by the Roman reinforcements under Virdius Geminus, a lieutenant of Vespasian. Overtaken at the mouth of the river Chobus (now the Enguri River), Anicetus was surrendered to the Romans by the local tribesmen, and executed.\n\nAccording to Tacitus, the only ancient source to mention him, Anicetus had been a freedman of King Polemon II of Pontus, and had commanded the royal fleet. In 64 AD, the Kingdom of Pontus had become a Roman province, and Tacitus implies that Anicetus' rebellion was motivated by his desire to free Pontus from Roman rule. However, David Woods argues that Anicetus should in fact be identified with the prefect of the fleet at Misenum who shared the name, and who was involved in Nero's murder of his mother, Agrippina. Woods argues that his actions were therefore not those of someone fighting for independence from Rome, but of a Roman hoping to secure a position of power by supporting the Vitellian faction in the civil war which followed the death of Nero.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154971", "title": "Ulysses Kay", "text": "Ulysses Kay\n\nUlysses Simpson Kay (January 7, 1917 in Tucson, Arizona – May 20, 1995 in Englewood, New Jersey) was an American composer. His music is mostly neoclassical in style.\n\nKay, the nephew of the classic jazz musician King Oliver, studied piano, violin and saxophone. He attended the University of Arizona, where he was encouraged by the African-American composer William Grant Still. He went for graduate work to the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, and there worked under Howard Hanson and Bernard Rogers.\n\nUlysses Kay met the eminent neoclassical composer Paul Hindemith in the summer of 1941 at the Berkshire Music Center and followed Hindemith to Yale for a formative year of study from 1941 to 1942.\n\nAfter a stint as a musician in the United States Navy during World War II, Kay studied at Columbia University under Otto Luening with the assistance of a grant from the Julius Rosenwald Fund. In addition to this prize, Kay received a series of five other significant awards in the year following his discharge from the Navy including the Alice M. Ditson Fellowship, a grant from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, an award from the American Composers and American Broadcasting Company, a $500 award from the third annual George Gershwin Memorial Contest for \"A Short Overture,\" and a $700 award from the American Composers Alliance for his \"Suite for Orchestra.\"\n\nFollowing this successful period, he lived and studied further in Rome from 1949 to 1953 thanks to a Fulbright Scholarship, the Rome Prize and a Julius Rosenwald Fellowship.\n\nKay worked for Broadcast Music, Inc., a performing arts organization, from 1953 to 1968. In 1968 he was appointed distinguished professor at Lehman College of the City University of New York. After two decades teaching there, he retired.\n\nAs a composer Kay was known primarily for his symphonic and choral compositions. He also wrote five operas. His final opera, \"Frederick Douglass\", was mounted in April 1991 at the New Jersey State Opera with Kevin Maynor in the title role and Klara Barlow as Helen Pitts Douglass.\n\nA resident of Teaneck, New Jersey, Ulysses Kay died due to complications of Parkinson's disease at the age of 78 at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center on May 20, 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154979", "title": "Echoes (the Rapture album)", "text": "Echoes (the Rapture album)\n\nEchoes is the debut full-length studio album by American rock band the Rapture. It was released on September 8, 2003 by DFA and Output in the UK, and on October 21, 2003 by DFA, Vertigo, and Universal in the U.S. It was co-produced by the DFA and the Rapture and recorded at the DFA's own Plantain Recording House studio in New York City.\n\nThe Rapture moved from San Francisco to New York in 1999 and wrote \"House of Jealous Lovers\" the following year. They met James Murphy and Tim Goldsworthy of DFA Records at one of their first performances in New York. Murphy and Goldworthy took a long time to persuade the band to work together because of a concern that making a dance song would alienate their fans. With the help of the DFA production team, the band released \"House of Jealous Lovers\" in 2002 and eventually released their first full-length album \"Echoes\". The album secured two Top 40 singles in the UK and also was met with critical acclaim, being awarded Album of the Year by pitchforkmedia.com and runner up in NME only to the White Stripes. \n\nMulti-instrumentalist Gabriel Andruzzi, who is also Safer's cousin, joined the band full-time after the record was completed to help tour. In the wake of the success of \"House of Jealous Lovers\", The Rapture opened for the Sex Pistols in a football stadium in England, and underwent a large major bidding war eventually signing with Vertigo Records out of the UK and Strummer Records (a Gary Gersh Label) both owned by Universal Music. In January 2004, the Rapture toured with Franz Ferdinand on the NME Awards Tour. Later that year, the band toured on the main stage of the Curiosa Festival alongside Interpol, Mogwai, and The Cure. \n\nThe album was highly praised by \"Pitchfork\", who hailed the album as the best of 2003, as well as placing the songs \"I Need Your Love\" at number 323 and \"House of Jealous Lovers\" at number 16 on their best songs of the 2000s countdown. \"Resident Advisor\" ranked the album at number 35 on their list of the best albums of the decade. The song \"House of Jealous Lovers\" was also ranked sixth on \"NME\"s list of the top 100 tracks of the decade.\n\nAll personnel adapted from album liner notes.\n\nThe Rapture\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nTechnical personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2154981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154981", "title": "David Stannard", "text": "David Stannard\n\nDavid Edward Stannard (born 1941) is an American historian and Professor of American Studies at the University of Hawaii. He is particularly known for his book \"American Holocaust\" (Oxford University Press, 1992), in which he argues that the genocide against the Native American population was the largest genocide in history.\n\nHe was born to Florence E. Harwood Stannard and David L. Stannard, a businessman. He served in the armed forces and worked in the publishing industry between 1959 and 1968. In 1966, he married Valerie M. Nice. The couple, subsequently divorced, have two sons.\n\nAfter returning to college in 1968, Stannard graduated magna cum laude from San Francisco State University in 1971. He then went to Yale and obtained an M.A. degree in history (1972), a Master of Philosophy in American Studies (1973), and a Ph.D. in American Studies in 1975. He has taught at Yale University, Stanford University, the University of Colorado, and the University of Hawaii. He has lectured throughout the United States, in Europe, and in Asia.\n\nHe is currently a writer and professor in the Department of American Studies at the University of Hawaii, where he was awarded the Regents' Medal for Excellence in teaching. He has contributed dozens of articles to scholarly journals in a variety of fields.\n\nStannard's research on the indigenous peoples of North and South America (including Hawaii) has produced the conclusion that Native Americans had undergone the \"worst human holocaust the world had ever witnessed, roaring across two continents non-stop for four centuries and consuming the lives of countless tens of millions of people.\" While acknowledging that the majority of the indigenous peoples fell victim to the ravages of European disease, he estimates that almost 100 million died in what he calls the \"American Holocaust\". In response to Stannard's figures, political scientist Rudolph Rummel has estimated that over the centuries of European colonization about 2 million to 15 million American indigenous people were the victims of what he calls democide, which excludes military battles and unintentional deaths in Rummel's definition. The vast majority of the victims of democide were in Latin America. \"Even if these figures are remotely true,\" writes Rummel, \"then this still make this subjugation of the Americas one of the bloodier, centuries long, democides in world history.\" According to Guenter Lewy, Stannard's perspective has been joined by scholars Kirkpatrick Sale, Ben Kiernan, Lenore A. Stiffarm, Phil Lane, Jr., and Ward Churchill.\n\nSamuel R. Cook of \"The American Indian Quarterly\" wrote:\n\nAlfred Crosby of \"The Boston Sunday Globe\" wrote:\n\nStannard is the longtime partner of writer Haunani-Kay Trask.\n\nStannard's published books include:\n\n\"The Puritan Way of Death\" was referred to in \"The New York Review of Books\" as one of the handful of books—and the only one by an American—that together constituted \"the most original and important historical advance of the 1970s.\"\n\n\"Shrinking History\", published in 1980, was chosen by \"Psychology Today\" as one of the 'best books of the year'. His other writings have been translated into German, French, Spanish, Italian, Turkish, and Japanese.\n\nIn \"American Holocaust\", he argues that the destruction of the aboriginal peoples of the Americas, in a \"string of genocide campaigns\" by Europeans and their descendants, was the most massive act of genocide in the history of the world. Although praised by Howard Zinn, Vine Deloria, Dee Brown and others, Stannard's argument generated a great deal of critical commentary. He responded to much of it in a lengthy essay entitled \"Uniqueness as Denial: The Politics of Genocide Scholarship\", published in \"Is the Holocaust Unique?\", edited by Alan S. Rosenbaum (Westview Press, 1996).\n\n\"Before the Horror\" has focused on Hawaii and the Pacific. Having dramatically and upwardly revised the estimated population of Hawaii at the time of Western contact from about 200,000 to between 800,000 and 1,000,000—a change that forced major rethinking about the entirety of Hawaii's history—that work is now being used as the foundation for re-examinations of indigenous population histories throughout the Pacific.\n\nIn 2005 Stannard's book \"Honor Killing\" used an infamous rape and murder case of the 1930s—one that involved Clarence Darrow arguing his final spectacular defense—to open up a detailed social and political examination of the Hawaiian Islands under US colonial rule. In its review \"The New York Review of Books\" described \"Honor Killing\" as \"finely written and meticulously researched... a biopsy of the racist and imperial arrogance that are an integral, though seldom acknowledged, motif of the history of America.\"\n\nStannard was the recipient of Guggenheim, Rockefeller, American Council of Learned Societies and other research fellowships and awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154989", "title": "Mottama", "text": "Mottama\n\nMottama (, ; , ; formerly Martaban) is a small town in the Thaton district of Mon State, Myanmar. Located on the west bank of the Thanlwin river (Salween), on the opposite side of Mawlamyaing, Mottama was the capital of the Martaban Kingdom (later known as Hanthawaddy Kingdom) from 1287 to 1364, and an entrepôt of international repute until the mid-16th century. \n\n\"Mottama\" derives from the Mon language term \"Mumaw\" (; ), which means \"rocky spur.\"\n\nBetween 2nd-century BCE and 15th-century CE, Martaban was an important trading port in the historic Maritime Silk Road connected the East and West, and Martaban storage jars were imported through this maritime road. \n\nThe earliest evidence of the existence of Martaban in Myanmar history was revealed in an inscription erected by King Sithu II of Pagan (Bagan) Empire in 1176.\n\nIn the 13th century, Martaban was a southern provincial capital in the Pagan Empire. After Pagan's collapse in 1287, King Wareru founded the Martaban Kingdom based out of Martaban. The city was the capital of a Mon-speaking kingdom from 1287 to 1364. Nominally it was a vassal state of the Thai Sukhothai Kingdom until 1314. From 1369 onwards, the Hanthawaddy kings ruled the kingdom from Bago (Pegu). From 1364 to 1388, Martaban was under the de facto independent rule of Byattaba. In 1388, King Razadarit reconquered the city. Though it was no longer the capital, the city remained an important trading port from the 14th century to the early 16th century.\nIn 1541, King Tabinshwehti of Taungoo captured the fortified city, and utterly destroyed it, forever relegating it back to a backwater. From the 16th to the 19th centuries, Martaban was a strategic spot in a series of wars fought between Burma and Siam.\n\nMartaban was captured by the British in the First Anglo-Burmese War of 1824–1826, but returned to Burmese administration after the war. It became the border town however as the entire Tenasserim coast from Mawlamyaing down became British territory. The town became part of British Lower Burma after the Second Anglo-Burmese War of 1852.\n\nThe Salween River flows through the town into the Bay of Martaban.\nMottama was the terminus of the road and the railroad from Yangon, where the Thanlwin empties into the Gulf of Martaban in the Andaman Sea. Today Mawlamyaing Bridge has laid down a link from Mottama to Mawlamyaing and other city in the south Ye.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154990", "title": "Levi G. Nutt", "text": "Levi G. Nutt\n\nColonel Levi G. Nutt (1866–1938) was the Chief of the Narcotics Division within the Prohibition Unit of the United States Department of the Treasury from 1919 to 1930, prior to the creation of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. He was a registered pharmacist, and led the Division to arrest of tens of thousands of drug addicts and dealers in the 1920s. Nutt's son Rolland Nutt and son-in-law L. P. Mattingly were attorneys for racketeer Arnold Rothstein in tax matters. After an investigation into the relationship in 1930, a grand jury found no criminal impairment of Narcotics Division activities, but Nutt lost his position as chief of the Narcotics Division.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155002", "title": "Ajuy, Iloilo", "text": "Ajuy, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAjuy is from Iloilo City.\n\nAjuy is politically subdivided into 34 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Ajuy, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe town has many churches namely Ajuy Baptist Church, Ajuy Evangelical Church, Church of the Nazarene, Bible Baptist Church, Evangel Family Church, Roman Catholic Church, Aglipayan Church or the Philippine Independent Church, Iglesia ni Cristo and Seventh-day Adventist Church.\n\nCurrent mayor of the town is Juan Alvarez. The town's main source of livelihood is fishing and farming.\n\nMayors of Ajuy:\n\nThe Northern Iloilo Polytechnic State College has an Ajuy Branch located in the Poblacion. Ajuy's central public elementary school is Alejo Posadas Elementary School (APMES), named in honor of the lot's donor. A private elementary school is also in existence, Ajuy Christian Development Academy.\n\nThe Island of Panay House of Wisdom library is an open (free use) library located at road 2, Barangay Barrido with more than 2,000 books and updated magazines for reading and research purposes. Pastor Lilianita Dulos and Brendalyn Dulos opened this library for the youth of Panay to help create more empowered Ajuynons youth and high thinking individual.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155003", "title": "Alimodian", "text": "Alimodian\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nNicknamed as the \"Banana Capital of Western Visayas,\" it produces not only the most harvest in Western Visayas but also the sweetest banana in the region. The town also boasts of producing maize, mangoes, root crops, sweet potatoes, legumes, bamboo, coconuts, as well as high yielding crops such as carrots, cauliflower, broccoli and strawberries thus the nickname \"Strawberry Capital of Iloilo\" as they produce substantial amount of strawberries in their strawberry farms.\n\nThe name of the town was actually derived from \"alimodia\" or \"alimodias\", the old Visayan name for Coix lachryma-jobi, a grain-bearing tropical plant of the grass family ubiquitous in the town. It is so called Job's tears because of the shape of its hard-shelled pseudocarps which are made by some into necklaces or rosary beads.\n\nAlimodian was formerly an arrabal of the town of Ogtong. The town was founded in 1754 by Capitan Agustin Magtanong. On August 20, 1756 Alimodian was officially separated from Ogtong.\n\nThe original church of Alimodian was first constructed in 1754. It was agreed that the site of the church would be on the place where the rope that pulled the tablon (a huge timber) would break. The tablon came from the shore of Ogtong (now Oton) and it was pulled by a pair of carabaos. Thus the site was decided and the people built a chapel of bamboos, cogon and logs. The plan to build a permanent church made of bricks and rocks plastered with lime was initiated in 1780 by then gobernadorcillo Marcos Gregorio and incumbent priest Fr. Francisco Monasterio and was moved on the northwest of the church's cemetery on Nichols St. It was completed in 1784 but was destroyed by an earthquake in 1787.\n\nThe cornerstone of a permanent stone was laid on December 5, 1859 through the efforts of parish priest Fr. Florencio Martin and gobernadorcillo Don Timoteo Amarra. It was well attended by Spanish dignitaries from Manila, Cebu and Iloilo. It was completed in 1864 and was formally opened to public on December 22, 1864 amidst a colorful ceremonies.\n\nThe first permanent municipal hall was constructed in 1872 more than a century after its foundation since the first municipal building was built. It was completed in 1873 at a cost of 300 pesos during the incumbency of Capitan Marcelo Tolentino y Alger.\n\nThe last half of the 19th century has been infamously remembered as one of the most disastrous and disturbing period in the annals of Alimodian.\n\nIt started in December 1851 when it rained tremendously for over a week with some gusty winds. The heavy downpour causes deluge on the rivers uprooting huge trees carrying them from the banks of the river to the plains. No official record of casualties existed. Another typhoon happened in May 1866 struck several towns including Alimodian. During its full strength a lightning struck the giant cross on the belfry of the new church toppling it to the ground. A strong earthquake jolted the church on June 29, 1869 a feast day of St. Peter and St. Paul and many pious devotees who flocked to the church at 7 am mass suffered broken limbs during a commotion. A big fire took place at around 1 pm April 25, 1877 and at least 17 houses made of bamboo and other light materials reduced to ashes while an old woman caught fire and left several families homeless. July and August 1877 were months ravaged with typhoon and severe flooding causing many trees to be uprooted. The heavy downpour in those months caused nature to exhaust its supply that from September 1877 to May 1878 not a single drop fell from heaven. There is a severe drought and the town suffered almost 10 months of arid climate people are parched and feel the searing heat pierced their bodies and crops were devastated and no single harvest took place in 1878 because it was a toxic year of famine, disease and death. On March 1, 1878 at eight in the evening, a huge fire reduced to ashes some 180 houses in Balud and Dawis (now Liboon and Rodriguez Streets respectively) just near the town plaza. Many got sick and perished in the dreaded months of August to December 1878 due to low resistance brought by deficient food intake. Almost 3,000 elderly people and children died on this tragic period and anemia and gastroenteritis were the leading cause of their early deaths. Another pestilence happen in August 1882 and according to the records some 900 people perished. A strong earthquake shook the town on February 2, 1887 which caused the stone image of St. Augustine which sits on top of the main door of the church to fell. The turn of the century with the coming of the American doesn't augurs well to the town. On September 8, 1900 tragedy struck with the outbreak of the cholera and the epidemic according to the official records took the lives of at least 700 people and this does not include those in the remote villages.\n\nThe turn of the century, with the coming of the Americans, didn't augur well for the town. On September 8, 1900, tragedy struck with the outbreak of cholera. The epidemic according to the official records took the lives of at least 700 people, which does not include those in the remote villages.\n\nIn 1902 Wilford Nichols, an American teacher arrived in Alimodian to teach the English language. Those who were already proficient in Spanish were required to attend school first so they could in turn teach other citizens how to read and write in English. The first principal was Justo Puga, and the first teachers were Felicidad Alingasa Santa Cruz, Venancia Santa Cruz Edurese and Concepcion Alfante Akol.\n\nAlimodian became an arabales of the town of Leon in January 1904. Executive Order No. 45 signed by Governor General Francis Burton Harrison separating Alimodian from Leon effective December 31, 1918. By the first day of 1919 Alimodian elevated its status from just an arrabal of Leon to a fully independent municipality.\n\nThe Japanese Imperial Army first passed by Alimodian on April 19, 1942 from Maasin aboard their trucks and bicycles. They left the town peacefully and without any incidents since there were no combat forces in the area as they camped out in the mountains like in Cabacanan way before the Japanese arrived except for the intelligence operatives of the G-2 section and other units were in the town center to monitor covertly the movements of the invading enemy forces. The operatives included Sgt. Marcelo Tolentino, Conrado Norada, former Iloilo governor, and Sgt. Alfredo Galon. It was learned based on the intelligence reports gathered by the military that there were Japanese sympathizers among the evacuees at the convent of Fr. Mariano Perez, who was the parish priest at the time Sgt. Galon was planted as a houseboy at the convent. The information he gathered was relayed to Maj. Rafael Almacen, chief of the G-2 Intelligence Section operative during the war. In May 1942, an order was received from Major Rafael Almacen to round up Filipino soldiers who escaped being a prisoner of war and convince them to join Panay Free Forces organized in the mountains of Lambunao by Panay movement led by Col. Macario Peralta, Lt. Col. Leopoldo Relunia, Maj. Jose Alvior, Lt. Col. Julian Chavez and other responsible officers of the disbanded USAFFE. Refusal to join means the firearms would be confiscated. The designated town officer, First Lt. Marcelo Tolentino organized the Alimodian chapter of the movement in June 1942. This was a sub-unit of the First Iloilo Sector consisting of southern towns of Iloilo. Major Almacen was assigned as sector commander by Col. Peralta. During the first few months of guerilla warfare, Sitio Taban became the center of activities of guerillas, Japanese spies and civilian. After the Japanese eventually landed in Iloilo, the town's public market was transferred to Sitio Taban.\n\nThis tragic infamous incident etched in the annals of Alimodian history and forever ingrained in the memories of the townsfolk took place in the early morning of August 17, 1942.\n\nIt was a fine busy Tuesday morning and people were busy trading and buying and selling of farm produce were briskly done and people of all ages and gender crowded the marketplace. All of a sudden the Japanese appeared in a flash. The first impulse is to escape but it was too late for most of the people there to get out. The preconceived plan of getting all the able bodied men from the crowd was carried out, seizing them and tied their hands and feet by the Japanese forces. About 50 men were captured after all the rest successfully eluded the Japanese while those who were left in the scene were women. Bayonets and sabers were immediately put into action after lining up the captured 50 men who were securely tied up. One by one, the captives were made to stand against the trunk of a coconut tree. Immediately, each one of them was subjected to bayonet thrusts and later beheaded with sabers. The massacre is completed and the severed heads of the victims were left scattered around to be eaten and taken cared of by the dogs after the murderers had gone.\n\nOn May 7, 1942 the first ambush on the Japanese Imperial forces took place in Barangay Balabago led by Col. Macario Peralta, commander of the Panay Guerilla and Free Panay Movement. Meanwhile, Col. Julian Chavez, the 63rd Regiment Commander established his command post in Barangay Dalid in preparation for the landing of the American forces in Parara Sur, Tigbauan. The 63rd Regiment Hospital headed by Capt. Alejandro Nery Cruz, MD was housed in the old central school building now the site of Alimodian Water District and Municipal Library. US navy pilot, Ensign William G. Shackleford was safely brought in Alimodian after his forced landing in Barrio Bangkal, Tigbauan, Iloilo due to engine trouble during an air raid of Iloilo City on September 13–14 and 24, 1944. He was saved by the guerillas and able to dismantle six machine guns and hundreds of ammunitions. He also burned his plane by firing a tracer bullet before the Japanese arrives. Shackleford was brought by Lt. Marcelo Tolentino to the command post in Inocencio St. He was welcomed cheerfully and treated like a hero and offered a sumptuous meal by the Segovia sisters, Luisa, Carolina and Maria who were evacuees from the city and signed autographs in emergency notes by those present. In turn he distributed chewing gums and candies.\n\nAlimodian was a no man's land after the war. Houses were burned and demolished. When the people returned to the town after the war, they have to contend to live in makeshifts houses made of bamboo and nipa for their shelter. The American government has its fair share of damages during the war. The American government paid the people in the form of reparation. In addition, guerilla notes issued during the war were also redeemed. Mayor Felix Altura who was the town's mayor before and after the war came back to office in March 1945 to have a responsive government immediately act on the people's needs. The military government appointed Simeon Cañonero as municipal mayor on May 15, 1946. The vice mayor was Anacleto Amparo and the councilors were Gelacio Allones, Wenceslao Anino, Teodosia Amarra, Pablo Albeza and Clara Alegrado. Mayor Simeon Cañonero is the longest-serving mayor of the town. He served for two years as a military-appointed mayor after the war and was elected for three terms of four years. Many buildings and structure in the town were destroyed and ruined during the Japanese occupation mostly from Japanese attracks, arson attempts of retaliating Filipino forces and series of lootings by deprived citizens and evacuees. During the term of Mayor Cañonero, roads, bridges, schools and other infrastructure ruined by the war were reconstructed and made completely functional. School buildings in the town and barrios were rebuilt funded from the Philippine War Damage Claim. Rehabilitation of school buildings were given importance and priority due to an increase of enrollment after the war. Alimodian High School was founded in 1947 paving the way for secondary education for the young citizens of the town.\n\nStreet lighting system was first introduced in the town after the war provided by Alimodian Electric Light Service, an electric plant owned by the prominent family of Mrs. Natalia Amparado. On November 9, 1966 a boundary dispute between Alimodian and Cabatuan was resolved. The popular Holy Week pilgrimage site Agony Hill was blessed and inaugurated at 3:30 in the afternoon of May 3, 1967 by then Jaro Auxiliary Bishop, most Reverend Jaime L. Sin, D.D.. This project was initiated and completed by Reverend Father Nicolas Caberoy. Rural Bank of Alimodian Inc. was established in 1973 during the incumbency of Mayor Miguel Anas. It was inaugurated on December 31, 1974. ALEOSAN (initials of Alimodian, Leon and San Miguel being serviced by the hospital) hospital was founded in April 1968 through Republic Act No. 4854 authored by late Congressman Ramon Tabiana. The town was first energized on May 5, 1975 by Iloilo Electric Cooperative I with its main office in Tigbauan, Iloilo. Three hundred fifty households in the town proper and forty-two households in the barangays of Balabago, Bancal, Buhay and Lanot were the first recipients of the electrification. Aganan River flood control was constructed.\n\nFive policemen, patrolmen Silvio Amaguin, Bernardo Alinday, Agustin Alitre, Romeo Alipat and Florencio Aligor, were killed on the spot by an ambush of the anti-government forces while on their way home after performing their mission in Barangay Tarug on the tragic day of August 20, 1978.\n\nAlimodian is from Iloilo City. The rugged terrains of the Seven Cities in the northwestern hinterlands or upland communities of the town is part of the Bucari mountain ranges which lies mostly in the town of Leon. Bato Dungok of Mount Agua Colonia in the seven cities is the highest point in Alimodian. Aganan river the main tributary which passes through and serves several barangays is the longest and only river in the town.\n\nIt has a total land area of , making up 2.89% of the provincial land area of Iloilo. It has some rugged terrains as well as ample flat lands for agriculture. Mountain range which serves as a natural boundary with other towns is located in the northern hinterlands of the town.\n\nAlimodian is bounded on the north by the municipality of Maasin, northeast by the municipality of Cabatuan while to the south is the town of Leon. Southeast of the town is the town of San Miguel while to its west is the Municipality of San Remigio in the province of Antique.\n\nAlimodian has three pronounced seasons: summer or hot dry season from March – May, rainy season from June – November and cold dry months from December – February.\n\nAlimodian is still mainly an agricultural town. For the most part, since the soil is fertile agriculture and farming used vast tracts of land in the town. Other portion of the land is used for residential and commercial purposes. Below is the data of land use for agricultural based resources.\n\nAlimodian is geographically divided into 51 barangays and subdivided into eight (8) administrative districts.\n\nIn the , the population of Alimodian, Iloilo, was people, with a density of . It is the 22nd most populous municipality in the province of Iloilo.\n\nThe citizens of Alimodian are called Alimodiananon. The local dialect is Kinaray-a but Hiligaynon, English, and Filipino are also widely spoken. The dominant religion is Roman Catholicism.\n\nAlimodian is a third class municipality in the province of Iloilo. It has an annual income of P57,574,977 pesos making it the 20th largest economy in the province. The town and its people has access to excellent healthcare, banking, communication, transportation and commercial services. Below is the socio-economic support services provided for the citizens and people in the municipality.\n\nSocio-economic support services:\nMulti-purpose Cooperatives:\nBanking and providing the citizens of Alimodian financial assistance for different purposes started when the Rural Bank of Alimodian was inaugurated on December 31, 1974 and the book accounts were opened to formally start business on February 6, 1975. Alimodian Kilusang Bayan for Credits and Kooperatiba sang Alimodian were also established and opened to cater to the financial needs and other assistance provided for the people of Alimodian. Today there are at least 28 multi-purpose cooperatives serving various barangays, communities and associations in the town.\n\nThe Alimodian Public Market has various stores that sells different products and other dry goods, some food stalls and other services like barbershop, internet cafe and beauty salons. Market days in the town takes place every Tuesday and Friday but some stalls and stores most especially vegetables, fruits, other dry goods, medicines and hardware are open everyday.\n\nThe Official Seal of Municipality of Alimodian was declared as official symbols of the town of Alimodian on July 29, 1973 during the Municipal Council\n\nThe newly elected public officials of Alimodian for 2016 – 2019 took their oath last June 27, 2016 and their inauguration last July 1, 2016. Here are the government officials of the municipality of Alimodian whose tenure of office starts from 2016 and ends in 2019:\n\nMayor: Geefre Alonsabe\n\nVice Mayor: Julie Salarda\n\nCouncilors: \n\nAt the turn of the century during the early years of the American civil government, Alimodian was an arrabal of the municipality of Leon. These are the elected officials during that time.\n\nOn January 1, 1919, the Municipality of Alimodian separated from Leon becoming an independent municipality through Executive Order No. 45 signed by then American governor-general Francis Burton Harrison. These were elected municipal presidents (equivalent to municipal town mayor today) during that time.\n\nIn 1937, the name Municipal President was changed to Alcalde.\n\nThe town is under the Japanese Imperial Puppet Government from 1942 - 1945 and the present name of town mayor began during these period.\n\nAfter World War II appointed officials were designated to assess the damage of the war for rebuilding efforts.\n\n\nThe annual patronal town fiesta is celebrated every 22 September in honor of Saint Thomas of Villanova. There are several week long activities and shows prior to the highlights of the celebration and a feria is put up to entertain and celebrate with the people. Since the town is a deeply Catholic municipality, religious practices and customs are being observed during the Lent, the Flores de Mayo and Christmas. Pilgrims flock to the popular Agony Hill to make the Way of the Cross during the Holy Week.\n\nThere are lots of activities, programs and food festival around the town plaza during Christmas including Christmas tree and lantern competition.\n\nAlimodian is a small picturesque farming town of 38,000 people. It is known for its rugged cloud-capped mountains, fertile vast lands, majestic hills and a clean, beautiful and tidy environment to picture a distinctive central Iloilo town. Its colorful but meaningful past contributed a lot to shape the course of history not only in the province of Iloilo but also the entire Western Visayas region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe people of Alimodian love sports as a mean of recreation, hobby or as a form of exercise to remain fit and maintain wellness and a healthy and balanced lifestyle. Basketball is the favorite sports played by men of all ages and watched by the people during the summer basketball league sponsored and supported by the local government. Other sports being played by the people are tennis, sepak takraw, volleyball, softball and football. The people of the town are also a huge fan of boxing, FIFA World Cup and NBA. Some of the town's youth are perennial champions in sepak takraw and softball while they also reap gold medals in athletics and tennis in Palarong Pambansa through the years.\n\nThe town is accessible by several land vehicles. Jeepneys, tricycles and motorcycles were the main transportation. Jeepneys and motorcycles ply daily or several times a week to several barangays most especially to the remote upland villages and in the Seven Cities transporting farm produce to the town's public market and sometimes delivering it to Iloilo City's public and supermarkets and other good as well as means of public transportation. There are also weekly regular stops of Roro bus vehicles loading and unloading passengers to and from Roro ferry ships. Taxis occasionally pass by to load and unload passengers to and from the city but picking up a taxi in the town is made easier by taxi booking app Grab.\n\nElectricity first came to Alimodian after the war in 1946 with the first street lighting system provided by Alimodian Electric Light Service of Mrs. Natalia Amparado. The commercial and public use of electricity in the town was first available on May 5, 1975 bringing lights and improving the lives of the people. In the beginning three hundred fifty households in the town proper and another forty-two households in Barangay Balabago, Bancal, Buhay and Lanot were serviced by ILECO I, the main energy provider of the town. Today, the town is 100% completely energized as all the fifty-one (51) barangays have access to electricity.\n\nTelephone services in town is provided by PLDT since 1996. PLDT has a sub-station in Barangay Bancal and services three towns of ALEOSAN (Alimodian, Leon and San Miguel). Wireless mobile services in the town were started in 2003 and were provided by Globe Telecom and Smart.\n\nInternet broadband network services is offered by PLDT and Globe to the people of Alimodian to get wired and connected to the rest of the world and stay in touch with their families, friends and other people through social media and VoIP apps. Wi-fi network services were also made available by PLDT and Globe. Other options include pocket wifi and mobile Internet powered by Globe and Smart.\n\nThe town receives almost every radio wave frequency (am / fm) from all radio stations in the province.\n\nFree-to-air channels were accessible to households with television with excellent reception except in the remote barangays and communities where there are good reception of some of these free viewing channels. Direct-to-home satellite providers such as Cignal, Dream, G Sat and Sky Direct offers optional subscription to fine tune the reception quality of channels and program as well as provide additional channels and entertainment to families enjoying television viewing.\n\n\"Alimodian Iloilo Today\" is the official news publication of the municipality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155004", "title": "Ashley Benson", "text": "Ashley Benson\n\nAshley Victoria Benson (born December 18, 1989) is an American actress and model. She is known for her role as Hanna Marin in the teen mystery-drama series \"Pretty Little Liars\" (2010–2017). Benson has starred in films, including \"\" (2007), \"Christmas Cupid\" (2010), \"Spring Breakers\" (2012), \"Ratter\" (2015), \"Chronically Metropolitan\" (2016), and \"Her Smell\" (2018).\n\nAshley Benson was born December 18, 1989, to parents Shannon and Jeff Benson, and raised in Anaheim Hills, California. She has one older sister, Shaylene Benson.\n\nBenson began dancing competitively at age three, studying ballet, jazz, tap and hip hop. She began singing in choirs and musicals at a young age, performing a solo at her church at age four. When she was eight years old she signed with Ford Models, and appeared in a number of print ads.\n\nBenson appeared on the daytime soap \"Days of Our Lives\" as Abigail Deveraux from 2004 to 2007.\n\nBenson made her big screen debut with a bit part in the 2004 comedy \"13 Going on 30\". She starred as Carson in \"\" (2007), the fourth installment of the \"Bring It On\" franchise. The role required her to both overcome her fear of heights to perform the cheerleading stunts, and to end her contract with \"Days of our Lives\":\n\nShe recalled working on a film set instead of a soap opera set \"definitely weird\", because she would spend days working on one or two scenes, whereas on the \"Days of Our Lives\" set, she filmed two or three episodes a day. For \"Bring It On: In It to Win It\", she had to attend cheerleading practice, which was \"hard for [her], because [she is] afraid of heights.\" Nonetheless, she was \"glad\" to do her own stunts, even though she \"wasn't expecting it to be so hard.\"\n\nIn 2008, she appeared in the Lifetime original film \"\", where she played head cheerleader Brooke Tippit, a character loosely inspired by Karrissa Theret of the Fab Five. The film is based on a true story which took place at McKinney North High School in Texas. She became good friends with her onscreen mother Tatum O'Neal, from whom she learned about acting. Furthermore, she was excited to land a supporting role in \"Bart Got a Room\", which aired mainly on film festivals in 2008 before having a limited release in 2009, because it allowed her to work with William H. Macy. She also played a witch disguised as a cheerleader in a 2008 episode of The CW series \"Supernatural\".\n\nIn 2009, Benson starred in ABC's short-lived supernatural comedy television series \"Eastwick\". The show was based on John Updike's novel, \"The Witches of Eastwick\", and the 1987 film adaption of the same name. The series only lasted 13 episodes before ABC cancelled the series due to low ratings but has since gained a cult following.\n\nIn December 2009, Benson was cast as Hanna Marin in the ABC Family mystery-thriller teen drama series \"Pretty Little Liars\", based on the novel series by Sara Shepard. Hanna is the \"diva\" and \"It girl\" of the group, having taken Alison DiLaurentis' place as the most popular girl at Rosewood High in Alison's absence. The series premiered to 2.47 million viewers with Benson's performance being praised by critics. She also received a number of awards and nominations. Benson reprised the role in the spin-off series \"Ravenswood\" in two episodes.\n\nIn 2010, Benson starred in the television film \"Christmas Cupid\" alongside Christina Milian and Chad Michael Murray, which also aired on ABC Family. In January 2012, Benson was cast in the film \"Spring Breakers\", after Emma Roberts dropped out due to creative reasons. The film centers on four college students who are arrested and bailed out by a drug and arms dealer, who sends them out to do some dirty work on spring break. The film co-starred Selena Gomez, Vanessa Hudgens, and James Franco. Filming took place in March and April 2012, and the film was released in March 2013.\n\nIn the January 21, 2013, episode of the CBS sitcom \"How I Met Your Mother\", Benson appeared as Carly Whittaker, Barney Stinson's half-sister who dated Ted Mosby. That same month, Benson became the face of eveningwear designer Faviana.\n\nShe starred in the 2015 independent horror thriller film \"Ratter\", playing Emma Taylor, a girl who is stalked through her technological devices. That same year, she also appeared in \"Pixels\" as Lady Lisa, a fictional game character brought to life. In 2016, Benson appeared in the biographical comedy-drama film \"Elvis & Nixon\" as Margaret.\n\nBenson was featured on \"Creep\" by G-Eazy, a cover version of the Radiohead song. She also appeared in the music videos for NLT's \"That Girl\", One Call's \"Black Light\", and Hot Chelle Rae's \"Honestly\".\n\nBenson was in a relationship with English model and actress Cara Delevingne from May 2018 to April 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155005", "title": "Anilao, Iloilo", "text": "Anilao, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAnilao is from Iloilo City.\n\nAnilao is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Anilao, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nAnilao markets ginamos under the One Town One Product (OTOP) program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155006", "title": "Badiangan", "text": "Badiangan\n\n', officially the ', (, , ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBadiangan is from Iloilo City.\n\nBadiangan is politically subdivided into 31 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Badiangan, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2155007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155007", "title": "Balasan, Iloilo", "text": "Balasan, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe business and shopping centre of northern Iloilo, Balasan is a compact town and easy to get around on foot, by bicycle, or by public transport. It is home to Ritz School of Integrated Studies, a co-educational Montessori & elementary school and English institute for Korean students.\n\nBuses arrive at Balasan bus station, a kilometre to the Balasan's town centre, every fifteen minutes. Taking a tricycle is the most convenient way for newcomers to travel around Balasan.\n\nIn 1950, the barrio of Zarragoza was transferred from the town of Batad.\n\nBalasan derived its name from \"Balas\" meaning sand which are still found in abundance along the Banks of Bangon River where the first settlement was founded.\n\nSometime in 1846, Francisco Ariola, son of the datu from Jolo, together with his men, found themselves in the shores of Carles. He immediately organized the early settlers who later mingled with his men at Punta Bulakawe, a plateau just 330 meters north of the Poblacion (town proper). The settlers extended their clearing up the jungles and virgin lands for development. The Provincial Governor of Capiz commissioned Ariola to facilitate transportation of families recruited from Antique and Aklan. Soon afterwards, more settlers came. The Punta Bulakawe settlement, thus formed was included under the Pueblo de Pilar, Capiz.\n\nIt was in 1857 when Don Juan Silverio granted Francisco Ariola permission together with 50 families to go in a boat southeastwards from Barrio Sumagbong Cogon, Nabas, Capiz (Aklan) to the unfamiliar lands in the eastern portions of Panay Island. They soon landed in what was then known to be Punta Bulukawe, Capiz (Punta Badaiang, Carles). They were granted a full tax exemption for three years if they cultivated the new land.\n\nTowards 1856, as the general clearing progressed, Francisco transferred Bulakawe to the lowland south of the settlement. The settlement was named BADIANG, which means \"wild giant gabi variety\" because of the abundance of this plant in the vicinity of the new site. As streets were laid out Ariola, caused the equal distribution of the home lots to settlers alongside the new created streets. Some settlers however, built their homes near farms. This later led to the formation of other barrio settlements.\n\nAfter making a settlement, Francisco Ariola quickly appointed an exploration team to survey the new land further south. The team was led by Vicente Navales-the existing perpetual index of the leaders of Balasan started with the first teniente del barrio absolute, Vicente Navales in 1852. They immediately set forth southeastward to a river where they rested for the night. The morning was when the river got its name when the first man to awaken called out: ‘Bangon!’ which meant ‘Arise!’ The land after the river was a beautiful grassland full of sparrows – probably the Paser montanus (maya bongol), Lochura malacca (maya pula), or the Padda oryzivora (maya costa) which was from which the place got its name, Maya. They went further off to such places which are now known as Barangay Bulac, Batad, and Lanubo (Estancia). After being gone for quite some time, the folks in the settlement began to worry so a search party was formed to bring them back. They met with the former party in a place which was from then on known to be Tabuan (a place where people meet). \nThe accounts of Vicente Navales made some of the folks decide to make a sister-settlement in Maya. The place did prove promising and it expanded northeastward to a place with a river which was very ideal as a channel for sea trade and source of industrial sand (baras). The place was from then until such a time was known as Barasan. It eventually expanded and soon such area which was once the extension of the maya settlement became known until now as Mamhut.\n\nOn January 1860, the leaders of the Barrio Badiang headed by Francisco Ariola went to Capiz to petition the provincial government to make Barrio Badiang a municipality. The governor denied the petition on the ground that Barrio Badiang was only newly created and was not yet capable of becoming a pueblo. Not discouraged by their first failure, the petitioners traveled for days to Iloilo City, to bring this petition to Governor Jose Maria Carles, a Spanish Governor. After studying the case, Governor Carles approved the petition and thus, Barrio Badiang became a \"pueblo\".\n\nThe jubilant people of Badiang, in gratitude to Governor Carles for his approval of this petition, presented another petition to change the name Badiang to Carles in honor of the Governor. This petition was approved and on July 1, 1862, Carles was inaugurated as a new Pueblo with Alenjandro Buaya as the first Gobernadorcillo del Pueblo made Carles.\n\nOn January 1, 1904, the Municipio de Carles was demoted from a status of a Barrio to the status of a Barrio Balasan. This incident disheartened some Carleseños who migrated to other towns and provinces. But among those who stayed on were the strong willed ones who struggled hard to make Carles an independent municipality. Headed by Casimiro Andrada, the Carles Separation Movement succeeded in getting the approval of the Carleseños petition for separation from Balasan on January 1, 1920.\n\nThe records show that former Badiang (Carles) then later known as Balasan became large enough that it even covered the areas which now are separate districts such as Carles, Balasan, Estancia, and Batad.\n\nThe writings of Douglas Malunda tell about a treasure that the settlers of Ariola stored in one wooden chest to make it easier to protect from thieves from both land and sea. It was said such chest of silver, gold and pearls was buried in a dried well somewhere in Balasan with only a large tree to mark its location. The most accurate knowledge of its location was known by Ariola’s only son who unfortunately became one of the casualties of a cholera epidemic. With his death, the knowledge of the location of the treasure vanished. As yet, the treasure awaits its very fortunate hunter.\n\nBalasan is in northeast Iloilo, from the provincial capital, Iloilo City, and from Roxas City, with a regular bus service from these 2 cities.\n\nBalasan is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Balasan, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe town has two hospitals: Jesus M Colmenares District Hospital (government-owned, bed capacity 283) and Loida Sterner Hospital Facility (privately owned by a foundation, bed capacity about 100); and a Diagnostic centers: Medicus and Health Link.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155008", "title": "Banate, Iloilo", "text": "Banate, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is primarily a fishing and agricultural municipality, with large areas planted with rice, sugarcane, vegetables, beans, coconut and bananas. Banate is well known for \"Kasag\" (crabs), krill or shimp paste called \"ginamos\", and the fresh fish, which local entrepreneurs take to and sell in the capital of the province, in many of the non-coastal towns, and even in Manila.\n\nBanate is from Iloilo City.\n\nBanate is composed of 18 barangays, 7 of which are along the coast and the rest are in the interior uplands.\n\nThe settlement in Banate is of ancient origin. It was among the ancient organized territories of the Confederation of Madja-as in Panay (also called by the ancient Bornean migrants, the island of \"Madya-as\"), which the Spaniards found when they came to the Island. It was known to Spanish missionaries during the earliest dates of the colonization as Bobog. The Spanish Augustinian historian, Fray Gaspar de San Agustin, mentions it in an account about Dumangas and other coastal towns of the island, where in ancient times there was a principality and trade center that had the most illustrious nobility in the whole island of Panay. Bobog (Banate), Araut, Anilao, and Hapitan were among the ancient coastal civilizations in Panay.\n\nThere are theories that settlers from the powerful ancient thalassocratic Malay empire based on the island of Sumatra, modern-day Indonesia (which influenced much of Southeast Asia) arrived in Banate in around 600 A.D., during the second wave of migration from the Sulawesi Island of the southern archipelago of Southeast Asia. First, the most northern part of Iloilo, Estancia, was settled. Some migrants moved to Batad, Balasan and Carles. Then, Ajuy was settled, and from there communities spread to inhabit the present Conception and San Dionisio area. In time, communities of Ajuy spread upland to populate the hamlet of Sara. The families of Sara spread to Lemery. Other families inhabited the coast of Bobog (Banate-Viejo), and traversed the mountain now called San Rafael. Some families settled near the River Jalaud. Others moved further South and settled in Irong-irong and finally stopped at Ogtong. These independent coastal settlements were engaged in fishing, and settled near rivers.\n\nThe Maragtas of Pedro Alcantara Monteclaro mentions that the area near the Alakaygan River was among the first areas to be exploited by the early Malay settlers for agriculture. In these places they cultivated the land, planting \"kauayan, mabulo, hidiok, bagtikan, sibukao, buri, niog, kulo, kalamansi, paray, batad, kahangkugui\" and other seed, which they brought from Borneo. \"Alakaygan\" and \"Bubug\" (Bobog), which gave its name to the ancient society and where the future Spanish population would develop, were among the first settlements established by the Malays in Panay.\n\nAs a side note, Alakaygan is the only place in Banate where, until recent years, \"Tapukal\" (krill or \"hipon\" smoked in the bark of a native tree) was produced. It is a delicacy that can be found only in Banate.\n\nAt the beginning of the Christianisation of Panay, Bobog was a \"visita\" of the Augustinian parish and monastery of Dumangas. Gaspar de San Agustin mentioned the existence of the town in his book \"Conquistas de las Islas Filipinas (1565–1615)\". Another Augustinian historian Fray Juan Fernandez, in his \"Monografias de los pueblos de la isla de Panay\", affirms that Banate was known in the ancient times as \"Bobog\" or \"Bog-og\". The Augustinian friar says that the modern name Banate might have been derived from some flora that abundantly thrive in the town. One possibility is the \"Butacea\", named by Carl Linnaeus as \"Murraya exotica\". If the spelling and the pronunciation are corrupted, and instead of Banate what is written or pronounced is \"Bangate\", it would therefore be the leguminous papilionácea called in botany as \"Abrus praecatorius\".\n\nTo the inhabitants, the town's modern name is commonly attributed to the presence of many \"Bangate\" trees in the area. According to a local legend, when the Spaniards arrived, all the inhabitants of Banate fled away for safety. An old man, however, failed to escape because he was of advanced age and was already so weak. It was raining then. So, the old man took shelter under the \"Bangate\" tree where a Spanish officer found him later on. The white man asked the native; \"\"Come se llama esto pueblo?\"\", The old man, uncertain what to say, merely said \"\"Bangate\"\" thinking that the Spaniard was asking him about the name of the tree. Unable to understand clearly what the old man mumbled, the Spaniard thought the native had said \"\"Banate\"\". While such legend sounds too absurd to be true, it is the only explanation often given by people when asked why their town is called Banate. Indeed, 'Bangate' trees still abound within the territorial limits of the municipality.\n\n\"Bobog\", in the early part of its history as a Christian settlement and a Visita of Dumangas, was placed under the advocation of St. John the Evangelist. In the early part of the 1700s, it was called \"\"Banate Viejo\"\" by the Spaniards. A map of the Philippines, made by the Jesuit priest Fr. Murillo Velarde and published in Manila in 1734, shows Banate Viejo among the ancient towns of the island. The appelative \"Viejo\", which the Spaniards attached to the early hispanized name of the town, indicates the ancient origin of Banate.\n\nFr. Juan Fernandez says that Banate was formally established as a municipality in 1763. By then, it acquired as its Visita the settlement of \"Sinaba-an\". In a private definitory of the Augustinian Order, on 31 October 1763, Fr. Alejandro Arias was appointed as Vicar for the town.\n\nBeing a coastal village with a rich fishing ground, Banate is naturally inclined to flourish. However, it was also a natural target to invaders. In 1764, many people would leave the town because of a disastrous incursion and pillage of the Moros from Mindanao. R. P. Fray Arias, O.S.A., the town's priest who was at the same time the parish priest of Guimbal, was escaping this raid when he was captured by Moro pirates in that year at the Port of Tayabas. Later, the invaders executed him.\n\nConsequently, after the Muslim pillage, Banate was re-annexed to Dumangas. It later became a Visita with its own \"teniente de justicia\", dependent to Barotac Nuevo for its civil and ecclesiastical government until 1843, when it was declared an independent municipality again. By the end of the 1700s, the inhabitants of Banate have already finished building three stone bastions located at its shores, which defended the town from marauding moros of Mindanao. The three stone structures are prominent in the 1797 Map of Panay drawn under the direction of Don Santiago Salaverria, Teniente Coronel graduado de Batallon de Milicias de la Laguna de Bay, y Corregidor de la Provincia de Tondo (cf. \"Illustration\").\n\nBy beginning of the 1800s, the Spaniards noted that Banate profited from the benefit of its good bastions that the native residents built to defend themselves from the pirates. Because of this advantageous situation, in a short time, the town was developing again. The Spanish observers foresaw that soon Banate would be a notable town again. It enjoyed good ventilation and healthy climate. Though the houses were of simple construction, but the community had good defenses to protect itself against the frequent Moro incursions. People were engaged in agriculture, which constituted their main occupation. Fishing was also a very important trade because of the abundance of the harvest from Banate Bay.\n\nThere is no extant document or act of legislation recording the date of the formal reestablishment of Banate as a municipality in the year 1843. It could be noted, however, that the town had its first duly appointed Gobernadorcillo in the person of Don Felix Baviera, in 1837. Included within the territorial jurisdiction of the town of Banate during that time were Barotac Viejo and Anilao. The original site of the Poblacion of Banate was in what is now known as \"Bularan\". The small Church there, around which the town grew, was then situated near the shore. Nearby, towards the North, the town cemetery was located. For the market place, nipa and bamboo shacks were constructed near the area where the first Church used to be. During the later part of the 19th century the present Roman Catholic stone Church was constructed in the adjacent barangay which subsequently became the Poblacion or the capital of the town. \n\nAn extant record published by the Augustinians Friars states that in the year 1845, the town had 1,464 tributaries. It was described as follows:\n\n\"\"It is located by the shore, and has three stone bastions that defend it. Its climate is one of the best in the province. In addition to agriculture, the natives devote themselves to fishing, and export fish to many towns in the province; and women engage themselves in making fine fabrics from pineapple fiber. Its interim parish priest is R. P. Fray Bartolomé Villa,O.S.A., 27 years of age and 4 years in the ministry.\"\" \n\nFray Villa, the interim parish priest, came to manage Banate in 1843. He was given charge of Antique in 1847, and was transferred to Manila for health reasons, in 1856. In the list of priests assigned in Banate, there is no other name between him and the next Augustinian friar who came to the town in 1854.\n\nThe official local election results record for the year 184445 found in the National Archives (in Manila) entitled \"Relacion nominal de los Gobernadorcillos, tenientes, juezes, y alguaciles del año corriente con exposicion de sus Pueblos\" lists Don Pascual Baylon as the Gobernadorcillo of Banate, and that the other town officials during his incumbency were Julian Fuentes- Primer Teniente, Victoriano Bonifacio- Segundo Teniente, Ynesanio Domingo- Primer Juez, Ruberto Cayetano- Segundo Juez, Lucas Espinosa- Primer Alguacil, Juan Mateo- Segundo Alguacil, Juan Ygnacio- Tercer Alguacil.\nThirteen years after the first Gobernadorcillo of Banate was appointed, Governor General Antonio Blanco declared Banate as an independent parish on 5 April 1850, at the same time as that of Anilao. In his decree, the Governor General noted that Banate was already separated from Barotac Nuevo in its temporal administration, and after consulting with the various Spanish colonial authorities, including the Bishop of Cebu (who had ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the entire Visayas) and the Governor of the Region, he deemed it opportune to decree the separation of the town's spiritual care from its mother Parish of Barotac Nuevo. However, the town was not formally established as a parish until 1854. The following year, in 1855, it was placed under the patronage of St. John the Baptist. In that year, the elected Gobernadorcillo of Banate was Capitan Don Tomas Juanico, and the following were the other town officials: D. Alfonso Arroyo- Primer Teniente, Pablo Becenra- Segundo Teniente y Juez mayor de Ganados, Sabino Apacible- Juez mayor de Sementeras, Claudio Juanico- Juez de Policia, Fabiano Baquisal- Primer Alguacil, Tobias Bacabac- Segundo Alguacil, Luis Banbeno-Tercer Alguacil. The first full-time parish priest of Banate was R. P. Fray Nicolas Calvo, O.S.A., who served the town in a more stable manner upon its formal erection as a parish in 1854.\n\nBecause of the benefit of good bastions, the inhabitants benefited more and more from its advantageous internal situation. Within very short years after the resettlement of the town, Banate recovered to be a notable community with plenty of rice, sugar, tobacco, and pineapple fiber fabrics, which the women produced.\n\nThe present Church of the parish was built in 1870 by R. P. Eustaqiuo Torés, O.S.A. It was made of stone and wood during the Spanish time. His successor, Fr. Manuel Santos, built the convent made of wood in 1883.\n\nOn 28 October 1898, during the Revolution for Philippine Independence, Banate (which remained loyal to Spain) was reduced to ashes by the rebels under the ill-mannered Juan Maraingan - a leader of one of the bandit groups or \"aggraviados\" (boyongs, pulahanes, and tulisanes), who took advantage of the unsettled times to come down and attack the Spanish forces and unprotected towns and villages. The revolutionaries welcomed cooperation with these groups, but would later make a clear distinction between the two movements. The relationship between the Principalía-led revolutionaries and the agraviados was marked by distrust and conflict. In the eyes of revolutionaries like Martin Delgado, Ananias Diocno, and Leandro Fullon, the agraviados were outcasts, religious fanatics.\n\nTowards the end of the Spanish rule, Banate had 6,285 residents. All of whom were baptized Catholics, except for 5 of the 6 Chinese residents. At that time, there were 3,145 persons paying tribute (\"\"de pago\"\"), and 256 or around 12.29% classified as exempted or \"\"de privilegio y gratis\"\" (principales).\n\nThe Parish Priests played important roles in the life of towns of the Philippines during the Spanish Regime. Many of them were the builders of public structures and defenses of colonial towns. Having its own parish priest added prestige to the status of a municipality during that period. Banate had its first priest in 1763. Below is the list of Spanish Augustinian Friars who served the town during the colonial era:\n\nThis religious was a native of Villarodrigo, province of Leon. He entered the convent of Valladolid in 1734, at the age of seventeen. He was a missionary of the Italones in 1740, and Minister of Pórac (1744), Magalan and Tarlac (1747), S. Miguel de Mayumo (1747), S. José de los Montes (1750), Anilao (1759), and Guimbál with Banate (1763). He was captured by the Moros in 1764, in the port of Tayabas, and was killed by them.\n\n\nHe was born in Castañeda in the Province of Oviedo in Asturias, in 1817. He received the Augustinian habit in the \"Colegio de Valladolid\" in 1832. On 4 March 1836, he was given the Royal Mandate by Queen Isabela II, together with 23 other Augustinian missionaries, to evangelize in the Philippines. He was 21 years old upon receipt of the mission order, and was still a theologian in the Order of sub-deacons. Fray Villa arrived in the Philippine Islands in November 1836. After finishing his studies in Manila, he went to Visayas, where he held the parishes of Banate and Antique in 1843 and 1847 respectively. In 1856, he came to Manila and, taking sick leave in the town of Gapán, died on May 2 in the same year (1856).\n\n\nA native of Villasarracino, in the province of Palencia; son of Zoilo and Benita Andrés. He was born in 1819. He took his religious vows in the \"Colegio de Valladolid\" in 1844, and ministered the parishes of San Pedro (1850), Banate (1854) and Igbaras (1858) in Visayas, dying in this last town assignment, on June 13, 1861.\n\nFray Calvo was among the 13 Augustinian priests and 7 friars in minors orders, who were given the Royal permission by Queen Isabela II, on 20 January 1845, to embark from the port of Santander, for Philippine mission.\n\n\nHe was born in Valladolid in 1833; and son of Felipe Benicio Alonso and Patricia Barriuso. After having taken religious profession in the \"Colegio de los Agustinos\" of the aforementioned city on 13 May 1851 and, having received the Royal mandate of Queen Isabela II earlier, on 25 September 1854 (No. 131), he moved to Manila in 1855 to begin his missionary work in the Philippines. Here he was ordained a priest and, soon after, obedience destined him to go to the province of Iloilo, where he administered the towns of Banate in 1859, and Barotac Nuevo from 1865 to July 2, 1878, date of his death.\n\n\nFray Eustaqiuo Torés was a native of Olmedo, Province of Valladolid; son of Nemesio and Lorenza Sanz. He received the religious habit in Valladolid in 1861, made profession of his first vows in 1862; and his final vows on June 26, 1868 at the age of 23 years, after 6 years in the Order. His studies include Philosophy, Theology, and Cycle I of Canon Law.\n\nThe young Augustinian went to the Philippines, already a deacon, in 1868, having received earlier, on 4 December 1867, the Royal Order of Queen Isabela II (No. 59), to embark on mission to the Archipelago. He administered in the province of Iloilo the curates of Banate and Barotac Nuevo in 1870 and 1882 respectively. In these towns, he built churches made of stone blocks and of wood. He died in Barotac Nuevo, on May 4, 1888.\n\nHe was born in Iglesias (Burgos) in 1853; son of Ruperto an Bonifacio González. He made his religious profession in the \"Colegio de Valladolid\", on 21 September 1870.\n\nOn 13 November 1873, Fray Santos and 9 other Augustinian friars received the permission of the Government of the First Spanish Republic, to embark for mission in the Philippines. In the Visayas, he served as associate of the parish priest of Santa Barbara in 1878, and parish priest of Banate, (in which town he built the wooden parish rectory) from 1883 to June 29, 1889, the day of his death.\n\n\nThis religious was born in Bergüenda (Alava). After embracing the monastic life in the \"Colegio de Valladolid\" in 1879 at the age of seventeen, he arrived in the Philippine Archipelago, already a deacon, in 1886. Ordained as a priest in December of this same year, he studied the Panay dialect in the town of Santa Bárbara. He served the parishes of Mina in 1888, Banate 1890, Ajui in 1892, and Pavia from 1895 to 1898. It was from Pavia where, full of the spirit of God and eager to preach the Gospel to the pagans, he went to the missions of Hun-Nan (China) where he continued to work in such a glorious zeal. He finished building the beautiful church of Pavia and prepared it for sacred cult.\n\n\nNative of Cornago in La Rioja. He was born on 24 March 1859. He did his first religious profession in the \"Colegio de Valladolid\", on 25 October 1877. Fulfilling the mandate of his superiors, he left Spain for the Philippines, to whose capital he arrived on 10 September 1884. In the Philippines, after completing his regular studies, he was assigned as parish priest of Barotac Viejo (1886), S. Miguel (1890), Bánate (1892), Dingle (1893), Igbarás (1894), Librarian of the convent of the Santo Niño de Cebú (1895), parish priest of Dueñas (1897) and associate of the parish priest of Maasin (from the month of September of that year until November 1898.) He died in Spain in the early 1900s.\n\nAn extant document of the Report made by Fray Lope regarding the description of the Parish and its people, as well as describing the Church properties in Banate, exists in the custody of the Monastery of the Augustinian Province of the Most Holy Name of Jesus of the Philippines in Valladolid, Spain. The document, which was written and signed in Cornago, La Rioja (the hometown of the Spanish Friar) is dated 4 August 1911. \n\n\nHe was born in the town of Ocaña, province of Toledo, on August 20, 1864. He was professed in Valladolid in 1880, and was ordained a priest in the following year upon his arrival in the Philippine Archipelago. He was parish priest of Dueñas in 1889, and of Banate from 1893 to 1898. Afterwards he served as professor of the Seminary of Manaus, of the State and Diocese of Amazons (Brazil). His name is cast on the largest bell of Banate.\n\nFray Arquero is also known for the manuscript he redacted on 1 January 1897, regarding the statistical data and historical information of the Parish of St. John the Baptist in Banate, Iloilo (Philippines)at the later part of the Spanish rule. The document can be found in the Archives of the Monastery of the Augustinian Province of the Most Holy Name of Jesus of the Philippines in Valladolid, Spain.\n\nWhen the Americans seized control of Panay at the later part of 1899, Banate was among the first settlements they bombarded and chosen as landing spot for their forces. On October 27, 1899, General Diocno informed General Delgado of the docking at Iloilo of the USS Concord. On board were 3,000 troops and 200 horses. On November 2, two American gunboats bombarded the town of Banate. On the 5th, American forces began their advance outside the frontlines toward San Miguel. Landings were made in Banate on November 25, in Capiz and Calivo in December, and in San Jose de Buenavista in January 1900. Unable to resist the American advance, the Filipino revolutionaries retreated to the mountains of Panay. Delgado retreated to the mountains of Lambunao, Diocno to the hills of Aclan, and Fullon to the vicinity of Mt. Madia-as. By July 1, 1900, the Panay defenders had opted to shift to guerrilla tactics.\n\nBy the beginning of 1901, the disenchanted revolutionaries had run out of men, ammunition, and food. In February, Delgado surrendered to the Americans. On March 1, Fullon followed suit, and on March 21, Diocno signed the Paz de Aclan. Colonel Salas continued the fight until October.\n\nWhen the American rule was established, the town's population was 6,250 (2973 males and 3277 females).\n\nWhen the Revolution broke out in 1898, Ciriaco Fuentes, more popularly known as Capitan Takong, was the Gobernadorcillo. He was succeeded by Don Eugenio Badilla as the first local President shortly after the town became part of the United States territory in 1901, upon the arrival and takeover of the American soldiers under the command of Commander Brunnel, who established the American rule in Banate.\n\nThe town's first officials under the American Regime were the following:\n\n\n\"N. B.\" Don Eugenio Badilla, Don Marcelo Madrid, Don Florencio Villaluz were also listed by the second to the last Spanish Friar assigned in Banate as among the distinguished residents of the town during the last years of the Spanish Era.\n\nFrom 1 October 1901, an American teacher was also stationed in Banate.\n\nDuring this American, Barotac Viejo and Anilao were reduced as districts under Banate. The Administrative Act No. 2657 of the Insular Government of the Philippine Islands, dated 31 December 1916, shows Banate as one of the 24 Municipalities in Iloilo, and of the five towns belonging to the Fifth District of the Province. On 1 January 1918, Barotac Viejo was separated through the Executive Order No. 84 of the American Governor General. On that occasion, the majority of the town Officials of Banate were Barotacnons. As a consequence, there came about a succession of appointed Presidents in Banate, until the time of the next election. During the term of Benjamin Buyco as President of the town (1936–1939), Anilao was separated from Banate. Afterwards, Benjamin Buyco also became the first Mayor of Anilao.\n\nDuring this period, a Banatenhon - Ludovico Arroyo Bañas - was chosen as one of the ten personnel of the American government telegraph service in the Philippines to compose the first and only group of Filipino \"pensionados\" who, in 1919, underwent advanced training in wireless telegraphy (radio), at the US Naval Radio School in Cavite. The training of the ten Filipinos was made possible through a special arrangement between the U. S. Naval Authorities in the Philippines and the Insular Government. To select the trainees, a special examination was conducted among the 398 students of the Post-Telegraph School. Later, Bañas (who is one of the prominent figures in the history of Philippine Telecommunications) became the Regional Superintendent of the Bureau of Telecommunications (BUTEL) in Region IV (Panay, Negros, Romblon, and Palawan), at the time of his retirement, on 16 February 1966.\n\nIn the , the population of Banate, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe 1995 National Census on Population and Housing shows that Banate had a total population of 24,976 excluding those residing in Fuentes (a contested barangay between Banate and Anilao). However, if Fuentes is included, the total population would be 25,597. Banate has average annual population growth rate of 1.21% based on the population change within the years 1990–1995. In the year 2010, the town's population reached 29,543.\n\nAs any other old Spanish town in the province of Iloilo, the natives of Banate were given surnames starting usually with the letter BA, BAL, BAS, etc. after the name of the town itself. This is also true for Barotac Viejo which was once a part of the pueblo which is why one can notice even up to the present that both towns share some families/clans with the same surnames.\n\nBeing a very versatile town with livelihood income both coming from the sea and the farmlands, Banate has generated actual income from calendar year 1995 to calendar year 1999 reaching up to P82,167,999.30. The increase of the town's income was mainly due to the increase in revenue allotment, tax, and operating revenue of the municipality. It could be observed that Banate is increasingly growing in commerce and industry.\n\nThe 1995 Census of Population and Housing (which includes Fuentes) recorded a total of 4,761 households with an average household size of 6 person per household for the urban area, and 5 persons per household for the rural area. The urban area, comprising Poblacion, Alacaygan, Bularan, Carmelo, Talokgangan and Zona Sur, had a total household of 1,653. The 12 rural barangays had a total of 2,908 households with San Salvador having the highest number households (480).\n\nThe 12 barangays belonging to the rural area had a population of 15,772 or about 62% of the total population of Banate. Of the 12 barangays, San Salvador had the highest population (2,380 or 9.31%), while Fuentes, (a disputed barangay between Banate and Anilao) had the least population of only 621 persons or 4% of the rural population, since some residents considered themselves residents of Anilao.\n\nBanate has an A & D area of 5,240.849 and a population of 25,597 as of 1995. The municipal gross density is 500 people/km². Urban density is 1600 people/km², of which Bularan is the highest having a density of 15,700 people/km². In the rural area, population density is 300 people/km². As projected, within the twelve (12) year period (1999–2010), the municipal gross population density will increase from 500 to 600 people/km².\n\nOf the 25,597 (as of 1995), the male population has numbered 12,949 or 50.59% with those in the age bracket of 5 – 9 years old having the highest population (1,743 or 13%). The age bracket with the lowest percentage are those with the age ranging from 85 years old and above (30 or 0.23%).On the other hand, female population has reached to 12,648 or 49.41% with those in the age range of 5 – 9 years old having the highest number (1,649 or 13%). The female residents with age range of 85 and above number 48 or 0.38%. The date of the census of 1995 shows that the ratio of male and female residents is 102:100.\n\nBased on the 1990 record, the majority of the Banatenhon's are Roman Catholics (16,338 or 70%); the next religious denomination with the second highest number of adherence are the Aglipayans or the members of the Philippine Independent Church (5,057 or 22%); there are 750 Protestants who comprise 3% of the population; Iglesia ni Kristo has 203 churchgoers or 1% of the population; and members of other religious sects like United Church of Christ in the Philippines, Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh Day Adventist, Muslims, etc. number 1,012 or 4% of the local population.\n\nA greater percentage of the population 10 years old and over are single (49.32%) than married (45.75%). About 3.73% are widowed; 0.37% are separated; and 0.82% are common law partners and unknown. The number of unmarried persons is higher among the adult males (4,840) as compared with those who are married (4,174). Among adult females the proportion of married persons is higher (4,253 or 23.09%) than those who are unmarried (4,245 or 23.05%).\n\nMajority of the people living in Banate speak Hiligaynon or 99.54% and 0.46% of the population speaks other Visayan dialects. English and Tagalog are also understood and spoken, and are also used in school, business, and government day to day transactions.\n\nIt is notable that when Banatenhons speak Hiligaynon, people from other places could easily distinguish the accent, most of the time dismissing the Banatenhons as Dumangasanons. Among the towns in the surrounding area, only Banate and Dumangas speak pure Hiligaynon, as opposed to other towns whose native tongue is Kinaray-a.\n\nAs of 1995, a total of 10,711 persons with ages below 15 and over 64 years old are considered dependents; 14,625 belong to the working population with ages 15–65 years old. Hence, there are 7 dependents out of 10 working persons.\n\nAs of 1990 the labor force numbered 13,643 persons or 57% of the total population. Of these, there are 6,747 or 49.45% male and 6,896 or 50.55% female ranging the age 15 years old and above. Of the 13,643, 7,886 have stable employment. 5,239 of these are male and 2,647 are female. Population projection shows that from 1995 to the year 2010, the population growth rate is 1.21%. This means an additional potential work force for the municipality, which when properly exploited will generate a maximum income to the town of Banate. The labor force within the twelve (12) year period (1999–2010) will reach to 18,683 and 11,527 of these, will be economically active labor force (15 years old and over).\n\nThree Stone Bastions located at the shore that defended the town of Banate, from marauding Muslims of Mindanao.\n\nMunicipal Hall made of wood.\n\nParochial Church made of strong materials up to the tower, with zinc and galvanized steel roof. It has three naves with a transept and three altars; the lower part (or the walls) made of stone.\n\nSchool made of (bamboo) cane.\n\nParochial House made of chosen woods. The aforementioned parish house was supported by a dozen molave \"harigues\" of extraordinary enormity of eighty centimeters in diameter. It had zinc roof. Until the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety and nine, there was another parish house that existed next to the beach. That, too, was made of strong materials until the upper floor, and the roof was made of wood with covered of nipa. From this house the harigues or pillars were removed to build the new parochial house.\n\nCemetery about five hundred meters distant from the Poblacion settlement; and located on the road that leads to the mountain near the hill called \"\"Cambang-bato\"\", which was enclosed by a short wall made of (bamboo) cane.\n\nThe Municipal Hall, Church, School, and the Cemetery were made under the supervision of R.P. Fray Eustaquio Torés, O.S.A., while the Parochial House was made by R.P. Fray Manuel Santos, O.S.A.\n\nThe Catholic parish of Banate celebrated its 250th foundation anniversary in 2013. The Catholic community was established in Banate by the friars of the Augustinian Order in 1763, when Fray Alejandro Arias was assigned to in the town.\nThe present church was erected under the supervision of Fray Eustaqio Torés, OSA in 1870. But was left unfinished when Fray Torés was transferred to Barotac Nuevo, where he also built another church. This probably explains why there is no particular architectural style found in the edifice. Nevertheless, the church of Banate withstood the tests of time, from fires to the bombings of the war. Built in the shape of a Latin cross, it is one of the old churches in Iloilo, still intact and whole from the narthex to the apse and transepts unlike some churches which were either cut into half or damaged either by nature or war. It is made of corals, limestone and rocks and put together through a mixture of Apog and Eggs. The first detailed description of the church building can be found in the 1911 Report of Fray Agapito Lope, parish priest of Banate in 1893. It is also one of the widest, in terms of space, having three spacious naves all in all surpassing even that of Santa Barbara or Lambunao.\nThe last Augustinian curate of Banate, Fray Bernardo Arquero, OSA, commissioned the three bells donated by Doña Carmen Baban and cast by the renowned bell-caster Hilario Sunico. The \"campana mayor\" is one of the largest in the island but it is, unfortunately, broken. It is the last existing old Augustinian-built church in the north. It was built under forced-labor. The parish also boasts of having the complete old baptismal, marriage and death records dating back to the early 1900s which can be found in the parish office.\n\nParish and Assistant Priests who served the Parish of Banate from 19-present (records from 17631898, 18991909, 194144 [World War II Era] are perhaps gone already). After the revolution against Spain, the parishes under the friar orders, Banate being one (under the Augustinians), were handed over to the care of the secular clergy of the dioceses. The following are the names of the priests who had performed their ministry in Banate, as retrieved in the parish register of baptisms:\n\n\nN.B.\n\n\"During the time of Fr. Parcon, the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer (Redemptorist Fathers) had a mission in Banate, during which a number of Aglipayans converted to Catholicism, as noted in the parish register of Baptisms. The Redemptorists fathers were\": RP Patrick Scott, CSsr and RP William Daley, CSsr.\n\n\nEvery year, since 1855, the town of Banate celebrates the feast of its Patron St. John the Baptist, on the 24th of June. The \"Diana,\" a marching band, wakes the townsfolk early in the morning so as to signal opening of the fiesta. Masses are held, in both Roman Catholic and Aglipayan Churches after which, devotees' carry in procession a decorated carroza containing the statue of the Patron saint through the main streets of the town. The townspeople cook typical delicious dishes for the guests to eat and, later in the afternoon, children as well as teenagers go to the plaza to enjoy the fun at the \"peryahan\". People would throw water to everyone roaming in the streets, as part of the celebration. In the evening, a \"search\" for Miss Banate is held in the municipal covered gymnasium, where the crowd would pack in the gym, in order to cheer for their respective candidates.\n\nBanate has, for centuries, also observed the Holy Week celebration in the traditional Catholic custom. The town boasts of antique ivory religious images, which are only seen displayed during the Easter Triduum celebrations and processions. Both the Roman Catholic and the Aglipayan Communities in this town have preserved the Western and Catholic way of making the memory of the passion, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ alive through the heritage received from the Spaniards, who evangelized the town for centuries. The meditation on the seven last words of Jesus and the re-enactment of his last moments on calvary attract devotees from neighboring towns on Good Fridays.\n\nFor over 17 years in the making, Kasag festival came as an offshoot of the Annual Street Dancing Competition as highlight of the Annual Town Fiesta, and the promotion of the town's famed product, the Blue Crabs (scientific name: Portunus Pelagicus which translates to \"“savory beautiful swimmer”\"), through as the Municipality's One Town One Product (OTOP) project. The idea of Kasag Festival as vessel of promotion and marketing of the town product sprung from the OTOP Coordinator during the OTOP presentation at Passi City,\n\nPrevious Street Dancing Competitions were held every 24th day of June, as one of the highlights of the final day of the Annual Town Fiesta honoring and thanking God through the intercession of St. John the Baptist for the fruitful year spent. However, the activities meant at integrating Kasag Festival with the Feast of St. John the Baptist proved to be such a tedious endeavor for Banatenhons, requiring much of their time and effort. Most often, this results to distractions, if not deviations, from the original essence and spirit of the religious fiesta which is about the devotion to St. John the Baptist and thanksgiving to the Almighty God.\n\nWith the implementation of the DTI's One Town One Product (OTOP), Banate identified Kasag (Blue Crab) as the prevalent and flourishing fishery based industry thus making it Banate's OTOP. Promoting the new product and incorporating the product with the festival was conceptualized by the people in charge of OTOP.\n\nWith positive response from the Local Chief Executive, all systems go for the First Kasag Festival Celebration; with \"young blood\" from the newly elected public officials and the desire to promote Banate's One Town One Product as well as Banate's Tourism Development the First Kasag Festival came into celebration in December 2007.\n\nFood Courts of various mouth-watering and native delicacies were there to give justice to the ever-craving and discriminating taste of Ilonggos. A nightly Singing contest to entertain and showcase the singing prowess of Banatenhons was staged. Daily entertaining activities like Laro ng Lahi (old Filipino games), Basketball Tournament and search for Mutya sang Kasag were organized topped by the eagerly anticipated all new Street Dancing Competition based on the idea of Kasag's preservation for future generation and Kasag's nature and thanksgiving to the bountiful season of fishing.\n\nSelected Kasag performers regularly compete in other festivals. Banate is represented by Tribu Kasag in the Kasadyahan portion of the Dinagyang Festival every January in Iloilo City. The Kasag festival also competes in the Aliwan Fiesta held every April in Metro Manila. Both Tribu Kasag and the Kasag Festival have won several awards, including the Kasadyahan championship trophy in 2009 and 2010, and the second runner-up trophy at the Aliwan Fiesta in 2010.\n\n\"Nota Bene: History of \"Tribu Kasag\" and its antecedent Tribes.\"\n\nSince 1987, Banate has participated the well-known Kasadyahan Festival which takes place before the Iloilo City's Dinagyang Festival. Tribu Kasway has represented the town from the year 1987 to 1993. After then, from 1995 to 1999, the town changed the group's name to Tribu Hugyaw. They won 2nd Place in 1999. Tribu Panagat, the newly adapted name, was Kasadyan Festival's winning groups in the year 2000. It continued to represent the town of Banate until 2003. From 2004 to 2005, the name \"Tribu Hugyaw\" was re-adapted by the group.\n\nLater and until the present, \"Tribu Kasag\" represents Banate at the Dinagyang Festival as well as at other festivals in the Province of Iloilo and national competitions of the same kind. This current \"cultural ambassadors of Banate\" are known for their merry and lively dance which depicts the townpeople's livelihood as fishermen, and the town's famed product: \"Kasag\" or crab(s).\n\nAwards (of Tribu Kasag):\n\n\nA mixture of art, entertainment and skills enhancement: that is Banate's \"Karera de Paraw\".\n\nHeld every Easter Sunday of the year, the \"Karera de Paraw\" is a sailboat racing competition participated by Banatenhon fisher folks. It is a four-day activity, which includes the \"Pinta Layag\" (sail painting competition involving the out of school youths), \"Mutya sang Paraw\" (a beauty pageant competition), \"Rakustik\" (an acoustical jam competition), and capped by the \"Karera de Paraw\" on the fourth and final day.\n\nIt aims to help boost Banate tourism together with Kasag Festival, to encourage the artistic ability of Banatenhon youth through the sail painting competition, and to give a good and fun-filled break for the fisherfolks while aiming to bag home prizes.\n\nOriginally conceived and financed by Alfonso \"Nonong\" Delicana III, the Annual AD3 Karera de Paraw & Pinta Layag competition is now on its 4th year. However, the expanding scope and number of activities of the event encourage at this point the involvement and participation also of supporters in and outside Banate. Organizers would now welcome donations for the activities of the coming year.\n\nGobernadorcillos of Banate since 1837:\n\nPresidents elected for Banate during the American regime:\n\nMayors of Banate during the U.S. commonwealth government:\n\nMayors of Banate during the Japanese occupation and after the liberation:\nMayors of Banate during the time of the republic:\n\nBanate has a port for boats that transport passengers and local products, like rice and bananas, to the island of Negros, which in turn, exports sugar and organic produce to this town.\n\nOn July 30, 2006, governors from 16 provinces of the Visayas met at the Provincial Capitol of Negros Occidental in Bacolod City to discuss the construction of bridges linking Panay, Negros, Cebu, Bohol, and Leyte. They call these bridges the \"Trans-Visayas Friendship Bridges\". Among these bridges would be the Banate-Negros Occidental Bridge, which would link the Island of Negros to the Island of Panay. Located at the spot nearest to Negros, Banate is the most logical and ideal place for the construction of the connecting bridge between the two islands of the Visayas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155018", "title": "Jeffersonite", "text": "Jeffersonite\n\nJeffersonite is a dark green pyroxene mineral, a manganese zinc enriched variety of augite (Ca(Mn,Zn,Fe)SiO), sometimes compared to aegirine. Jeffersonite is not a recognized mineral name.\n\nIt occurs in pegmatites where it can form crystals up to long and in the contact metamorphic zone between limestone and various intrusive rocks. It is reported from the Sterling Hill Mine, Franklin, New Jersey, in South Australia and Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155023", "title": "Enicocephalidae", "text": "Enicocephalidae\n\nEnicocephalidae, also called unique-headed bugs and gnat bugs, are a family of 130 species of the suborder heteroptera. They are typically 4 mm long, and found throughout the world. They have an elongated head, constricted in places, hence their head is 'unique'.\n\nThese 26 genera belong to the family Enicocephalidae:\n\n"}
{"id": "2155028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155028", "title": "Ammonihah", "text": "Ammonihah\n\nAmmonihah () is a city mentioned in the Book of Mormon. According to the book, the city was founded by an otherwise unknown man named Ammonihah. The inhabitants of Ammonihah were followers of the religion of Nehor.\n"}
{"id": "2155036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155036", "title": "Ned (film)", "text": "Ned (film)\n\nNed is a 2003 Australian film, directed by Abe Forsythe. It is satire of Australian outlaw Ned Kelly, and his iconographical status as a \"hero.\"\n\nThe film was released in the same year as \"Ned Kelly\", starring Heath Ledger.\n\nIn November 2006 on Vega FM host Shaun Micallef called \"Ned\" \"The funniest Australian film made in the last ten years.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2155044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155044", "title": "Hobart-class destroyer", "text": "Hobart-class destroyer\n\nThe \"Hobart\" class is a ship class of three air warfare destroyers (AWDs) being built for the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). Planning for ships to replace the \"Adelaide\"-class frigates and restore the capability last exhibited by the \"Perth\"-class destroyers began by 2000, initially under acquisition project SEA 1400, which was re-designated SEA 4000. Although the designation \"Air Warfare Destroyer\" is used to describe ships dedicated to the defence of a naval force (plus assets ashore) from aircraft and missile attack, the planned Australian destroyers are expected to also operate in anti-surface, anti-submarine, and naval gunfire support roles.\n\nPlanning for the Australian Air Warfare Destroyer (as the class was known until 2006) continued through the mid-2000s, with the selection of the Aegis combat system as the intended combat system and ASC as the primary shipbuilder in 2005. In late 2005, the AWD Alliance was formed as a consortium of the Defence Materiel Organisation (DMO), ASC, and Raytheon. Between 2005 and 2007, Gibbs & Cox's Evolved \"Arleigh Burke\"-class destroyer concept and Navantia's \"Álvaro de Bazán\"-class frigate competed for selection as the AWD design. Although the \"Arleigh Burke\" design was larger and more capable, the \"Álvaro de Bazán\" design was selected in June 2007 as it was an existing design, and would be cheaper, quicker, and less risky to build.\n\nThree ships were ordered in October 2007, and will be assembled at ASC's facility in Osborne, South Australia, from 31 pre-fabricated modules (or 'blocks'). An option to build a fourth destroyer was included in the original contract, but has not been exercised. ASC, NQEA Australia, and the Forgacs Group were selected in May 2009 to build the blocks, but within two months, NQEA was replaced by BAE Systems Australia. Construction errors and growing delays led the AWD Alliance to redistribute the construction workload in 2011, with some modules to be built by Navantia. Increasing slippage has pushed the original planned 2014-2016 commissioning dates out by at least three years, with lead ship to be completed by June 2017, in September 2018, and by March 2020. The AWD Alliance, Navantia, and the involved shipyards have been criticised for underestimating risks, costs, and timeframes; faulty drawings and bad building practices leading to repeated manufacturing errors; and blame-passing. The alliance concept has been panned for having no clear management structure or entity in charge, and having the DMO simultaneously acting as supplier, build partner, and customer for the ships.\n\nThe 1992 Force Structure Review contained plans to replace the three \"Perth\"-class guided-missile destroyers and four of the six \"Adelaide\"-class guided-missile frigates with air defence vessels. The initial proposal – to build an additional six \"Anzac\"-class frigates configured for wide-area anti-aircraft warfare – did not go ahead as the \"Anzac\" design was too small to effectively host all the required equipment and weapons. Instead, the RAN began to upgrade the \"Adelaide\"s in 1999 to fill the anti-aircraft capability that would be lost when the \"Perth\"s left service between 1999 and 2001. The frigate upgrade was only intended as a stop-gap (only four ships were upgraded, and all four were due to decommission during the mid-2010s), and by 2000, the Australian Defence Force had begun a project to replace the three \"Perth\"-class destroyers. The acquisition of the dedicated air warfare destroyers was initially identified as Project SEA 1400, then redesignated Project SEA 4000.\n\nThe main role of the air warfare destroyer is air defence of a naval task group, in addition to assets ashore and operating in the littoral. Although specifically designed for air warfare, the AWDs also had to be capable of facing other threats, and were to be fitted with ship-to-ship missiles, a gun for naval gunfire support of soldiers ashore, and anti-submarine capability through sonar systems and abovewater-launched torpedoes. The ships had to be able to operate a helicopter for both surveillance and combat duties.\n\nIn 2004, the Department of Defence identified that the future air warfare destroyer class would be built around the United States Navy's Aegis Combat System. The use of Aegis was formally approved in April 2005, and Raytheon Australia was brought into the AWD project with the responsibility of integrating the Aegis system into the selected design, along with modifications to accommodate RAN-preferred electronic warfare equipment, underwater sensors, and weapons. In May 2005, the ASC shipyard at Osborne, South Australia, was identified as the primary shipbuilder for the project. In late 2005, the AWD Alliance was formed to organise and implement the project. The Alliance is a consortium including the Defence Materiel Organisation (DMO), ASC's project-dedicated subsidiary, and Raytheon.\n\nAfter receiving tenders from Blohm + Voss, Navantia, and Gibbs & Cox, among others, the Australian government identified Gibbs & Cox's Evolved Flight II \"Arleigh Burke\"-class destroyer as the preferred design in August 2005. The \"Álvaro de Bazán\"-class frigate, designed by Navantia, was identified as the official alternative, and both designs began further testing and modification as part of a two-year selection process. The two ship designs were equivalent in many areas, including length, speed and weapons outfit, although the \"Arleigh Burke\" class was larger with a displacement 2,200 tons greater than the Spanish frigate, and had superior capabilities in regards to range ( greater), helicopter operations (two embarked helicopters instead of one), primary armament (a 64-cell Mark 41 Vertical Launch System compared to a 48-cell launcher), and close-defence (with a second close-in weapons system). The Chief of Navy, Vice Admiral Russ Shalders, believed the American design would provide the RAN with a greater long-term capability, as there was greater scope for upgrades and modifications later in the ships' careers. Despite the American destroyer being the preferred option, the conclusion of the selection process in late June 2007 saw Navantia's \"Álvaro de Bazán\" design selected: the Spanish ships were considered a less-risky design as, unlike the Evolved \"Arleigh Burke\"s (which at this point only existed as an on-paper design), vessels of the Spanish design had been built and were operational. The \"Álvaro de Bazán\" derivatives were predicted to be in service four years earlier than the American-designed ships, and would cost A$1 billion less to build, with further financial and technical benefits in ordering the AWDs and the \"Canberra\"-class landing helicopter dock ships from the same supplier.\n\nThe contract for the ships was signed on 4 October 2007. The A$8 billion, three-ship deal included the option to order a fourth ship at a later date. This option was due to expire in October 2008. The Australian government sought to extend the offer into early 2009, so as to review the recommendations of the \"\" white paper due for completion at the end of 2008, and to enquire about acquiring a fourth Aegis system from the USN, before ordering or cancelling the fourth destroyer. The Navy League of Australia has consistently supported the acquisition of a fourth AWD. According to the Navy League, building a fourth destroyer would be relatively cheap (money for design and other 'start-up' costs would have already been spent) and improve RAN capabilities (by offering increased flexibility and redundancy, particularly in the event of a Falklands War-like armed conflict). Along with the Navy League, the Australian defence industry has supported a fourth destroyer, to keep workers employed for longer while reducing the gap to the next major defence construction projects (the \"Collins\"-class replacement and the \"Anzac\"-class replacement).\n\nThe Australian Minister for Defence announced on 20 January 2006 that the Air Warfare Destroyers will be named , , and . The Navy League of Australia suggested several possible names for a possible fourth destroyer; one was to name the ship \"Melbourne\"; another involved taking the \"Adelaide\" name from the second \"Canberra\"-class landing helicopter dock ship, and renaming the larger vessel \"Australia\".\n\nEach destroyer will have a length overall of , a maximum beam of , and a draught of . At launch, the ships will have a full-load displacement of . The \"Hobart\"s have been designed to allow for upgrades and installation of new equipment, with a theoretical maximum displacement of .\n\nThe \"Hobart\"s use a more powerful propulsion system than their Spanish predecessors. The combined diesel or gas turbine (CODOG) propulsion arrangement consists of two General Electric Marine model 7LM2500-SA-MLG38 gas turbines, each generating , and two Caterpillar Bravo 16 V Bravo diesel engines, each providing . These drive two propeller shafts, fitted with Wärtsilä controllable pitch propellers. The ships' maximum speed is over , with a range of over at ; although not fast enough to keep pace with an American carrier battle group, the RAN is happy with the speed/range tradeoff, as endurance is more important for Australian operating conditions. For in-harbour manoeuvring, each destroyer is fitted with a bow thruster.\n\nThe standard ship's company is 186-strong, plus 16 additional personnel to operate and maintain the ship's helicopter. Additional accommodation increases the maximum potential complement to 31 officers and 203 sailors. Onboard electricity requirements (the hotel load) are supplied by four MTU prime mover diesel motors connected to Alconza alternators.\n\nEach ship's main weapon is a 48-cell Mark 41 Vertical Launch System. The cells are capable of firing the RIM-66 Standard 2 anti-aircraft missile or the quad-packed RIM-162 Evolved Sea Sparrow point-defence missile. The \"Force 2030\" white paper indicates that the \"Hobart\"s Mark 41 launchers are likely to be capable (either as built or through later modification) of firing the RIM-174 Standard 6 anti-aircraft missile and the Tomahawk cruise missile.\n\nThe missiles are supplemented by two four-canister launchers for Harpoon anti-ship missiles, and a BAE Systems Mark 45 (Mod 4) 5-inch gun with a 62-calibre barrel. The 5-inch gun has a maximum range of . Two Babcock Mark 32 Mod 9 two-tube torpedo launchers will be carried, and used to fire Eurotorp MU90 torpedoes at submarines. For close-in defence, the ships will carry an aft-facing Phalanx CIWS system, plus two M242 Bushmasters in Typhoon mounts sited on the bridge wings.\n\nIn November 2006, the Australian Government commissioned research on whether the AWDs should be equipped with anti-ballistic missile capabilities, most likely linked to the United States Department of Defense's Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense System.\n\nThe \"Hobart\"s will each initially carry a single S-70B-2 Seahawk helicopter. The helicopter will be replaced by the MH-60 Romeo version of the Seahawk once it enters RAN service. Two rigid-hulled inflatable boats are carried.\n\nThe \"Hobart\"s are built around the Aegis combat system, specifically the Aegis Baseline 7.1 Refresh 2 version. The system has been 'Australianised' to be more capable in regards to non-aviation threats. The system feeds into the Australian Tactical Interface; six multi-function consoles that are capable of handling the destroyer's sonar, electronic warfare, and close-defence functions in addition to Aegis. The main radar system is the Lockheed Martin AN/SPY-1D(V) S-band radar. The combination of the AN/SPY-1D(V) radar, Aegis system, and Standard 2 missile will allow each destroyer to fire on enemy aircraft or missiles over away.\n\nIn addition to the main radar, the \"Hobart\"s will be fitted with a Northrop Grumman AN/SPQ-9B X-band pulse Doppler horizon search radar, a Raytheon Mark 99 fire-control system with two continuous wave illuminating radars for missile direction, and two L-3 Communications SAM Electronics X-band navigation radars. The ships are fitted with an Ultra Electronics Sonar Systems' Integrated Sonar System, which includes a hull-mounted sonar and a towed variable depth sonar built up from a quad directional active-passive receive array, a passive torpedo detection array and a high-powered towed sonar source. Other sensors include an Ultra Electronics Series 2500 electro-optical director, a Sagem VAMPIR IR search and track system, and Rafael Toplite stabilised target acquisition sights for each ship's Typhoons.\n\nElectronic warfare sensors consist of the ITT EDO Reconnaissance and Surveillance Systems ES-3701 electronic support measures (ESM) radar, a SwRI MBS-567A communications ESM system, an Ultra Electronics Avalon Systems multipurpose digital receiver, and a Jenkins Engineering Defence Systems low-band receiver. Countermeasures include four launchers for Nulka decoy missiles, plus four six-tube launchers for radio frequency, infrared, and underwater acoustic decoys.\n\nCommunications equipment includes HF, VHF, and UHF radios, Link 11 and Link 16 tactical data exchange uplinks, ASTIS MCE (Advanced SATCOM Terrestrial Infrastructure System Maritime Communications Elements) terminals, and Inmarsat equipment.\n\nThe control system for this class is provided by Navantia and is a version of the Integrated Platform Management System (IPMS) designed specifically for the Hobart Class Destroyers. The implementation of Navantia’s IPMS uses COMPLEX / SIMPLEX, a framework developed by Navantia for new ship builds and all future modernisations. This system allows for the automation, control and supervision of all the equipment that is installed on the ship with the exception of the combat system.\n\nCurrently within the Royal Australian Navy (RAN) the IPMS is installed on the Canberra-class landing helicopter dock, Hobart Class guided missile destroyers and the Supply-class replenishment oiler platforms as well as on-board more than 60 ships across multiple navies.\n\nEach ship is assembled from 31 pre-fabricated modules or 'blocks', averaging in weight and in size. The nine blocks making up the forward superstructure of each destroyer, containing the most sensitive or classified equipment, are manufactured by ASC's shipyard at Osborne, South Australia, where the final assembly of each destroyer will occur. The other 22 blocks for each ship were subcontracted out. On 9 May 2009, two companies were selected to fabricate the additional blocks: NQEA Australia (building the twelve blocks of each ship's hull) and Forgacs Group (building the ten aft superstructure blocks per ship). However, during June, NQEA advised the AWD Alliance that the shipbuilder was undergoing restructuring and may have difficulty in meeting its contracted obligations. The Department of Defence went into negotiations with NQEA and BAE Systems Australia (which had been shortlisted during the initial subcontractor selection process), and at the end of June, transferred all of NQEA's work to BAE.\nIn October 2010, the central keel block manufactured by BAE for \"Hobart\" was found to be distorted and incompatible with other hull sections. The cause of the fabrication errors is unknown: BAE blamed incorrect drawings from designer Navantia, while the AWD Alliance claimed the other two shipyards have not experienced similar problems, when in fact they had, and suggested first-of-kind manufacturing errors were made by BAE. However, a report in 2014, by the Australian National Audit Office (ANAO) confirmed that 'errors resulting from a sub-standard technology transfer procedure (passing on specific techniques relative to the design) & drawings that were not localised by designer Navantia' were to blame. The delay in reworking the keel block was predicted to set construction back by at least six months. Other major issues during \"Hobart\"s construction included the need to replace 25% of the internal pipework due to faulty manufacture, and the initial rejection of the ship's mainmast block because of defects in the cabling and combat system equipment. \"Brisbane\"s construction has been marred by numerous defects requiring rework.\n\nIn late May 2011, the government announced that the delay in building \"Hobart\" had increased to between one and two years, and would attempt to reduce the workload on BAE (which is also responsible for superstructure work on the \"Canberra\"-class amphibious ships) by redistributing up to 13 of the 24 hull blocks the company was slated to build for the first two ships to the other two shipyards. In addition, the three blocks containing each destroyer's hull-mounted sonar are being assembled by Navantia in Spain and the United Kingdom, with the possibility another two hull blocks could be assigned to the Spanish shipyard. An additional nine-month delay was announced in September 2012; this was intended to create a better transition of labour from the destroyers to following shipbuilding projects (replacements for the \"Collins\"-class submarines and the \"Anzac\"-class frigates), and achieve some savings in the federal budget.\n\nA March 2014 report by the ANAO heavily criticised the DMO and the AWD Alliance for underestimating the risks in redesigning the ships for Australian operations, and building them in shipyards with no recent warship construction experience. The ANAO report also criticised designer Navantia and the shipyards involved in block construction over poor drawings, repeated errors, and bad building practices. As a result of further delays and growing costs, the \"Hobart\"-class destroyer project was added to the government's \"Projects of Concern\" list in June 2014. Follow-up government reports identified unrealistic time and cost estimates as additional factors. The overarching alliance concept has been repeatedly denounced, with no effective management structure or entity in charge, (allowing for repeated blame-passing between the individual alliance partners, Navantia, and the subcontracted shipyards), and the DMO locked in a contradictory role (simultaneously acting as supplier, build partner, and customer).\n\n\"Hobart\"s keel was laid down on 6 September 2012, and the ship was launched on 23 May 2015, with 76% of construction complete. \"Brisbane\" was laid down on 3 February 2014, and by October 2015 was 68% complete. \"Sydney\" was laid down on 19 November 2015 (two weeks after the \"Adelaide\"-class frigate of the name was decommissioned, and on the anniversary of the loss of the second \"Sydney\" during World War II), with block fabrication due to complete in early 2016.\n\nOriginally, the \"Hobart\"-class destroyers were to be operational between December 2014 and June 2017. In September 2012, the ongoing delays prompted revision of the entry-to-service dates to March 2016, September 2017, and March 2019. In May 2015, the DMO announced additional schedule slippage, with \"Hobart\" to be handed over to the RAN in June 2017, \"Brisbane\" due in September 2018, and \"Sydney\" by December 2019. The original contract cost was A$8 billion for the three ships. By March 2014, the project was running A$302 million over budget. By May 2015, this had increased to A$800 million, with a predicted minimum cost overrun by project end of A$1.2 billion.\n\nIn February 2018, the \"Hobart\"-class was removed from the \"Projects of Concern\" list, after long-term reform arrangements were put in place. In May 2018, the third and final \"Hobart\"-class ship, \"Sydney\", was launched.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155046", "title": "Jonagold", "text": "Jonagold\n\nJonagold is a cultivar of apple which was developed in 1953 in New York State Agricultural Experiment Station of Cornell University's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, a cross between the crisp Golden Delicious and the blush-crimson Jonathan. They form a large sweet fruit with a thin skin. Because of their large size they are now favoured by commercial growers in many parts of the world. Jonagold is triploid, with sterile pollen, and as such, requires a second type of apple for pollen and is incapable of pollenizing other cultivars. The Jonagored Apple, a sport mutation of Jonagold, was once covered under United States Patent PP05937, now expired.\n\nJonagold has a green-yellow basic color with crimson, brindled covering colour.\n\nThe apple has a fluffily crisp fruit. It is juicy and aromatic and has a sweet-sour taste.\n\nThe skin can also turn out fully red or green other than golden-red.\n\nIt is most popular in Belgium, and according to the US Apple Association website it is one of the fifteen most popular apple cultivars in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155053", "title": "Barotac Viejo", "text": "Barotac Viejo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBarotac Viejo is in the northern part of the Province of Iloilo, facing the strait of Guimaras and the island of Negros. It is bounded on the north by San Rafael, on the west by Banate, on the south by the Visayan Sea, and on the east by Ajuy. It is from Iloilo City.\n\nThe total land area of .\n\nA range of sprawling hills and high mountains occupy three quarters of the land of Barotac Viejo. Mount Agumid on the northern boundary with San Rafael is the highest mountain, at about 550 meter high.\n\nThe town is divided by a long mountain range dividing it into the upper and lower regions. The upper region is approximately 1,000 feet above sea level. The climate is generally cooler than ordinary and rain is more abundant. The lower region is compose of rice producing areas. This part is near the sea and is well populated.\n\nRainy season sets in about May and last up to the middle of January. The rainfall in the upper region is comparatively heavier than the lower region. This is due to the chain of high mountains surrounding the place and innumerable springs that flow along the foot of the hills the heaviest rainfall occurs about in the early part of September during the south monsoon. Under usual condition, Barotac Viejo receives up to of rainfall. The average however in the upper region is and in the lower region . Dry season sets in a little earlier in the lower region than in the upper region.\n\nBarotac Viejo has 2 rivers, namely the Barotac Viejo River and the Barotac Cayo River. It has several creeks or springs.\n\nThe Barotac Viejo River is the longest and the widest river passing through the heart of the town. It has never been dry but it sometimes overflows its banks on rainy days. The river is utilized for bathing, laundry and fishing.\n\nThe municipality has approximately 10 miles of shallow shorelines and nearby are fishponds.\n\nBarotac Viejo is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\nIn 1957, the sitio of Poscolon in the barrio of Calaigang was converted into a barrio. Surprisingly, the same law was reenacted in 1959, probably indicating resistance to the renaming.\n\nIn the , the population of Barotac Viejo was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2155054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155054", "title": "Batad, Iloilo", "text": "Batad, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn 1950, the barrio of Zarragoza was transferred to the town of Balasan.\n\nBatad is north from the provincial capital, Iloilo City, and from Roxas City.\n\nBatad is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Batad, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2155055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155055", "title": "Bingawan, Iloilo", "text": "Bingawan, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBingawan is from Iloilo City.\n\nDuring the decade of the Spanish regime, many Filipinos who fled from the Spanish atrocities retreated to remote places to hide. Particular places worthy of note were the hillsides of Quinangyana (along its creek), Maldespina and Kinalyan. In order for the people to survive, they made farms using the kaingin system and hunted animals for food. Two settlements were established: one in Maldespina (now Bingawan Cemetery) and the other on the hilltop at Kinalyan near Quinangyana.\n\nWhen the revolution broke out in 1896, some Filipinos from Calinog, Dumalag, and Tapaz fled to the aforementioned places. In 1900, a big group of evacuees from Calinog arrived and joined those who were hiding. They escaped from the fury of the American soldiers who avenged the death of their fellow soldiers massacred by Filipinos. A year after, some returned to Calinog but others opted to stay and made farms.\n\nThe two settlements wanted to unite and establish a community. So, the settlers led by Gregorio Plaga, known as “Pakuribot” an instrumental leader, surveyed the hilltops. A plateau in the southern part was chosen because of the presence of the number of springs. In 1901, the community known as “BINGAWAN” was established. The name Bingawan was derived from the creek which resembled a missing tooth (the term “BINGAW” used in the local dialect). This said creek is located west of the present site of Bingawan Central School.\n\nThe early residents constructed a long building made of light materials. It accommodated forty families. They called it “Pagnahi-an” because the partition was made from materials sewed together. The building was located at the roadside east of where the Bingawan Baptist Church stands.\n\nThis new community was in need of capable leaders. So, twelve were chosen from the forty families (the twelve leaders represented the twelve apostles of the Lord). Those leaders were called by the early residents as “Founders of Bingawan”. The twelve leaders were Martin Celeste, Eusebio Plaga, Condrado Castroverde, Paulino Celestial, Andres Paren, Gregorio (Goyo) Plaga, Eugeni Celestial, Pablo Celebria, Eulogio Pormilda, Enrique Caspillo, Feliciano Gigare and Atanacio Gener.\n\nThe council of elders had two consultants, they were Gregorio (Pakuribot) Plaga and Gregorio Lampeño (a rebel leader form Janiuay). According to the early residents, these two elders were the most illustrious among them all and were ascribed with high respect. Lampeño was believed to have possessed supernatural powers, had a talisman and can beat his enemies very easily. They were accompanied by a brave man known as “Manding Beni”.\n\nWith the founding of Barrio Bingawan in 1901, was also the establishment of the Bingawan Baptist Church. The early residents were disgusted with the Spaniards because of their tyranny and religious hypocrisy. The people responded to the preaching of the Gospel by the Protestant preachers and they gladly embraced the evangelical faith. Amando Zamora, an ex-soldier from Luzon who trained under the American missionaries, was brought to Bingawan by Gregorio Lampeño and became the first Pastor of the church.\n\nLater, Charles Briggs, an American missionary and Don Braulio Manikan, the first Filipino preacher who was converted in Spain by Dr. Eric Lund, came to Bingawan and baptized the early converts. The church building was not only used for religious services but also as a school house. Amando Zamora was both a pastor and an educator of the early residents.\n\nIn 1904, a group of notable families from Santa Teresa, Dumalag, Capiz came and settled in Bingawan. The heads of these respectable families were Isidro Faldas, Clemente Ferasol and Alejandro Pamocol. These men were fine leaders. They contributed a lot to the development of the Barrio.\n\nThere was a need for the maintenance of peace and order in this newly established community. Hence, in 1905, two elders namely Condrado Castroverde and Eulogio Pormilda were appointed as the first policemen of the place. They were later replaced by Bernabe Pagara and Felipe Porado as members of the council of elders.\n\nIn the Summer of 1906, a great fire swept over the progressive community which resulted to the great loss of properties and stored gains. Several months after the said fire, a great famine occurred. However, Mateo Casalmer, then barrio lieutenant, challenged the people to reconstruct their house and the church building. “ In a short period of time, houses sprang up like mushrooms and the church building stood up like magic”, an old resident once said after the call for cooperation was declared. All of those things were made possible due to the unparalleled cooperation and unity of the people.\n\nIn August 1912, an energetic and intelligent leader came in the person of Rev. Antonio D. Plagata. He was educated in one the public schools in the City of Iloilo and later at the Jaro Industrial School now known as the Central Philippine University. He led the church and the school. He started the English instructions at school and it had made the school progress tremendously as years went by. The school was named Bingawan Institute in 1924. The classes in the High School Department were taught by Severo Catedral, Tranquilino Bergante and Delfin Dianala.\n\nRev. Antonio Plagata was not only a pastor and a teacher but also a statesman. He was one of the Municipal Councilors of Passi, where Calinog, the mother municipality of Bingawan, was still a barrio. He and three other men from Calinog endeavored to make Calinog an independent municipality from Passi: Vicente Castronuevo, Francisco Casa and Eugenio Carbon. As a result, in 1926, Calinog became an independent municipality. Plagata served as Municipal Councilor of Calinog until World War II. Other residents from Bingawan who served in the Municipality of Calinog were Javier Celo and Macario Celestial.\n\nIn 1929, the first public school in Bingawan was opened. This was made possible through the efforts of the following: Vidal Derecho, Florentino Faldas, Tranquilino Sorioso, Nicanor Cerbas, Fulgencio Catoera, Antonio Plagata, Rufino Pormilos, Esperidion Landero, Daniel Geretape, Jorge Lorca, Vicente Gallaza, Primo Catoera, Francisco Vargas, Leon Landero, Felix Sagotoy, Paulino Celestial, Casimiro Pagara, Antonio catolico, Valeriano Derecho and Condrado Castroverde. The school site was donated by Spouses Eusebio Palma and Maxima Celo Palma.\n\nAfter World War II, a complete elementary school was opened. The enrolment rapidly increased which resulted to the opening of the Bingawan High School in July 1966. Through the untiring efforts of Mrs. Sofia Paren and Mrs. Marcelina S. Castronuevo, both public school teachers of Bingawan Elementary School, the school was able to obtain 84 enrollees which comprised the first year high school class with two sections, thus meeting the requirements for the opening of a Barangay High School. The first two high school instructors assigned were Mrs. Myrna S. Jamili and Miss Nicolasa Quilarto. Through their sacrifices and the cooperation of the people of the Municipality, the school expanded and in July 1984, it was converted into a National High School which was then named as the Bingawan National High School. The papers and documents needed for such an upgrade were prepared and facilitated by Mr. Bonifacio Castronuevo, Sr. who was a high school teacher from Calinog. The processing of the papers was also undertaken by Dr. Victor S. Castronuevo and was approved by the Board through the help of Board Member Esperidion Jagunap, who was known as the “Father of the Barangay High School”.\n\nThe Improvement of the community started in 1952, through the efforts of Victor C. Plagata, an elected councilor of Calinog. He paved the streets, improved the plaza and encouraged community beautification. Gradually, the residents built bigger houses. A public market was later constructed to cater to the needs of the people. This made marketing easier of the public. More improvements were made when Victor Plagata was elected Vice Mayor of Calinog in 1955. After a lapse of ten years, another Bingawan resident was elected Municipal Councilor in the person of Dr. Victor S. Castronuevo. His victory in 1967 elections added a name for Bingawan.\n\nThe restless spirits of Victor S. Plagata and Consolador Faldas made possible the realization of the great dream of Bingawan to become an independent municipality. A bill was later passed that was authored by Congressman Ricardo Y. Ladrido, which later became R.A. 5511, to create Bingawan as a Municipality of the Province of Iloilo. The bill was approved by the Congress in May 1969. Bingawan became a new Municipality, independent from Calinog, its mother Municipality.\n\nIn April 10, 1970, the first set of municipal officials were appointed led by Victor C. Plagata as Municipal Mayor and Concolador Faldas as Vice Mayor. The Municipal Councilors were Sulpicio Castronuevo, Ildelfonso Caras, Santos Laygan, Bernardo Girao, Aurelio Gargoles and Alepio Castillanes. Judge Lodrigio Lebaquin administered their Oath of Office.\n\nUnder the leadership of Mayor Plagata, roads and streets were constructed connecting Bingawan to adjacent Municipalities. Barangay roads were also constructed to connect the barangays to Poblacion. School buildings and other development structures were constructed changing Bingawan into a nicer and better place to live in.\n\nOn February 22, 1986, the EDSA revolution took place. Vice Mayor Consolador Faldas replaced incumbent Mayor Plagata on June 23, 1986. He then served as the OIC Mayor until November 30, 1987.\n\nOn December 1, 1987, Victor C. Plagata was again appointed as the Officer-in-Charge until election time came. His Vice Mayor was Mr. Ildelfonso Caras and the following were the Councilors: Nicasio Castro, Ignacio Glory, Elma Celestial, Jose Rabago Sr., Reynaldo Labus, Wilhelm Sumagaysay, Jose Magbanua and Nemesio Seran.\n\nWhen the local elections was held on January 11, 1988, Zafiro S. Palabrica won over his opponent as the Municipal Mayor. Congressman Licurgo P. Tirador swore him into office together with Mr. Juanito Cerbo as his Vice Mayor. The Sangguniang Bayan Members were Felino Gardose, Merlie Cataluña, Ted Peter P. Plagata, Dioscoro C. Caras, Rex L. Celeste, Bonifacio Castronuevo Jr., Nonie Ysulan and Suplicio Morales Jr.\n\nThrough Mayor Palabrica's leadership, roads and bridges were improved, a guest house was constructed beside the Municipal Hall, open markets were built in Poblacion, Alabidhan and Inamyungan. Local resource Management projects and Multi-Purpose pavements were made possible. Through his guidance and inspiration, cooperatives were established and primary schools were opened in Malitbog, Ilawod and Tapacon.\n\nOn May 11, 1992, Zafiro S. Palabrica was re-elected by the people as Municipal Mayor together with Merlie C. Cataluña as Vice Mayor. The following are the Sangguniang Bayan Members : Lorna P. Tipsay, Ted Peter P. Plagata, Felino D. Gardose, Fred P. Para-on, Sammy T. Pormilos, Rex L. Celeste, Edwin S. Faldas, and Nonie V. Ysulan. In 1995, the people again re-elected Zafiro S. Palabrica as Municipal Mayor. His vice Mayor was Ted Peter P. Plagata and the Sangguniang Members were: Eduardo Dalipe, Sulpicio P. Morales, Leovigilda G. Castroverde, Julious Cerbo, Sammy T. Pormilos, Nonie V. Ysulan, Merlie C. Ocampo, Pedro M. Bacera and Freddie Q. Compas. Mayor Palabrica served as Municipal Mayor until May 10, 1998.\n\nAmong Mayor Zafiro Palabrica's numerous accomplishments were : the establishment of 11 satellite schools, construction of Barangay Halls and Markets, Municipal Library and Covered Gym, concreting of three (3) major bridges, facilitated the classification of Barangay Road to National Road from Barangay Cairohan to Barangay Poblacion and the concreting of Barangay Poblacion Road to Alabidhan National Road. As a token for his excellence and outstanding performance, he was awarded as the Most Outstanding Mayor of the Philippines Fighting Cock National Award by the Progressive Alliance of Citizens for Democracy and Presidential Assistant on Community Development last January 6, 1991. During his term, the Municipality was a consistent Awardee of the Clean and Green Awards/GAWAD NG PANGULO SA KAPALIGIRAN. In 1995, the Municipality was awarded 1st Place in the Provincial, 1st Place in the Regional Level and a National Finalist. In 1996, 1st Place in the Provincial Level, 1st Place in the Regional Level and still a National Finalist. In 1997, 1st Place in the Provincial Level and 2nd Place in the Regional Level . Other awards that the community received during his term were: Champion for the National Recognition of Outstanding LGU- NGO/PO Partnership in Local Governance at PICC, Manila on July 10, 1993. Over-all Champion for the Boy Scout of the Philippines Iloilo Council for three (3) consecutive years in 1996 to 1998. 4th Runner-Up Alabidhan Working Youth Organization 1996 Search for Outstanding Working Youth Organization of the Philippines in Malacañang Manila last February 1997. 3rd Runner-Up Binagwan Working Youth Organization 1997 and 1998 Search for Outstanding Working Youth Organization of the Philippines in Manila last February 1998 and 1999.\n\nOn January 18, 1993, Matt P. Palabrica, SK President of the Municipality was elected as SK President of the Province of Iloilo thus making him the first Bingawanon to sit in the Provincial Board of Iloilo. During his time, the SK Hall was constructed and established. In 1996, he was selected as Youth Ambassador of Goodwill to the 23rd Ship for Southeast Asian Program participated by the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Brunei, Vietnam and Japan.\n\nOn May 11, 1998, newly elected Municipal Officials were sworn into office led by Mayor Ted Peter P. Plagata and Vice Mayor Eduardo A. Dalipe. The Sangguniang Bayan Members were : Lydia C. Lagarto, Felino D. Gardose, Lorna P. Tipsay, Jose C. RAbago Jr., Rosalie C. Plaga, Bonifacio L. Ilisan, Delia C, Celeste, and Sulpicio P. Morales Jr. The ABC President was Pedro M. Bacera and the Municipal SK Federation President was Mark P. Palabrica. The people re-elected Mayor Ted Peter P. Plagata during the May 2001 elections. His Vice Mayor was Lydia C. Lagarto and the SB Members were: Jose C. Rabago Jr., Merlie C. Ocampo, Sulpicio P. Morales Jr., Bonifacio L. Ilisan, Gladys Pearl P. Tipsay, and Hector Belloga. The ABC President was Pedro M. Bacera and the SK President was Mark Palabrica. On May 2004, Mayor Ted Peter Plagata won the elections again and his Vice Mayor was Rosalie C. Plaga. The SB members were : Merlie C. Ocampo, Jose C. Rabago Jr., Hector P. Belloga, Delia C. Celeste, Ronelo Q. Compas, Mark P. Palabrica, Edwin S. Faldas, Suplicio Morales Jr. The ABC President was Noel M. Pendioday and SK President was Roshely P. Cerbo.\n\nThe administration of Mayor Ted Peter P. Plagata lasted until June 30, 2007. Among his many accomplishments were : concreting of Poblacion to Alabidhan National Road, concreting of Castillanes Street, Cataluña Street, Plaga Street, Derecho Street, Lampino Street, Pagara Street, and Castroverde Street. He also made possible the installation of Municipal streetlights, construction of BNHS Covered Gym, Solar Dyers in Barangays, construction of grand stand and oval of Bingawan Elementary School, acquisition of Payloader, Grader, Ambulance and Nissan Terrano Patrol Car, and the purchase of Lot for the Municipal Dump Site. The remarkable legislation of the Sangguniang Bayan was the Palamangkutanon Sang Banwa ( Citizen's Query) Ordinance.\n\nAfter the May 14, 2007 elections, a new set of Municipal Officials assumed office. This administration is called the “ Young Ones” led by a young, competent and energetic Mayor Matt P. Palabrica and his Vice Mayor Mark P. Palabrica. The SB members are: Wennie P. Javellana, Roger C. Genturo, Ronelo Q. Compas, Rosalie C. Plaga, Leovy C. Simora, Edwin S. Faldas, Eleuterio C. Patriarca Jr., and Delia C. Celeste, who resigned and was later replaced by Essie C. Palmejar.\n\nOn September 6, 2007, when SB member Roger C. Genturo was doing a research at the Provincial Capitol of Iloilo, he got hold of a document, a DILG Memorandum Circular No. 01 – M(50) -05 dated January 31, 2006 stating the reclassification of the Municipality of Bingawan from 5th Class to 4th Class Municipality effective June 29, 2005. Thereafter, Mayor Matt P. Palabrica immediately ordered a five percent (5%) salary increase for the Municipal Officials and employees. Today, the Municipality of Bingawan is struggling hard to be a third-class Municipality under his administration.\n\nIn less than two years of governance, these are the accomplishments of Mayor Matt Palabrica's administration: On health: it has enrolled 2,120 households with 306.36% coverage under Philhealth Indigency Program and the accreditation of RHU for PhilHealth Programs. These accomplishments made Bingawan the No. 1 municipality in the Province of Iloilo in terms of implementation of the Philhealth Programs. The award was given during the Annual Celebration of the Semana Sang Iloilo 2009. On Education: the establishment of Jovita Alfaras Rivera National High School in Barangay Tapacon and the computerization of Bingawan Central School. On infrastructure and transportation : the asphalting of Bingawan – Switch, Tapaz Road, construction of the New Public Market, the acquisition of the new PNP Toyota Innova Patrol Car and Isuzu Dump Truck and the implementation of the 11 Million Pesos worth of Kalahi Projects in 14 Barangays which includes : upgrading and opening of Barangay Roads, Water System Level II in Barangay Cairohan and Barangay Ngingi-an and construction of Health Center in Barangay Guinhulacan. On Agriculture : the repair of Small Farm Reservoir and Carabao and Vegetable Seeds Dispersal. The landmark Legislation of the Sangguniang Bayan were: The Amended Revenue Code of 2008, Market Code of 2008, Municipal Legislative-Executive Advisory Council Ordinance and the Bantay Bayan Law.\n\nAfter the May 13, 2013 election, Mayor Matt P. Palabrica won again in his last term as municipal mayor and Mark P. Palabrica is still the Vice Mayor with the following SB Members: Ted Pater P. Plagata, Jose Rabago, Jr., Lorens M. Belloga, Ronelo Q Compas, Nemesio A. Cachite, Wennie P. Javellana, Eduardo Dalipe and Eleuterio Patriarca Jr. The ABC President was Joenel Tabilla and SK President was Lalaine Chiva. Ronelo Q. Compas died 20 days after he assumed office and latter replaced by his only son Ross Mark R. Compas. After October 28, 2013 Barangay Election the new ABC President was Lucia S. Pendioday who resigned after a year and was replaced by Jerry U. Magbanua who also resigned a year after and replaced by Perceval T. Girao.\n\nAfter the May 9, 2016 elections, a new set of Municipal Officials assumed office. Mayor Mark P. Palabrica replaced his elder brother Matt who was also elected as the Vice Mayor with the following SB Members: Joy L. Quimba, Jose Rabago, Jr., Lorens M. Belloga, Ted Peter P. Plagata, Nemesio A. Cachite, Jofe C. Celeste, Eduardo Dalipe and Leovy C. Simora. The ABC President was Perceval T. Girao.\n\nBingawan is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\n\n\nBingawan is relatively dry from November to April and wet during the rest of the year. The maximum rain periods are not very heavy with a short dry season lasting from one to three months. The climate is influenced by the southeast monsoons, one of the principal air streams affecting the country. Local topography affects its exposure to prevailing winds.\n\nIn the , the population of Bingawan, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nHiligaynon and Kinaray-a are the main languages of the town. Other languages spoken and understood by the residents are Capiznon, Tagalog, and English.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155056", "title": "Calinog", "text": "Calinog\n\n', officially the ', (, , ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town got its name from the Kinaray-a word \"kalinong\" which means calm or placid. But some might say it is from \"linog\" or an earthquake given the fact that the town lies near the West Panay Fault.\n\nCalinog, which according to legend Datu Marikudo chose to settle, is strategically located in the central part of the Island of Panay. Calinog was already a developing community when the Spaniards came between the 16th and the 17th Century. In the early 18th Century, Calinog was established as a permanent settlement following the system of town planning as prescribed by the Law of the Indies: a town plaza surrounded by the church, Municipal Tribunal, school and public market. This remains as the main town-planning feature of the poblacion until the present. The Spanish Colonial Government then declared Calinog as “Pueblo” or town in 1763.\n\nA new colonial power, the Americans introduced important changes in the civil affairs of the municipality in the early 1900s. The most significant was annexing Calinog as part of the Municipality of Passi (now a component city of Iloilo) from 1904 to 1920. Through intense lobbying by prominent leaders, Calinog was restored to its original status as a separate Municipality in January 1921.\n\nIt was in the late 1960s when Calinog stepped on the springboard of development as a progressive Municipality bustling with business and economic opportunities. In 1969, with the sugar industry boom, the political leadership decided to split a portion of the town into a separate municipality, the Municipality of Bingawan.\n\nAmong the founders of the old communities in the uplands were the descendants of the families who fought the abusive Spanish colonizers in the settlements of Bugasong and Lawaan, Province of Antique, in the 16th Century (their colorful folklore and the oral tradition of their historical journeys became a part of the timeless epic, “Hinilawod”). Mt. Dila Dila in Barangay Alibunan is best remembered as a strong hold of Filipino guerillas and soldiers during World War II under the command of a Calinognon Major Julian C. Chaves where the fiercest battles in the annals of war in the Island of Panay were fought against the Japanese Imperial Army.\n\nThe town of Calinog nestles in the central part of Panay Island. It is the last municipality in the central part of Iloilo Province which adjourns the province of Capiz. It is located at geographical coordinates 11°15′ latitude and 122°30′ longitudes. It has a total land area of 27,446 hectares representing about 5% of the total land area (532,297) of the entire Province.\n\nCalinog is from Iloilo City.\n\nAround 75% of the municipality’s slope is above 8% or category C. The municipality, however, is mainly agricultural. There are four (4) types of soil in Calinog: 1) Umingan fine sandy loam; 2) Alimodian clay loam; 3) Bantog clay loam and 4) Alimodian soil (undifferentiated).\n\nThe municipality has mixed topographic reliefs. The westernmost portion is very mountainous. The central and northern areas have gently sloping reliefs while the eastern and southern portions are flat lands or plains with also gently sloping reliefs. All urban barangays are located in the lowland area.\n\nThe slope category of the municipality are: A (0-8%) 5,049 hectares; Category B (3-5%) 1,644 hectares; Category C (5-8%) 9,056 hectares; Category D (8-15%) 4,199 hectares and Category E (15-18%) 6,971 hectares.\n\nJalaur River is the main source of water supply most specially for irrigation purposes considering the fact that this river is one of the biggest in terms of source volume in the whole Panay Island. For Potable Water, there is one pumping station at Barangay Bo. Calinog as its main source and one back-up pumping station at Barangay Simsiman along the Jalaur River.\n\nCalinog falls under the third type consisting of seasons, which are not very pronounced relatively dry from November to April and wet during the rest of the year. The maximum rain periods are not very pronounced with a short dry season lasting only from one to three months. It is influenced by the southeast monsoons, which one of the principal air streams affecting the country. Its exposure to prevailing winds maybe affected by the local topography.\n\nCalinog is relatively dry from November to April and wet during the rest of the year. The maximum rain periods are not very heavy with a short dry season lasting from one to three months. The climate is influenced by the southeast monsoons, one of the principal air streams affecting the country. Local topography affects its exposure to prevailing winds.\n\nCalinog is politically subdivided into 59 barangays. The Poblacion area is composed of four (4) barangays, namely: Poblacion Centro, Poblacion Ilaya, Poblacion Delgado and Poblacion Rizal Ilaud. There is a proposed additional five (5) barangays to be included in the urban land area. They are Barangays Carvasana, Dalid, Simsiman, Bo. Calinog, and Libot. They will constitute the greater Poblacion area.\n\nIn the , the population of Calinog, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nThere are two ethnic groups identified. They are the Sulodnon or Bukidnon tribe and the Aeta. The Sulodnon or Bukidnon tribe comprises the thirteen (13) mountain barangays. The Aeta group resides in the different barangays of the municipality.\n\nThe main local languages are Hiligaynon, Capiznon and Kinaray-a. Filipino and English are also used and understood by the local residents, but are seldom used everyday.\n\nCalinog is home to the Hirinugyaw-Suguidanonay Festival. From a Visayan term for \"jubilation\" or \"rejoicing,\" \"Hirinugyaw\" was inspired by the Dinagyang Festival of Iloilo City and has become a feast with success for the people Calinog through a festivity showing the town's devotion to the Child Jesus and highlighted as it turns out in celebration for the feast of Santo Niño.\nPeople make effort to perform colorful cultural dances and other festive commemorative rites in His honor. The festival has given life in their faith and has become a growing devotion in their hearts. The dances performed are usually thought to be simple dances composed of repetitive, easy-to-learn steps. However the presentation becomes highly complex with the incorporation of a Sugidanon---traditional stories on a town's history and culture narrated through chanting. It is used to highlight the dances in order to heighten the dramatic or comic effect of the presentation. As a whole, the festival functions to create or promote a sense of community as it continues to make the community feel part of a provincial or regional group to help them establish ties with their heritage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155057", "title": "Cabatuan, Iloilo", "text": "Cabatuan, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is mainly agricultural with of agricultural land. Certain crops are abundantly produced including rice, corn, sweet potato, taro, and cassava. Sugar cane, coffee, tropical fruits and vegetables, and coconut are also produced in certain areas. Cabatuananons also earn from livestock and poultry. Moreover, the land is also an excellent source of gravel and sand for the production of concrete\n\nThe new Iloilo International Airport is located in Cabatuan; specifically in Barangay Tabucan, Barangay Gaub, Barangay Duyan-Duyan and Barangay Manguna, all in Cabatuan. The airport can be reached either from the Cabatuan access roads (Barangay Tabucan and Barangay Tiring, Cabatuan) or from the Pavia-Santa Barbara-Cabatuan (Barangay Duyan-Duyan, Cabatuan) access road.\n\nTowns people believed that Cabatuan could have gotten its name from three words in the local dialect describing certain facets of prehistoric Cabatuan. The name might have evolved from (1) Ca\"Batuan\" which means a large area of rocks (2) Batuan which means to fight, defy, or oppose, and (3) Batu-an an sour-fruit-bearing evergreen tree that grew abundantly in the region. Another theory, however, suggests that the name was derived from \"naga-batu\" (fighting or opposing) which is used to describe a creek in the town that flowed from east to west opposite to that of the usual flows of the rivers in the region.\n\nThe town of Cabatuan was first noted for the \"Sinulugans\" or hillside tribesmen who annually practice the art of “Sinulog” or Dance of Death characterized by sword fighting rituals. \"Tulisanes\" and Rustlers also inhabit the place before the Spaniards came in 1732.\n\nThe town was founded on April 9, 1732 after a molave cross (with only its base currently existing) was planted on the peak of Pamul-ogan Hill. It was originally planned by Tono whose statue now stands in front of the Municipal Building. He was then a town leader together with two other leaders Gomoc and Amihan. This early settlement was then flourishing on a level zone of land near the northern bank of the Tigum River where the \"poblacion\" or the commercial center of the town is now located.\n\nIn 1733, Cabatuan was officially organized upon the installation of Rev. Fr. Antonio Lopez as its first priest and Tono as its first “gobernadorcillo”. Furthermore, the town was placed by the priest under the spiritual protection of Saint Nicholas de Tolentino whom Cabatuananons venerate as their Patron Saint whose feast is celebrated from September 1–10 every year through a 10-day celebration that is grandiosely culminated on September 10 by the highly anticipated \"Tinuom Festival\" patterned from Iloilo's Kasadyahan Festival.\n\nIn 1903, after the census had been taken, the neighbouring town of Maasin, with a population of 8401, was temporarily annexed to Cabatuan that had a population of 16,497.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Cabatuan officially became the last defense of Western Visayas against the Japanese forces which led to the destruction of most of its edifices.\n\nCabatuan is described as a cultural and religious town in the heart of Panay Island, located along a branch of the Suage River, from Iloilo City, the capital of Iloilo province.\n\nCabatuan is politically subdivided into 68 barangays, 11 of it are poblacion barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Cabatuan, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nKinaray-a is the most dominant language used by the residents but Hiligaynon, English, and Tagalog are also spoken. Roman Catholicism is the most dominant religion in this municipality.\n\nBuilt in 1834, San Nicholas de Tolentino Parish Church is a Tuscanic church of baked brick is one of the most beautiful churches in the Philippines. The gigantic Church is the only existing church in Iloilo which has three façades. Its twin belfries capped with cream-colored domes are considered to be one of the best in the Philippines.\n\nThe church was given the title \"Model of Temples\" since it was the best representation of European architecture on the Philippine islands during the Spanish era. In 1948, the church was partially damaged by an earthquake which ruined four of its belfries, two of its façade pediments and the central dome. In the early 1990s the church was restored back to its present grandeur. Today, 'La Iglesia de San Nicolas de Tolentino' is one of the most picturesque churches in Asia.\n\nThis century old Spanish-Filipino Cemetery is the only cemetery in the Philippines which is a perfect square. Three Byzantine arch entrances dominate the front-gate, while a baroque central chapel is located at the center. The chapel is a fusion of Roman, Gothic, Byzantine, and Baroque architectures. The complex carvings on the chapel's facade is considered to be the most distinct cemetery relief which can only be found in Cabatuan. Furthermore, this cemetery's neatness and organization is famous throughout the region.\n\nOne of the earliest town halls built in Northern Iloilo is the Cabatuan Municipal Hall. It was built in 1734 along with the Church. Calamities and war, however, damaged the second level of this public house and many renovations had been done. On the other hand, the designs were still derived from the original plan of the Casa. The first level of the town hall is already centuries old and its interior is characterized by the art deco cubical columns and semi-arched tuscan windows adorned with capiz shells.\n\nThis shrine is considered to be the cradle of Cabatuan's History. At the peak of the hill lies a concrete cross reminiscent of the original cross planted by the Spaniards who first came in the region. Every lent, traditional devotees start their journey from the mouth of Barangay Pamulogan to the peak of the hill as penitence.\n\nThis picturesque shrine located in Balic Hill, is one of the places in Cabatuan that attract many tourists and pilgrims during lenten season. On the peak is a cross, a replica of the one in Pamul-ogan Hill, and on the foot of the hill lies an art-deco chapel. The view at the cross offers an astounding view of the whole town.\n\nThe Shrine of the Bondage Tree lies in the Town plaza directly in front of the Municipal Hall of Cabatuan. It is believed that the natives were tied in this tree and whipped if they refuse the \"polo\" or forced labor during the Spanish Era. The tree is an old and artistically skewed Plumeria tree (\"Plumeria rubra\") currently fortified with a concrete base to withstand destruction.\n\nThe town celebrates three main holidays: the Cabatuan Town Fiesta on September 10, as well as the Tinuom Festival that culminates the town fiesta and the strictly observed Lenten procession during Holy Week.\n\nThe Tinuom Festival is a celebration of the town's history and its popularly craved delicacy, \"tinuom\" made of native chicken souped with spices - tomatoes, onions, garlic, ginger, and lemon grass and wrapped in banana leaves. This festival is one of the highlights of the 10-day fiesta celebration of the municipality and is a colorful explosion of music and dances patterned from Iloilo's Kasadyahan Festival. There are six (6) competing groups (called tribes or \"tribu\" in the local dialect) composed of students from six secondary schools in Cabatuan. The groups are judged according to creativity, originality, costume, and choreography, among others. The winning group is the town's official representative to the Kasadyahan Festival in Iloilo City where the town has been actively participating in. This year, Tribu Ilahas from Tiring National High School, winner of the 2007 Tinuom Festival placed third in the Kasadayahan Competition.\n\nCabatuan is also known to have the most wooden and porcelain statues being showcased on Lenten processions (a religious parade evident in almost all parishes in the Philippines during Holy Week). The most popular set of these figures is the wooden Last Supper.\n\nIn the morning of Good Friday, the statue of the Nazareno together with thousands of Cabatuananons and tourists alike follow a procession locally called \"Via Crucis\" from the Church to the Balic Hill pausing on the 14 Stations of the Cross erected along the path.\n\nIn the afternoon, on the other hand, another procession is held after the Good Friday Mass around the \"poblacion\" where the said wooden and porcelain statues embellished with fresh flowers, royal cloths and personalized lighting are paraded. They pass by the Stations of the Cross creatively displayed along in life-size carvings and effigies locally called \"Kapiya\" built out of indigenous materials native to the barangays assigned to the specific station. This unique display garnered recognition in Western Visayas and consequently haul tourists as well. \"Pasyon Singing\" by barangay folks accompanying their respective Kapiya follows the procession.\n\nLastly, the \"Dampug\" culminates the Holy Week. It is the reenactment of the angel's proclamation of Christ's resurrection and his meeting with Mary. Every year, a child of an illustrious family in town is held as “Dampug” or the proclaiming angel and a flamboyant stage, usually with cavern motif, is erected in the town plaza to serve as backdrop for the early dawn presentation. It is still very much respected by the townspeople today.\n\nLocated at San Agustin Street right behind the plaza's covered courts, the Cabatuan Rural Health Center is the most accessible rural health center in the municipality. It caters to treatment of minor diseases and injury, vaccination, and limited laboratory testing.\n\nThe Ramon Tabiana Memorial District Hospital (RTMDH) located in Barangay Pungtod, Cabatuan is the major health service institution that serves the municipality and its neighboring towns. The hospital is headed by Dr. Levi Osea, has a 50-bed capacity, and is served by 76 personnel. During the 4th Hospital Awards and Recognition Ceremony held on April 10, 2008 at the Iloilo Provincial Capitol, RTMDH was adjudged the Best District Hospital in the province of Iloilo and bagged five awards - Best Hospital, Best in Dental Service, Best in Laboratory Service, Best in Dietary Service, Best in Radiology Service and Best in Administrative Service.\n\nThe Cabatuan Fire Station was chosen as entry of Region VI in the Search for Outstanding Municipal Fire Station in the Philippines in 2008.\n\nForty-six educational institutions, including day care centers, can be found in Cabatuan. Of this total, 44 are public schools while two are private institutions, which are also accredited by the Department of Education (DepEd) and the Bureau of Secondary Education.\n\nThe municipality has six public secondary schools. The main high school located in the \"poblacion\" is the Cabatuan National Comprehensive High School. The five others are Tiring National high School, Wenceslao Grio National High School, Acao National High School, Mateo National High School and Ambrosio Maido Memorial National High School.\n\nOn the other hand, 38 public elementary schools can be found in the municipality. Twenty-nine elementary schools offer complete courses in elementary education while 9 schools only offer primary grades (Grade 1 to 4). Divided into districts, the public elementary schools in Cabatuan are almost evenly distributed among the barangays. The first district has 18 public elementary schools while the second district has 20. The 38 public elementary schools' names are enumerated below.\n\nDistrict I\n\nDistrict II\nTwo other private institutions offering complete elementary education can be found in the municipality. One is the parish-owned Cabatuan Parochial School at Rizal Ilaya Street and the other is Clairemont International Grade School at Serrano Ext. Street right beside the Cabatuan National Comprehensive High School.\n\nThe town has its own official hymn entitled \"Ang Banwa nga Namat-an\" composed by Jesus Pablito G. Villanueva. It is required (as imposed by Municipal Ordinance No. 2007-002) that the hymn be sung after the National Anthem in flag ceremonies in all public schools, agencies, and institutions in Cabatuan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155058", "title": "Carles, Iloilo", "text": "Carles, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLocated on Panay island, it is known for its rich fishing grounds.\n\nSettlers first arrived circa 1846 and cleared an area at Punta Bulakawe, north of the current poblacion. Following an influx of settlers from Aklan and Antique, the settlement fell under Pueblo de Pilar, Capiz. About 10 years later, the settlement was transferred to the lowland and renamed to Badiang.\n\nIn 1860, the first attempt was made to convert the barrio into a municipality but the provincial government of Capiz refused. Because of this refusal, the town leaders petitioned the governor of Iloilo, Governor Jose Maria Carles, who approved the petition. On July 1, 1862, the new pueblo was inaugurated and renamed to Carles, in honor to the governor. First Gobernadorcillo was Alenjandro Buaya.\n\nOn January 1, 1904, the Municipio de Carles was demoted from a status of a Barrio to the status of a Barrio Balasan. This incident disheartened some Carleseños who migrated to other towns and provinces. But among those who stayed on were the strong willed ones who struggled hard to make Carles an independent municipality. Headed by Casimiro Andrada, the Carles Separation Movement succeeded in getting the approval of the Carleseños petition for separation from Balasan on January 1, 1920. Federico A. Ramos was appointed as the first Municipal President of Carles. It was during the incumbency of Municipal President Enrico Ilanga that the title of the municipal head was changed to Municipal Mayor and continued to be such until today.\n\nCarles was heavily damaged by Typhoon Haiyan. Buildings were destroyed and more than 1,200 people were displaced by the storm.\n\nCarles is the northernmost municipality in the province and is from the provincial capital, Iloilo City, from Roxas City, and from Kalibo.\n\nCarles is politically subdivided into 33 Barangays.\n\nEighteen of Carles's barangays are spread out over fourteen islands and minor islets. The islands under Carles's political jurisdiction are:\nIn the , the population of Carles, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nCarles is the 14th wealthiest town in Iloilo (based on income) in 2009, with an income total of P70,475,987 (2009) \nThe agricultural produce of the town includes fish, prawn, crab, rice, corn, sugar, cattle and poultry. Other industries include bakeries, shell craft and wood furniture.\n\nCarles is a significant center for commercial fishing, so much so that it carries the name 'Alaska of the Philippines' - reference to the area's marine resources. The reason for this is that Carles' water territory lies in the Visayan Sea triangle where the islands of Gigantes are located. As part of the Coral Triangle, these islands contain some of the most biologically diverse marine resources, and one of the most productive fishing grounds in the country. The imaginary triangle extends from the provinces of Iloilo, Negros, Cebu, Samar, and Masbate. This triangle is a part of the \"Sulu-Sulaweisi Triangle\" of the Sulu Sea and neighboring Indonesia where a large concentration of marine organisms coupled with climate conditions support a massive marine ecosystem. Various commercial species are harvested along Carles' waters, including mackerel, barracuda, sardines, shad, pompano, grouper, squid, cuttlefish, shrimp, prawns, shells, seaweed and others.\n\n'Bancal Fish Port' is the main fish-landing port in the municipality and is where fish catches from Iloilo, other Panay provinces, Masbate and Romblon are unloaded daily.\n\nOne tourist destination in Western Visayas is the Islas de Gigantes or Higantes Group of Islands located in the second class municipality of Carles in northern Iloilo.\n\nThe Gigantes group of islands in Carles, Iloilo are endowed with limestone forests, caves, and white-sand beaches. It is classified as a high urgent conservation priority under the Philippine Biodiversity Conservation Priority-Setting Program (PBCPP). It is home to a variety of species, two of them endemic: the Gekkonid Lizard (Gekko gigante) and the Island Forest Frog (Platymantis insulatus). \nSicogón is an island in northern Iloilo, which is part of the municipality of Carles. It is named after \"cogon\", a type of grass found in abundance on the island. According to the 2010 census, it has a population of 5,238.\n\nSicogon was a popular tourist destination during the 1970s, known for its clear waters and white sand beach lined with coconut trees. However, due to the situation caused by martial law, development stalled and Sicogon's popularity faded in favor of Boracay Island.\n\nLocated at Bancal Port, Carles Iloilo is a Tourist assistance, boat reservation, registration and payment center, they also regulates the rates and accredited the boats for the Gigantes tours. souvenir items can also be found in the center.\n\nIloilo International Airport serves the city of Iloilo as well as the province of Iloilo. It receives flights from Manila, Cebu, Cagayan de Oro, Davao City, General Santos, Tacloban, Puerto Princesa, Singapore and Hongkong and is served by three airlines; Air Asia, Cebu Pacific, Philippine Airlines.\n\nRoxas Airport is near to Carles with domestic flights from Cebu and Manila\n\nSicogon, Carles Airport is the first and only airport in Carles and Northern Iloilo with domestic flights from and to Manila.\n\nJeepneys and tricycles are the common public land transport with route Carles-Balasan and vice versa. The route Carles- Iloilo City and vice versa, and Carles- Roxas City and vice versa is served by Ceres Liner while Carles- Metro Manila and vice versa is served by Dimple Star Bus.\n\nPumboats are used for transversing the water between the Islands of Carles and Its Mainland with Estancia. Bancal port serves as the gateway to Gigantes Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155059", "title": "Concepcion, Iloilo", "text": "Concepcion, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was the capital of the Commandancia of Concepcion, a unit equivalent to a sub-province headed by a corregidor, before it was merged with the Province of Iloilo.\n\nConcepcion is located on the north-eastern part of Panay Island (known as the mainland), together with some 16 other, smaller, associated islands. It is bounded on the north by the municipality of San Dionisio, in the south by the municipality of Ajuy, in the west by the municipality of Sara, and in the east by the Visayan Sea. It has a total land area of 9,702.04 hectares.\n\nConcepcion is from Iloilo City.\n\nThe largest of the 16 Concepcion Islands is Pan de Azucar at , which has the high Mount Manaphag rising from its center.\n\nConcepcion is politically subdivided into twenty-five barangays, eleven of which are island barangays, and fourteen of which are on the mainland (Panay Island).\n\nIn the , the population of Concepcion, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe primary industry of the people of Concepcion is in fishing. The Visayan Sea, where Concepcion is situated, is one of the most prolific in fish production and provides a significant proportion of fish in the region. In 2007, the number of registered fishermen stood at 7,957. Fishing is followed second by farming, with much of it being subsistence farming. The principle cash crops are rice, corn and vegetables, along with bamboo and coconuts. Poultry and livestock are raised for local consumption.\n\nPoverty incidence was extremely high in the early 21st century, with 87% of the population being below the government poverty line in 2000, with a reduction to 47% in 2004. A contributing factor was the rapidity of population growth in the municipality, with a growth rate of 2.76% in 2002, or four babies being born every day in the municipality.\n\nThere is one institution of higher learning in the municipality, Concepcion Polytechnic College, which offers bachelor's degrees in fisheries and agriculture, as well as a masters in public administration.\n\nConcepcion is a host to beautiful islands with white sand beaches and sandbars. Among them are Bulobadiangan Island, Agho Island, and Pan de Azucar.\n\nThe annual Tampisaw Festival, held the fourth week of April on four of the islands, attracts tourism.\n\nThe Concepcion Power Station is a 270-megawatt (MW) coal-fired power plant located by the coast of Barangay Nipa, Concepcion, Iloilo. The plant is sponsored by the Palm Concepcion Power Corporation (PCPC), a subsidiary of real estate company A Brown Company. Currently Unit 1 of the station has begun operating since August 2016 while Unit 2 is planned for 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155061", "title": "Dingle, Iloilo", "text": "Dingle, Iloilo\n\n' (), officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is known for its baroque-architecture church and its archaeological cave sites, such as the Lapuz Lapuz Cave, famous for revealing hunter-gatherer lives of the ancient people of Panay.\n\nDingle started as a pre-colonial settlement of Sumandig, which was under the jurisdiction of Simsiman, a pueblo of Laglag. The settlement was also known as Sibucao, Ba-ong and Orvat. The Augustinian priest, Fr. Francisco Manuel Blanco, first founded Dingle as a \"visita\" of Pototan in 1593. Dingle became independent on April 23, 1611. In 1629 however, it was annexed to Dumangas, Iloilo and to Dueñas, Iloilo in 1641 (until 1825). On August 16, 1850, by order of Governor General of the Philippines Antonio de Urbiztondo, Dingle again became independent and was officially named the town of Dingle. The first town head was Julio Dator (1823–1827). In 1865, Fr. Fernando Llorente ordered the construction of the Dingle Catholic Church which was completed in 1886.\n\nDuring the second phase Philippine Revolution against Spain, during the Spanish–American War, Dingle staged the first armed uprising in the Province of Iloilo. Now known as the \"Cry of Lincud\", the revolt occurred in Barrio Lincud on October 28, 1898. Today the event is commemorated as a special non-working holiday. The leaders of the uprising were Adriano Hernandez, Julio Hernandez, and Nicolas Roces. Adriano Hernandez later became a brigadier general in the Philippine Revolutionary Army. He then represented the province at the Malolos Congress. Later, he was appointed Director of the Bureau of Agriculture. Today, his statue stands inside the Philippine Army's Camp General Adriano Hernandez in Dingle, which is named in his honor.\n\nUnder the Americans, Dingle was annexed to Pototan, Iloilo, the latter being larger and more prosperous. Nonetheless, thru the efforts of Gen. Adriano Hernandez, the separation of the town from Pototan was given impetus in 1907.\n\nIn 1954, the sitio of Nazuni was converted into a barrio and was added as a barangay of Dingle.\n\nThe topography of Dingle is relatively rolling hills and narrow plains from the Poblacion. The flat lands extend along the Jalaur River through its borderline to the southeast. This starts to roll upward from the Poblacion going to the north-west. From the west of the Poblacion rises the slopes, steep and mountainous. This indicates that the topography of Dingle meets a certain type-cropping pattern.\n\nDingle is from Iloilo City.\n\nDingle is politically subdivided into 33 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Dingle, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe Panay Diesel Power Plant located at Tinocuan, Dingle provides 110 megawatts of energy to Panay. The power plant is operated by the National Power Corporation\n\nTwo natural springs, the Lubong-Tubig and Talinab, serve as water source for the Dingle-Pototan Water District. While the Jalaur Irrigation Dam also known as Moroboro Dam, built in 1955, provides irrigation to the agricultural lands of Dingle and nearby towns.\n\nBulabog Puti-an is the only limestone rock formation on Panay. It was designated a National Park through Congressional Bill No. 1651, and such is considered a \"nationally significant area.\" It occupies a land area of 834.033 hectares covering five of the 33 barangays of Dingle. The park contains 13 known caves namely : Lungib, Hapu-Hapo, Ma-arhong, Guiso, Maestranza, Linganero, Lapuz Lapuz, Ticondal, Butac, Tuco, San Roque, Pitong Liko and Nautod. The Maeztranza Cave is historically important as it served as a hide-out of the revolutionary forces during the Spanish colonial period and on its stone walls are inscriptions of the revolutionary troops.\n\nMount Manyakiya is a natural viewing deck that provides a panoramic view of Negros Island as well as the low lying towns of the province of Iloilo. Nautod Wall, one of the major rock-climbing destination in the Philippines, can be found here.\n\n\n\n\nThe Dingle Town Fiesta is celebrated every 24th day of June in honor of its patron saint, John the Baptist.\n\nThe Pagdihon Festival is a celebration in commemoration of the Cry of Lincud, the first revolt against the Spaniards on Panay. It is held every 4th week of October.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155062", "title": "Dueñas, Iloilo", "text": "Dueñas, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDueñas is from Iloilo City.\nDueñas river Jalaur is known for its first class quality of sand and gravel and became the quarry capital of Western Visayas.\n\nDueñas had its foundation and Christianization in 1590 with the name of Sumandig. In 1599, it was moved to Sibucao. Four years later (1603) she was joined to Dumangas and two years later in 1605 she enjoyed her independence.\n\nIn 1608, she was transferred to Laglag, now Barangay Pader, Dueñas, and remained in this place for 59 years or until 1667. It had only five barrios, namely: Sibucao and Sumandig in the lowlands; and Misi, Camantugan and Malonor in the upland.\n\nIn 1668, Laglag was joined to Passi, only to be separated a year after (1669). From 1669 to 1844 or for a period of 175 years, Laglag still remained in the said site. (This was for reason that most of the family name of the residents of Dueñas begin with letter “L” ). But later in 1845, Laglag was moved around four kilometers eastward and given a name Dueñas in memory of the birthplace (Dueñas, Palencia, Spain) of Fr. Florencio Martin, who authored the transfer. Saint Jerome, Doctor of the Church, is the Patron Saint of Dueñas.\n\nThe word “Dueñas” or “Dueña” is derived from a Latin word \"domna\" or \"domina\", which means \"landlady\" or madam who has dominion over a certain house or estate\".\n\nDueñas is politically subdivided into 47 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Dueñas, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nAs of 2018, there have been around 75 town executives who served Dueñas (from old name - Laglag to present name - Dueñas).\n\nCurrent elected officials are:\n\nSeptember in Dueñas is a special month, the start of the harvest of many agricultural crops. The last day of the month is the feast in honor of the Patron, St. Jerome. The week-long celebration is a way of thanksgiving after having a good harvest and surpassing the trials and cries during lean months.\n\nThe Anihan Festival stands for Dueñas being an agricultural area that mainly depends on agriculture as its major source of livelihood; out of the municipality's 9,052 hectares, 86% or approximately 7,800 hectares are devoted to agriculture. Dueñas belongs to the top ten municipalities in terms of agricultural crop production particularly rice in rainfed areas in the Province of Iloilo.\n\nThe ANIHAN FESTIVAL in the Municipality of Dueñas started in CY 2003. Its main feature is the Tribe Competition which is characterized by street dancing and an interpretative dance depicting the practice, customs and traditions of the Dueñasanons before or during the harvest season. An expression of thanksgiving for bountiful production of agricultural crops.\n\nLikewise, to add color to the festivity, a parade with float and muses of the contesting tribes, search and coronation of Miss Anihan are also being conducted. This is to project the incomparable beauty, talent and brains of the Dueñasanon.\n\nOther activities include agro-industrial fair, food festival, garden show, and \"Laro ng Lahi\". This is to showcase the different varieties of ornamental plants, native foods and delicacies, and thriving agricultural crops in the municipality. This occasion also provide the Dueñason leisurely time to play and enjoy various indigenous games of the past, develop camaraderie and sportsmanship among various sectors of the community.\n\nThe Anihan Festival is an annual activity spearheaded by the Local Government Unit of Dueñas with the full support of the Anihan Festival Committee.\n\nDueñas has been known to be the site of the infamous \"Teniente Gimo\" urban legend story. Teniente is a Spanish word for Lieutenant since according to the story, a guy named Gimo was the Teniente del Barrio, or what is now known as the Barangay Chairman of the place. The story revolves about Gimo's family of \"aswangs\" wherein one of her daughters invited two of her female classmates from Iloilo City to their barrio fiesta without any knowledge of them being \"aswangs\". Story says that Gimo and company mistakenly slaughtered his daughter while asleep instead of the targeted guest after that one guest herself overheard them of their plan to manslaughter her and feast for her body. As a result, the girl tricked the \"aswangs\" into killing their own kind and escaped, while the fate of the other classmate was unknown.\n\nThe story has still been considered unproven and remains arguably the most famous \"aswang\" story of all time. Sources state that the whole story and characters were all fictional and is a product of old native literature by the elderly Ilonggo people. The story is often told by adults, both young and old, to scare off disobedient children. It has even been referenced to in popular culture specifically in a few Philippine horror films and is also widespread outside Iloilo and the rest of Panay, with various versions of the tale.\nNazaria Lagos-The Florence Nightingale Of Panay and she was the nurse during the Philippine Revolution and Philippine-American War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155069", "title": "Khobi", "text": "Khobi\n\nKhobi () is a town in western Georgia with a population of 4,242. The settlement of Khobi acquired the status of a town in 1981 and currently functions as an administrative center of the Khobi District within the Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti region.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155071", "title": "Juglandeae", "text": "Juglandeae\n\nJuglandeae is a tribe of the Juglandoideae subfamily, in the Juglandaceae family.\nWalnut tree species comprise the Juglans genus, which belong to the Juglandeae tribe.\n\n Tribe Juglandeae<br>\n  Subtribe Caryinae\n  Subtribe Juglandinae\n"}
{"id": "2155074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155074", "title": "Estancia, Iloilo", "text": "Estancia, Iloilo\n\n' (), officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nEstancia is located in the northern part of the province and is from the provincial capital, Iloilo City, and from Roxas City.\n\nEstancia was originally a ranch for a wealthy Spaniard named Rodrigo who married a local woman. Estancia is not known for its agricultural products nor livestock but rather for its location as it is adjacent to Carles' impressive marine resources. Estancia has a fishport and a pier - these being one of the most developed in northern visayas, a banking industry, cable television, a hospital (adjacent only, that belongs to the Municipality of Balasan) and resorts.\n\nEstancia is known around the country as a center for commercial fishing, so much so that it shares to carries the name \"Alaska of the Philippines\" . The name “Alaska of the Philippines” reflects back early 1900 up to pre World War II when major commercial fishing activities was within Carles fishing ground ( facing Estancia Town ) and small portion of Estancia water territory, with bountiful catches, running out place to process and preserve their catch ended up rotting by the beaches. Commercial fishing boats from Bantayan Cebu, Province of Capiz, Samar, Leyte, Masbate and Negros came to Carles to fish (The true Alaska of the Philippines). As a testament to its location adjacent to Carles' bountiful marine resources. The reason for this is that Carles lies in the Visayan Sea triangle, an imaginary triangle extending from the provinces of Iloilo, Negros, Cebu, Samar, and Masbate. This triangle is a part of the \"Sulu-Sulaweisi Triangle\" of the Sulu Sea and neighboring Indonesia where a large concentration of marine organisms coupled with climate conditions support a massive marine ecosystem. Various commercial species are harvested along Carles' waters, namely mackerel, barracuda, sardines, shad, pompano, grouper, squid, cuttlefish, shrimp, prawns, shells, seaweed and others, these all are catches from Carles' water territory and brought to fishports of Estancia and Bancal.\n\nThe method predominantly used are purse seining, trawling and gill netting as these are suited for the relatively shallow waters (up to 60 fathoms) of the Visayan Sea.\n\nHowever, as of recent years, pollution, heavy overfishing, and irresponsible fishing practices have slowly diminished the once abundant fish stocks of Estancia, and now problems like diminishing catches and unpredictable weather are beginning to surface. These factors have raised awareness in the government as well as the private sector and currently an artificial reef is off the shore of Brgy Paon in an attempt to provide juvenile fish with shelter in hopes of restocking these once populous waters. For now, Estancia is experiencing influx of investments as Gaisano Grand put up their first mall in the 5th District of Iloilo, also Prince Hypermart and some mall like CityMall shows interests to come in. Estancia as \" Investor's Haven in Northern Iloilo \" aspires to become a City in the near future.\n\nEstancia is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Estancia, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nParts of Estancia were heavily damaged by Typhoon Haiyan. The roof of Northern Iloilo Polytechnic State College (NIPSC: Estancia) was completely torn off. Estancia Central School was also hit by the said typhoon and almost all of the classrooms were totally damaged. The Principal (Dr. Gerry J. Tingson) of the said school with his utmost will is now trying to restore the damages caused by typhoon Haiyan through national and foreign aid. Other partsof the town that suffered damage included the market and the port.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155075", "title": "Guimbal, Iloilo", "text": "Guimbal, Iloilo\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nWith a shoreline facing the blue waters of the Panay Gulf, it has attracted tourists from different places because of its scenic beaches and inland resorts.\n\nGuimbal produces mango in Iloilo as well as other seasonal fruits. Farming and fishing are among the main sources of livelihood of its people.\n\nThe first reference to Guimbal by such name in Spanish records appeared in Father Coco’s appendix to Medina’s “The History of the Agustinian Order in the Philippines” Where it referred to the establishment of a convento in Guimbal, Iloilo in 1590.\n\nA closer fact compared to some other writings showed that the name of the municipality was derived from a musical instrument called guimba drum. The Spaniards discovered the settlers using the instrument to warn the people of the coming of the raiding Moro pirates who used to loot the town and capture the natives to be sold as slaves in Mindanao. To show gratitude to the instrument, with high spirit and pride as the unconquered people, the inhabitants bob named their settlement Guimbal.\n\nGuimbal, a coastal municipality, is located at the south-western part of Iloilo province. It is situated between the coordinates of 1250 57’ longitude, and 100 39’ latitude. It is from Iloilo City, and has a total land area of . It is only six feet above sea level, and has varying features in terms of its slopes and elevation.\n\nType I climate, characterized by two district seasons: dry season, which falls from December to May, and the wet season, which is from June to December.\n\nGuimbal is politically subdivided into 33 barangays. 11 within the Poblacion (Town Center) and 22 outside poblacion.\nPoblacion:\n\nIn the , the population of Guimbal, Iloilo, was people, with a density of .\n\nA 45-minute drive from Iloilo City, Guimbal is accessible from all points of Panay Island. its baranggays are served by municipal and other provincial jeepneys and buses that pass through the town and by almost 180 tricycles and 350 motorbikes playing their respective routes. The transport of farm products to the poblacion and the city is made easy by farm-to-market roads.\n\nElected municipal officials (2019 - 2022):\n\n\n\nSecondary:\n\nElementary:\n\n"}
{"id": "2155076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155076", "title": "Igbaras", "text": "Igbaras\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIgbaras celebrates its town fiesta annually on May 22 in honor of Santa Rita de Cascia. The town has many points of interest including the ruins of the church belfry, Mount Napulak, Bahi-Bahi, Nadsadjan Falls, Lagsakan Falls, Timapok Falls, Guiritsan Falls, Sampanan Falls, Bat Cave, Igcabugao Cave, Bais Cave and the Pakuyang sa Tangyan Festival. A species of Rafflesia, the world's largest flower, can also be found here.\n\nThe name Igbaras comes from a combination of two words, \"\"ig\"\" or \"\"tig\"\" which means \"plenty of\" or \"season of\", and \"\"baras\"\" which means \"sand\". Thus Igbaras means \"plenty of sand\" which alludes to the nearby sandy river. Igbaras is most commonly mistaken with the similar-sounding and more widely known province of Guimaras.\n\nAs a result of the implementation of Spanish Governor-General Narciso Claveria's decree on giving Filipinos with Spanish surnames in 1849, inhabitants of Igbaras during that time were apportioned with surnames starting mostly with the letter E.\n\nIgbaras was fused with Guimbal in 1902 until the American regime made it a separate town on January 1, 1919. Don Flor Evidente became the first municipal mayor.\n\nAmerican soldiers water tortured Igbaras leaders then burned the village to the ground during the Philippine-American War\n\nIgbaras has the distinction of having the first congressman elected to Congress in 1925-1928 in the person of Don Eugenio Ealdama, and the delegate to the 1935 Constitutional Convention, Don Mariano Ezpeleta who later served as Consul-General and ambassador to several countries.\nIgbaras is located at the south-western part of Iloilo. It is situated between the coordinates of 122.2650’ longitude, and 10.7167’ latitude. It is from Iloilo City.\n\nIgbaras is politically subdivided into 46 barangays. Alameda was formerly known as Bukaw.\n\nIn the , the population of Igbaras was people, with a density of .\n\nPeople from Igbaras speak Kinaray-a, a language associated with Antique province. However, Hiligaynon, a vernacular commonly used in Iloilo City is understood by everyone and used mostly by students or those staying in the City.\n\nSecondary:\n\nElementary and Primary:\n\nThe mayor is the chief executive of the town. He is elected to serve a three-year term, with a maximum of three terms. The incumbent municipal mayor is Dr. Jaime E. Esmeralda. The vice mayor is the presiding officer of the Sangguniang Bayan. He is also the chief executive of the town whenever the mayor is out of the town. He is elected to serve a three-year term, with a maximum of three terms. The incumbent vice mayor is Atty. Vicente E. Escorpion Jr. The Sangguniang Bayan of Igbaras is composed of 8 members with 2 ex-officio members which are the town's Association of Barangay Councils (ABC) President and Sangguniang Kabataan Federation President. The municipal councilors are elected to serve a three-year term, with a maximum of three terms. \n\nThe town officials from June 30, 2019 to June 30, 2022. They were elected last May 13, 2019 during the 2019 Philippine national and local elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155089", "title": "Rachel Melvin", "text": "Rachel Melvin\n\nRachel Melvin (born February 9, 1985) is an American actress. She is best known for her roles as Chelsea Brady on \"Days of Our Lives\" (2005–09) and as Penny in \"Dumb and Dumber To\".\n\nMelvin was born in Elmhurst, Illinois but moved to Phoenix, Arizona at age four. She was raised in Phoenix. She has an older sister named Jessica. She graduated from Mountain Pointe High School in 2003. She passed up a full scholarship to college so that she could move to California to pursue an acting career. In Los Angeles she took acting classes every weekend.\n\nShe landed her first acting job in the 2005 independent film \"Boo\". She later won the role of Georgia LaMarque, a French girl whom Bo and Billie had been falsely led to believe was their daughter on the NBC soap opera \"Days of our Lives\", but only appeared in five episodes. Months later she took over the role of Chelsea Brady (originally portrayed by Mandy Musgrave). She and her dog were seen on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", when she was randomly interviewed at a gas station for a segment. Melvin has also guest-starred on \"Summerland\", \"Jack & Bobby\" and \"8 Simple Rules\". With her family, she has also appeared on \"Family Feud\".\n\nIn 2010, Melvin starred as Kaia in \"Seven Deadly Sins\" which premiered on Lifetime alongside Dreama Walker. The first part premiered on May 23 while the second part premiered on May 24, 2010. In 2011, Melvin appeared in episodes of \"House M.D.\" and \"Castle\".\n\nIn 2014, Melvin appeared as Penny Pinchelow in \"Dumb and Dumber To\", portrayed Mary in \"Zombeavers\", and Sarah in the drama thriller film \"Madtown\".\n\nShe appeared in the final season of MTV's \"Awkward\".\n\nMelvin lives in Los Angeles. Her idols include Meryl Streep, Mary-Louise Parker, Anne Hathaway, Cynthia Nixon and Toni Collette.\n"}
{"id": "2155091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155091", "title": "Matthew 6:9", "text": "Matthew 6:9\n\nMatthew 6:9 is the ninth verse of the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament and is part of the Sermon on the Mount. This verse is the opening of the Lord's Prayer, one of the best known parts of the entire New Testament.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nThe verse opens with an instruction to pray in the manner that follows. This opening makes clear that this is not a prayer to be given by Jesus himself, rather it is one to be spoken by his followers. This is important to Christian theology as the prayer mentions forgiveness for sins, and Jesus is held to be sinless. How specific Jesus' instruction a matter of some debate. The prayer that follows has been repeated word for word billions of times, but some scholars believe that Jesus was here giving a general guideline for what prayers should contain rather than a specific prayer. That the New Testament gives other prayers, including a similar one in Luke, is one indication that different wordings are acceptable. The New Testament also reports Jesus disciples praying on several occasions, but never describes them using this prayer.\n\nThe opening pronoun is plural, which France notes indicates that the prayer was likely intended for communal worship, rather than private repetition. The New Testament also makes clear that \"father\" is a title used by disciples to refer to God. Only those already redeemed should use it, and this prayer is thus for those already converted.\n\nMatthew's wording here reflects that of Jewish works of this period. Luke's very similar prayer at - far more radically has simply \"Father\", rather than \"our Father\", a usage unheard of in Jewish literature of the period. Matthew's \"our Father\" makes the relationship somewhat more distant, and more acceptable to Jewish sensibilities. The word translated as \"father\" is \"abba\". This is a somewhat informal term that would have been used by young children to address their father. However, it was a term that adult children would sometimes use, and a general term of reverence for any elder male in a community. Boring writes that \"papa\" would be a more literal translation, and be closer to the sense of the original.\n\n\"Hallowed be thy name\" is similar to a portion of the synagogue prayer known as the Qaddish. The Greek word for \"hallowed\" was a rare one, and like the English term almost only found in a Biblical context. It means to honour or revere, but also to worship and glorify. In Judaism the name of God is of extreme importance, and honouring the name central to piety. Hendriksen notes that in this era names were not simply labels, but were seen as true reflections of the nature of the object. Thus revering God's name is the equivalent of revering God. One view is that this petition is thus calling for obedience to God and to His commands. Green argues that the hallowing of God's name is deliberately the first among the three petitions in the prayer, in order to reassert the primacy of God over all other things. \n\n\"Hallowed\" is in the passive voice and future tense, which makes it unclear how this hallowing is meant to occur. One interpretation is that this is a call for all believers to honour God's name. For those who see the prayer as primarily eschatological the prayer is instead a call for the end times when God's power will ensure his name is universally honoured, and that this petition is not necessarily advice for the present.\n"}
{"id": "2155094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155094", "title": "Matthew 6:10", "text": "Matthew 6:10\n\nMatthew 6:10 is the tenth verse of the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament and is part of the Sermon on the Mount. This verse is the second one of the Lord's Prayer, one of the best known parts of the entire New Testament. This verse contains the second and third petitions to God.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 6:10.\n\nThe opening of this verse, like the end of the last ones, echoes the Jewish Qaddish prayer. That prayer contained a call for the Kingdom of God to begin in one's lifetime.\n\nKingdom is a metaphor for the Kingdom of God that the Jewish messiah was meant to bring. At several places in the New Testament Jesus states that he has brought the kingdom, and that this kingdom is the Christian faith, not the worldly empire that had been expected. Fowler notes that some have thus argued that this prayer is out of date, that it was intended for a pre-Christian audience not one where Christianity is already established. One response to this is that Christianity is far from universal, and that this phrase is a call for the Kingdom of Christ to spread to those who do not yet believe. Even those who do believe are never perfect Christians, and some part of their heart is always left untouched, and this verse can thus be read as calling for the full adoption of Christianity. Alternatively it is common to see kingdom as having more than one meaning in the New Testament, and that while Jesus did inaugurate and new kingdom, this verse is eschatological and looking forward to the final end times.\n\nThere is also debate over how eschatological the third petition is. The will of God could refer to the power of God, the manifestation of his reign, and the last petition is simply an addendum to the second calling for God's power to be made manifest on Earth as clearly as it is in Heaven, a clear reference to the end times. The second interpretation is that the petition is a call for humans to obey God's will, his commandments and ethical teachings. A call for proper human behavior, rather than for divine intervention.\n\nIn the original Greek the phrase \"in earth, as it is in heaven\" is ambiguous. Either it can mean that things on Earth should become as they are in Heaven, or it could be read as stating that these things should be done in both Earth and Heaven. The first interpretation is the most common, and this gives us rare information about Heaven, making clear that in that realm God's will is fully enacted. It is uncertain whether this phrase is intended to only modify the last petition, or all three.\n"}
{"id": "2155096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155096", "title": "Matthew 6:11", "text": "Matthew 6:11\n\nMatthew 6:11 is the eleventh verse of the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament and forms part of the Sermon on the Mount. This verse is the third one of the Lord's Prayer, one of the best known parts of the entire New Testament. This brief verse contains the fourth petition to God.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nVia linguistic parsing, \"Epiousios\" is translated as \"supersubstantialem\" in the Vulgate () and accordingly as \"supersubstantial\" in the Douay-Rheims Bible ():\n\nReflecting interpretations from the Vetus Latina, the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe English Standard Version translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 6:11.\n\nThis petition marks a change in the character of the prayer. The first three petitions called for the glory of God in the second person. This petition, and the two that follow, call for personal needs to be met in the second person plural. Unlike the earlier parts of the prayer, there is no clear parallel to this one in Jewish prayers of that era.\n\nThere are multiple ways of interpreting this verse, primarily because of the uncertain translation of the word \"epiousios\". The original word (\"epiousios\"), commonly characterized as \"daily\", is unique to the Lord's Prayer in all of ancient Greek literature. The word is almost a hapax legomenon, occurring only in Luke and Matthew's versions of the Lord's Prayer, and nowhere else in any other extant Greek texts. Several other terms in the New Testament are also translated as \"daily\", but they all reference \"hemeran\" (ἡμέραν, \"the day\"), which does not appear in this usage.\n\nIn the New Testament era, bread was the most important food, especially for the poor and dispossessed segments of society who Jesus frequently refers to in the Sermon on the Mount. Bread was so large a part of the diet, that translating the term as simply \"food\" may be closer to its contemporary understanding. Boring believes that while there may be other metaphorical meanings, this basic meaning of bread as sustenance would always have been read into the verse.\n\nEarly adopters of the \"daily\" interpretation include the \"Vetus Latina\" manuscripts, John Chrysostom, Gregory of Nyssa, and Theodore of Mopsuestia. The translation of \"quotidianum\" was also used by Jerome, not while translating Matthew but when translating the same word in the Sermon in Luke. \"Quotidianum\" became the standard term in the Catholic liturgy, as the Lord's Prayer used an earlier translation than the Vulgate.\n\nOne problem with this interpretation is that in only a few verses later, Jesus tells his followers to not worry about things such as food. Raymond E. Brown rejects the literal interpretation as the rest of the prayer is clearly metaphorical and eschatological, and a literal request for bread is out of place.\n\nA more difficult matter for the \"daily\" interpretation is that while \"epiousios\" is often substituted by the word \"daily,\" all other New Testament translations from the Greek into \"daily\" otherwise reference \"hemeran\" (ἡμέραν, \"the day\"), which does not appear in this usage.\n\nBarclay M. Newman's \"A Concise Greek-English Dictionary of the New Testament\", published in a revised edition in 2010 by the United Bible Societies has the following entry:\n\nDaily remains the most common translation. William Hendriksen observes that, without any real proof for alternate readings, there is no need to abandon the traditional translation that readers are familiar with. \"Daily\", he says, is also quite close to both the \"necessary for survival\" and \"for the coming day\" meanings, which are the most popular among scholars.\n\nThe problem of \"epiousios\" was noted as early as Origen, who felt term was a neologism created by the gospel writers. He interpreted the word as meaning \"necessary for existence.\" Following this linguistic parsing, Jerome translated \"ἐπιούσιον\" (epiousios) as \"supersubstantialem\" in the Gospel of Matthew. This itself is a new word, not before seen in Latin.\nThis translation has often been connected to the eucharist. The bread necessary for existence is the communion bread of the Last Supper. That the gospel writers needed to create a new word indicates to Eugene LaVerdiere that they are describing something new. Eating the communion bread at the last supper needed a new word.\n\nThis wide-ranging difference with respect to meaning of \"epiousios\" is discussed in detail in the current Catechism of the Catholic Church by way of an inclusive approach toward tradition as well as a literal one for meaning:\n\n\"Taken in a temporal sense, this word is a pedagogical repetition of \"this day,\" to confirm us in trust \"without reservation.\" Taken in the qualitative sense, it signifies what is necessary for life, and more broadly every good thing sufficient for subsistence. Taken literally (epi-ousios: \"super-essential\"), it refers directly to the Bread of Life, the Body of Christ, the \"medicine of immortality,\" without which we have no life within us.\"\n\nThis interpretation was also central to the Bogomil sect. In Bulgarian Bibles to this day, \"epiousios\" is translated as \"daily substantial\".\n\nBarclay M. Newman's \"A Concise Greek-English Dictionary of the New Testament\", published in a revised edition in 2010 by the United Bible Societies has the following entry:\n\nThis interpretation was supported by early writers such as Augustine, Cyril of Jerusalem, Cyprian of Carthage, John Cassian and it is still a part of Catholic doctrine. The connection to the eucharist is rejected by most current scholars. Brant Pitre notes that \"it receives virtually no support among modern exegetes.\" Boring notes that the connection with the eucharist is ahistoric as the ritual only developed some time after the Gospel was written and the author of Matthew does not seem to have any knowledge of or interest in the rituals of the eucharist. Craig Blomberg agrees that these \"concepts had yet to be introduced when Jesus gave his original prayer and therefore could not have been part of his original meaning.\" David G. Buttrick summarizes the consensus that \"for centuries the church interpreted epiousios sacramentally: \"Bread\" was Eucharist. But the word does not refer to eucharistic bread.\"\n\nThis verse can also be read in an eschatological context. \"Epiousios\" can be translated as \"bread for tomorrow\" or \"bread for the future.\" This translation is also advanced as a possibility by Jerome. Other early supporters of this translation are Cyril of Alexandria and Peter of Laodicea. Albert Schweitzer reintroduced this translation in modern times.\n\nIn the New Testament bread is common \"symbol of eschatological blessedness\" and the metaphor of the Kingdom of Heaven as a divine banquet was a common one at the time and found at Luke 14:15. The obscurity of the word \"epiousios\" could be because it specifically refers to bread of the end times, or perhaps to the manna of the Exodus 16:4, which comes in amounts sufficient for each day. The link to the manna provided by God to the Israelites during Exodus could represents the reward the faithful can expect from God at the end of times. Thus the prayer could be calling for a new eschatological exodus.\n\nCrump rejects this metaphorical interpretation. He notes that \"tomorrow\" is not an eschatological term in Matthew, and while bread is used metaphorically elsewhere in Matthew, the context is always clear. Schweizer similarly doubts the non-literal interpretations. Throughout the gospel Jesus has been portrayed as caring for the daily needs of his followers, and his miraculously providing them with bread is a symbol of this. Schweizer feels bread was a very real need, not a metaphoric one. R.T. France similarly argues that nothing in the verse implies bread should not be seen literally.\n"}
{"id": "2155097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155097", "title": "Emlyon Business School", "text": "Emlyon Business School\n\nemlyon business school is a French leading business school. It was founded in Lyon, France in 1872 by the local business community, and is affiliated to the Lyon Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It has triple accreditation: EQUIS by the EFMD, AMBA, and the AACSB. emlyon has 6 campuses currently: Lyon, Saint-Étienne, Paris, Shanghai, Casablanca and Bhubaneswar.\n\nThe school was created in 1872 and it is the fourth Business school in France created after ESCP Europe, École supérieure de commerce de Rouen and École de management de Normandie.\n\nThe first name of the school was \"ESCAE Lyon\", then \"École supérieure de commerce de Lyon (ESCL)\", then changed to EM Lyon in 1997, for the 125th anniversary of the school. The final name, emlyon business school, was chosen in 2005.\n\nAt the end of March 2016, emlyon business school and Grenoble School of Management announced their alliance, the Alliance Lyon Grenoble Business School, centered on innovation, entrepreneurship, growth, and new business.\n\nemlyon business school is organized in six campuses in the Urban Community of Lyon (Écully), Saint-Etienne, Shanghai, Casablanca, Bhubaneswar, and Paris.\nFor many years, emlyon has developed partnerships with Chinese universities. A \"Master en Administration des Affaires de Canton\" (Master of Business Administration) in collaboration with the \"Université Lyon-III\" (Jean Moulin University Lyon 3) and the Lingnan College (part of the Sun Yat-sen University) was launched in 1997. It is a fully French speaking Master, which has been awarded in 2004 by the Chinese Ministry of Education. EMLYON opened an office in Shanghai in 2000 and a new campus in September 2007 within the campus of the East China Normal University. \n\nThe Casablanca campus was inaugurated in 2015. In 2016, emlyon opened its latest campus in Paris. In 2018, emlyon opened a campus in India with Xavier University.\n\nIn 2018, Times Higher Education ranked emlyon in the 34th position of its Global University Employability Ranking, being placed for the third consecutive year in the top 50 in the world and second place in France.\n\nemlyon business school hosts the student association the Petit Paumé, which is the second-largest student association in France in terms of financial means.\nemlyon business school also hosts an event called \"Le défi de Bacchus\", which is the biggest wine-testing competition in Europe, gathering students and professionals. A competition well known for the degustation of French \"grands crus\" such as Château d'Yquem and because the restaurants where this event takes place are always Michelin starred.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155098", "title": "Beartooth Mountains", "text": "Beartooth Mountains\n\nThe Beartooth Mountains are located in south central Montana and northwest Wyoming, U.S. and are part of the Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness, within Custer, Gallatin and Shoshone National Forests. The Beartooths are the location of Granite Peak, which at is the highest point in the state of Montana. The mountains are just northeast of Yellowstone National Park and are part of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. The mountains are traversed by road via the Beartooth Highway (U.S. 212) with the highest elevation at Beartooth Pass ). The name of the mountain range is attributed to a rugged peak found in the range, Beartooth Peak, that has the appearance of a bear's tooth.\n\nThe Beartooth Mountains sit upon the larger Beartooth Plateau, the largest true high elevation plateau in the United States.\n\nThe remoteness of the region contributed to its obscurity until the 1870s. The Crow tribe of Native Americans used the valleys of the mountains for hunting game animals and for winter shelter from the harsh winds of the plains. Though trappers entered the region in the 1830s, formal exploration by the U.S. Government did not occur until 1878. While there has been gold discovered earlier in the mountain range the major expansion of mining began in 1882. Expansion continued adding more infrastructure for the mines. As growth continued there were six companies that had stakes in the New World Mining District. Between 1900-1955 the district has produced over 65,000 oz of gold, 500,000 oz of silver, and amounts of copper, zinc, and lead ore. One of the main limiting factors was the remoteness. Over time many of the mines ceased operations due to lack of funds or collapses that were not financially viable to correct. In 1989 Crown Butte Mines proposed massive additions to operations in the area. Once they began preparations for starting new mining operations, they came under public scrutiny based on the proximity to Yellowstone National Park and public fears that waste would find its way into the park. In 1996 the federal government paid Crown Butte Mines $65 million to defray costs they had already paid; they had to pay $22.5 million to help repair the damage done to the surrounding environment.\n\nThe ecosystem of the Beartooth Mountains is one of the most unique in the Contiguous United States partly due to being part of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. This space allows a great diversity with 34,375 square miles of nearly intact wilderness. With the protection to the terrestrial habitats all of the bodies of water are classified as Outstanding National Resource Waters, giving them the highest protections under the Clean Water Act. The cleanliness of the bodies of water led them to be used as a benchmark to compare others in the northern Rocky Mountains. Most of the current species are currently protected.\n\nThe mountains are home to many of North America's largest animals, including one of the few grizzly bear populations in the contiguous United States. There are rare sightings of lynx and wolverines and a population of cougars and recently reintroduced wolves. There are some of the largest herds bison and elk in North America. \n\nThe Beartooth Mountains also have a very diverse range of trees, mostly conifers with stands of aspen and cottonwoods. The conifers mainly consist of Engelmann spruce, subalpine fir, whitebark pine, and lodgepole pine below 9,000 ft. Above 9,000 ft. there are few trees, the flora including grasses, wildflowers, and sagebrush.\n\nThe Beartooth mountains are composed of Precambrian granite and crystalline metamorphic rocks dated at approximately 2.7 to 4 billion years old, making these rocks among the oldest on Earth. The Stillwater igneous complex within the mountains is the location of the largest known deposits of platinum and chromium and the second largest deposits of nickel found in the United States. Older ages (4-3.2 billion years) are found in zircon crystals in meta-sedimentary rocks. The most abundant rocks in the Beartooths (gneiss, amphibolites and granites, as well as the Stillwater Complex) are 2.9-2.7 billion years old.\n\nHuge expansive plateaus are found at altitudes in excess of with over 25 peaks exceeding . The mountains have over 300 pristine lakes and some waterfalls in excess of 300 feet (91 m). Winters are severe with heavy snow and incessant winds. Approximately 25 small glaciers exist in the Beartooths with Grasshopper Glacier being one of the more distinctive.\nThe highest peaks of the Beartooth Mountains are clustered in three groups, topped by Granite Peak, Mount Wood , and Castle Mountain . The cluster containing Mount Wood is named the Granite Range. The largest of these three contiguous areas above , which extends into Wyoming, is the one dominated by Castle Mountain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155099", "title": "Matthew 6:12", "text": "Matthew 6:12\n\nMatthew 6:12 is the twelfth verse of the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament and is part of the Sermon on the Mount. This verse is the fourth one of the Lord's Prayer, one of the best known parts of the entire New Testament. This verse contains the fifth petition to God.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 6:12.\n\nThe Greek word here translated as debts literally meant financial debts owed to another. However, the Aramaic word for debts could also mean sins or errors. In the Gospel of Luke the very similar prayer has the more metaphorical wording. It is thus generally accepted that this verse is talking about sins, rather than loans. This verse has thus often been translated with the word \"trespasses\" in place of the word \"debts\". However, some groups have read this verse as condemning all forms of lending.\n\nForgiveness had a central role in the Judaism of the period, and asking for forgiveness from God was a staple of Jewish prayers. It was also considered proper for individuals to be forgiving of others, for mistakes they made. Luz notes that this verse is unique in so closely relating the two notions. To be pious one must forgive one's fellows as God forgives all. This verse presupposes universal sinfulness. Everyone, no matter how holy, has sins that need to be forgiven\n\nThe patristic scholar Henry Chadwick says that Matthew 6:12 refers to Sirach 28:2 (\"Forgive your neighbor a wrong, and then, when you petition, your sins will be pardoned.\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2155100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155100", "title": "Matthew 6:13", "text": "Matthew 6:13\n\nMatthew 6:13 is the thirteenth verse of the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament, and forms part of the Sermon on the Mount. This verse is the fifth and final one of the Lord's Prayer, one of the best known parts of the entire New Testament.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe English Standard Version translates the passage as:\n\nThe doxology which concludes the Lord's Prayer is generally considered to be a later addition to the text and is usually omitted in modern translations into English.\n\nTranslations and scholars are divided over whether the prayer asks for protection from evil in general or from the evil one, i.e. Satan, in particular. The original Greek is vague, but most modern translations have \"evil one\" as it is felt that this better reflects first century theology. The earlier reference to temptation could also be a clue that the great tempter of Matthew 4 is being referenced. quite clearly refers to Satan when discussing similar issues. Hill, however, notes that \"the evil\" is used in neither Hebrew or Aramaic to denote Satan and in a similar wording quite clearly refers to general evil rather than Satan. John Calvin noted the vagueness of the verse, but did not feel it was important as there is little real difference between the two interpretations.\n\nIn 2017, Pope Francis, speaking on the Italian TV channel \"TV2000\", proposed that the wording of the translation be changed to \"do not let us fall into temptation\", explaining that \"I am the one who falls; it's not him [i.e. God] pushing me into temptation to then see how I have fallen\". The Anglican theologian Ian Paul has highlighted how such a proposal is \"stepping into a theological debate about the nature of evil\". Indeed, one of the most important issues with this verse is that it seems to imply that God is the one who leads humans into sin, not humanity's innate sinfulness as Christian theologians generally believe. A literal reading of this verse could imply that God is the source of evil. There are several explanations for getting around this. The first is that \"temptation\" is not an accurate translation. Fowler suggests that the Greek term \"peirasmos\" can mean temptation, but can also mean \"test of character\". At several points in the Bible God tests his followers, and this could be a plea to avoid such unpleasant testing. Schweizer notes that this would be a departure from the Judaism of the period where the faithful would pray to be tested, so that they could prove their loyalty to God. \n\nA second explanation, noted by Morris, is that \"test\" could be an eschatological reference to the fiery test God will put all to in the end times. Luz rejects this view, pointing out that nowhere in the New Testament is the term temptation connected to the last judgment, and that in the Jewish literature of the period temptation referred to the pitfalls of everyday life. Hill suggests that the Greek is only a loose translation of the Aramaic, and that Jesus would originally have used the expression \"cause us not to enter,\" which does not imply that God is the cause of temptation, but only the protector against it.\n\nThe final sentence of this verse, the doxology, is generally considered to be a later addition to the text and is usually omitted in modern translations. The doxology is not included in the following modern translations:\n\nIt is enclosed in square brackets in the Holman Christian Standard Bible, New American Standard Bible and New Century Version. Two publications which are updates of the Authorized King James Version (rather than new translations) keep it: 21st Century King James Version and New King James Version, but the second of these adds a note: \" \"NU-Text omits \"For Yours\" through \"Amen\".\" It is absent from the oldest and best manuscripts of Matthew, and most scholars do not consider it part of the original text. It first appears in a slightly shorter form in the Didache from around 130 AD. The doxology appears in at least ten different forms in early texts before becoming standardized, also implying that it might not have been original to the Gospel.\n\nA popular theory is that the doxology was originally appended to the prayer during congregational worship, as it was standard for Jewish prayers to have such endings. David Hill suggests it might have been based on 1 Chronicles 29:11. Once the phrase became the standard ending to the prayer in worship, copyists who were familiar with the longer form added the line to the Gospel itself. Anglican Bishop Charles Ellicott mentions the possibility that the words were \"interpolated by transcribers to make the text of the discourse harmonise with the liturgies\".\n\nSome scholars reject this view. An alternate explanation is that the doxology was such an important and well known part of prayers that early editions simply left it out of the text because such an ending was implicit.\n"}
{"id": "2155103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155103", "title": "Metisse", "text": "Metisse\n\nMetisse is a 2.5D desktop environment. More specifically, it is a X window manager with many features that set it apart from the traditional 3D \"cube\" workspace. Windows can be turned three-dimensionally in any direction, enabling the user to fit more windows onto a screen, and they can be scaled, all while remaining fully operational. The development team has avoided such effects as wobbly windows, giving functionality and productivity higher priority than eye candy.\n\nMetisse was available for Mandriva One 2007, PCLinuxOS 2007, Sabayon Linux, Arch Linux, other Linux distrobutions, FreeBSD (with active work as of January 2020), and Mac OS X.\n\nMetisse is free and open-source software subject to the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155105", "title": "Lambunao", "text": "Lambunao\n\n', officially the ', (, , ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLambunao is the largest municipality in Iloilo in terms of land area and is from Iloilo City.\n\nLambunao is politically subdivided into 73 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Lambunao was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2155106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155106", "title": "List of buildings and structures in Venice", "text": "List of buildings and structures in Venice\n\nThis is a list of buildings and structures in Venice, Italy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
