{"id": "2112910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112910", "title": "Meli Bogileka", "text": "Meli Bogileka\n\nRatu Meli Bogileka is a Fijian politician. He was the Secretary of the People's National Party (PNP) up to its decision to merge into the Party of National Unity (PANU) on 5 March 2006. This merger, an affair complicated by several about-turns, saw Bogileka appointed Secretary of the new PANU. (Bogileka had originally helped to forge the PNP as a union of a former PANU and another party, the Protector of Fiji (BKV); both parties were reregistered in January 2006, seceding from the PNP; the PNP and the BKV subsequently merged into PANU in March).\n\nFirst elected as a candidate of the original PANU to represent the Ba West Fijian communal constituency in the House of Representatives in the parliamentary election of 1999, Bogileka subsequently served in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry from 1999 to 2000, and was held as a hostage by gunmen led by George Speight, who led a coup d'état against the Chaudhry government, starting on 19 May 2000. Political realignments that followed the 2000 crisis saw him lose his seat in the election held to restore democracy in 2001.\n\nBogileka also stirred controversy by criticizing the legacy of modern Fiji's first statesman, Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna, who is regarded as a national hero. On 23 May 2005, he said that Sukuna's achievements had been overstated, and that his policies had confined Fijians to villages and marginalized them economically. He considered that Sukuna should have used his chiefly position to urge indigenous Fijians to work rather than remain in their villages in the name of culture. His comments provoked an angry reaction from the government, which issued a press release calling his statement \"inaccurate\" and saying that it should be \"treated with the contempt it deserves.\"\n\nBogileka has also served General Secretary of the Viti and Resource Landowners Association, which advocates the return to indigenous ownership of all \"crown land\" - i.e., government-owned land. This was not a political demand, he told the Fiji Sun on 3 January 2006, but rather an insistence on the fulfillment of a promise made by Queen Victoria in 1881, at Nailaga in Ba Province. He strongly disagreed with Military Commander Commodore Frank Bainimarama for saying that the association should not \"waste time\" trying to recover ownership of the Queen Elizabeth Barracks in Delainabua, Suva.\n\nIt was announced on 12 March 2006 that Bogileka would contest his old Ba West constituency in the parliamentary election scheduled for 6–13 May. He was unsuccessful.\n"}
{"id": "2112916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112916", "title": "Dragonfall 5", "text": "Dragonfall 5\n\nDragonfall 5 is a series of children's science fiction novels written by Brian Earnshaw during the 1970s and illustrated by Simon Stern.\nThe series takes place in the 3rd millennium and concerns a (presumably British) family made up of Tim, Sanchez, Old Elias and Big Mother, traveling in the eponymous spaceship, the \"Dragonfall 5\". They transport goods, passengers and other items to a variety of worlds. Apart from the four humans, the crew consist of a pet dog called Jerk, who is a breed of flying hounds who can glide using his long ears. They also have several small rodent-like animals called Minims. The family always work in groups of three, and can jointly translate most alien languages. In the \"Dragonfly 5 and the Royal Beast\" there were at least six Minims on the ship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112922", "title": "Newcastle University Students' Association", "text": "Newcastle University Students' Association\n\nThe Newcastle University Students' Association (NUSA) represents undergraduate students at the University of Newcastle, NSW, Australia. The organisation is one of four student organisations at the university (the others being UoN Services Ltd, Campus Central (a student guild at the university's Ourimbah campus), NUPSA (represents postgraduate students at University of Newcastle) and NUSport) and focuses on advocacy, political representation and organising as well as providing welfare services and supporting a student based food co-operative.\n\nNUSA publishes the student magazine \"Opus\" quarterly.\n\nNUSA has long been held by the left factions of the National Union of Students of Australia usually by either the National Broad Left or the National Organisation of Labor Students or more often by the two, cooperatively. Both the NBL and NOLS dissolved in the period of late 2005 and early 2006. Despite the Howard Government's Voluntary Student Unionism legislation causing massive cuts to both staffing and service levels at NUSA, it continues to provide independent representation through independent and university funding. NUSA maintains a strong relationship with the other unions on campus such as the CPSU, NTEU and LHMEU by joining with them in many campaigns.\n\nNUSA is directed by the NUSA Council which is made up of the NUSA executive, the collective convenors, faculty representatives, first-year representatives and a representative from the colleges. The organisation operates on the basis of student collectives which are convened by office bearers to direct and undertake political campaigns. NUSA is affiliated to the National Union of Students of Australia.\n\nNUSA and its collectives are involved in a number of campaigns at any one time. Violence at the Newcastle Campus has been one such issue that has dominated in recent months.\n\nPreviously the association has been successful in getting a train station at the Newcastle campus, preventing the closure of the Huxley library and lobbying the University to purchase up to 25% green power.\n\n"}
{"id": "2112928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112928", "title": "Nicholas West", "text": "Nicholas West\n\nNicholas West (146128 April 1533), was an English bishop and diplomatist, born at Putney, and educated at Eton and at King's College, Cambridge, of which he became a fellow in 1486. He also had periods of study at Oxford and Bologna.\n\nHe was soon ordained and appointed rector of Egglescliffe, Durham, receiving a little later two other livings and becoming chaplain to King Henry VII.\n\nIn 1509 Henry VIII appointed him dean of St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle (during which times its fan vaulting was completed), and in 1515 he was elected bishop of Ely. Prior to his elevation, West was (or was also) Archdeacon of Derby. West's long and successful career as a diplomatist began in 1502 through his friendship with Richard Foxe, bishop of Durham.\n\nIn the interests of Henry VII he visited the German king Maximilian I and George, Duke of Saxony; in 1506 he negotiated an important commercial treaty with Flanders, and he attempted to arrange marriages between the king's daughter Mary and the future emperor Charles V, and between the king himself and Charles's sister Margaret.\n\nBy Henry VIII, West was sent many times to Scotland and France. Occupied mainly during the years 1513 and 1514 with journeys to and from Scotland, he visited Louis XII of France in the autumn of 1514 and his successor Francis I in 1515.\n\nIn 1515 also he arranged a defensive treaty between England and France, and he was principally responsible for treaties concluded between the two countries in 1518 and 1525, and at other times. He was trusted and employed on personal matters by Cardinal Wolsey. He was also involved in the negotiations at the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520. He helped complete the legal statutes establishing Jesus College, Cambridge, which had been founded in 1496 by one of West's predecessors as Bishop of Ely, John Alcock.\nHe became Bishop of Ely in 1515 and for the remaining 19 years of his life 'lived in greater splendour than any other prelate of his time, having more than a hundred servants.' He was able to build a magnificent Chantry chapel at the south-east side of the eastern arm of Ely Cathedral, panelled with niches for statues (which were destroyed or disfigured just a few years later at the reformation), and with fan tracery forming the ceiling, and West's tomb on the south side.\n\nIn 1771 the chapel was also used to house the bones of seven Saxon 'benefactors of the church'. These had been translated from the old Saxon Abbey into the Norman building, and had been placed in a wall of the choir when it stood in the Octagon. When the choir stalls were moved, their enclosing wall was demolished, and the bones of Wulfstan (died 1023), Osmund of Sweden, Athelstan of Elmham, Ælfwine of Elmham, Ælfgar of Elmham, Eadnoth of Dorchester and Brythnoth, first Abbot of Ely were found, and relocated into Bishop West's chapel. Also sharing Nicholas West's chapel, against the east wall, is the tomb memorial to Bishop Sparke, who died 1836.\n\nThe bishop also built a beautiful chapel in St. Mary's Church, Putney, where he had been born.\n"}
{"id": "2112934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112934", "title": "Gobannus", "text": "Gobannus\n\nGobannus (or Gobannos, the Gaulish form, sometimes Cobannus) was a Gallo-Roman god, whose name, denoting \"the smith\", is normally taken to identify him as patron of smiths.\n\nA number of statues dedicated to him are preserved, found together with a bronze cauldron dedicated to \"Deus Cobannos\", in the late 1980s and illegally exported to the USA, now in the Getty Museum in the Getty Center, in California. He is mentioned in an inscription found in the 1970s in Fontenay-près-Vézelay, reading , i.e. dedicated to Augustus and \"Deus Cobannus\".\n\nThe name is from a Proto-Celtic stem, \"*goban-\" 'smith' and can be compared with the Old Irish \"gobae\" ~ \"gobann\" ‘smith,’ Middle Welsh and Cornish \"gof\" ~ \"gofein\" ‘smith,’ Gallic \"gobedbi\" ‘with the smiths,’ Latin \"faber\" ‘smith’ and with the Lithuanian \"gabija\" ‘sacred home fire’ and Lithuanian \"gabus\" ‘gifted, clever’. The theonym may be an antecedent of Old Irish Goibniu and Middle Welsh Gofannon. In Modern Irish \"smith\" is \"gabha\", and in Modern Welsh it is \"gof\". Abergavenny, in what is now south east Wales was the site of a Roman fort and settlement called Gobannium.\n\nThe best preserved dedication to Gobannus is found on the Bern zinc tablet, where his name is written (in the dative and in Greek letters). The tablet was found in the 1980s in Bern. It is inscribed with an apparently Gaulish inscription \n\n\"Brenodor\" is probably a placename ( cf. Brennus); \"Nantaror\" may refer to the Aare valley (containing as first element \"nanto-\" \"valley\"; [[cf. Cornish \"nans\", Welsh \"nant\"). \"Dobnoredo\" seems to be an [[epithet]] of \"Gobano\", maybe composed of \"dubno-\" \"world\" (Old Irish \"dumh\", c.f. [[Dumnorix]], [[Donald]], [[Devon]]) and \"rēdo-\" \"travel\" (Old Irish \"riad\"), or \"rēdā\" \"chariot\" i.e. \"world-traveller\" or \"world-charioteer\", so that the inscription may mean approximately \"to Gobannus, the world-traveller, dedicated by the people of Brennoduron in the Arura valley\".\n\nAlthough called [[zinc]], the tablet is made of an alloy that also contains [[lead]] and [[iron]] as well as traces of [[copper]], [[tin]] and [[cadmium]] (Rehren 1996). The zinc was possibly collected from a furnace, where the metal is known to aggregate, [[Strabo]] calling it \"pseudoarguros\" \"mock silver\". In 1546, [[Georg Agricola]] re-discovered that a white metal could be condensed and scraped off the walls of a furnace when zinc ores were smelted, but it is believed that it was usually thrown away as worthless. Since the tablet is dedicated to the god of the smiths it is not unlikely that zinc remnants scraped from a furnace were collected by smiths and considered particularly smithcraft-related.\n\n[[Category:Gallo-Roman religion]]\n[[Category:Gaulish gods]]\n[[Category:Smithing gods]]"}
{"id": "2112936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112936", "title": "Hole in one", "text": "Hole in one\n\nIn golf, a hole in one or hole-in-one (also known as an ace, mostly in American English) occurs when a ball hit from a tee to start a hole finishes in the cup. A ball hit from a tee following a lost ball, out-of-bounds, or water hazard is not a hole-in-one.\n\nHoles-in-one commonly occur on par 3 holes, the shortest distance holes on a standard size golf course. Longer hitters have also accomplished this feat on longer holes, though nearly all par 4 and par 5 holes are too long for golfers to reach in a single shot. While well known outside golf and often requiring a well hit shot and significant power, holes in one need also a significant element of luck. As such, they are more common and considered less impressive than other hole accomplishments such as completing a par 5 in two shots (an albatross). , a condor (four under par) hole-in-one on a par 5 hole had been recorded on four occasions, aided by thin air at high altitude, or by cutting the corner on a doglegged or horseshoe-shaped hole.\n\nHoles-in-one (\"aces\") are also recorded in disc golf. The current world record for disc golf's longest hole in one is held by Brent Bell, who set the record at the 2002 Big Sky State Games at the Diamond X Disc Golf Course in Billings, Montana.\n\nHoles-in-one are rare, and, although skill definitely increases the probability, there is a great element of luck involved. It is traditional for a player who has scored a hole-in-one to buy a round of drinks for everyone at the clubhouse bar.\n\nA memorable hole-in-one was made in the 1973 British Open by Gene Sarazen at age 71. Earl Dietering of Memphis, Tennessee, 78 years old at the time, is believed to hold the record for the eldest person to make a hole-in-one twice during one round.\n\nDuring the second round of the 1971 Martini International tournament, held at the Royal Norwich Golf Club in England, John Hudson had two consecutive holes-in-one. Teeing off, using a 4-iron, at the par-three, 195-yard 11th hole, Hudson holed his tee shot for a hole-in-one. At the next hole, the downhill 311-yard, par-four 12th, and this time using a driver, he once again holed his tee shot, for another ace. This is believed to be the only time a player has scored holes-in-one at consecutive holes in a major professional tournament.\n\nDespite the relative rarity of holes-in-one, there have been a total of six in Ryder Cup matches. Peter Butler scored the first in 1973 at Muirfield followed by a 20-year gap before Nick Faldo scored a hole-in-one in 1993. Two years later, Costantino Rocca and Howard Clark both scored holes-in-one before an 11-year gap to 2006 saw Paul Casey and Scott Verplank both hole out in one on the 14th hole.\n\nOn August 11, 2016, Justin Rose shot a hole-in-one during the first round of the golf tournament of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, which is considered to be the first in Olympic history. For the 189 yards 3-par hole, he used a 7-iron.\n\nOccasionally special events host a hole in one contest, where prizes as expensive as a new car, or cash awards sometimes reaching $4 million are offered if a contestant records a hole in one. Usually such expensive prizes are backed by an insurance company who offers prize indemnification services. Actuaries at such companies have calculated the chance of an average golfer making a hole in one at approximately 12,500 to 1, and the odds of a tour professional at 2,500 to 1.\n\nAs of 2018, a condor (four under par) hole-in-one on a par 5 hole had been recorded on four occasions. A horseshoe-shaped par 5 hole once enabled a condor hole-in-one to be achieved with a 3-iron club. The longest recorded straight drive hole-in-one is believed to be , on the par 5 No. 9 hole at Green Valley Ranch Golf Club in Denver in 2002, aided by the thin air due to the high altitude. None of these four par 5 holes-in-one were achieved during a professional tournament. A condor is also known as a double albatross, or a triple eagle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112937", "title": "NWA Pacific International Championship", "text": "NWA Pacific International Championship\n\nThe NWA Pacific International Heavyweight Championship was the primary singles championship of 50th State Big Time Wrestling, the NWA territory based in Hawaii. The title was originally the Hawaiian version of the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship that was defended in Hawaii. It existed from 1962 until 1968. It was renamed the NWA North American Heavyweight Championship \"(Hawaii version)\" in 1968 and renamed again as the NWA Pacific International Heavyweight Championship in 1978, which was the name it used until it was retired in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "2112953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112953", "title": "Joseph Frederick Whiteaves", "text": "Joseph Frederick Whiteaves\n\nJoseph Frederick Whiteaves (December 26, 1835 – August 8, 1909), was a British palaeontologist.\n\nBorn in Oxford, Whiteaves was educated at private schools, and afterwards worked under John Phillips at Oxford (1858–1861); he was led to study the Oolitic rocks, and added largely to our knowledge of the fossils of the Great Oolite series, Cornbrash and Corallian.\n\nIn 1861 he visited Canada and made acquaintance with the geology of Quebec and Montreal, and in 1863 he was appointed curator of the museum and secretary of the Natural History Society of Montreal, posts which he occupied until 1875. He studied the land and freshwater mollusca of Lower Canada, and the marine invertebrata of the coasts; and also carried on researches among the older Silurian (or Ordovician) fossils of the neighbourhood of Montreal.\n\nIn 1875, he joined the palaeontological branch of the Geological Survey of Canada at Montreal; in the following year he became palaeontologist, and in 1877 he was further appointed zoologist and assistant director of the survey.\n\nIn 1881 the offices of the survey were removed to Ottawa, Ontario. His publications on Canadian zoology and palaeontology are numerous and important. Dr Whiteaves was one of the original fellows of the Royal Society of Canada, and contributed to its \"Transactions\", as well as to the \"Canadian Naturalist\" and other journals. He received the honorary degree of LL.D in 1900 from McGill University, Montreal. He was a Fellow of the Geological Society of London and the Royal Society of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112957", "title": "Littleton-upon-Severn", "text": "Littleton-upon-Severn\n\nLittleton-upon-Severn is a village and civil parish in South Gloucestershire near the mouth of the River Severn and is located to the west of Thornbury. Historically it belonged to the Hundred of Langley and Swinehead. In 1831 it had a population of 179 people.\n\nA church was first mentioned as being in the village when the abbot of Malmesbury held a court leet here each year under a licence from king Edward the Martyr (975-979), and in the Domesday Book it was listed as being in the Langley hundred, and having a priest and thirty acres of pasture. In the twelfth century, the wooden church was replaced with a stone building, and the font and piscine are also twelfth century.\n\nThe present parish church of St Mary's of Malmesbury is a Grade II* listed building, having been registered on 30 March 1960. It dates from the fourteenth century but was largely rebuilt in 1878. It is built out of rubble stone in the Decorated style, with a roof of fish-scale tiles. The plan consists of a nave, south porch and aisle, chancel, north vestry, and tower at the west end.\n\nThe village contains a popular 17th century pub called The White Hart. In 2015 it was reported that locals were distressed with the prospect of a developer wanting to built a refugee centre for some 1000 migrants in the village.\n\nLittleton Brick Pits are an artificial lagoon, once the site of clay extraction for brick making, where the Avon Wildlife Trust have reintroduced reedbeds close to the Severn Estuary as a feeding and resting place for migrating birds.\n"}
{"id": "2112961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112961", "title": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people", "text": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people\n\nThis is a referenced overview list of notable gay, lesbian or bisexual people, who have either been open about their sexuality or for which reliable sources exist. Famous persons who are only rumored to be gay, lesbian or bisexual are not included in this list.\n\nThe definition of sexual orientation has changed greatly over time and the word \"gay\" wasn't used to describe sexual orientation until the mid 20th century. A number of different classification schemes have been used to describe sexual orientation since the mid-19th century. Much of the research about sexual orientation has failed to define the term at all, making it difficult to reconcile the results of different studies. \n\nHowever, most definitions include a psychological component (such as the direction of an individual's erotic desire) and/or a behavioural component (which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s). Some prefer to simply follow an individual's self-definition or identity. See homosexuality and bisexuality for criteria that have traditionally denoted lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people. The high prevalence of people from the West on this list may be due to societal attitudes toward homosexuality. The Pew Research Center's 2013 Global Attitudes Survey found that there is “greater acceptance in more secular and affluent countries,” with \"publics in 39 countries [having] broad acceptance of homosexuality in North America, the European Union, and much of Latin America, but equally widespread rejection in predominantly Muslim nations and in Africa, as well as in parts of Asia and in Russia. Opinion about the acceptability of homosexuality is divided in Israel, Poland and Bolivia.” Americans are divided – a majority (60 percent) believes homosexuality should be accepted, while 33 percent disagree. Attitude towards homosexuality in Latin American countries have increasingly been more legally tolerant, but Mexico and Brazil have remained unaccepting about the subject.\n\nThe following list includes notable people who have self-identified as homosexual or bisexual, or whose homosexuality or bisexuality has been backed by sources that are usually considered reliable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112967", "title": "Auburn Hospital", "text": "Auburn Hospital\n\nAuburn Hospital is a 155-bed hospital in Auburn, a western suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It provides basic 24-hour emergency facilities, as well as a medical, surgical, paediatrics, and maternity facilities as well as coronary care and intensive care facilities.\n\nThis facility is part of the Western Sydney Local Health District (WSLHD).\n\nAuburn Hospital is health facility on the eastern border of Sydney West Area Health Service.\n\nAuburn Health claims to be an Australian Council of Health Care Standards (ACHS) accredited organisation.\n\nAs of 2010, Auburn Hospital is a teaching hospital for the University of Notre Dame Sydney School of Medicine.\n\nAuburn Hospital was first opened as the \"Granville Electorate Cottage Hospital\" in November 1907.\n"}
{"id": "2112996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112996", "title": "Briana Corrigan", "text": "Briana Corrigan\n\nBriana Corrigan (born 30 May 1965) is a Northern Irish singer. She was the female singer for The Beautiful South from 1988 to 1992.\n\nShe was born in Northern Ireland. When she was 11 years old, her family moved from Belfast to Portstewart, County Londonderry. She moved to Newcastle upon Tyne in England at the age of 18 to study for a BA in creative and performing arts and, while there, she began singing with The Anthill Runaways. Go! Discs Records, which was considering signing the band, made her an offer to travel to Hull and sing with Paul Heaton and Dave Hemingway of The Beautiful South. Soon after she was asked to go to Milan with the band to help record their debut album, \"Welcome to the Beautiful South\". She appeared alongside Dave Hemingway on the band's only UK Singles Chart number 1 single, \"A Little Time\".\n\nAfter appearing on three albums, Corrigan left the band in 1992 to pursue a solo career. The decision was driven by a desire to record her own work and partly by ethical disagreements with some of Heaton's lyrics, particularly songs such as \"36D\", which criticized British glamour models and the industry that employed them. Hemingway later remarked, \"We all agree that we should have targeted the media as sexist instead of blaming the girls for taking off their tops\".\n\nHer time with the band culminated in one of the fastest-selling British albums in history, \"Carry On up the Charts: The Best of the Beautiful South\". After she left the band, she reunited with producer Mike Hedges who had produced the first two TBS Albums, and recorded the solo critically acclaimed album, \"When My Arms Wrap You Round\", in 1996 on East West Records. The first single, \"Love Me Now\", peaked on the UK Singles Chart at No.48. This was the only single released, as Corrigan and her record company parted company a few months after the album's release.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2112998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112998", "title": "John Clarke Whitfield", "text": "John Clarke Whitfield\n\nJohn Clarke-Whitfield (13 December 1770 – 22 February 1836), English organist and composer.\n\nHe was born John Clarke at Gloucester, and educated at Oxford under Dr Philip Hayes.\n\nIn 1789 he was appointed organist of the parish church at Ludlow. Four years later he took the degree of Mus. Bac. at Cambridge, and in 1795 he was chosen as organist of Armagh cathedral, whence he removed in the same year to Dublin, with the appointments of organist and master of the children at St Patrick's cathedral and Christchurch.\n\nDriven from Ireland by the rebellion of 1798, he accepted the post of organist at Trinity and St John's Colleges, Cambridge. He took the degree of Mus. Doc. at Cambridge in 1799, and in 1810 proceeded to the same grade at Oxford.In 1814 he assumed the surname of Whitfield, in addition to that of Clarke, in anticipation of an inheritance which failed to materialise. \n\nIn 1820 he was elected organist and master of the choristers at Hereford Cathedral; and on the death of Dr Haig he was appointed Professor of Music at Cambridge. Three years afterwards he resigned these appointments in consequence of an attack of paralysis. He died at Hereford, on 22 February 1836.\n\nWhitfield's compositions were very numerous. Among the best of them are four volumes of anthems, the first three published in 1805, and the fourth soon after his appointment at Hereford Cathedral. He also composed a great number of songs, one of which--\"Bird of the Wilderness,\" written to some well-known verses by James Hogg, the \"Ettrick Shepherd\"—attained a high degree of popularity. But the great work of his life was the publication, in a popular and eminently useful form, of the oratorios of Handel, which he was the first to present to the public with a complete pianoforte accompaniment.\nPress cutting - Bury & Norwich Post 01 June 1814 - Tuesdays Gazette: John Clarke, of Emanuel House, Cambridge, Dr. in music, only son and heir of John Clarke, late of Malmesbury, Wilts, Gent, by Amphillis his wife, (who was at length the only surviving child of Henry Fotherly Whitfield, of Rickmansworth Park, deceased) has his Majesty's licence and authority to take and use the surname and arms of Whitfield only.\n\n<br>On 3 September 1789 John Clarke married Susannah Grainger (born 1768) in Worcester. Their son Henry John Whitfeld (1808–1855) became an alumnus of Downing College, Cambridge and the vicar of Granborough, Buckinghamshire. Henry J. Whitfeld was the author of \"Scilly and its Legends\" (1852) and \"Rambles in Devonshire\" (1854).\n\n"}
{"id": "2113007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113007", "title": "The Story of My Experiments with Truth", "text": "The Story of My Experiments with Truth\n\nThe Story of My Experiments with Truth is the autobiography of Mohandas K. Gandhi, covering his life from early childhood through to 1921. It was written in weekly installments and published in his journal \"Navjivan\" from 1925 to 1929. Its English translation also appeared in installments in his other journal \"Young India\". It was initiated at the insistence of Swami Anand and other close co-workers of Gandhi, who encouraged him to explain the background of his public campaigns. In 1998, the book was designated as one of the \"100 Best Spiritual Books of the 20th Century\" by a committee of global spiritual and religious authorities.\n\nStarting with his birth and parentage, Gandhi has given reminiscences of childhood, child marriage, relation with his wife and parents, experiences at the school, his study tour to London, efforts to be like the English gentleman, experiments in dietetics, his going to South Africa, his experiences of colour prejudice, his quest for \"dharma\", social work in Africa, return to India, his slow and steady work for political awakening and social activities.\n\nThis section is written by Mahadev Desai who translated the book from Gujarati to English. In this preface Desai notes that the book was originally published in two volumes, the first in 1927 and second in 1929. He also mentions that the original was priced at 1 rupee and had a run of five editions by the time of the writing of his preface. 50,000 copies had been sold in Gujarati but since the English edition was expensive it prevented Indians from purchasing it. Desai notes the need to bring out a cheaper English version. He also mentions that the translation has been revised by an English scholar who did not want his name to be published. Chapters XXIX–XLIII of Part V were translated by Desai's friend and colleague Pyarelal Nayyar.\n\nThe introduction is written by Gandhi himself mentioning how he has resumed writing his autobiography at the insistence of Jeramdas, a fellow prisoner in Yerwada Central Jail with him. He mulls over the question a friend asked him about writing an autobiography, deeming it a Western practice, something \"nobody does in the east\". Gandhi himself agrees that his thoughts might change later in life but the purpose of his story is just to narrate his experiments with truth in life. He also says that through this book he wishes to narrate his spiritual and moral experiments rather than political.\n\nThe first part narrates incidents of Gandhi's childhood, his experiments with eating meat, smoking, drinking, stealing and subsequent atonement. There are two texts that had a lasting influence on Gandhi, both of which he read in childhood. He records the profound impact of the play \"Harishchandra\" and says,\"I read it with intense interest...It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number.\" Another text he mentions reading that deeply affected him was \"Shravana Pitrabhakti Nataka\", a play about Shravan's devotion to his parents. Gandhi got married at the age of 13. In his words, \"It is my painful duty to have to record here my marriage at the age of thirteen...I can see no moral argument in support of such a preposterously early marriage.\" Another important event documented in this part is the demise of Gandhi's father Karamchand Gandhi. Gandhi wrote the book to deal with his experiment for truth. His disdain for physical training at school, particularly gymnastics has also been written about in this part.\n\nAfter a long history of antagonism, the British and the Dutch shared power in South Africa, with Britain ruling the regions of Natal and Cape Colony, while the Dutch settlers known as the Boers taking charge in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal, two independent republics. The white settler and the independent Boer states continued to engage in volatile interactions with the British, so a threat of violent eruptions always loomed large. In order to placate both the Boer and other white settlers, the British adopted a number of racist policies, and while the Indians, most of them working on sugar and coffee plantations, did not suffer as much as the black population, they clearly experienced a treatment as second-class citizens. The initial story of Gandhi’s travails in South Africa and of his systematic struggle against oppression is well known. Gandhi repeatedly experienced the sting of humiliation during his long African sojourn. The incident at Maritzburg, where Gandhi was thrown off the train has become justly famous. When Gandhi, as a matter of principle, refused to leave the first class compartment, he was thrown off the train. Later, Gandhi also had difficulty being admitted to hotels, and saw that his fellow-Indians, who were mostly manual laborers, experienced even more unjust treatment.\n\nVery soon after his arrival, Gandhi's initial bafflement and indignation at racist policies turned into a growing sense of outrage and propelled him into assuming a position as a public figure at the assembly of Transvaal Indians, where he delivered his first speech urging Indians not to accept inequality but instead to unite, work hard, learn English and observe clean living habits. Although Gandhi's legal work soon start to keep him busy, he found time to read some of Tolstoy's work, which greatly influenced his understanding of peace and justice and eventually inspired him to write to Tolstoy, setting the beginning of a prolific correspondence. Both Tolstoy and Gandhi shared a philosophy of non-violence and Tolstoy's harsh critique of human society resonated with Gandhi's outrage at racism in South Africa.\n\nBoth Tolstoy and Gandhi considered themselves followers of the Sermon on the Mount from the New Testament, in which Jesus Christ expressed the idea of complete self-denial for the sake of his fellow men. Gandhi also continued to seek moral guidance in the Bhagavad-Gita, which inspired him to view his work not as self-denial at all, but as a higher form of self-fulfillment. Adopting a philosophy of selflessness even as a public man, Gandhi refused to accept any payment for his work on behalf of the Indian population, preferring to support himself with his law practice alone.\n\nBut Gandhi's personal quest to define his own philosophy with respect to religion did not rely solely on sacred texts. At the time, he also engaged in active correspondence with a highly educated and spiritual Jain from Bombay, his friend Raychandra, who was deeply religious, yet well versed in a number of topics, from Hinduism to Christianity. The more Gandhi communicated with Raychandra, the more deeply he began to appreciate Hinduism as a non violent faith and its related scriptures. Yet, such deep appreciation also gave birth to a desire to seek inner purity and illumination, without solely relying on external sources, or on the dogma within every faith. Thus, although Gandhi sought God within his own tradition, he espoused the idea that other faiths remained worthy of study and contained their own truths.\n\nNot surprisingly, even after his work assignment concluded, Gandhi soon found a reason to remain in South Africa. This pivotal reason involved the \"Indian Franchise Bill\", with which the Natal legislature intended to deprive Indians of the right to vote. No opposition existed against this bill, except among some of Gandhi's friends who asked him to stay in South Africa and work with them against this new injustice against Indians, who white South Africans disparagingly called \"coolies.\" He found that racist attitudes had become deeply entrenched, especially in the Dutch-ruled regions, where they lived in the worst urban slums and could not own property or manage agricultural land. Even in Natal, where Indians had more influence, they were not allowed to go out after 9 p.m. without a pass, while in Cape Colony, another British territory, they were not allowed to walk on the sidewalk. The new bill which prohibited Indians from voting in Natal only codified existing injustice in writing.\n\nAlthough a last-minute petition drive failed to the Indian Franchise Bill from passing, Gandhi remained active and organized a much larger petition, which he sent to the Secretary of State for the Colonies in London, and distributed to the press in South Africa, Britain and India. The petition raised awareness of the plight of Indians and generated discussions in all three continents to the point where both the Times of London and the Times of India published editorials in support of the Indian right to the vote. Gandhi also formed a new political organization called the Natal Indian Congress (a clear reference to the Indian National Congress), which held regular meetings and soon, after some struggles with financing, started its own library and debating society. They also issued two major pamphlets, An Appeal to Every Briton in South Africa, and The Indian Franchise–An Appeal, which offered a logical argument against racial discrimination. He was also thrown of the Train when he didn't agree to move from his first class seat which he paid for.\n\nThough, at first, Gandhi intended to remain in South Africa for a month, or a year at most, he ended up working in South Africa for about twenty years. After his initial assignment was over, he succeeded in growing his own practice to about twenty Indian merchants who contracted manage their affairs. This work allowed him to both earn a living while also finding time to devote to his mission as a public figure. During his struggle against inequality and racial discrimination in South Africa, Gandhi became known among Indians all around the world as \"Mahatma,\" or \"Great Soul.\"\n\nIn South Africa with the Family, the Boer War, Bombay and South Africa Again.\n\nIn 1896, Gandhi made a brief return to India and returned to his wife and children. In India, he published another pamphlet, known as the Green Pamphlet, on the plight of Indians in South Africa. For the first time, Gandhi realized that Indians had come to admire his work greatly and experienced a taste of his own popularity among the people, when he visited Madras, an Indian province, where most manual laborers had originated. Although his fellow-Indians greeted him in large crowds with applause and adulation, he sailed back to South Africa with his family in December 1896.\n\nGandhi had become very well known in South Africa as well, to the point where a crowd of rioters awaited him at Port Natal, determined that he should not be allowed to enter. Many of them also mistakenly believed that all the dark-skinned passenger on the ship that took Gandhi to Natal were poor Indian immigrants he had decided to bring along with him, when, in reality, these passengers were mostly returning Indian residents of Natal. Fortunately, Gandhi was able to establish a friendly relationship with the British in South Africa so the Natal port's police superintendent and his wife escorted him to safety. After this incident, local white residents began to actually regard him with greater respect.\n\nAs Gandhi resumed his work at the Natal Indian Congress, his loyalty to the British guided him to assist them in the Boer War, which started three years later. Because Gandhi remained a passionate pacifist, he wanted to participate in the Boer War without actually engaging in violence so he organized and led an Indian Medical Corps which served the British in a number of battles, including the important battle of Spion Kop in January 1900.\n\nAt the time, Gandhi believed that the British Empire shared the values of liberty and equality that he himself embraced and that, by virtue of defending those principles, the British constitution deserved the loyalty of all British subjects, including Indians. He viewed racist policy in South Africa as a temporary characteristic aberration, rather than a permanent tendency. With respect to the British in India, at this point in his life, Gandhi considered their rule beneficial and benevolent.\n\nThe armed conflict between the British and Dutch raged on for over three years of often brutal fighting with the British conquering the Transvaal and Orange Free state territories. Gandhi expected that the British victory would establish justice in South Africa and present him with an opportunity to return to India. He wanted to attend the 1901 meeting of the Indian National Congress, whose mission was to provide a social and political forum for the Indian upper class. Founded in 1885 by the British, the Congress had no real political power and expressed pro-British positions. Gandhi wanted to attend its meeting nevertheless, as he was hoping to pass a resolution in support of the Indian population in South Africa. Before he left for Bombay, Gandhi promised the Natal Indian Congress that he would return to support their efforts, should they need his help.\n\nAs Gandhi attended the 1901 Indian National Congress, his hopes came true. G.K. Gokhale, one of the most prominent Indian politicians of the time, supported the resolution for the rights of Indians in South Africa and the resolution passed. Through Gokhale, in whose house Gandhi stayed for a month, Gandhi met many political connections that would serve him later in life.\n\nHowever, his promise to always aid his friends in Natal soon prompted him to return to South Africa, when he received an urgent telegram informing him that the British and Boers had now formed a peaceful relationship and often acted together to the detriment of the Indian population, as Britain was planning to live local white individuals in power in South Africa, much like it had done in Canada and Australia.\n\nGandhi travelled back to South Africa immediately and met with Joseph Chamberlain, Secretary of State for the Colonies, and presented him with a paper on the injustice against the Indian population but Chamberlain indicated that the Indians would have to obey the new rulers of South Africa, now called the \"Afrikaners,\" which included both Dutch and British local settlers.\n\nGandhi began to organize a fast response to this new South African political configuration. Instead of working in Natal, he now established a camp in the newly conquered Transvaal region and began helping Indians who had escaped from the war in that region, and now had to purchase overly expensive re-entry passes. He also represented poor Indians whose dwellings in a shantytown the authorities had dispossessed. Gandhi also started a new magazine, Indian Opinion, that advocated for political liberty and equal rights in South Africa. The magazine, which initially included several young women from Europe, expanded its staff around the country, increasing both Gandhi's popularity and the public support for his ideas.\n\nAt round same time, Gandhi read John Ruskin's book \"Unto This Last\", which maintained that the life of manual labor was superior to all other ways of living. As he adopted this belief, Gandhi chose to abandon Western dress and habits, and he moved his family and staff to a Transvaal farm called the Phoenix, where he even gave renounced the use of an oil-powered engine and printed \"Indian Opinion\" by hand-wheel, and performed agriculture labor using old, manual farming equipment. He began to conceive of his public work as a mission to restore old Indian virtue and civilization, rather than fall prey to modern Western influence, which included electricity and technology.\n\nBetween 1901 and 1906, he also changed another aspect of his personal life by achieving Brahmacharya, or the voluntary abstention from sexual relations. He made this choice as part of his philosophy of selflessness and self-restraint. Finally, he also formulated his own philosophy of political protest, called Satyagraha, which literally meant \"truth-force\" in Sanskrit. In practice, this practice meant protesting injustice steadfastly, but in a non-violent manner.\n\nHe put this theory into practice on September 8, 1906, when, at a large gathering of the Indian community in Transvaal, he asked the whole community to take a vow of disobedience to the law, as the Transvaal government had started an effort to register every Indian child over the age of eight, which would make them an official part of the South African population.\n\nSetting a personal example, Gandhi became the first Indian to appear before a magistrate for his refusal to register, and he was sentenced to two months in prison. He actually asked for a heavier sentence, a request, consistent with his philosophy of self-denial. After his release, Gandhi continued his campaign and thousands of Indians burned their registration cards, crossing the Transvaal-Natal border without passes. Many went to jail, including Gandhi, who went to jail again in 1908.\n\nGandhi did not waiver when a South African General by the name of Jan Christian Smuts promised to eliminate the registration law, but broke his word. Gandhi went all the way to London in 1909 and gathered enough support among the British to convince Smuts to eliminate the law in 1913. Yet, the Transvaal Prime Minister continued to regard Indians as second-class citizens while the Cape Colony government passed another discriminatory law making all non-Christian marriages illegal, which meant that all Indian children would be considered born out of wedlock. In addition, the government in Natal continued to impose crippling poll tax for entering Natal only upon Indians.\n\nIn response to these strikingly unjust rules, Gandhi organized a large-scale satyagraha, which involved women crossing the Natal-Transvaal border illegally. When they were arrested, five thousand Indian coal miners also went on strike and Gandhi himself led them across the Natalese border, where they expected arrest.\n\nAlthough Smuts and Gandhi did not agree on many points, they had respect for each other. In 1913, Smuts relented due to the sheer number of Indians involved in protest and negotiated a settlement which provided for the legality of Indian marriages and abolished the poll tax. Further, the import of indentured laborers from India was to be phased out by 1920. In July 1914, Gandhi sailed for Britain, now admired as \"Mahatma,\" and known throughout the world for the success of satyagraha.\n\nPart IV. Mahatma in the Midst of World Turmoil\n\nGandhi was in England when World War I started and he immediately began organizing a medical corps similar to the force he had led in the Boer War, but he also faced health problems that caused him to return to India, where he met the applauding crowds with enthusiasm once again. Indians continued to refer to him as \"Mahatma\" or \"Great Soul,\" an appellation reserved only for the holiest men of Hinduism. While Gandhi accepted the love and admiration of the crowds, he also insisted that all souls were equal and did not accept the implication of religious sacredness that his new name carried.\n\nIn order to retreat into a life of humility and restraint, as his personal principles mandated, he decided to withdraw from public life for a while spending his first year in India focusing on his personal quest for purity and healing. He also lived in a communal space with untouchables, a choice which many of his financial supporters resented, because they believed that the very presence of untouchables defiled higher-caste Indians. Gandhi even considered moving to a district in Ahmedabad inhabited entirely by the untouchables when a generous Muslim merchant donated enough money to keep up his current living space for another year. By that time, Gandhi's communal life with the untouchables had become more acceptable.\n\nAlthough Gandhi had withdrawn from public life, he briefly met with the British Governor of Bombay (and future Viceroy of India), Lord Willington, whom Gandhi promised to consult before he launched any political campaigns. Gandhi also felt the impact of another event, the passing of G.K. Gokhale, who had become his supporter and political mentor. He stayed away from the political trend of Indian nationalism, which many of the members of the Indian National Congress embraced. Instead, he stayed busy resettling his family and the inhabitants of the Phoenix Settlement in South Africa, as well as the Tolstoy Settlement he had founded near Johannesburg. For this purpose, on May 25, 1915, he created a new settlement, which came to be known as the Satyagraha ashram ( derive from Sanskrit word \"Satya\" means \"truth\" ) near the town of Ahmedabad and close to his place of birth in the western Indian province of Gujarati. All the inhabitants of the ashram, which included one family of untouchables, swore to poverty and chastity.\n\nAfter a while, Gandhi became influenced by the idea of Indian independence from the British, but he dreaded the possibility that a westernized Indian elite would replace the British government. He developed a strong conviction that Indian independence should take place as a large-scale sociopolitical reform, which would remove the old plagues of extreme poverty and caste restrictions. In fact, he believed that Indians could not become worthy of self-government unless they all shared a concern for the poor.\n\nAs Gandhi resumed his public life in India in 1916, he delivered a speech at the opening of the new Hindu University in the city of Benares, where he discussed his understanding of independence and reform. He also provided specific examples of the abhorrent living conditions of the lower classes that he had observed during his travels around India and focused specifically on sanitation.\n\nAlthough the Indians of the higher-castes did not readily embrace the ideas in the speech, Gandhi had now returned to public life and he felt ready to convert these ideas to actions. Facing the possibility of arrest, just like he always did in South Africa, Gandhi first spoke for the rights of impoverished indigo-cultivators in the Champaran district. His efforts eventually led to the appointment of a government commission to investigate abuses by the indigo planters.\n\nHe also interfered whenever he saw violence. When a group of Ahmedabad mill workers went on strike and became violent, he resolved to fast until they returned to peace. Though some political commentators condemned Gandhi's behavior as a form of blackmail, the fast only lasted three days before the workers and their employers negotiated an agreement. Through this situation, Gandhi discovered the fast as one of his most effective weapons in late years and set a precedent for later action as part of satyagraha.\n\nAs the First World War continued, Gandhi also became involved in recruiting men for the British Army, an involvement which his followers had a difficult time accepting, after listening to his passionate speeches about resisting injustice in a non-violent manner. Not surprisingly, at this point, although Gandhi still remained loyal to Britain and enamored with the ideals of the British constitution, his desire to support and independent home rule became stronger. As time passed, Gandhi became exhausted from his long journey around the country and fell ill with dysentery. He refused conventional treatment and chose to practice his own healing methods, relying on diet and spending a long time bedridden, while in recovery in his ashram.\n\nIn the meantime, India’s unrest was overwhelming at the prospect of the British destroying the world's only Muslim power, the Ottoman Empire. While the British alleged that they fought to protect the rights of small states and independent peoples from tyranny, in India, an increasing number of people found this alleged commitment less than genuine.\n\nAfter the end of the war, the British government decided to follow the recommendations of the Rowlatt Committee, which advocated the retention of various wartime restrictions in India, including curfews and measures to suppress free speech. Gandhi was still sick when these events took place and, although he could not protest actively, he felt his loyalty to the British Empire weaken significantly.\n\nLater, when the Rowlatt Act actually became law, Gandhi proposed that the entire country observe a day of prayer, fasting, and abstention from physical labor as a peaceful protest against the injustice of the oppressive law. Gandhi's plea generated an overwhelming response as millions of Indians did not go to work on April 6, 1919.\n\nAs the entire country stood still, the British arrested Gandhi, which provoked angry crowds to fill the streets of India's cities and, much to Gandhi's dislike, violence erupted everywhere. Gandhi could not tolerate violence so he called off his campaign and asked that everyone return to their homes. He acted in accordance with his firm belief that if satyagraha could not be carried out without violence, it should not take place at all.\n\nUnfortunately, not all protesters shared Gandhi's conviction as ardently. In Amritsar, capital of the region known as the Punjab, where the alarmed British authorities had deported the local Hindu and Muslim members of the Congress, the street mobs became very violent and the British summoned Brigadier-General Reginald E.H. Dyer to restore order. Dyer prohibited all public meetings and instituted public whippings for Indians who approached British policemen. Despite these new regulations, a crowd of over ten thousand protesters gathered in the center of Amritsar, and Dyer responded with bringing his troops there and opening fire without warning. Tightly packed together, the protesters had nowhere to run from the fire, even when they threw themselves down on the ground the fire was then directed on the ground, ceasing only when the British troops no longer had ammunition. Hundreds died and many more were wounded.\n\nThis unfortunate occurrence became known as the Amritsar Massacre, it outraged the British public almost as much as Indian society. The authorities in London eventually condemned Dyer's conduct, forcing him to resign in disgrace. The effect the massacre had on Indian society became even more profound as more moderate politicians, like Gandhi, now began to wholeheartedly support the idea of Indian independence, creating an intense climate of mutual hostility. After the massacre, Gandhi eventually obtained permission to travel to Amritsar and conduct his own investigation. He produced a report months later and his work on the report motivated him to contact a number of Indian politicians, who advocated for the idea of independence from British rule.\n\nAfter Amritsar, Gandhi attended the Muslim Conference being held in Delhi, where Indian Muslims discussed their fears that the British would suppress Caliphs of Turkey. Muslims considered the Caliphs as heirs of Mohammed and spiritual heads of Islam. While the British considered such suppression a necessary effort to restore order after World War I, the Muslim populations viewed it as slap in the face. Gandhi urged them not to accept the actions of the British. He proposed a boycott of British goods, and stated that if the British continued to insist on the elimination of the Caliphate, Indian Muslims should take even more drastic measures of non-cooperation, involving areas such as government employment and taxes.\n\nDuring the months that followed, Gandhi continued to advocate for peace and caution, however, since Britain and Turkey were still negotiating their peace terms. Unlike more nationalistic politicians, he also supported the Montagu-Chelmsford Reforms for India, as they laid the foundation for constitutional self-government. Eventually, other politicians who thought the reforms did not go far enough had to agree with Gandhi simply because his popularity and influence had become so great that the Congress could accomplish little without him.\n\nAs the British remained determined to put an end to the Muslim Caliphate, they enforced the Rowlatt Act resolutely. Even Gandhi became less tolerant towards British practices and in April 1920, he urged all Indians, Muslim and Hindu, to begin a \"non-cooperation\" protest against the British rule by giving up their Western clothing and British jobs. As a personal example, on August 1, he returned the kasar-i-hind medal that he had received for providing medical service to the Boer War's wounded British army in South Africa. He also became the first president of the Home Rule League, a largely symbolic position which confirmed his position as an advocate for Indian Independence.\n\nIn September 1920, Gandhi also passed an official constitution for the Congress, which created a system of two national committees and numerous local units, all working to mobilize a spirit of non-cooperation across India. Gandhi and other volunteers traveled around India further establishing this new grass roots organization, which achieved great success. The new British Viceory in India, Lord Reading, did not dare to interfere because of Gandhi's immense popularity.\n\nBy 1922, Gandhi decided that the initiative of non-cooperation had to transform into open civil disobedience, but in March 1922, Lord Reading finally ordered Gandhi's arrest after a crowd in the city of Chauri Chaura attacked and killed the local representatives of British authority. Gandhi, who had never encouraged or sanctioned this type of conduct, condemned the actions of the violent crowds and retreated into a period of fasting and prayer as a response to this violent outburst. However, the British saw the event as a trigger point and a reason for his arrest.\n\nThe British authorities placed Gandhi on trial for sedition and sentenced him to six years in prison, marking the first time that he faced prosecution in India. Because of Gandhi's fame, the judge, C.N. Broomfield, hesitated to impose a harsher punishment. He considered Gandhi clearly guilty as charged, despite the fact that Gandhi admitted his guilt and even went as far as requesting the heaviest possible sentence. Such willingness to accept imprisonment conformed to his philosophy of satyagraha, so Gandhi felt that his time in prison only furthered his commitment and goals. The authorities allowed him to use a spinning wheel and receive reading materials while in prison, so he felt content. He also wrote most of his autobiography while serving his sentence.\n\nHowever, in Gandhi's absence, Indians returned to their British jobs and their every day routines. Even worse, the unity between Muslims and Hindu, which Gandhi advocated so passionately, had already begun to fall apart to the point where the threat of violence loomed large over many communities with mixed population. The fight for Indian independence could not continue while Indians themselves suffered disunity and conflict, all the more difficult to overcome in a huge country like India, which had always suffered religious divisions, as well as divisions by language, and even caste.\n\nGandhi realized that Independence and that the British had lost the will and power to sustain their empire, but he always acknowledged that Indians could not rely simply on the weakening of Britain in order to achieve independence. He believed that Indians had to become morally ready for Independence. He planned to contribute to such readiness through his speeches and writing, advocating humility, restraint, good sanitation, as well as an end to child marriages. \n\nAfter his imprisonment ended, he resumed his personal quest for purification and truth. He ends his autobiography by admitting that he continues to experience and fight with \"the dormant passion\" that lie within his own soul. He felt ready to continue the long and difficult path of taming those passions and putting himself last among his fellow human beings, the only way to achieve salvation, according to him.\n\n\"That is why the worlds' praise fails to move me; indeed it very often stings me. To conquer the subtle passions is far harder than the physical conquest of the world by the force of arms,\"\n\nGandhi writes in his \"Farewell\" to the readers, a suitable conclusion for an autobiography that he never intended to be an autobiography, but a tale of experiments with life, and with truth.\n\nAfter its initiation, \"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\" remained in the making for 4–5 years (including the time while Gandhi was imprisoned at Yerwada Central Jail near Pune, Maharashtra), and then it first appeared as a series in the weekly Gujarati magazine \"Navjivan\" during 1925–1928, which was published from Ahmedabad, India.\n\n\"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\" was first published in the United States in 1948 by Public Affairs Press of Washington, DC.\n\nGandhi wrote in his autobiography that the three most important modern influences in his life were Leo Tolstoy's \"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\", John Ruskin's \"Unto This Last\", and the poet Shrimad Rajchandra (Raychandbhai).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113009", "title": "Softly, Softly (TV series)", "text": "Softly, Softly (TV series)\n\nSoftly, Softly is a British television drama series, produced by the BBC and screened on BBC 1 from January 1966. It was created as a spin-off from the series \"Z-Cars\", which ended its fifth series run in December 1965. The series took its name from the proverb \"Softly, softly, catchee monkey\", the motto of Lancashire Constabulary Training School.\n\n\"Softly, Softly\" centred on the work of regional police crime squads, plain-clothes CID officers based in the fictional region of Wyvern, supposedly in the Bristol area of England. It was designed as a vehicle for Detective Chief Inspector Charles Barlow and Detective Inspector John Watt (played by Stratford Johns and Frank Windsor respectively) from the police series \"Z-Cars\", which had just finished its original run in December 1965 (no new episodes were produced in 1966 but it was revived in a different format the following year). Joining them in the early series was Robert Keegan as Blackitt, the police station sergeant from \"Z-Cars\", now retired and acting as a freelance helper.\n\nThe first two series continued the trend set by producer David Rose with \"Z-Cars\" and transmitted the majority of episodes live. This was one of the last long-running British TV series to do this. From series three onwards all episodes were pre-recorded.\n\nThe original theme music was, like \"Z-Cars\", a folk-song arrangement by Fritz Spiegl. It was released as a single (credited to the London Waits) on Andrew Loog Oldham's \"Immediate\" record label in 1966.\n\nOthers\n\nMany of the original \"Softly, Softly\" broadcasts are believed lost, especially from the first two series, the majority of which were transmitted live. (By comparison, all episodes of the follow-up \"Taskforce\" survive.)\n\nIn 1969, to coincide with the BBC's move to colour broadcasting on BBC 1, \"Softly Softly\" series ended. The characters of Barlow, Watt and Hawkins were promoted and moved to the South East of England in a new series set in the fictitious Thamesford. Here, as a result in changes in criminal activities, the police force itself needed to develop a new approach to tackle it. Taskforces were set up: these were groupings of police expertise and manpower drawn together for special operations in the region. This was a new series in its own right and it was simply going to be called \"Taskforce\". However, starring three strong characters from a popular brand the BBC were reluctant to drop, this new series was renamed \"\".\n\nStratford Johns left the \"Taskforce\" series in 1972 (Barlow had his own spin-off series \"Barlow at Large\") and it continued until 1976 with Watt in command.\n\nDuring the 70s Windsor also appeared as Watt in \"Jack the Ripper\", in which he and Barlow reopened the Jack the Ripper murder casebook, and a similar series \"Second Verdict\", in which they looked into unsolved mysteries and miscarriages of justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113012", "title": "TAF Linhas Aéreas", "text": "TAF Linhas Aéreas\n\nTAF Linhas Aéreas was an airline based in Fortaleza, Brazil. It operated regional passenger and cargo services. Today, the owner continues to do Services with a \"TAF Taxi Aéreo\" or Taf Air Taxi, using some Cessna 208 Caravan to sporadic flights in interior of Northeast of Brazil.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations as an air taxi company (Táxi Aéreo Fortaleza) in 1957 by pilot João Ariston Pessoa de Araújo, who was born in Cascavel.\n\nIn 1992, TAF started operating night cargo flights for the Brazilian Postal Service between the cities of Recife, Fortaleza, João Pessoa, Natal, Juazeiro do Norte and Sobral, with a fleet of two Cessna 208 Caravan and two Embraer EMB 110 Bandeirante.\n\nOn 1 March 1995, it was officially proclaimed a regular airline, and on 17 March 1996 its name became TAF Linhas Aéreas S.A.\n\nIn 1998, the company started operating flights on the route Juazeiro do Norte – Sobral – Iguatu. In 1999, competition from Nordeste and Varig forced it to cancel the routes it had by then established to Picos, Recife and Teresina. On 20 June 2000, TAF received a Boeing 737-248C, a version convertible between passenger and cargo configurations, joining a fleet that then consisted of 5 Cessna 208 and 4 Embraer 110.\n\nIn 2001, it suspended its passenger flights for some time, concentrating its efforts again on postal cargo flights. Two of its Embraer 110 were then put out of service.\n\nIn 2002, it received its second Boeing 737-200 to operate cargo flights on the Recife – Natal – São Luís – Teresina – Brasília – Rio de Janeiro route. This was the very same aircraft that had been in the dramatic \"Landshut hijacking\" episode while flying for Lufthansa in 1977. Also in 2002, one Cessna 208 left the fleet. In 2003, TAF received another cargo Boeing 737-200 and started flying to Goiânia and São Paulo.\n\nIn 2004, it received a Boeing 727-228 to operate further cargo flights. In the following year, it resumed regular passenger flights and started its first international route, to Cayenne, French Guiana, via Belém and Macapá.\n\nIn September 2007, it started the weekend route Recife – Fortaleza – Belém – Manaus – Aruba, on a Boeing 737-200.\n\nIn September 2008, TAF stopped operating scheduled domestic passenger flights and in April 2009, international passenger flights. It then concentrated its efforts again on cargo and postal services.\n\nOn 15 June 2010, the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil suspended the operational license of TAF and the airline was grounded. Finally, on 7 February 2013 its license was revoked. \n\nIn 2010, only Táxi Aéreo Fortaleza continued to operate in the air taxi service. Today the company operates charters flights with small aircraft, including three helicopters, with contracts of the Civil House of the State Government of Ceará, Unimed Fortaleza and Legislative Assembly. \n\nTAF flew its Fortaleza - Belém - Macapá - Cayenne route until April 2009.\n\nIt consisted of the following aircraft among several charter executive aircraft and helicopters :\n\n"}
{"id": "2113019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113019", "title": "George Fletcher Moore", "text": "George Fletcher Moore\n\nGeorge Fletcher Moore (10 December 1798 – 30 December 1886) was a prominent early settler in colonial Western Australia, and \"one [of] the key figures in early Western Australia's ruling elite\" (Cameron, 2000). He conducted a number of exploring expeditions; was responsible for one of the earliest published records of the language of the Australian Aborigines of the Perth area; and was the author of \"Diary of Ten Years Eventful Life of an Early Settler in Western Australia\".\n\nGeorge Fletcher Moore was born on 17 December 1798 at Bond's Glen, Donemana, County Tyrone in Northern Ireland. He was educated at Foyle College in Derry, and at Trinity College in Dublin. He graduated in law in 1820, and spent the next six years at the Irish Bar, but seeing little prospect of advancement he decided to pursue a judicial career in the colonies. Moore enquired at the Colonial Office after an official posting to the recently established Swan River Colony in Western Australia, but was told that such appointments were the responsibility of the Governor of Western Australia, Sir James Stirling, and could not be guaranteed by the Colonial Office. However the Colonial Office promised him a letter of introduction should he choose to emigrate.\n\nMoore sailed from Dublin bound for Western Australia on board the \"Cleopatra\", arriving at the Swan River Colony on 30 October 1830. He then learned that William Mackie had been appointed Chairman of the Courts of Petty and Quarter Sessions in the previous December, effectively eliminating any chances of an official judicial appointment for Moore. He therefore turned his attention to the problems of obtaining his land grant and establishing a farm. By the end of November, Moore had claimed a large area of land in the Avon Valley, which he had not yet seen but had been highly recommended by Robert Dale, who had explored the area in July. Moore also obtained half of William Lamb's grant in Upper Swan by agreeing to undertake the improvements necessary to secure the entire title.\n\nIn September 1831, Robert Dale led a large party in cutting a road from Guildford to the Avon Valley. Eager to see his grant for the first time, Moore joined the party. On arriving at the intended site for the town of York, Moore and Dale explored much of the Avon River, correctly guessing that the Avon and the Swan were in fact the same river. The information Moore gathered on this expedition guided him in relocating his inland grant to an area with vastly better pasture land.\n\nIn February 1832, Moore finally obtained the judicial appointment he had hoped for, being appointed a Commissioner of the Civil Court. With good land and a regular salary, Moore rapidly consolidated his position as a leading farmer. By 1833 he had one of the largest flocks of sheep in the colony.\n\nMoore was unusual amongst his contemporaries in that he developed friendly, lasting relationships with the Indigenous Australians of the area. As he learned more of their culture, his interest deepened, and he began to take a scholarly interest in their language and customs. In the middle of 1833, Moore published in the \"Perth Gazette\" the first account of the customs of the Aborigines of the area. He advocated compensating the natives for the loss of their land, and also promoted the idea of Christianising them. For a while he funded Robert Lyon in his attempt to learn their language, then set out to learn it himself.\n\nBetween 1834 and 1836, Moore went exploring a number of times. In January 1834, he explored up the Swan River, finally confirming the belief that the Swan and Avon were the same river. In April 1835, he discovered extended pastoral land near the Garban River, which was subsequently renamed the Moore River. In March 1836, he explored the land between the Moore River and the northern end of the Avon River. In October 1836, he joined a party under John Septimus Roe, which explored inland in the hopes of finding an inland sea, finding instead extremely arid land.\n\nIn 1834, A collection of Moore's letters to family in England were published under the title \"Extracts from the Letters and Journals of George Fletcher Moore Esq., Now Filling a Judicial Office at the Swan River Settlement\". The publication was at the request of Moore's father Joseph Moore, and George Fletcher Moore may have been unaware of the publication for some time afterwards.\n\nIn July of the same year, Moore's judicial position was handed over to Mackie, and Moore was instead appointed Advocate-General. Moore was initially very upset about his re-appointment, because of the loss of social status in changing from a judge to a lawyer. His new position, however, accorded him a seat on the colony's Legislative Council, and was therefore a position of great influence. Moore took a dislike to many of Governor Stirling's policies, and opposed him on a number of measures. In particular, from March 1835 he continually opposed Stirling's proposal to raise a troops of mounted police to protect against attack by natives.\n\nEarly in 1839, John Hutt took office as governor. He shared Moore's interest in the language of the Aborigines, and shortly after his arrival the two of them commenced a project to produce a dictionary of the Aboriginal language. By August 1840 the dictionary was largely complete. Moore took extended leave in March 1841, returning to London for two years. In 1842, Moore's dictionary was published under the title \"A Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language in Common Use Amongst the Aborigines of Western Australia\".\n\nMoore returned to Western Australia in 1843, when the Swan River Colony was in a severe recession. Over the next few years, he vigorously opposed a number of proposed measures intended to soften the effects of the recession on leading land holders. Moore claimed that most of the large land holders that were facing economic ruin had been brought to that position through mismanagement. His hard line made many influential enemies, and his popularity plummeted. His views began to attract ridicule both in the Legislative Council and in the press, but he remained influential as he had the confidence of successive governors John Hutt and Andrew Clarke.\n\nOn 29 October 1846, Moore married Fanny, stepdaughter of Governor Clarke. In the final months of 1846, both the Governor and Colonial Secretary Peter Broun were seriously ill. As son-in-law of the Governor, Moore was one of a few persons allowed access to the Governor by his doctors. Because of this substantial advantage, Moore was appointed acting colonial secretary in November 1846. Broun died that same month, and Clarke died in February 1847, but Moore continued acting in the position until the arrival of the new colonial secretary, Richard Madden, in March 1848.\n\nUnder the acting governorship of Frederick Irwin, Moore's popularity waned further. The government of Irwin and Moore was extremely unpopular; Battye (1924) writes \"every administrative act was viewed with suspicion. ... Long years of depression and struggle had made the colonists pessimistic, and ... they threw the blame on the Government of the day.\" The eventual appointments of Madden and the new governor, Charles Fitzgerald, left Moore with almost no influence in the new government.\n\nEarly in 1852, Moore took leave and returned to Ireland. His claimed reason for taking leave was to visit his sick father, but Cameron (2000) states that his chief reason was concern for the mental health of his wife. Her condition deteriorated in Ireland, and she refused to return to Western Australia. Moore was forced to resign his seat; his request for a pension was denied. Fanny Moore died in 1863, but Moore still did not return to Western Australia.\n\nIn about 1878, the editor of \"The West Australian\", Sir Thomas Cockburn Campbell, sought and was granted permission to serialise Moore's letters. The letters appeared in the \"West Australian\" in 1881 and 1882. On seeing them in print, Moore decided to republish them in book form. They were published in 1884 as Diary of Ten Years Eventful Life of an Early Settler in Western Australia.\n\nMoore died in his London apartment on 30 December 1886. Stannage (1978) writes that he died \"apparently friendless\", and Cameron (2000) adds \"it was a sad end to a worthwhile colonial career.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2113021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113021", "title": "Bern zinc tablet", "text": "Bern zinc tablet\n\nThe Bern zinc tablet or Gobannus tablet is a metal sheet found in 1984 in Bern, Switzerland. As it was only analysed after the death of the workman who had found and removed the tablet from its site, its original archaeological context can no longer be precisely determined. According to the scant information available to archaeologist , it was found in Thormenboden forest within what appears to be a Gallo-Roman context, a layer dominated by Roman roof tiles at a depth of roughly 30 centimetres. It is inscribed with an apparently Gaulish inscription, consisting of four words, each on its own line, the letters formed by little dots impressed onto the metal:\n\nThe dedication is to Gobannus, a Gallo-Roman god, the name simply meaning \"the Smith\".\n\"Brenodor\" is probably a placename, \"Brenno-duro-\" \"town of Brennus, c.f. \"Salodurum\" > Solothurn, \"Vitudurum\" > Winterthur, Gaulish \"-duron\" \"town\" deriving from PIE \"dhur-\" \"door\".\n\"Nantaror\" may refer to the Aare valley (containing as first element \"nanto-\" \"deep valley with a stream/river\"), and \"Dobnoredo\" seems to be an epitheton of \"Gobano\", maybe composed of \"dubno-\" \"world\" (Old Irish \"dumhan\" (Modern Irish \"domhan\", c.f. Dumnorix, Donald (Gaelic \"Domhnall\") and \"rēdo-\" \"travel\" (Old Irish \"riad\"), or \"rēdā\" \"chariot\" i.e. \"world-traveller\" or \"world-charioteer\", so that the inscription may mean approximately \"to Gobannus, the world-traveller, dedicated by the people of Brennoduron in the Arura valley\".\n\nSince the inscription consists of four proper names, it cannot straightforwardly be considered in the Gaulish language. The datives in \"-o\" may be either Gaulish or Latin. Use of the Greek alphabet, however, seems to suggest that when the tablet was inscribed, Roman influence was not yet overwhelming, and Gaulish probably was still in wide use. That the tablet does date to Roman Gaul is suggested by the final Ρ of ΝΑΝΤΑΡΩΡ: it was at first written as a Latin R, the additional stroke having been removed again as a scribal error. Mixing of Greek and Latin letters is also attested from a number of Gallo-Roman coins.\n\nThe tablet is made of zinc, and on grounds of this it was considered a forgery for some time, since production of zinc is unattested in this region prior to the 16th century. The alloy, however, turned out to be different from modern zinc, containing lead and iron, as well as traces of copper, tin, and cadmium. It was concluded that the zinc of this tablet was collected from a furnace, where the metal is known to have aggregated, Strabo calling it \"pseudoarguros\" \"mock silver\" (in 1546, Georg Agricola rediscovered that a white metal could be condensed and scraped off the walls of a furnace when zinc ores were smelted), but it is believed that it was usually thrown away as worthless. Since the tablet is dedicated to the god of the smiths, it is not unlikely that such zinc remnants scraped from a furnace were collected by smiths and considered particularly smithcraft-related.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113030", "title": "Immelman", "text": "Immelman\n\nImmelman may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113034", "title": "The Writing's on the Wall", "text": "The Writing's on the Wall\n\nThe Writing's on the Wall is the second studio album by American girl group Destiny's Child, released on July 27, 1999 by Columbia Records. The album was produced by Missy Elliott, Kevin \"She'kspere\" Briggs, Rodney Jerkins, Eric Nealante Phillips and Beyoncé Knowles among others and included guest appearances from rapper Missy Elliott and R&B trio Next. \"The Writing's on The Wall\" spawned four singles, including the US number one-hits \"Bills, Bills, Bills\" and \"Say My Name\" as well as \"Bug a Boo\" and \"Jumpin', Jumpin'\". This is the last album with the group's original line-up. The album saw the group taking creative control from writing and producing their own tracks working closely with producer Eric Nealante Phillips and singer-songwriter Xscape member Kandi Burruss. \"Bills, Bills, Bills\" and \"Bug a Boo\" were among the first songs written and produced by the group.\n\nThe album debuted at number six on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart on August 14, 1999, with first-week sales of 132,000 units, and later peaked at number five on May 6, 2000. It earned Destiny's Child six Grammy nominations for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals (twice), Best R&B Song (twice), Record of the Year, and Song of the Year. \"The Writing's on the Wall\" was certified 8× Platinum by the RIAA on November 6, 2001, and has sold over 6 million copies in the United States alone. \"Billboard\" magazine ranked \"The Writing's on the Wall\" at number 39 on the magazine's Top 200 Albums of the Decade.\n\n\"The Writing's on the Wall\" received generally favorable reviews from music critics. Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic gave the album four out of five stars, stating: \"With their second album, \"Writing's on the Wall\", Destiny's Child still suffers from slightly uneven songwriting, but it's nevertheless an assured step forward for the girl group. Not only are they maturing as vocalists, they are fortunate to work with such skilled, talented producers as Kevin \"She'kspere\" Briggs, Rodney Jerkins, D'Wayne Wiggins, Chad Elliot, Daryl Simmons, and Missy Elliott, who all give the quartet rich, varied music upon which to work their charm. So, even when the album fails to deliver memorable songs, it always sounds alluring, thanks to the perfect combination of vocalists and producers.\"\n\nRob Brunner from \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the album the grade of B, stating: \"Judging from \"The Writing's on the Wall\", the second album from Destiny’s Child, it's not Briggs' fault. With his help, the Houston quartet (Beyonce, LaTavia, LeToya, and the unimaginatively monikered Kelly) prove themselves to be more capable of confident, inventive R&B than many of their contemporaries. Though Briggs is joined by a slew of trendy producers (including Elliott and Rodney Jerkins), \"Wall\" still manages to avoid sounding like a mere rehash of other people's hits. With a snaky lead vocal that slithers around staccato harmony parts, the aptly titled album opener \"So Good\" coolly mixes restrained production and playful melody. \"Bills, Bills, Bills\", the first single, is a sort of companion piece to \"No Scrubs\", taking on guys who seem perfect but turn into jerks once they get comfortable in a relationship. And \"If You Leave\", a duet with male vocal trio Next, is an ambitious collaboration that delivers despite its potentially lethal abundance of voices. Wall gets bogged down by too much banal balladry (\"Stay\", \"Sweet Sixteen\"), proving Destiny’s Child to be capable of sounding exactly like any other group of snooze-inducing slow-jammers. But more often they recognize the difference between extremes of pitch and extremes of passion, a distinction lost on many R&B balladeers (Blaque frequently fall for this trap, and they’d probably spend even more time screaming and yelling if they were a little better at it). Destiny’s Child have learned a thing or two from the Supremes, singers who knew how to use a well-placed pause or a quietly sung harmony to maximum effect. No, they haven’t managed to reach that lofty level on Wall, but if you're casting \"Motown '99\", the album's worth a listen. Its best stuff is close enough to the spirit of the Supremes to at least win them a callback.\"\n\nRobert Christgau gave the album the grade of B+, stating: \"I like teenpop fine, but please, one song at a time. And since teenpop likes this glamorous femme quartet, individual songs are all a reasonable grownup would expect. Uh-uh. Lyrics are the usual problem–if there's a quotable quote here, I haven't noticed it. But that may just be because the multivalent harmonies, suavely irregular beats, and, not incidentally, deep-seated self-respect have been keeping me busy ever since I heard through the visuals.\" Rob Sheffield from \"Rolling Stone\", however, gave the album negative review, giving it the grade of two out of five stars, stating: \"Destiny's Child blew up last summer with \"No, No, No\", which wiggled seductively while begging the question, Since there are four ladies in the group, shouldn't that be \"No, No, No, No\"? Or is one still making up her mind? The Houston R&B group's new hit, \"Bills, Bills, Bills\", takes the same three-out-of-four-divas approach to a classic pop sentiment: These gals don't want your love, just your money money money. But unlike TLC's \"No Scrubs\", \"Bills\" isn't sexy enough to get you up off your deadbeat ass. The track has too much fussy clutter, and the singers hang out the passenger side of TLC's ride, groveling for spare change like forty-niners who've been on the job since '29. \"The Writing's on the Wall\" has a similar case of the blahs. Despite OK moments like the \"Waterfalls sequel \"Sweet Sixteen\", the Destiny children never find that one money tune that turns a no-no-no scrub into a yeah-yeah-yeah paying customer.\" However, Nathan Brackett and Christian David Hoard from \"The New Rolling Stone Album Guide\" gave a more positive review and the grade of four out of five stars in 2004, five years after \"The Writing's on the Wall\" was released.\n\nIn the United States the album debuted at number six on the US \"Billboard\" 200 on August 14, 1999, selling over 132,000 copies in its first week and slipped to number ten the following week with 100,000 copies. It remained in the top forty for most of 1999 and had sold over 1.6 million copies by the end of the year according to Nielsen SoundScan and was certified 2× platinum in January 2000. Nine months after its release \"The Writing's on the Wall\", following the huge success of third single “Say My Name\", returned to the top ten, peaking at number five on May 6, 2000. During its first year on the chart it spent forty-seven out of fifty-two weeks in the top forty (including eleven weeks in the top ten) or better and was the tenth best-selling album of 2000, selling 3.8 million copies during the year. \"The Writing's on the Wall\" enjoyed its best week of sales more than one year after its release when it sold over 163,000 units during the Christmas week of 2000, and by the release of the group's third album \"Survivor\" it had scanned 5.8 million in the United States and shipped over seven million copies. \"The Writing's on the Wall\" spent ninety-nine consecutive weeks on the \"Billboard\" 200 (from the summer of 1999 until the spring of 2001) and was certified 8× platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America on November 8, 2001. It has sold 6,347,000 copies to date in the United States, according to Nielsen SoundScan, and over 700,000 at BMG Music Club.\n\nWorldwide \"The Writing's on the Wall\" was a similarly huge hit and became one of the best-selling R&B albums of all-time. It achieved gold, platinum and multi-platinum status across Europe and was certified 2× platinum by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) in early 2001 in recognition of two million albums sold in Europe. In Canada, the album peaked within the top on Canadian Albums Chart and was certified 5× platinum by Music Canada for selling over 500,000 copies. It was certified 3× platinum in the United Kingdom by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), in New Zealand by the Recorded Music NZ (RMNZ) and in Australia by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).\n\nIn December 1999, Luckett and Roberson attempted to split with their manager, claiming that he kept a disproportionate share of the group's profits and unfairly favored Knowles and Rowland. While they never intended to leave the group, when the video for \"Say My Name\" surfaced in February 2000, Roberson and Luckett found out that two new members were joining Knowles and Rowland. Prior to the video premiere, Knowles announced on \"TRL\" that original members Luckett and Roberson had left the group. They were replaced by Michelle Williams, a former backup singer to Monica, and Farrah Franklin, an aspiring singer-actress. Shortly after her stint with Monica, Williams was introduced to Destiny's Child by choreographer Braden Larson aka \"Peanut Orlando\", and was flown to Houston where she stayed with the Knowles family.\n\nIn March 2000, Roberson and Luckett filed a lawsuit against Mathew Knowles and their former bandmates for breach of partnership and fiduciary duties. Following the suit, both sides were disparaging towards each other in the media. Five months after joining, Franklin left the group. The remaining members claimed that this was due to missed promotional appearances and concerts. According to Williams, Franklin could not handle stress. Franklin, however, disclosed that she left because of the negativity surrounding the strife and her inability to assert any control in the decision making. Her departure was seen as less controversial. Williams, on the other hand, disclosed that her inclusion in the group resulted in her \"battling insecurity\": \"I was comparing myself to the other members, and the pressure was on me.\"\n\nTowards the end of 2000, Roberson and Luckett dropped the portion of their lawsuit aimed at Rowland and Knowles in exchange for a settlement, though they continued the action against their manager. As part of the agreement, both sides were prohibited from speaking about each other publicly. Roberson and Luckett formed another girl group named Anjel but also left it due to issues with the record company. Although band members were affected by the turmoil, Destiny's Child's success continued. The following years of their career were seen as the group's most successful stretch, becoming a pop culture phenomenon.\n\nThere was also controversy surrounding the rights to use the \"Columbia\" name and trademark for the album’s release in international markets. There were different rules for owning the rights to the \"Columbia\" brand name, depending on the market. For the album’s release in Japan, where Columbia Records’ parent company Sony does not use the \"Columbia\" name or trademark, for example, the label was re-branded as SME Records (SME is an abbreviation for Sony Music Entertainment), which is a sublabel of Sony Music Entertainment Japan, itself a wholly owned subsidiary of Sony Corporation and operates independently from the American Sony Music Entertainment, of which Columbia Records is a part of. The \"Columbia\" name and trademark are actually controlled in Japan by Nippon Columbia, which is a direct competitor and neither has direct relations with the American Columbia Records, nor with Sony Music Japan. It should, however, be noted that Nippon Columbia was, in fact, the former licensee for the American Columbia Records up until 1968, when Sony Music Japan’s predecessor, CBS/Sony Inc., was established.\n\nCredits adapted from the album's liner notes\n\nNotes\n\n\nSample Credits\n"}
{"id": "2113036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113036", "title": "NWA United States Heavyweight Championship (Central States version)", "text": "NWA United States Heavyweight Championship (Central States version)\n\nThe NWA Central States United States Championship was the version of the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship that was defended in the Central States Wrestling territory around Missouri. It existed from 1961 until 1968. Records indicate that Bob Orton, The Viking and The Destroyer also held championship but no specific dates were found for those reigns. Because the championship is a professional wrestling championship, it is not won or lost competitively but instead by the decision of the bookers of a wrestling promotion. The championship is awarded after the chosen team \"wins\" a match to maintain the illusion that professional wrestling is a competitive sport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113052", "title": "Teaching assistant (United Kingdom)", "text": "Teaching assistant (United Kingdom)\n\nA teaching assistant, educational assistant or learning support assistant (often abbreviated to TA, EA or LSA; sometimes classroom assistant) in schools in England and Wales is a person who supports pupils in the classroom. Duties can differ dramatically from school to school, though the underlying tasks often remain the same.\n\nTeaching assistants are often used to take small groups of children out of a class that need extra support in an area, such as literacy or numeracy. This can also include work with children with special educational needs (SEN), either on a 1:1 basis or in an alternative provision to promote inclusion.\n\nThey are also mostly responsible for supporting children in their academic study and reporting back to the teacher if any issues arise. Helping teachers prepare for lessons by photocopying resources, or putting out equipment at the start of a lesson is another role of the teaching assistant, and one which is becoming increasingly common, due to the National Workforce Agreement (see below).\n\nTeaching assistants are not qualified teachers, and as such, are led and guided by staff with qualified teacher status. The DfES (Department for Education and Skills) stated in the Consultation of 2002 that:\n\nThe occupation is constantly changing and evolving with the rest of the education workforce in the country. Teaching assistants are increasingly being given more and more responsibility within schools, and it remains to be seen how this \"remodelling of the workforce\" will alter the occupation. Some additional responsibilities may include supporting with behaviour intervention, running extracurricular activities, lunchtime supervision, and covering teaching staff in their absence. In the EYFS, TA's are sometimes included in adult to child ratios as per government guidelines. In some schools (particularly in SEN schools), where school policy permits, teaching assistants are seen to give personal care to children as required. \n\nOn 15 January 2003, unions and the DfES signed the National Workforce Agreement, which began a reform of raising school standards and tackling workloads.\n\nThis agreement created a \"new breed\" of teaching assistants: HLTAs (or Higher Level Teaching Assistants, sometimes referred to as Senior Learning Support Assistants). Their role is superior to teaching assistants and is to support the teacher further by covering lessons, and being more closely involved in children's learning. Becoming an HLTA requires a preparation course, in-school assessment, and a £450.00 fee. HLTA's in some schools may also take line management responsibility for teaching assistants in their areas, or take a particular school wide responsibility (for example, a subject area like EAL).\n\nGiving teachers time for planning, preparation and assessment (PPA) was also raised in this agreement. By September 2005, all teachers must be given 10% teaching time away from the classroom to plan, prepare and assess. This requirement is easily accommodated for in most secondary schools, but where there is only one class teacher per class the PPA time is covered by normal teaching assistants, not just HLTAs, as originally planned. This has led to some concerns being raised. \n\nThere are nationally recognised qualifications for teaching assistants.\n\n\nIn Scotland the term 'teaching assistant' is not formally used. Staff who work alongside teachers to support the learning of children are referred to as classroom assistants or pupil support workers. In addition to the above list of qualifications classroom assistants in Scotland may also earn:\n\n\nIn addition there is no HLTA status in Scotland and Classroom Assistants do not cover classes.\n\nDespite the many qualifications available for teaching assistants, many do not have any formal training, and instead build up experience over many years. Those that do study often choose the NVQ Level 2 and/or 3 qualification, as it is the most widely studied in the profession.\n\nThose that want to become a teaching assistant often come from nursery backgrounds and have qualifications in childcare. These are seen as good starting points for those new to the occupation.\n\n\"Learning Support\", a professional magazine for primary school teaching assistants, is published six times a year.\n\nA survey carried out by the University of Plymouth and DfES gives an outline of who usually takes the role of the teaching assistant.\n\n97% are female, 3% are male.\n\n59.8% in primary schools are aged 35 to 48.\n50.4% in secondary schools are aged 35 to 48.\n\n39.4% in primary schools have no qualifications.\n34.2% in secondary schools have no qualifications.\n\nIn a separate survey, the DfES found that in January 2002, there were 216,000 full-time equivalent support staff in schools. This is an increase of over 50% since 1997.\n\nWhereas the number of teachers only went up by around 10,000 over a period of five years (1998 to 2002), the number of teaching assistants went up by around 60,000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113057", "title": "John Wilbye", "text": "John Wilbye\n\nJohn Wilbye (baptized 7 March 1574September 1638) was an English madrigal composer.\n\nThe son of a tanner, he was born at Brome, Suffolk, England. (Brome is near Diss.)\n\nWilbye received the patronage of the Cornwallis family of Brome Hall.\n\nWilbye was employed for decades at Hengrave Hall, near Bury St. Edmunds, where he seems to have been recruited in the 1590s by Elizabeth Cornwallis who was married to the property's owner, Sir Thomas Kitson (or Kytson). The Kitsons also had a long association with the composer Edward Johnson, who was more than twenty years older than Wilbye, and began working at Hengrave in the 1570s.\n\nAs well as working in Suffolk, Wilbye was involved with the music scene in London, where the Kitsons kept a town house (first in Austin Friars and from about 1601 in Clerkenwell). His first book of madrigals was published in London in 1598, the madrigals being described as \"newly composed\". The publication was dedicated to Sir Charles Cavendish, whose first wife had been a Kitson.\n\nWilbye remained in contact with his printer Thomas Easte. In 1600 Wilbye and Edward Johnson took on a proofreading job for Easte, the first edition of Dowland's \"Second Book of Songs\", as Dowland was abroad. Easte died in 1608, and Wilbye's second book of madrigals was printed the following year by Easte's nephew and successor, Thomas Snodham.\n\nHengrave was a recusant household, but little religious music by Wilbye survives, and even less keyboard music (one piece in Clement Matchett's Virginal Book). His main interest seems to have been madrigals. A set of madrigals by him appeared in 1598, and a second in 1608, the two sets containing sixty-four pieces.\n\nWilbye is probably the most famous of all the English madrigalists; his pieces have long been favourites and are often included in modern collections. His madrigals include \"Weep, weep mine eyes\", \"Weep, O mine eyes\" and \"Draw on, sweet night\". He also wrote the poem, \"Love not me for comely grace.\" His style is characterized by delicate writing for the voice, acute sensitivity to the text and the use of \"false relations\" between the major and minor modes.\nWilbye never married. In 1628, on Lady Kitson's death, all the furnishings, books, and musical instruments at Hengrave Hall were settled by her will upon the new owners of the house, first on her daughter Mary Darcy and then upon her granddaughter Penelope. However, Wilbye left Hengrave to live in retirement at Mary Darcy's house in Colchester, where he died. He is buried in the graveyard of Holy Trinity Church, in Colchester town centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113062", "title": "Piston pump", "text": "Piston pump\n\nA piston pump is a type of positive displacement pump where the high-pressure seal reciprocates with the piston. Piston pumps can be used to move liquids or compress gases. They can operate over a wide range of pressures. High pressure operation can be achieved without a strong effect on flow rate. Piston pumps can also deal with viscous media and media containing solid particles . This pump type functions through a piston cup, oscillation mechanism where down-strokes cause pressure differentials, filling of pump chambers, where up-stroke forces the pump fluid out for use. Piston pumps are often used in scenarios requiring high, consistent pressure and in water irrigation or delivery systems. \n\nThe two main types of piston pump are the lift pump and the force pump. Both types may be operated either by hand or by an engine.\n\nIn a lift pump, the upstroke of the piston draws water, through a valve, into the lower part of the cylinder. On the downstroke, water passes through valves set in the piston into the upper part of the cylinder. On the next upstroke, water is discharged from the upper part of the cylinder via a spout. This type of pump is limited by the height of water that can be supported by air pressure against a vacuum.\n\nIn a force pump, the upstroke of the piston draws water, through an inlet valve, into the cylinder. On the downstroke, the water is discharged, through an outlet valve, into the outlet pipe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113090", "title": "Fire-coloured beetle", "text": "Fire-coloured beetle\n\nFire-coloured beetles or otherwise known as eyelash bugs are the beetles of the Pyrochroidae family, which includes the red cardinal beetles. Adults measure 4-20 mm; larvae reach 25 mm. Larvae of Pyrochroinae are found under moist bark of dead trees:they are probably mostly fungivorous, although they may become cannibalistic if too crowded.\n\nThis family contains some 150 species in 30 genera. The males of many species in the subfamily Pyrochroinae have comb- or antler-like antennae. This family also now includes most former members of the defunct family Pedilidae.\nThese 21 genera belong to the family Pyrochroidae:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113098", "title": "Francis Wharton", "text": "Francis Wharton\n\nFrancis Wharton (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, March 7, 1820 – February 21, 1889) was an American legal writer and educationalist.\nWharton graduated from Yale in 1839, was admitted to the bar in 1843, became prominent in Pennsylvania politics as a Democrat, and served as assistant attorney-general in 1845. In Philadelphia, he edited the \"North American and United States Gazette\". He was professor of English, History, and Literature at Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, from 1856-1863.\n\nHe took orders in the Protestant Episcopal Church in 1862, and was rector of St. Paul's Church, Brookline, Massachusetts from 1863-1869. In 1871-1881 he taught ecclesiastical polity and canon law in the Protestant Episcopal Theological School at Cambridge, Massachusetts, and at this time he lectured on the conflict of laws at Boston University.\n\nFor two years he traveled in Europe, and after two years in Philadelphia he went to Washington, DC, where he was lecturer on criminal law (1885–1886) and then professor of criminal law (1886–1888) at Columbian (now George Washington) University; in 1885-1888 he was solicitor (or examiner of claims) of the Department of State, and from 1888 until his death was employed on an edition (authorized by Congress) of the \"Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States\" (6 vols, 1889, ed. by John Bassett Moore), which superseded Jared Sparks's compilation.\n\nWharton was a \"broad churchman\" and was deeply interested in the hymnology of his church. Wharton was also interested in Christian apologetics, and he wrote an essay on the relationship between apologetics and jurisprudence that was published in \"The Princeton Review\" in 1878. He received the degree of LL.D. from the University of Edinburgh in 1883, and was the foremost American authority on international law. He authored the doctrine in criminal law (Wharton's Rule of Concert of Action) that to form a conspiracy takes one more person than is necessary to commit the crime (i.e. it takes two people to gamble. Therefore, two people gambling cannot be guilty of conspiracy to gamble, though three can).\n\n\nSee the Memoir (Philadelphia, 1891) by his daughter, Mrs. Viele, and several friends; and J. B. Moore's \"Brief Sketch of the Life of Francis Wharton,\" prefaced to the first volume of the \"Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2113105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113105", "title": "Jubilee Gardens, Lambeth", "text": "Jubilee Gardens, Lambeth\n\nJubilee Gardens is a public park on the South Bank in the London Borough of Lambeth. Created in 1977 to mark the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II, the site was formerly used for the Dome of Discovery and the adjacent Skylon during the Festival of Britain in 1951. A multimillion-pound redevelopment of the park was completed in May 2012, just before the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II and the 2012 Summer Olympics, in order to transform it from a state of grassland to a mature looking park with trees and hills. Queen Elizabeth II reopened the gardens in October 2012.\n\nThe park is the site of a memorial to the casualties of the International Brigades of the Spanish Civil War, especially the British Battalion which took very heavy casualties. The park's neighbours are the London Eye, the Shell Centre, County Hall and the River Thames.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113111", "title": "PerkinElmer", "text": "PerkinElmer\n\nPerkinElmer, Inc., is an American global corporation focused in the business areas of diagnostics, life science research, food, environmental and industrial testing. Its capabilities include detection, imaging, informatics, and service. PerkinElmer produces analytical instruments, genetic testing and diagnostic tools, medical imaging components, software, instruments, and consumables for multiple end markets.\n\nPerkinElmer is part of the S&P 500 Index and operates in 150 countries.\n\nPerkinElmer was founded in 1937 by Richard Perkin and Charles Elmer as an optical design and consulting company. In 1944, Perkin-Elmer entered the analytical-instruments business, and in the early 1990s, partnered with Cetus Corporation (and later Hoffmann-La Roche) to pioneer the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) equipment industry. Analytical-instruments business was also operated from 1954 to 2001 in Germany, by the \"Bodenseewerk Perkin-Elmer GmbH\" located in Überlingen at Lake Constance, and England (Perkin Elmer Ltd) at Beaconsfield in Buckinghamshire.\n\nEG&G was founded in 1931 by two MIT professors, Harold Edgerton and Kenneth Germeshausen in a Boston garage. The company was originally incorporated in 1947 as EG&G.\n\nPerkin-Elmer was involved in computer manufacture for a time. The Perkin-Elmer Computer Systems Division was formed through the purchase of Interdata, Inc., an independent computer manufacturer, in 1973–74 for some $63 million. This merger made Perkin-Elmer's annual sales rise to over $200 million. This was also known as Perkin-Elmer's Data Systems Group.\n\nThe 32-bit computers were very similar to an IBM System/370, but ran the OS/32MT operating system. \n\nThe Wollongong Group provided the commercial version of the Unix port to the Interdata 7/32 hardware, known as Edition 7 Unix. The port was originally done by the University of Wollongong in New South Wales, Australia, and was the first UNIX port to hardware other than the Digital Equipment Corporation PDP family.\nBy 1982 the Wollongong Group Edition 7 Unix and Programmer's Workbench (PWB) were available on models such as the Perkin-Elmer 3210 and 3240 minicomputers.\n\nIn 1985, the computing division of Perkin-Elmer was spun off as Concurrent Computer Corporation.\n\nModern PerkinElmer traces its history back to a merger between divisions of what had been two S&P 500 companies, EG&G Inc. (formerly ) of Wellesley, Massachusetts and Perkin-Elmer (formerly ) of Norwalk, Connecticut. On May 28, 1999, the non-government side of EG&G Inc. purchased the Analytical Instruments Division of Perkin-Elmer, its traditional business segment, for US$425 million, also assuming the Perkin-Elmer name and forming the new PerkinElmer company, with new officers and a new Board of Directors. At the time, EG&G made products for diverse industries including automotive, medical, aerospace and photography.\n\nThe old Perkin-Elmer Board of Directors and Officers remained at that reorganized company under its new name, PE Corporation. It had been the Life Sciences division of Perkin-Elmer, and its two component tracking stock business groups, Celera Genomics () and PE Biosystems (formerly ), were centrally involved in the highest profile biotechnology events of the decade, the intense race against the Human Genome Project consortium, which then resulted in the genomics segment of the technology bubble. Perkin-Elmer purchased the Boston operations of NEN Life Sciences in 2001.\n\nIn 1992, the company merged with Applied Biosystems. In 1997 they merged with PerSeptive Biosystems. On July 14, 1999, the new analytical instruments maker PerkinElmer cut 350 jobs, or 12%, in its cost reduction reorganization. In 2006, PerkinElmer sold off the Fluid Sciences division for approximately $400M; the aim of the selloff was to increase the strategic focus on its higher-growth health sciences and photonic markets. Following on from the selloff, a number of small businesses were acquired, including Spectral Genomics, Improvision, Evotec-Technologies, Euroscreen, ViaCell, and Avalon Instruments. The brand \"Evotec-Technologies\" remains the property of Evotec, the former owner company. PerkinElmer had a license to use the brand till the end of year 2007.\n\nPerkinElmer has continued to expand its interest in medicine with the acquisitions of clinical laboratories, In July 2006, it acquired NTD Labs located on Long Island, New York. The laboratory specializes in prenatal screening during the first trimester of pregnancy. In 2007, it purchased ViaCell, Inc. for $300 million, which included its offices in Boston and cord blood storage facility in Kentucky near Cincinnati. The company was renamed ViaCord.\n\nIn March 2008, PerkinElmer purchased Pediatrix Screening (formerly Neo Gen Screening), a laboratory located in Bridgeville, PA specializing in screening newborns for various inborn errors of metabolism such as phenylketonuria, hypothyroidism, and sickle-cell disease. It renamed the laboratory PerkinElmer Genetics, Inc.\n\nIn May 2011, PerkinElmer announced the signature of an agreement to acquire CambridgeSoft, and the successful acquisition of ArtusLabs.\n\nIn September 2011, PerkinElmer bought Caliper Life Sciences for $600 million.\n\nIn January 2017, the company announced it would acquire the Indian in vitro diagnostic company, Tulip Diagnostics. In May of the same year the company acquired Euroimmun Medical Laboratory Diagnostics for approximately $1.3 billion.\n\nIn 2018, the company acquired Australian biotech company, RHS Ltd., Chinese manufacturer of analytical instruments, Shanghai Spectrum Instruments Co. Ltd., and US company Cisbio Bioassays, which specializes in diagnostics and drug discovery solutions.\n\nPerkin-Elmer's Danbury Optical System unit was commissioned to build the optical components of the Hubble Space Telescope. The construction of the main mirror began in 1979 and completed in 1981. The polishing process ran over budget and behind schedule, producing significant friction with NASA. Due to a miscalibrated null corrector, the primary mirror was also found to have a significant spherical aberration after reaching orbit on STS-31. Perkin-Elmer's own calculations and measurements revealed the primary mirror's surface discrepancies, but the company chose to withhold that data from NASA. A NASA investigation heavily criticized Perkin-Elmer for management failings, disregarding written quality guidelines, and ignoring test data that revealed the miscalibration. Corrective optics were installed on the telescope during the first Hubble service and repair mission STS-61. The correction, Corrective Optics Space Telescope Axial Replacement, was applied entirely to the secondary mirror and replaced existing instrumentation; the aberration of the primary mirror remained uncorrected.\n\nThe company agreed to pay US $15 million, essentially forgoing its fees in polishing the mirror, to avoid a threatened liability lawsuit under the False Claims Act by the Federal government. Hughes Aircraft which acquired the Danbury Optical System unit one month after the launch of the telescope, paid $10 million. The Justice Department asserted that the companies should have known about the flawed testing. Trade group Aerospace Industries Association protested when concerns were raised in the aerospace industry that aerospace companies might be held liable for failed equipment.\n\nPerkin-Elmer built the optical systems for the KH-9 Hexagon series of spy satellites at a facility in Danbury, Connecticut.\n\nIn the 1970s, an aerial panoramic camera lens was capable of recording the entire state of Pennsylvania in two flyovers, with resolution that enabled one to count the autos on the Pennsylvania Turnpike.\n\nAnalysis of uranium and thorium\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113121", "title": "Steady state (chemistry)", "text": "Steady state (chemistry)\n\nIn chemistry, a steady state is a situation in which all state variables are constant in spite of ongoing processes that strive to change them. For an entire system to be at steady state, i.e. for all state variables of a system to be constant, there must be a flow through the system (compare mass balance). A simple example of such a system is the case of a bathtub with the tap running but with the drain unplugged: after a certain time, the water flows in and out at the same rate, so the water level (the state variable Volume) stabilizes and the system is in a steady state.\n\nThe steady state concept is different from chemical equilibrium. Although both may create a situation where a concentration does not change, in a system at chemical equilibrium, the net reaction rate is zero (products transform into reactants at the same rate as reactants transform into products), while no such limitation exists in the steady state concept. Indeed, there does not have to be a reaction at all for a steady state to develop.\n\nThe term steady state is also used to describe a situation where some, but not all, of the state variables of a system are constant. For such a steady state to develop, the system does not have to be a flow system. Therefore, such a steady state can develop in a closed system where a series of chemical reactions take place. Literature in chemical kinetics usually refers to this case, calling it \"steady state approximation\".\n\nIn simple systems the steady state is approached by state variables gradually decreasing or increasing until they reach their steady state value. In more complex systems state variable might fluctuate around the theoretical steady state either forever (a limit cycle) or gradually coming closer and closer. It theoretically takes an infinite time to reach steady state, just as it takes an infinite time to reach chemical equilibrium.\n\nBoth concepts are, however, frequently used approximations because of the substantial mathematical simplifications these concepts offer. Whether or not these concepts can be used depends on the error the underlying assumptions introduce. So, even though a steady state, from a theoretical point of view, requires constant drivers (e.g. constant inflow rate and constant concentrations in the inflow), the error introduced by assuming steady state for a system with non-constant drivers may be negligible if the steady state is approached fast enough (relatively speaking).\n\nThe \"steady state approximation\", occasionally called the \"stationary-state approximation\", involves setting the rate of change of a reaction intermediate in a reaction mechanism equal to zero so that the kinetic equations can be simplified by setting the rate of formation of the intermediate equal to the rate of its destruction.\n\nIn practice it is sufficient that the rates of formation and destruction are \"approximately\" equal, which means that the net rate of variation of the concentration of the intermediate is small compared to the formation and destruction, and the concentration of the intermediate varies only slowly.\n\nIts use facilitates the resolution of the differential equations that arise from rate equations, which lack an analytical solution for most mechanisms beyond the most simple ones. The steady state approximation is applied, for example in Michaelis-Menten kinetics.\n\nAs an example, the steady state approximation will be applied to two consecutive, irreversible, homogeneous first order reactions in a closed system. (For heterogeneous reactions, see reactions on surfaces.) This model corresponds, for example, to a series of nuclear decompositions like <chem> ^{239}U -> ^{239}Np -> ^{239}Pu\\! </chem>.\n\nIf the rate constants for the following reaction are formula_1 and formula_2; <chem> A -> B -> C </chem>, combining the rate equations with a mass balance for the system yields three coupled differential equations:\n\nFor species A: formula_3\n\nFor species B: formula_4,\nHere the first (positive) term represents the formation of B by the first step <chem> A -> B</chem>, whose rate depends on the initial reactant A. The second (negative) term represents the consumption of B by the second step <chem> B -> C</chem>, whose rate depends on B as the reactant in that step.\n\nFor species C: formula_5, the rate of formation of C by the second step.\n\nThe analytical solutions for these equations (supposing that initial concentrations of every substance except for A are zero) are:\n\nIf the steady state approximation is applied, then the derivative of the concentration of the intermediate is set to zero. This reduces the second differential equation to an algebraic equation which is much easier to solve.\n\nTherefore, formula_10, so that formula_11.\n\nThe analytical and approximated solutions should now be compared in order to decide when it is valid to use the steady state approximation. The analytical solution transforms into the approximate one when formula_12, because then formula_13 and formula_14. Therefore, it is valid to apply the steady state approximation only if the second reaction is much faster than the first one (k/k > 10 is a common criterion), because that means that the intermediate forms slowly and reacts readily so its concentration stays low.\n\nThe graphs show concentrations of A (red), B (green) and C (blue) in two cases, calculated from the analytical solution.\n\nWhen the first reaction is faster it is not valid to assume that the variation of [B] is very small, because [B] is neither low or close to constant: first A transforms into B rapidly and B accumulates because it disappears slowly. As the concentration of A decreases its rate of transformation decreases, at the same time the rate of reaction of B into C increases as more B is formed, so a maximum is reached when formula_15. From then on the concentration of B decreases.\n\nWhen the second reaction is faster, after a short induction period, concentration of B remains low (and more or less constant) because its rate of formation and disappearance are almost equal and the steady state approximation can be used.\n\nThe equilibrium approximation can be used sometimes in chemical kinetics to yield similar results to the steady state approximation. It consists in assuming that the intermediate arrives rapidly at chemical equilibrium with the reactants. For example, Michaelis-Menten kinetics can be derived assuming equilibrium instead of steady state. Normally the requirements for applying the steady state approximation are laxer: the concentration of the intermediate is only needed to be low and more or less constant (as seen, this has to do only with the rates at which it appears and disappears) but it is not needed to be at equilibrium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113122", "title": "List of islands in the Persian Gulf", "text": "List of islands in the Persian Gulf\n\nThe Persian Gulf is home to many islands, mostly small, distributed in the gulf's entire geographic area and administered by the neighbouring nations. Most islands are sparsely populated, with some being barren, and some utilized for communication, military, or as ship docks. Some of the islands in the Persian Gulf are artificially constructed islands. The artificial islands often serve as tourist resorts, housing developments, or hotels. Despite their small sizes, some of these artificial islands have caused serious hazards for the already fragile ecosystem of the Gulf and its dwindling wildlife mass. A few of the Gulf islands are also historically significant, having been utilized by the ancient empires, neighbouring kingdoms, and in the recent times, colonial powers such as the British empire, and the Portuguese empire. Recent globalization, and discovery of oil, has made some of the Persian Gulf islands very significant for developed nations as a source of oil and raw industrial material. Recent wars, and political unrest has also made these islands strategic military locations for foreign powers from America and Europe.\n\nSome Persian Gulf islands are nations themselves; Bahrain, an independent Gulf state, is the only gulf country that is also an island.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113123", "title": "Cynaegirus", "text": "Cynaegirus\n\nCynegirus or Cynaegirus ( \"Kunégeiros\" or \"Kunaígeiros\"; died 490 BC) was an ancient Greek hero of Athens and had three siblings. His two brothers were the playwright Aeschylus and Ameinias, hero of the battle of Salamis, while his sister was Philopatho (), the mother of the Athenian tragic poet Philokles. He was the son of Euphorion () from Eleusis and member of the Eupatridae, the ancient nobility of Attica.\n\nIn 490 BC Cynegeirus and his brothers Aeschylus and Ameinias fought to defend Athens against Darius's invading Persian army at the Battle of Marathon. \nAccording to Plutarch, Cynegeirus was one of the Athenian Generals.\n\nDespite their numerical superiority, the Persians were routed and fled to their ships. The Athenians pursued them, and Cynegeirus in his attempt to hold on the stern of a Persian ship with his bare hands had his hand cut off with an axe and died. \nAccording to another version of his death, recorded by the Roman historian Justin, when Cynaegyrus lost his right hand, he grasped the enemy's vessel with his left, but Persians cut off this hand too. Here the hero, having successively lost both his hands, hangs on by his teeth, and even in his mutilated state fought desperately with the last mentioned weapons, \"like a rabid wild beast!\"\n\nThere was a custom at Athens that the father of the man who had the most valorous death in a battle should pronounce the funerary oration in public. The father of Cynaegirus and the father of Callimachus had an argument about that. \nPolemon of Laodicea declaimed first on behalf of Cynaegirus and then on behalf of Callimachus.\n\nThe incident of the heroic death of Cynegeirus became an emblem of cultural memory in ancient Greece and was described in literature in order to inspire patriotic feelings to future generations. It was also painted by the ancient Greek painter Polygnotus on the Stoa Poikile in Athens in 460 BC, while the ancient traveler and geographer Pausanias described the painting in his 2nd century AD work.\n\nThe Suda encyclopedia mentioned Cynaegirus.\n\nAt Elefsina there is a monument dedicated to him.\n"}
{"id": "2113137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113137", "title": "Georg Wickram", "text": "Georg Wickram\n\nGeorg (or Jörg) Wickram (c.1505 – before 1562) was a German poet and novelist.\n\nWickram was born at Colmar in Alsace; the exact date of his birth and death are unknown. He founded a Meistersinger school in Colmar in 1549, and has left a number of Meistersingerlieder. He passed the latter part of his life until his death as town clerk of Burkheim on the Rhine, where he died.\n\nWickram was a many-sided writer. He edited Albrecht von Halberstadt's Middle High German version of Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" (1545), and in 1555 he published \"Das Rollwagenbuchlein\", one of the best of the many German collections of tales and anecdotes which appeared in the 16th century. The title of the book implies its object, namely, to supply reading for the traveller in the \"Rollwagen\" or diligences.\n\nAs a dramatist, Wickram wrote \"Fastnachtsspiele\" (\"Das Narrengiessen\", 1537; \"Der treue Eckart\", 1538) and two dramas on biblical subjects, \"Der verlorene Sohn\" (1540) and \"Tobias\" (1551). A moralizing poem, \"Der irrereitende Pilger\" (1556), is half-satiric, half-didactic.\n\nIt is, however, as a novelist that Wickram has left the deepest mark on his time, his chief romances being \"Ritter Galmy aus Schottland\" (1539), \"Gabriotto und Reinhard\" (1554), \"Der Knabenspiegel\" (1554), \"Von guten und bösen Nachbarn\" (1556) and \"Der Goldfaden\" (1557). These may be regarded as the earliest attempts in German literature to create that modern type of middle-class fiction which ultimately took the place of the decadent medieval chivalric romance.\n\nWickram's works have been edited by:\nSee A Stober, \"J Wickram\" (1866); Wilhelm Scherer, \"Die Anfange des deutschen Prosaromans\" (1897).\n\n"}
{"id": "2113142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113142", "title": "Helge Auleb", "text": "Helge Auleb\n\nHelge Arthur Auleb (24 March 1887 – 14 March 1964) was a general in the \"Wehrmacht\" of Nazi Germany during World War II. He was born in Gehren.\n\nAuleb commanded the 6th Infantry Division as part of VI Army Corps during Operation Typhoon in October 1941. He received the German Cross in Gold on 26 December 1941.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113180", "title": "The Braillettes", "text": "The Braillettes\n\nThe Braillettes were a vocal group from Alameda, California, United States. The group consisted of three women (Maggie Liebnitz, Jackie Overalls, and Kay Smith), two of whom (Overalls and Smith) were blind. They released one album, titled \"Our Hearts Keep Singing\", in 1968. The album is now out of print.\n\nThe album cover for \"Our Hearts Keep Singing\" is often credited as one of the worst album covers of all time.\n\nThe cover photograph was taken by their high school classmate, John Skoglund, who later married Maggie Liebnitz.\n\n\"Our Hearts Keep Singing\" and (alt-pop blues musician) Captain Beefheart's seminal \"Trout Mask Replica\" album were both recorded at Whitney Studios in Glendale during the same time period (1968–1969) – musician Frank Zappa's HOT RATS and other Zappa albums (as well as countless independently-produced religious LPs) were also recorded at owner Loren Whitney's classic studio, which was known for its superlative Wurlitzer organ\n\nTrack listing:\n"}
{"id": "2113187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113187", "title": "Herbert Backe", "text": "Herbert Backe\n\nHerbert Friedrich Wilhelm Backe (1 May 1896 – 6 April 1947) was a German politician and SS functionary during the Nazi era. He was a doctrinaire racial ideologue, a long-time associate of Richard Walther Darré and a personal friend of Reinhard Heydrich. He developed and implemented the Hunger Plan that envisioned death by starvation of millions of Slavic and Jewish \"useless eaters\" following Operation Barbarossa, the 1941 invasion of the Soviet Union.\n\nThis plan was developed during the planning phase for the Wehrmacht (German Armed Forces) invasion and provided for diverting of the Ukrainian food stuffs away from central and northern Russia and redirecting them for the benefit of the invading army and the population in Germany. As a result, millions of civilians died in the German-occupied territories. Arrested in 1945 and due to be tried for war crimes at Nuremberg in the Ministries Trial, he committed suicide in prison in 1947.\n\nHerbert Backe was born in Batumi, Georgia, the son of a retired Prussian lieutenant turned trader. His mother was a Caucasus German, whose family had emigrated from Württemberg to Russia in the early 19th century. He studied at the Tbilisi gymnasium (grammar school) from 1905 and was interned on the outbreak of World War I as an enemy alien because he was a citizen of Prussia. This experience of being imprisoned for being German and witnessing the beginning of the Russian Revolution made Backe an anti-communist.\n\nBacke moved to Germany during the Russian Civil War with the help of the Swedish Red Cross. In Germany, he initially worked as a labourer, and enrolled to study Agronomy at the University of Göttingen in 1920. After completing his degree he briefly worked in agriculture and then became an assistant lecturer on agricultural geography at Hanover Technical University. In 1926, he submitted his doctoral dissertation, titled \"The Russian Cereals Economy as the Basis of Russian Agriculture and the Russian Economy\" (), to the University of Göttingen, but it was not accepted. Later, after Germany invaded the Soviet Union, Backe self-published his dissertation with a print run of 10,000 copies.\n\nBacke joined the SA in 1922 and in 1925 in Hanover the Nazi Party. After the dissolution of the regional political unit (Gau) for South-Hanover Backe let his membership expire. [Source: Nach der Auflösung des Gaus Hannover-Süd 1928 ließ Backe seine Mitgliedschaft bis 1931 ruhen].\n\nIn 1927 Backe was inspector and administrator on a big farm in Pommern. In 1928 he was married to Ursula. With financial support of his father-in-law, in November 1928 he became tenant of domain Hornsen, with around 950 acres in the district of Alfeld. He proceeded to lead the farm successfully. Finally, he joined the SS in October 1933. He undertook various duties in the administration of Nazi Germany, succeeding Richard Walther Darré as Minister of Food in May 1942 and becoming Minister of Agriculture in April 1944. Backe was a prominent member of the younger generation of Nazi technocrats who occupied second-tier administrative positions in the Nazi system such as Reinhard Heydrich, Werner Best, and Wilhelm Stuckart. Like Stuckart, who held the real power in the Interior Ministry (officially led by Wilhelm Frick) and Wilhelm Ohnesorge in the Reichspostministry (officially led by the conservative Paul Freiherr von Eltz-Rübenach), Backe was the \"de facto\" Minister of Agriculture under Darré, even before his promotion to that post.\n\nBacke was personally nominated by the Reich Minister for the Occupied Eastern Territories, Alfred Rosenberg, as the Secretary of State (\"Staatssekretär\") of the Reichskommissariat Ukraine where he could implement his strategic policy, the Hunger Plan (\"Der Hungerplan\" also \"Der Backe-Plan\"). The objective of the Hunger Plan was to inflict deliberate mass starvation on the Slavic civilian populations under German occupation by directing all food supplies to the German home population and the Wehrmacht on the Eastern Front. The most important accomplice of Herbert Backe was Hans-Joachim Riecke, who headed the agricultural section of the Economic Staff East. According to the historian Timothy Snyder, as a result of Backe's plan, “4.2 million Soviet citizens (largely Russians, Belarusians, and Ukrainians) were starved by the German occupiers in 1941–1944.”\n\nFrom April to May 1945, Backe continued as Minister of Food in the short-lived post-Hitler Flensburg Government led by Grossadmiral Karl Dönitz.\n\nAfter the German Instrument of Surrender, Backe was ordered by the allies, together with Dorpmüller, to fly to Eisenhower's headquarters in Reims. He was surprised to be arrested; he thought the Americans would need him as an expert to avoid hunger problems. Backe prepared himself for an expected conversation with General Dwight D. Eisenhower. In a letter to his wife on 31 January 1946, he defended national socialism as one of the \"greatest ideas of all times\", which \"found its strongest blow in the national socialist agricultural policy\".\n\nIn allied captivity, Backe was interrogated during the Nuremberg trials of 21 February and 14 March 1947. In his prison cell in the Nuremberg war criminals' prison, Backe wrote two treatises: a so-called big report about his life and his work on National Socialism, and also on 31 January 1946, a testament outline for his wife Ursula and his four children. Because of his fear that he was to be delivered to the Soviet Union, he committed suicide by hanging himself in his prison cell on 6 April 1947.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113200", "title": "There's Always Vanilla", "text": "There's Always Vanilla\n\nThere's Always Vanilla (also known as \"The Affair\") is a 1971 romantic comedy film directed by George A. Romero and starring Raymond Laine, Judith Ridley, Roger McGovern, and Johanna Lawrence. It was Romero's second motion picture and his only romantic comedy.\n\nIt is one of the few Romero films that does not deal with a zombie apocalypse or supernatural horror themes. It was released on DVD from Something Weird Video and in the Anchor Bay Entertainment DVD release of \"Season of the Witch\".\n\nRomero himself has stated that he considers this film to be his worst, and has referred to this film as \"a total mess\". Like many of Romero's earlier films, he cites the reason as undercapitalization.\n\n\"There's Always Vanilla\" follows the life of Chris Bradley (Raymond Laine) a former U.S. Army soldier who has become a drifter and makes money by various means, from pimping to guitar playing. After working with a band in New York City, Chris returns to his home city of Pittsburgh and visits his father who owns and operates a baby food factory. After an evening out with his father of drinking at a local bar, and visiting an old girlfriend named Terri Terrific (Johanna Lawrence), Mr. Bradley wants Chris to abandon his bohemian lifestyle and do what was agreed upon when he separated from the military; return to the family business, but Chris refuses.\n\nAt a local train station, Chris meets Lynn (Judith Ridley; billed as Judith Streiner) a beautiful young woman who works as a model and actress in local TV commercials. Chris charms his way into Lynn's life and moves in with her. At first their relationship is a pleasant escape from daily life, but when Lynn starts to resent supporting the freeloading Chris, she motivates him into getting a steady job. Lynn learns that she's pregnant and, knowing how irresponsible he is, decides to get an abortion without telling Chris.\n\nChris lands a job at a small advertising firm but when he's given an account to advertise enlistments for the U.S. Army, he quits out of his resentment of his military past. Meanwhile, Lynn cannot bring herself to have an abortion, she abandons Chris, and moves in with a high school boyfriend who agrees to marry her and raise the baby as his own.\n\nHis romance with Lynn ruined and his lifestyle destroyed, Chris swallows his pride and moves back in with his father, still unable to decide what to do with his life, but believing he ultimately must accept the old values like his father has. Chris has more encouragement after a talk at dinner at a Howard Johnson's with his father where he tells Chris that life is like an ice cream parlor, and that of all of life's most exotic flavors to choose from, there's always vanilla to fall back on.\n\nThe film's final scene shows a very pregnant Lynn living in a suburban house with her new husband. A large packaged box arrives at their house addressed to Lynn with Chris' home address on it. Upon opening the box on the front lawn of their house as instructed on the box, two helium-filled balloons float out of it and float away into the bright blue sky. On the bottom of the box is a note from Chris addressed to Lynn telling her to always remember the care-free time they had together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113205", "title": "PHPDoc", "text": "PHPDoc\n\nPHPDoc is an adaptation of Javadoc for the PHP programming language. It is still an informal standard for commenting PHP code, but it is in the process of being formalized. It allows external document generators like phpDocumentor, which is the de facto standard implementation, to generate documentation of APIs and helps some IDEs such as Zend Studio, NetBeans, JetBrains PhpStorm, ActiveState Komodo Edit and IDE, PHPEdit and Aptana Studio to interpret variable types and other ambiguities in the loosely typed language and to provide improved code completion, type hinting and debugging.\n\nPHPDoc supports documentation of both object-oriented and procedural code.\n\nOn August 13, 2013 the PHP Framework Interoperability Group began writing a formal specification (PSR) for PHPDoc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113216", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Shrewsbury", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Shrewsbury\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Shrewsbury is a Roman Catholic diocese which encompasses the pre-1974 counties of Shropshire and Cheshire in the North West and West Midlands of England.\n\nThe diocese includes rural areas of Shropshire as well as Manchester south of the River Mersey and other urban areas such as Birkenhead, Stockport and Ellesmere Port. The current bishop, Mark Davies, succeeded on 1 October 2010.\n\nThe diocese comprises the counties of Shropshire and Cheshire and the parts of Greater Manchester and Merseyside which were formerly in Cheshire. Before 1895, it also included North Wales. In 2007, new pastoral areas and regions were created, replacing the former deaneries.\n\n\n\n\nThere are 112 Catholic schools and colleges serving 43,198 pupils.\n\n1) Our Lady, Help of Christians – 24 May2) Saint Winefride – 3 November\n\nOn 1 October 2007, local deaneries were abolished and parishes grouped together to form 'Pastoral Areas', not as a replacement of parishes but to strengthen local Catholic communities, ensuring the sharing of services and groups and to avoid unnecessary duplication. Each LPT (local pastoral team [see below]) has two co-leaders (one priest; one layperson) and each region is headed by a Regional Dean.\n\nRegional Dean: Canon Stephen Coonan\n\nRegional Dean: Fr John Daly\n\nRegional Dean: Fr Russell Cooke\n\nRegional Dean: Fr John Rafferty\n\nRegional Dean: \n\nRegional Dean: Fr Nick Kern\n\nThe first bishop of the diocese was James Brown, president of Sedgeley Park School, who was consecrated 27 July 1851. Out of a total population of 1,082,617, Catholics numbered about 20,000. There were thirty churches and chapels attended by resident priests, and six stations; one convent, that of the Faithful Companions of Jesus, in Birkenhead, to which was attached a boarding school for young ladies, and also a small day-school for poor children. There were Jesuits at Holywell, who also had a college at St. Bruno's, Flintshire, and a Benedictine at Acton Burnell. When Dr. Brown celebrated the jubilee of his consecration, the secular priests had increased to sixty-six and the regulars to thirty-two. Instead of one religious house of men and one of women, there were now four of men and nine of women; and many elementary schools had been provided for the needs of Catholic children.\n\nIn 1852 the bitter feeling caused by the re-establishment of the hierarchy found vent in serious riots at Stockport. On 29 June a large mob attacked the Church of St Philip and St James; they broke the windows and attempted to force in the doors, but before they could effect an entrance, Canon Randolph Frith, the rector, succeeded in removing the Blessed Sacrament, and secreting it with the chalices, etc., in a small cupboard in the side chapel. He was compelled to flee immediately to the belltower, and, whilst the rabble were destroying whatever they could lay their hands upon, he made his escape along the roof, and descended by the spouting at the back of the presbytery. Much of the church furniture, with vestments, etc., was piled up in the street and burned. At St Michael's, the Host was desecrated, and the pyx and ciborium carried away.\n\nAlthough the Catholic population of the diocese was 58,013 (as of the early 20th century), Shropshire contributed under 3,000, partly on account of agricultural depression and the consequent flocking to industrial centres. There were ninety clergy, sixteen convents, representatives of four orders of men, eight secondary schools for girls, an orphanage and industrial school for boys, a home for aged poor, a home for penitents, and an orphanage erected in memory of Bishop Knight. At Oakwood Hall, Romiley, a house of retreats for working-men opened and had done important work; and at New Brighton, the nuns of Our Lady of the Cenacle opened a house of retreats for working-women and ladies.\n\nShropshire is singularly rich in archaeological interest, its pre-Reformation parish churches, the noble ruins of monasteries round the Wrekin, the Roman city of Viroconium (Wroxeter), the lordly castle of Ludlow, giving the county a place apart in the heart of the antiquary. In Shrewsbury itself, where once Grey, Black, and Austin Friars and the Black Monks of St. Benedict had foundations, there is now the cathedral, designed by Edward Pugin. Chester, too, with its streets, black and white houses, and venerable cathedral and city walls, claims the visitor's attention. When the body of Daniel O'Connell was brought back from Genoa, it rested in the old chapel in Queen's Street on its way to Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113218", "title": "Lebanese Forces", "text": "Lebanese Forces\n\nThe Lebanese Forces ( \")\" is a Lebanese Christian based political party and former militia during the Lebanese Civil War. It currently holds fifteen of the 64 Christian seats in Lebanon's parliament and is therefore the second largest Christian party in parliament\n\nThe Lebanese Forces were originally created in 1976 as an umbrella organization co-ordinating all the right-wing party militias of the Lebanese Front, mainly composed of the Kataeb Party. After the assassination of Bachir Gemayel, a few uprisings led to Geagea taking over and dissolving the Lebanese Front. Later developing into a separate organization from those parties in the early 1990s. The party was led by Samir Geagea, former commander-in-chief of the armed organization.\n\nThe organization was created by the Gemayels, Camille Chamoun, and other party leaders during the Lebanese Civil War. It was initially a conglomerate of the various right-wing party militias, placed under the control of a council composed of various party representatives. The Kataeb Regulatory Forces provided the largest share of fighters and the Kataeb had the largest share on the council. Despite its original creation from party militias, the Lebanese Forces accepted new recruits without any specific party allegiance.\n\nThe movement fought as the main Lebanese resistance within the Christian-dominated Lebanese Front.\n\nDuring the civil war, the Lebanese Forces fought different opponents at different times: the Palestinian Liberation Organization, the LNM, the LNRF, the Syrian Army, the Druze-dominated PSP in the Chouf, and the Lebanese Army loyal to General Aoun.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, political friction within the Lebanese Front resulted in growing distance between the Kataeb militants and the rest of the Lebanese Forces. In the end the Lebanese Forces and Kataeb became two separate forces within the Lebanese Front.\n\nAfter the civil war ended, Samir Geagea created the Lebanese Forces Party. In 1994, while Lebanon was under Syrian occupation the party was banned, Geagea imprisoned, and the activities of its militants repressed by the Lebanese services in Lebanon. The Lebanese Forces returned as a political force after the Cedar Revolution in early 2005, which resulted in a withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon. Soon after, Geagea was subsequently released from prison and continues to lead the party today.\n\nThe Lebanese Front was informally organized in January 1976 under the leadership of Bashir's father, Pierre Gemayel and Camille Chamoun. It began as a simple coordination or joint command between the predominantly Christian Kataeb Party/Kataeb Regulatory Forces (KRF), Tyous Team of Commandos (TTC), Ahrar/Tigers Militia, Al-Tanzim, Marada Brigade and Lebanese Renewal Party/Guardians of the Cedars (GoC) parties and their respective military wings. The main reason behind the formation of the Lebanese Front was to strengthen the Christian side against the challenge presented by the Lebanese National Movement (LNM), an umbrella alliance of leftist parties/militias allied with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and Rejectionist Front Palestinian guerrilla factions.\n\nChristian East Beirut was ringed by heavily fortified Palestinian camps from which kidnappings and sniping against Lebanese civilians became a daily routine. Christian East Beirut became besieged by the PLO camps, with severe shortages of food and fuel. This unbearable situation was remedied by the Kataeb Regulatory Forces (most notably the BG Squad that was led by Bachir) and their allied Christian militias as they besieged the Palestinian camps embedded in Christian East Beirut one at a time and brought them down. The first was on 18 January 1976 when the heavily fortified Karantina camp, located near the strategic Beirut Harbor, was invaded: About 1,000 PLO fighters and civilians were killed. The Palestinian PLO and al-Saiqa forces retaliated by attacking the isolated defenseless Christian town of Damour about 20 miles south of Beirut on the coast, during the Damour massacre in which an estimated 150 to 500 Christian civilians were killed and 5,000 were sent fleeing north by boat, since all roads were blocked off. The Maronites retaliated with the invasion of the largest and strongest Palestinian refugee camp, Tel al-Zaatar that same year. Bachir, with his KRF militia units, also fought against the PLO and LNM militias at the Battle of the Hotels in central Beirut. The most important battle won by the Phalange for the control of the hotel district was the fighting over the possession of the Holiday Inn, due to its important strategic location. Before that battle, the Holiday Inn had been occupied by the PLO.\n\nThe Lebanese Forces was soon after established with an agreement that the direct military commander would be a Kataeb member and the vice-commander an Ahrar member.\n\nBachir led his troops in the infamous \"Hundred Days War\" in Lebanon in 1978, in which the Lebanese Forces successfully resisted the Syrian shelling and attacking of Eastern Beirut for about three months before an Arab-brokered agreement forced the Syrians to end the siege. Syrians took high buildings such as Burj Rizk Achrafieh and Burj El Murr using snipers and heavy weapons against civilians. The soldiers stayed for 90 days. Another major clash took place near the Sodeco area in Achrafieh where the Lebanese Forces fought ferociously and led the Syrian army out of the Rizk Building. At this time, Israel was the primary backer of the Lebanese Front’s militia.\n\nIn July 1980, following months of intra-Christian clashes between the Tigers, the militia of Dany, and the Phalangists, who by now were under the complete leadership of Bachir Gemayel, the Phalangists launched an operation in an attempt to stop the clashes within the Christian areas, and to unite all the Christian militias under Gemayel's command. This operation resulted in a massacre of tens of Tigers' members at the Marine beach resort in Safra, 25 km north of Beirut. Camille Chamoun's silence was interpreted as acceptance of Gemayel's controls, because he felt that the Tigers led by his son were getting out of his control.\n\nIn 1981 at Zahlé in the Beqaa, the largest Christian town in the East, confronted one of the biggest battles – both military and political – between the Lebanese Forces and the Syrian occupying forces. The Lebanese Forces was able to confront them even though there was a big mismatch in military capabilities and was able to reverse the result of the battle of 1981. This victory was due to the bravery of the inhabitants and 92 Lebanese Forces soldiers (L.F Special Forces: The Maghaweer) sent from Beirut. The Syrian occupying forces used all kind of weapons (heavy artillery, tanks, war planes…) against a peaceful town, and they cut all kind of backup that may come from the Mountain. Regardless of the very bad weather and heavy bombing, convoys were sent in the snow to Zahle. Two Lebanese Forces soldiers died on a hill due to bad weather, they were found later holding each other… till they died. The battle of Zahle gave the Lebanese Cause a new perspective in the International Communities, and the victory was both military and diplomatic. It made the Leadership of President Bashir Gemayel much stronger because of his leadership and important role in this battle. The battle started in April the 2nd 1981, and finished with a cease fire and Lebanese Police were sent to Zahle. The 92 Lebanese Forces heroes returned to Beirut on 1 July 1981.\n\nChristian East Beirut was ringed by heavily fortified Palestinian camps from which kidnappings and sniping against Lebanese civilians became a daily routine. Christian East Beirut became besieged by the PLO camps, with severe shortages of food and fuel. This unbearable situation was remedied by the Kataeb Regulatory Forces (most notably the BG Squad that was led by Bachir) and their allied Christian militias as they besieged the Palestinian camps embedded in Christian East Beirut one at a time and brought them down. The first was on 18 January 1976 when the heavily fortified Karantina camp, located near the strategic Beirut Harbor, was invaded: About 1,000 PLO fighters and civilians were killed. The Palestinian PLO and al-Saiqa forces retaliated by attacking the isolated defenseless Christian town of Damour about 20 miles south of Beirut on the coast, during the Damour massacre in which 1,000 Christian civilians were killed and 5,000 were sent fleeing north by boat, since all roads were blocked off. The Maronites retaliated with the invasion of the largest and strongest Palestinian refugee camp, Tel al-Zaatar that same year. Bachir, with his KRF militia units, also fought against the PLO and LNM militias at the Battle of the Hotels in central Beirut. The most important battle won by the Phalange for the control of the hotel district was the fighting over the possession of the Holiday Inn, due to its important strategic location. Before that battle, the Holiday Inn had been occupied by the PLO. Eventually the PLO ended up occupying the Holliday Inn once again, while the Kataeb forces retreated to the facing Hilton Hotel in what was known as the \"Hotel War\".\n\nThe Lebanese Forces was soon after established with an agreement that the direct military commander would be a Kataeb member and the vice-commander an Ahrar member.\n\nBachir led his troops in the infamous \"Hundred Days War\" in Lebanon in 1978, in which the Lebanese Forces successfully resisted the Syrian shelling and attacking of Eastern Beirut for about three months before an Arab-brokered agreement forced the Syrians to end the siege. Syrians took high buildings such as Burj Rizk Achrafieh and Burj El Murr using snipers and heavy weapons against civilians. The soldiers stayed for 90 days. Another major clash took place near the Sodeco area in Achrafieh where the Lebanese Forces fought ferociously and led the Syrian army out of the Rizk Building. At this time, Israel was the primary backer of the Lebanese Front’s militia.\n\nIn July 1980, following months of intra-Christian clashes between the Tigers, the militia of Dany, and the Phalangists, who by now were under the complete leadership of Bachir Gemayel, the Phalangists launched an operation in an attempt to stop the clashes within the Christian areas, and to unite all the Christian militias under Gemayel's command. This operation resulted in a massacre of tens of Tigers' members at the Marine beach resort in Safra, 25 km north of Beirut. Camille Chamoun's silence was interpreted as acceptance of Gemayel's controls.\n\nIn 1981 at Zahlé in the Beqaa, the largest Christian town in the East, confronted one of the biggest battles – both military and political – between the Lebanese Forces and the Syrian occupying forces. The Lebanese Forces was able to confront them even though there was a big mismatch in military capabilities and was able to reverse the result of the battle of 1981. This victory was due to the bravery of the inhabitants and 92 Lebanese Forces soldiers (L.F Special Forces: The Maghaweer) sent from Beirut. The Syrian occupying forces used all kind of weapons (heavy artillery, tanks, war planes…) against a peaceful town, and they cut all kind of backup that may come from the Mountain. Regardless of the very bad weather and heavy bombing, convoys were sent in the snow to Zahle. Two Lebanese Forces soldiers died on a hill due to bad weather and were found later holding each other. The battle of Zahle gave the Lebanese Cause a new perspective in the International Communities, and the victory was both military and diplomatic. It made the Leadership of President Bashir Gemayel much stronger because of his leadership and important role in this battle. The battle started in April the 2nd 1981, and finished with a cease fire and Lebanese Police were sent to Zahle. The 92 Lebanese Forces heroes returned to Beirut on 1 July 1981.\n\nIn 1982, Bachir met with Hani Al-Hassan (representative of the PLO) and told him that Israel would enter and wipe them out. Bachir told him to leave Lebanon peacefully before it was too late. Hani left and no reply was given to Bachir.\n\nIsrael invaded Lebanon, arguing that a military intervention was necessary to root out PLO guerrillas from the southern part of the country. Israeli forces eventually moved towards Beirut and laid siege to the city, aiming to reshape the Lebanese political landscape and force the PLO out of Lebanon. By 1982, Israel had been the main supplier to the Lebanese Forces, giving them assistance in weapons, clothing, and training.\n\nAn official Israeli inquiry into events in Beirut estimated that when fully mobilized the Phalange had 5000 fighters of whom 2000 were full-time.\n\nAfter the PLO had been expelled from the country to Tunisia, in a negotiated agreement, Bachir Gemayel became the youngest man to ever be elected as president of Lebanon. He was elected by the parliament in August; most Muslim members of parliament boycotted the vote.\n\nOn 3 September 1982, during the meeting, Begin demanded that Bachir sign a peace treaty with Israel as soon as he took office in return of Israel's earlier support of Lebanese Forces and he also told Bachir that the IDF will stay in South Lebanon if the Peace Treaty was not directly signed. Bachir was furious at Begin and told him that the Lebanese Forces did not fight for seven years and that they did not sacrifice thousands of soldiers to free Lebanon from the Syrian Army and the PLO so that Israel can take their place. The meeting ended in rage and both sides were not happy with each other.\n\nBegin was reportedly angry at Bachir for his public denial of Israel's support. Bachir refused the immediate peace arguing that time is needed to reach consensus with Lebanese Muslims and the Arab nations. Bachir was quoted telling David Kimche, the director general of the Israeli Foreign Ministry, few days earlier, \"Please tell your people to be patient. I am committed to make peace with Israel, and I shall do it. But I need time - nine months, maximum one year. I need to mend my fences with the Arab countries, especially with Saudi Arabia, so that Lebanon can once again play its central role in the economy of the Middle East.\"\n\nIn an attempt to fix the relations between Bachir and Begin, Ariel Sharon met secretly with Bachir in Bikfaya. In this meeting, they both agreed that, after 48 hours, the IDF will cooperate with the Lebanese Army to force the Syrian Army out of Lebanon. After that is done, the IDF would peacefully leave the Lebanese territory. Concerning the Peace Negotiation, Sharon agreed to give Bachir time to fix the internal conflicts before signing the negotiation. The next day, Begin's office issued a statement saying that the issues agreed upon between Bachir and Sharon were accepted.\n\nNine days before he was to take office, on 14 September 1982, Bachir was killed along with 25 others in a bomb explosion in the Kataeb headquarters in Achrafieh. The attack was carried out by Habib Shartouni, a member of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party (SSNP), believed by many to have acted on instructions of the Syrian government of President Hafez al-Assad. The next day, Israel moved to occupy the city, allowing Phalangist members under Elie Hobeika's command to enter the centrally located Sabra and the Shatila refugee camp; a massacre followed, in which Phalangists killed between 762-3,500 (number is disputed) civilians, mostly Palestinians and Lebanese Shiites, causing great international uproar. Many cite the massacre as revenge for the killing of Bachir Gemayel and the countless massacres committed by the PLO against the Christian civilian population since 1975.\n\nAfter the Israeli invasion, the IDF troops settled in the Chouf and Aley from party militias, the Lebanese Forces returned to the villages which had been occupied by the PSP for seven years. However, soon after, clashes broke out between the Lebanese Forces and the Druze militias who had now taken over the districts. The main Druze militiamen came from the Progressive Socialist Party, led by Walid Jumblatt, in alliance with the Syrian Army and Palestinian militants. For months, the two fought what would later be known as the \"Mountain War\", resulting in a large PSP victory.\nAt the same time, the Lebanese Forces troops also fought battles against the Palestinian and Druze militias and the Syrian troop east of the southern city of Sidon. The outcome was also a Progressive Socialist Party victory and a contiguous Druze Chouf district with access to Lebanese sea ports. \nLater in 1984, the PSP won decisive battles against the Lebanese Army in the Chahar region in the Aley District.\nThe PSP then attacked further into Souk El Gharb, a village held by the Lebanese Army's 8th Mechanised Infantry Brigade commanded by then Colonel Michel Aoun. The attackers were fiercely pushed back as the American helped Aoun by bombing the PSP from their navy.\n\nAfter the death of Bachir, his brother Amine Gemayel replaced him as President, and his cousin, Fadi Frem as commander of the Lebanese Forces. The two had a frosty relationship, and in 1984, pressure from Amine led to Frem's replacement by Fouad Abou Nader.\n\nOn 12 March 1985, Samir Geagea, Elie Hobeika and Karim Pakradouni rebelled against Abou Nader's command, ostensibly to take the Lebanese Forces back to its original path. The relationship between Geagea and Hobeika soon broke down, however, and Hobeika began secret negotiations with the Syrians. On 28 December 1985, he signed the Tripartite Accord, against the wishes of Geagea and most of the other leading Christian figures. Claiming that the Tripartite Accord gave Syria unlimited power in Lebanon, Geagea mobilized factions inside the Lebanese Forces and on 15 January 1986, attacked Hobeika's headquarters in Karantina. Hobeika surrendered and fled, first to Paris and subsequently to Damascus, Syria. He then moved to Zahlé with tens of his fighters where he prepared for an attack against East Beirut. On 27 September 1986, Hobeika's forces tried to take over the Achrafieh neighborhood of Beirut but the Lebanese Forces of Geagea's command held them back.\n\nThis failed attempt by Hobeika was the last episode of internal struggles in East Beirut during Amine Gemayel's mandate. As a result, the Lebanese Forces led by Geagea were the only major force on ground. During two years of frail peace, Geagea launched a drive to re-equip and reorganize the Lebanese Forces. He also instituted a social welfare program in areas controlled by Geagea's party. The Lebanese Forces also cut its relations with Israel and emphasized relations with the Arab states, mainly Iraq but also Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Egypt.\n\nTwo rival governments contended for recognition following Amine Gemayel's departure from the Presidency in September 1988, one a mainly Christian government and the other a government of Muslims and Lebanese Leftists. The Lebanese Forces initially supported the military Christian government led by General Michel Aoun, the commander of the Lebanese Army. However, clashes erupted between the Lebanese Forces and the Lebanese Army under the control of Michel Aoun on 14 February 1989. These clashes were stopped, and after a meeting in Bkerké, the Lebanese Forces handed the national ports which it controlled to Aoun's government under pressure from the Lebanese National army. \n\nThe Lebanese Forces initially supported Aoun's \"Liberation War\" against the Syrian army, but then agreed to the Taif Agreement, which was signed by the Lebanese deputies on 24 October 1989 in Saudi Arabia and demanded an immediate ceasefire. Aoun's main objection to the Taif Agreement was its vagueness as to Syrian withdrawal from the country. He rejected it vowing that he \"would not sign over the country\". Fierce fighting in East Beirut broke out between the Lebanese Forces and the Lebanese Army under Michel Aoun after the Lebanese Army, under orders of Michel Aoun, began stopping and arresting members of the Lebanese Forces. These events led to the \"Elimination War\" on 31 January 1990. The war continued until the defeat and exile of Aoun to France in August 1990. During the war, the Lebanese Forces made major strides and victories including the capture of many of the army's encampments, barracks, and units.\n\nAfter Aoun surrendered on 13 October 1990 to the rival Syrian-backed President Hrawi, Geagea was offered ministerial posts in the new government. He refused several times, because he was opposed to Syrian interference in Lebanese affairs, and his relationship with the new government deteriorated.\nOn 23 March 1994, the Lebanese government headed by Rafic Hariri ordered the dissolution of the Lebanese Forces. On 21 April 1994, Geagea was arrested on charges of setting a bomb in the church in Zouk, of instigating acts of violence, and of committing assassinations during the Lebanese Civil War. Although he was acquitted of the first charge, Geagea was subsequently arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment on several different counts, including the assassination of former Prime Minister Rashid Karami in 1987. He was incarcerated in solitary confinement, with his access to the outside world severely restricted. Amnesty International criticized the conduct of the trials and demanded Geagea's release, and Geagea's supporters argued that the Syrian-controlled Lebanese government had used the alleged crimes as a pretext for jailing Geagea and banning an anti-Syrian party.\nMany members of the Lebanese Forces were arrested and brutally tortured in the period of 1993–1994. At least one died in Syrian custody and many others were severely injured.\n\nIn 1998, a group of ex-military persons in the Lebanese Forces, was alleged to have conducted military operation against the Syrian military intelligence in Lebanon. The group was mainly formed of elites Lebanese Forces called SADEM, On 19 June 1998, a failed operation revealed the identity of some persons of this group, one of which was a Lebanese Army Captain, Camille Yared. Some other names published in the newspapers then were:\n\nThe Lebanese Forces was an active participant in the Cedar Revolution of 2005, when popular protests and international pressure following the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri combined to force Syria out of Lebanon. In the subsequent parliamentary election held in May and June, the Lebanese Forces formed part of the Rafik Hariri Martyr List, which also included the Future Movement, Popular Socialist Party, the reformed Phalange party, and other anti-Syrian political groups, as well as a brief tactical alliance with Amal and Hezbollah. The tactical alliance with Hizbollah and Amal would soon end; these majority parties and movements would subsequently form the anti-Syrian March 14 Alliance, which stood opposed to the March 8 Coalition backed by Hizbullah, Amal and the Free Patriotic Movement led by General Michel Aoun who had returned to Lebanon. The Lebanese Forces were able to win 6 out of the 8 MPs that were nominated throughout the various regions of the country. Nevertheless, the elections proved to be very significant because for the first time, supporters of the party were freely able to participate in the election process.\n\nFollowing the party's new political gains, Samir Geagea was freed on 18 July 2005, after parliament decided to amend all the charges he formerly faced. Since Geagea's release from prison, the Lebanese Forces have been rebuilding much of their former image. Some of these works include reorganizing its members and their families, reopening political facilities, and reestablishing their main presence among the Christians of Lebanon. In addition to rebuilding their image, the Lebanese Forces have also been attempting to reclaim former privately funded facilities, which were seized by the Syrian backed government. Currently, the Lebanese Forces have also been striving to reclaim their rights to the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation, which was initiated by the party in the mid-1980s.\nSince the emancipation of the party's main leader, Samir Geagea, the party has gained new popularity among the Christian population throughout all of Lebanon. In addition, the Lebanese Forces have also been able to attain a great deal of popularity amongst the younger generation, as evidenced by the annual student elections in Lebanese colleges. The Lebanese Forces, along with their other 14 March allies, made additional gains in the elections geared towards the professional bodies of engineers, doctors, lawyers, and even teachers.\n\nThe Lebanese Forces held 8 out of the 128 seats of the Lebanese Parliament after the general elections of 2009, and were represented in the Siniora government, formed in July 2005, by the minister of tourism Joseph Sarkis, and then in the second Siniora government, formed in July 2008, by the minister of justice Ibrahim Najjar and the minister of environment Antoine Karam. They are a Christian party within the March 14 Bloc, an anti-Syrian movement.\n\nThe Lebanese Forces and its main political representatives strive to re-establish the many Christian rights, which were significantly lessened during Syria's occupation of Lebanon, specifically from 1990 to 2005. Some of the Lebanese Force's other main objectives include formulating a just electoral law, which would enable the Christian population to be represented fairly in local and parliamentary elections. The party has also stressed the idea of reaffirming the powers formerly endowed to the Lebanese president before being lessened in the Taef Agreement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113230", "title": "Culture of the Isle of Wight", "text": "Culture of the Isle of Wight\n\nAs an island, the Isle of Wight maintains a culture close to, but distinct from, that of the south of England. A high proportion of the population are now 'overners' rather than locally born, and so with a few notable exceptions it has more often formed the backdrop for cultural events of wider rather than island-specific significance.\n\nThe Island has inspired many creative works. Local people often seek to defend their real or perceived culture, and local politics is often dictated by a desire to preserve the traditions and habits of the Island.\n\nThe first creative flowering occurred during the reign of Queen Victoria, under whose patronage the island became a fashionable destination for the gentry.\n\nAlfred, Lord Tennyson was made Baron Tennyson, of Aldworth in the County of Sussex and of Freshwater on the Isle of Wight by Queen Victoria in 1884.\n\nThe poet Algernon Charles Swinburne grew up at Bonchurch, and said in a letter that he had climbed Culver Cliff at 17. He is buried at Bonchurch.\n\nThe author Maxwell Gray (Mary Gleed Tuttiett) was born in Newport, and a number of her novels, including the best-known, \"The Silence of Dean Maitland\", are set on the island.\n\nThe isle has been the setting for several novels, including Julian Barnes's utopian novel \"England, England\", and detective thrillers such as \"The Fallen\" by Robert Rennick. It also features in John Wyndham's novel \"The Day of the Triffids\" and Simon Clark's sequel \"The Night of the Triffids\".\n\nThe Iranian-born poet Mimi Khalvati was educated at Upper Chine School in Shanklin; many of her poems are about the island, especially in the book \"The Chine\".\n\nSandown-based author Edward Upward sets part of his book \"In the Thirties\" on the Isle of Wight.\n\nThe 1973 film \"That'll Be the Day\", starring David Essex, Rosemary Leach and Ringo Starr, was filmed on the island, at Sandown High School, Shanklin beach and Wroxall.\n\nThe 2005 film \"Fragile\" was filmed almost entirely on the Isle of Wight, with the exception of a few exterior shots. Prominent locations featured in the film include Ryde's Union Street, the Military Road at Compton Bay, Ryde Pier and Red Funnel's Red Osprey car ferry.\n\nThe \"Isle of Wight School\" of Romantic painters specialised in views of the South West Coast; prominent were George Morland and J.M.W. Turner.\n\nJulia Margaret Cameron was a prominent early photographer, who has a museum dedicated to her at Dimbola Lodge in Freshwater. She specialised in portraits of the celebrities who visited her neighbour Lord Tennyson.\n\nBeken of Cowes, established in 1888 by pharmacist Alfred Edward Beken, pioneered yachting photography and is a leading British marine photography company.\n\nThe Isle of Wight accent is a somewhat weaker version of the traditional South West dialect, featuring the dropping of some consonants and emphasis on the longer vowels. The spread of estuary English and received 'BBC' pronunciation, together with continuing immigration to the island, means the broader accent is now commonly heard only from the older population. The slower, more pronounced, speech means that while the dropping of consonants or use of glottal stops is heard, it is not to the same extent as in Cockney. Additionally, consonants may be lengthened, such as \"r\" in \"hovercraft\", or changed to emphasise a word such as the \"g\" in \"something\" being pronounced as a \"k\". \n\nThe island also has a few surviving dialect words. Some, such as \"grockel\" (visitor/tourist) and \"nipper/nips\" (referring to a younger person) are shared with neighbouring regions. Others are unique: \"mallishag\" (meaning caterpillar), \"nammit\" (meaning food, usually lunch or snack) from \"no meat\", and \"nutten\" meaning \"donkey\". The word \"gurt\" is usually given the meaning \"great\" but is used as an emphasiser. Such terms are contained in a pamphlet aimed at tourists, which is an excerpt from W.H.Long's 19th century \"An Isle of Wight Dictionary\"; even as this was being written, many such terms were becoming archaic. \n\nThe island was one of the first British regions to get a community television station, with TV 12. In October 2002 the Restricted Service Licence (RSL) for the Isle of Wight (Rowridge transmitter) was awarded to a new not-for-profit local television station, Solent TV, which was the first not-for-profit community television station in the UK. It went into receivership in 2007.\n\nResidents of the Island tend to be community minded, and it is an oft-quoted statistic that 92% of islanders read the local newspaper 'the Isle of Wight County Press' , which is published most Fridays. In the early nineties a local radio station, Isle of Wight Radio , commenced broadcasting on 1242 medium wave, later moving to 107 and 102 FM. This is now also available via the internet, along with social media such as Island Pulse.\n\nMany events take place each year across the island, all designed to appeal to different groups of people. Many of these take place in the summer, and so attract many tourists visiting the island. A few notable examples include:\n\nMarmotinto is the art of creating pictures using coloured sand or marble dust. It was first popularised in England at a dinner party given by George III who was taken with a display arranged under glass at his dinner table by a Bavarian named Benjamin Zobel (Memmingen, Germany, 21 September 1762 - London, England, 24 October 1830), a friend of George Morland, a painter prominent in the \"Isle of Wight School\" . It became popular in Victorian times as the tourist industry began and Alum Bay and Totland were briefly developed as a tourist destination for steamers. There are fine examples at Osborne House.\n\nAlthough marmotinto with marble and other coloured dust was known in Italy and elsewhere on the continent, marmotinto with coloured sand is an art form possibly unique to the Isle of Wight, due to the availability of the raw materials and to the inherent limitations of the art form.\n\nThe Bees (UK band) are a local band who have recently met with some national success.\n\nThe band Level 42 are from Gurnard.\n\nThe Island has a full symphony orchestra, and well as several brass bands, swing and jazz groups.\n\nSinger-songwriter Robyn Hitchcock lived on the island in the late 20th century, and occasionally refers to local geography or uses Wight-specific terms in his lyrics (the song \"Let's Go Thundering\" refers to \"sliding down a mossy chine\", for example).\n\nLocal skateboarding team 'Wight Trash' and its associated retail brand was launched with the help of Inbiz and a Prince's Trust loan in April 2004. They have featured in skateboarding videos and events.\n\nThe Isle of Wight has traditionally seen as a place for retirees and holiday makers. The Beatles song \"When I'm Sixty-Four\" mentions 'every summer we could rent a cottage on the Isle of Wight'.\n\nThis non-threatening image is also used to comic effect by the Monty Python team in their 1976 sketch \"Mr Neutron\":\n\nToday the island maintains this image, while also being seen nationally as a destination for the 'sea and sandcastles' style of family holiday. In an episode of the TV panel game QI, Alan Davies described the Isle of Wight as still stuck in the 1950s.\n\nThe Isle of Wight has an active branch of the Pagan Federation (many of whom style themselves as \"Druids\"), and amongst the inmates incarcerated inside Parkhurst Prison paganism makes up the third most popular religion, according to the Isle of Wight County Press.\n\nThe Isle of Wight was the last area of English paganism until 686CE when, according to Bede, Cædwalla of Wessex conquered the island, killing its inhabitants and installing Christians in their place. A \"sheela-na-gig\" is preserved in the gateway to Holy Cross Church in Binstead.\n\nHistorically several women were alleged to be witches (such as the nineteenth-century Bembridge woman Molly Downer), although not apparently persecuted.\nThis seems to have been a psychiatric matter rather than religious.\n\nThe Isle of Wight has many Morris sides, the newest being a mixed-sex side - Guith Morris (Guith being the name of the Island pre Roman/Saxon times); The Men of Wight, a traditional side; Bloodstone Border Morris, who are a mixed-sex border style side, named after Bloodstone Copse on the Island; The Wight Bells, an all women group established over 10 years; The Oyster Girls, who dance wearing clogs; Mr Baker's Dozen, a traditional English side; The Island Cloggies, an all female group.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113235", "title": "Berhtwald", "text": "Berhtwald\n\nBerhtwald (died 731) was the ninth Archbishop of Canterbury in England. Documentary evidence names Berhtwald as abbot at Reculver before his election as archbishop. Berhtwald begins the first continuous series of native-born Archbishops of Canterbury, although there had been previous Anglo-Saxon archbishops, they had not succeeded each other until Berhtwald's reign.\n\nBerhtwald's period as archbishop coincided with the end of Wilfrid's long struggle to regain the Bishopric of York, and the two-year delay between Theodore's death and Berhtwald's election may have been due to efforts to select Wilfrid for Canterbury. After his election, Berhtwald went to Gaul for consecration and then presided over two councils that attempted to settle the Wilfrid issue, finally succeeding at the second council in 705. Berhtwald also was the recipient of the first surviving letter close in Western Europe.\n\nLittle is known of Berhtwald's ancestry or his early life, but he was born around the middle of the seventh century. By 679, he was made abbot of the monastery at Reculver in Kent, and a charter dated May 679 names Berhtwald as abbot. This charter, from Hlothere, King of Kent, is the earliest surviving original Anglo-Saxon charter.\n\nThe see of Canterbury was vacant for two years after the death of Theodore before Berhtwald was elected to the office on 1 July 692. The long vacancy resulted from the disturbed conditions in the kingdom of Kent at the time, as various kings fought for control. The succession to the kingdom was disputed between rival claimants Oswine and Wihtred, and various outside kings, including Caedwalla and Swaefheard raided and plundered Kent. Eventually, Wihtred secured the throne, around 691 or early 692, as Bede names Wihtred as King of Kent, along with Swaefheard, at the time of Berhtwald's election. Swaerfheard, however, is not named as king of Kent after this date.\n\nThe vacancy may also have occurred because Wilfrid, who was at that point having problems in Northumbria, desired to become Archbishop of Canterbury. A contemporary biographer of Wilfrid, Stephen of Ripon, says that Theodore had wished for Wilfrid to succeed Theodore at Canterbury. Æthelred of Mercia may have supported Wilfrid's translation to Canterbury also, but despite these desires, the translation did not happen. Berhtwald was consecrated on 29 June 693, having travelled to France for his consecration as archbishop of Canterbury by Godwin, Archbishop of Lyon. Berhtwald went to the continent for consecration probably because he feared that his election was not supported by all of the kings and bishops. After his consecration, Berhtwald travelled to Rome to obtain the support of Pope Sergius I, who wrote to a number of Anglo-Saxon kings and bishops in support of the archbishop. Two of these letters survive, and their authenticity has been doubted, mainly because they are only preserved as part of the post-Norman Conquest Canterbury-York dispute. Historians have since come to regard the two letters as genuine. Sergius also gave Berhtwald a pallium, the symbol of an archbishop's authority.\n\nBerhtwald appears to have been involved in the governance of the church, establishing the bishopric of Sherborne in Wessex and it was during his tenure that Sussex, the last pagan kingdom in England, was converted to Christianity. He also consecrated the first Bishop of Selsey. During his time in office, King Wihtred of Kent in the Law of Wihtred exempted the church from taxation. Berhtwald was a proponent of his predecessor's view of the archbishops of Canterbury as primates of the entire island of Britain. Berhtwald co-operated closely with Wihtred in the kingdom, and secured the exemption of the church from taxation under Wihtred's laws issued in 695. The law code also dealt with other ecclesiastical matters, including marriage, Sunday observance, and pagan worship. This law code resulted from a royal council that was held at Bearsted. Further privileges for the church were issued in 699, and may have been composed by Berhtwald before being promulgated. Another privilege, usually referred to as the \"Privilege of Wihtred\", is claimed to be a grant from Wihtred to the monasteries of Kent of exemption from non-clerical control. However, this is actually a ninth-century forgery.\n\nMuch of Berhtwald's time in office coincided with the efforts of Wilfrid to regain the see of York, and to reverse the division of York into smaller dioceses. Berhtwald was opposed to Wilfrid's desire to restore some separated bishoprics to the bishopric of York as well as regaining his old see. Wilfrid's problems had begun during the archbishopric of Berhtwald's predecessor, Theodore of Tarsus, when Wilfrid had quarreled with the King of Northumbria, Ecgfrith, and was expelled from the north. Theodore had taken the opportunity to divide the large see of York into a number of smaller dioceses, and Wilfrid had appealed to the papacy in Rome. Berhtwald inherited the dispute and presided at the Council of Austerfield in 702, at which Wilfrid's biographer relates the story that King Aldfrith of Northumbria, Berhtwald, and the other enemies of Wilfrid conspired to deprive Wilfrid of all his offices and possessions. A more likely story is that Berhtwald managed to secure concessions from the Northumbrians, and tried to broker a compromise. The offer in the end was that Wilfrid would retire to Ripon and cease acting as a bishop. Wilfrid rejected this compromise and once more appealed to the pope. Three years later, at a further Council, it was arranged that Wilfrid should receive the Bishopric of Hexham in place of that of York. This was the Council of Nidd, usually dated to 706, and it was held in Northumbria. Bede also mentions that Berhtwald consecrated a number of bishops, including Tobias as Bishop of Rochester.\n\nOne of Berhtwald's letters has been preserved, sent to Forthhere, Bishop of Sherborne, and asking Forthhere to intercede with Beorwold, the Abbot of Glastonbury, to ransom a slave. Another letter, this one addressed to Berhtwald, from Waldhere, Bishop of London, also survives. The main interest in the second letter is that it is the oldest surviving letter close surviving in Western Europe. This second letter also relates that Waldhere and Berhtwald had attended a synod which can be dated to sometime between 703 and 705, where the kingdom of Wessex was threatened with excommunication. A charter witnessed by Berhtwald which mentions a supposed 706 council, numbered 54 by Sawyer, is now known to be a fake, although the witness list may be based on a legitimate 8th century charter that no longer survives. Likewise, a charter with Berhtwald as a witness and relating to the 716 Council of Clofesho is also known to be a 9th-century forgery, although again it may have been based on actual documents from the council.\n\nBerhtwald died on 13 January 731. An epitaph to him in verse survives, and may have been placed over his tomb, which was at Canterbury. Subsequently he was canonised with a feast day of 9 January. Little evidence of extensive cult activity exists, however, and the main evidence for his sainthood is a late medieval entry in a St Augustine's calendar. Berhtwald is the first of the continuous series of native-born archbishops in England, although there had been two previous Anglo-Saxon archbishops at Canterbury—Deusdedit and Wighard.\n"}
{"id": "2113241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113241", "title": "NWA North American Heavyweight Championship", "text": "NWA North American Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe NWA North American Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship created by the National Wrestling Alliance that was created in 1994 after World Championship Wrestling withdrew from the NWA. There were various regional version of the North American title before the creation of this all-NWA recognised North American championship. From 1998 to 2000, the title was the major championship in Music City Wrestling.\n\nSince 1994, there have been forty five total championship reigns. Greg Valentine was the inaugural champion. The record for most reigns is held by Mike Rapada, who won the title five times. The record for longest reign is held by JT Wolfen, who held the belt for 742 days.\n\nThe title is currently retired.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113244", "title": "Gisha", "text": "Gisha\n\nGuisha (Persian language: گیشا, also called Kuy-e Nasr کوی نصر), originally Kisha (from the names of its two founders, Keynejad and Shapourian) is a neighbourhood in Tehran, Iran. The neighborhood was known as a center for youth recreation, shopping, and dating. Guisha is home to the marketplace, Bazzar e Nasr (بازار نصر).\nIranian Bank of Agriculture is also headquartered in Guisha.\n"}
{"id": "2113253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113253", "title": "Kistokaj", "text": "Kistokaj\n\nKistokaj is a village in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Hungary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113261", "title": "Mithur", "text": "Mithur\n\nMithur (Idkidu) is a village in Bantwal Taluk, in the Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka, India. Many Muslims live here. The Mangalore-Puttur highway passes through the village.\n"}
{"id": "2113262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113262", "title": "Body powder", "text": "Body powder\n\nBody powder is the generic name for alternatives to talcum powder. It is usually made from a combination of tapioca flour, rice flour, cornstarch, kaolin, arrowroot powder, and/or orrisroot powder, but also other powders may be used. In addition, water absorbing and water binding agents may be added such as polyacrylamide.\n"}
{"id": "2113270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113270", "title": "Frimley Green", "text": "Frimley Green\n\nFrimley Green is a suburban village of with ward status in the English county of Surrey, that has lakes in its south-west which border Hampshire and which has the Lakeside Country Club, the national venue for the BDO international darts competition. It is south of the town of Frimley which separates it from the largest town in Surrey Heath, Camberley. The county town, Guildford, is east south-east.\n\nThe land slopes down from Deepcut, partly on the Chobham Ridges to the east, to the River Blackwater which is preceded by the large lakes and small woods in the south-west of the ward which form the boundary with Hampshire. Most of the woods and lakes are sectioned off by the Ascot to Guildford Line, the only railway within its bounds, which at the next station south merges into the Alton Line from London to Alton, Hampshire then becomes part of the North Downs Line.\n\nFrimley Green, as with many British villages bearing the word green, is named after a central village green. The Basingstoke Canal runs alongside the park in the south and has a traditional wharf and inn here. Frimley Green's main green spaces comprise large playing fields, a wooded area with an activity trail and a miniature railway.\n\nFrimley Lodge Park consisting of wide-ranging recreational areas is between the developed south-centre of Frimley Green and Mytchett.\n\nThe nearest railway station is Frimley which is linked to Ash Vale. Otherwise in neighbouring settlements are Farnborough North on the North Downs Line and Farnborough (Main) (on the South Western Main Line from Southampton to London Waterloo which marks the southern border). Stagecoach South bus services connect the village to Farnborough (and to Camberley, which is also served as the next station north of Frimley by rail).\n\nMain schools are Frimley Church of England School and Cross Farm Infant School.\n\nThe main road connecting the area inter-regionally is the M3 motorway, centred to the north, which has a junction near to its closest point.\n\nFrimley was a chapelry of Ash which local nobles had established as a manor from 1277. Henry Elliot Malden in the Victoria County History (1911–12) believes Frimley manor may have been the land in Ash purchased by Bartholomew de Winton, Abbot of Chertsey Abbey in 1277, from a Sir Walter Raleigh (not his more famous explorer namesake). Henry VIII granted it to Sir John White of Aldershot. James Tichborne, sold the remaining land, chiefly the manor house to Mr. Tekel(l) and by 1911 the land had virtually all been subdivided.\n\nFrimley Green gained, from its mother area, Frimley, half of a formal identity in 1889, when its first church was built, replaced in 1912. This remains joined with Mytchett in providing a choice of services, offered by the Church of England.\nCatering to an expanded late 20th century population across the west of the district, in 1969 a Roman Catholic church was built just across the border in Frimley to the north and Frimley Park Hospital was built in 1974 in Frimley.\n\nLakeside Country Club is in the north of the village, and has hosted the British Darts Organisation’s (BDO) World Professional Darts Championship each January since 1986. This annual event is broadcast on Eurosport in the UK.\n\nFrimley Green F.C. are the local football team, and play in the Premier Division of the Combined Counties Football League.\n\nThe area of the ward is . At the United Kingdom Census 2011 its population had risen from 5,639 (ten years before) to 5,717. As to households there were 2,266, owned by 47.1% of people on a loan and 35.2% outright. Greater than the national and local averages, 55.2% of the population described their health as very good.\n\nThe ward was created on the establishment of a council in 1965.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113274", "title": "Mark A. Gabriel", "text": "Mark A. Gabriel\n\nMark A. Gabriel, is a lecturer and writer on Islam who lives in the United States. He is the author of five books critical of salafi Islam, including \"Islam and Terrorism\", \"Islam and the Jews\", and \"Journey into the Mind of an Islamic Terrorist\".\n\nIn his first book written in 1997, \"Against the Tides in the Middle East: The true story of Mustafa, former teacher of Islamic history\" Gabriel tells of his birth on 30 December 1957 to Muslim parents in Upper Egypt. He explains that his birth name was Mustafa. His parents, wealthy owners of a clothing factory, as well as his six brothers and one sister, were all devout Muslims. He describes himself as a Muslim by birth who taught at professor of Islamic history at Cairo's Al-Azhar University in Cairo, Egypt before converting to evangelical Christianity at the age of 34. In an long interview in Tulsa World, Gabriel claims to have fled Egypt after his own father threatened to have him killed for converting to Christianity, and to have lived in South Africa before moving to the United States in 1999.\n\nMustafa subsequently changed his name, taking the Christian name of Mark Gabriel. He claims to be unable to use his birth name because of fear of assassination by Islamic extremists.\n\nBaylor University professor Thomas S. Kidd, situates Gabriel in the context of a series of converts from Islam to Christianity whose books and speeches have attracted attention among \"conservative American Protestants.\" These include Ergun and Emir Safa, authors of \"Unveiling Islam: An Insider's Look at Muslim Life and Beliefs\"; Pastor Reza Safa, an Iranian-born former Shi'a Muslim and author of \"Inside Islam; Exposing and Reaching the World of Islam\"; and Abdul Saleeb (a pen name,) a former Sufi Muslim and author of \"the Dark Side of Islam\" (co-authored with R. C. Sproul). After summarizing the details of Gabriel's life story, Kidd mentions that \"there have been questions raised about his real identity.\"\n\nIn December 2016 Mark A. Gabriel was awarded a PhD in Public Law by the University of Cape Town for his dissertation \"Reforming Hudud Ordinance to Reconcile Islamic Criminal Law with International Human Rights Law\".\n\nReviewing Gabriel's book \"Jesus and Muhammad: Profound Differences and Surprising Similarities\", for \"Foreign Affairs\", Walter Russell Mead described it as one of a number of books that were \"doing far more to frame the future of U.S. policy toward the Middle East than most books published by scholars with more conventional credentials and views\", since \"It is from books like this one that many millions of Americans form their impressions of Islam as the war on terror grinds on\".\n\nIn \"Fundamentalism in the Modern World\", Oddbjorn Leivik asserts that Gabriel's books \"Islam and Terrorism,\" and \"Islam and the Jews,\" were the main source of Pastor John Hagee's \"attack on Islam\", the former book also being distributed free to members of the Norwegian Parliament. According to Leivik, Hagee's 2006 book \"Jerusalem Countdown\", like the two Gabriel books from which he asserts that it is largely drawn, \"combines apocalyptic visions of Israel being threatened by its enemies, with the 'unveiling' of Islam as an inherently violent religion.\" ' Like the Gabriel books \"Islam and Terrorism,\" and \"Islam and the Jews,\" Hagee's \"Jerusalem Countdown,\" was published by Charisma House publishers.\n\nGabriel's website contain's a declaration distancing his writings from their use and abuse by \"right wing organisations and individuals...Many of these misguided people use my writings to wrongly justify hate against Muslims.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113276", "title": "Bradford College (United States)", "text": "Bradford College (United States)\n\nBradford College operated in the part of Haverhill, Massachusetts that was once the town of Bradford. Founded in 1803, Bradford College began as Bradford Academy, one of New England's earliest coeducational institutions. In 1836 Bradford chose to devote itself exclusively to the education of women. By 1932, the school had grown from a secondary school and became Bradford Junior College. In 1971 Bradford was authorized to grant bachelor's degrees. The new Bradford College began admitting men again that same year. Bradford College focused on the creative arts and social sciences with one of the oldest alumni associations in the country.\n\nOn November 19, 1999 its board of trustees announced that the 197-year-old liberal arts institution would close in May 2000. The campus currently is the home of Northpoint Bible College.\n\nBradford College traces its origins to Bradford Academy, which was founded in 1803, and used that date in its collegiate logo. The academy incorporated in 1804. Many of Bradford's early graduates became Christian missionaries. The first president of Bradford was Dr. Katharine Denworth, a graduate of Swarthmore with a doctorate from Columbia. Her tenure from 1927 to 1939 oversaw the transformation of Bradford in 1932 to a liberal arts junior college for women leading to a bachelor's degree. With degrees in classics from Oberlin and Smith, scholar Dorothy M. Bell became president in 1940. Over the ensuing 27 years Ms. Bell led Bradford Junior College through World War II and to national and international prestige as a two-year liberal arts private women's college, retiring in 1967. The college became coeducational and the name changed to Bradford College in 1971.\n\nDuring the 1990s, annual budget shortfalls of more than $1 million, combined with declining enrollment and revenues, along with resulting losses due to competition from larger regional institutions, sealed the school's fate. In 1997, the school incurred a $18 million debt when it refinanced old debt and sought funds to build new dormitories.\n\nAfter 197 years, Bradford College was closed in 2000, leaving substantial debt. In late 2007, the remaining endowment of $3.6 million was awarded to Hampshire College, an alternative liberal arts college in Amherst, Massachusetts. With the closing, 33 full-time professors and 133 employees were left without jobs.\n\nAccording to the Assemblies of God denomination, an affiliate of Hobby Lobby stores (founder: David Green) purchased the former Bradford College campus in 2007. Renovation needed to be done prior to a new school's opening on the campus. An estimated $5 million worth of repairs and upgrades were needed before the shuttered campus reopened for the fall semester of 2008. The cost of repairs was covered by Green and his affiliates. The , multimillion-dollar campus, was then given to Zion Bible College, the Assemblies of God Bible school previously located at the former campus of the Barrington College in Barrington, Rhode Island.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113290", "title": "1991 in baseball", "text": "1991 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113321", "title": "New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park", "text": "New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park\n\nNew Bedford Whaling National Historical Park (NBWNHP) is a United States National Historical Park in New Bedford, Massachusetts, and is maintained by the National Park Service (NPS). The park commemorates the heritage of the world's preeminent whaling port during the nineteenth century.\n\nEstablished in 1996, the park encompasses 34 acres (fourteen hectares) dispersed over thirteen city blocks. It includes a visitor center, the New Bedford National Historic Landmark District, the New Bedford Whaling Museum, the Seamen's Bethel, the schooner \"Ernestina\", and the Rotch–Jones–Duff House and Garden Museum.\n\nAs a National Park, the NBWNHP is rather unusual in that the only properties owned by the NPS are the Visitor Center and the Corson Maritime Learning Center. Rather, the park is a historic district administered under a partnership between the NPS, the City of New Bedford and private building owners to preserve the historic landscapes, structures, and collections and promote research and educational programming associated with the history of whaling. The enabling legislation also established a formal affiliation with the Inupiat Heritage Center in Utqiagvik, Alaska, to commemorate the more than 2,000 whaling voyages from New Bedford to the Western Arctic. The city promotes visitation to the park through advertising that calls it \"New England's real seaport\", as opposed to Connecticut's Mystic Seaport Museum which is a collection of historic buildings and vessels moved from various other locations throughout the region.\n\nAlthough the famed Whaleman Memorial (commonly called the \"Whaleman's Statue\") is not within the park's boundaries, it is located only two blocks beyond its western boundary at the corner of William and Pleasant Streets in front of the New Bedford Public Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113331", "title": "Farokh Engineer", "text": "Farokh Engineer\n\nFarokh Maneksha Engineer (born 25 February 1938) is a former Indian cricketer. He played 46 Tests for India, and he played first-class cricket for Bombay in India from 1959 to 1975 and for Lancashire in England from 1968 to 1976. Engineer was the last from his community to play for India, as not a single Parsee has represented the country after him.\n\nEngineer was born in a Parsi family in Mumbai, his father Maneksha was a doctor by profession, while mother Minnie was a housewife. He studied at the Don Bosco High School in Matunga and then studied at Podar College, Matunga from which Dilip Vengsarkar, Sanjay Manjrekar, and Ravi Shastri followed his footsteps and went on to play for the country. Farokh's love for sports came from his father who loved playing Tennis and was a club cricketer himself. His older brother, Darius, was also a good club cricketer and inspired the young Farokh to take up the sport. Farokh initially wanted to be a pilot, right from his childhood days, he was passionate about flying. He had even passed his private pilot's license at Bombay Flying Club and used to fly little Piper Cherokees or Tiger Moths quite low and would often dive under bridges. But his mother did not want him to be a pilot, and hence he continued concentrating on his cricket. An interesting memory of Farokh's school days as a student of Don Bosco High School, was that he was a mischievous kid, and during a lecture in class Farokh was talking to his classmate, who was Shashi Kapoor his Professor threw a duster at him, and to everyone's surprise, Farokh caught the duster, another memory was with Denis Compton, Darius took Farokh, at the East Stand of the Brabourne Stadium, Farokh saw Denis Compton fielding there and started calling him. Compton was impressed by the little fellow and gave him a chewing gum to eat which he saved it as his prized possession for many years. His father enrolled him in Dadar Parsi Colony Sporting Club where learnt the nuances of the game from the seniors and later became a regular member of the team.\n\nWicket-keeping for Farokh started at the Dadar Parsi Colony team, his brother encouraged him to take it up. Darius played for Mysore in Ranji Trophy. He was a brilliant cricketer and an off-spinner. He spun the ball so viciously that his fingers used to bleed, this inspired young Farokh to take up the game. The wicket-keeper back then would never even try and stop the ball down the leg side. In the first match that he kept wickets, he was involved in two leg-side stumping's which was absolutely unheard of during those days. Farokh became a regular member of the club mainly due to his wicket-keeping skills. His life was simple. Farokh used to attend his college in the morning and by the afternoon, he would take a train from Dadar to Churchgate and go to the Cricket Club of India. Engineer played his debut first-class match in December 1958 for the Combined Universities side against the touring West Indies, while playing for Bombay University. The West Indies side plundered the Combined University side mainly because of two fiery pace bowlers, Wes Hall and Roy Gilchrist. Engineer scored 0 and 29 in that game. Farokh wanted to get into the Bombay team, during that time the Bombay team was the prepotent of the Domestic Teams, as most of the players were already Test Cricketers. Bombay then had Naren Tamhane, as their wicketkeeper, before Tamhane's place was usurped by Farokh Engineer, no Indian wicketkeeper had played more Tests than Tamhane (21).\n\nEngineer vs. Kunderan\n\nAfter the Joshi and Tamhane battle which went on till '60-61, which was the last year for both of them, Indian cricket witnessed another rivalry, between Kunderan and Engineer, both who loved batting more than keeping. Both crowd pullers, Kunderan 'hooked' them on while Engineer 'drived' them crazy. Kunderan rose to fame with a run-a-minute, 71 at Madras against the Aussies in '59-'60, playing outrageous strokes. He also scored a double century on his debut in the Ranji Trophy match for Railways against Jammu-Kashmir. Engineer rose to fame with a seven-catch haul in a Ranji match in '60-'61 (Bombay vs Delhi), equalling Limaye's '57-'58 record. Both Engineer and Kunderan were similar in the sense that they both had a knack of taking difficult catches while dropping easier ones. The China war put Kunderan temporarily out of business as the team which he represented, Railways and Services were withdrawn from the competition; he just played one Ranji match. Engineer forged ahead; he even started to open. But in 1964, when England toured India, Kunderan came back due following an injury to Engineer, where he had a chipped finger, and scored nearly a double century as an opener (194) and also hit a 100 and 55 to take his series tally to 525 runs. His keeping though slipped a bit. The selectors kept him out of all the three Tests against Australia in 1964, but he was not even replaced by Engineer, he was replaced by K.S. Indrajitsinhji. Engineer resumed battle with Kunderan in the 1965 series against New Zealand. Kunderan played in only one Test as an opener, with Engineer performing the role of the wicketkeeper. Kunderan's chance came again in '66-'67 against the West Indies when he blasted 79 runs with 15 fours in the first Test. Next Test he opened and hit 39 in 45 minutes before Hall yorked him. The selectors felt that his keeping was not up to the mark and in spite of Kunderan scoring 104 in 2 hrs with 4 sixes and 11 fours two days after the second Test in a tour match against the West Indies, it was Engineer who played in the next Test in Chennai. Engineer silenced the critics and the public outcry against Kunderan's exclusion by nearly scoring a century before lunch (94). He went on to score 109 and thereafter he never looked back at Kunderan, who he had left behind. The game of musical chairs between the two continued till 1966–67, when Kunderan packed his bags and settled in Scotland.\n\nEngineer was to make his debut in Test cricket at Mumbai in December 1960, against England led by Captain Ted Dexter. Chairman of Selectors, Lala Amarnath chose Engineer over Kunderan for his superior keeping skills. Farokh was all set to debut on his home ground, The Brabourne Stadium. On the eve of the Test match, Engineer was practising his shots against short bowling. One of Raj Singh Dungarpur's deliveries took the top edge of his bat and hit him on his right eye. Farokh was out of the Test match. Thus, Kunderan played at Bombay but scored only five runs. Engineer was fit for the second Test at Kanpur and made his debut. He scored an important 33 and played for the remainder of the series. When the side toured the West Indies next, Engineer was the first-choice wicketkeeper. He played in the first three matches before an injury forced him out of the playing eleven. He was among the few Indian Batsman who were not afraid of the fast bowling duo of Wes Hall and Charlie Griffith who tormented the Indian players during the series. When England toured India led by M. J. K. Smith, in the winter of 1963, Farokh was the first choice as the wicket-keeper, but illness kept Farokh out of the first test match in Mumbai, and Kunderan who was in the reserves, got a chance and scored a brilliant knock of 192. This helped Kunderan seal his place in the playing eleven as a wicketkeeper-batsman, who could also open the innings. With the brilliance of Kunderan, Engineer was ignored by the selectors when Australia arrived in India to play a three-Test series in 1964. It was only in March 1965, when New Zealand toured India, under John Reid, that Engineer could manage to make a comeback to the national side. This time he also decided to open the innings, in addition to keeping the wickets. Soon he came to be regarded as a full-fledged opening batsman and selectors started looking around for a good partner for him at the top of the batting order. Engineer's best innings as a batsman came during the third Test of the series against the visiting West Indians at Chennai in 1967. He had not played in the first two Tests which the visitors won. The deadly Hall-Griffith combo was supported by Gary Sobers and Lance Gibbs but Engineer was not at all intimidated by these top-class performers and nearly scored a century before lunch on the opening day of the match. This knock brought Engineer back into the national side and helped him cement his place there for the next four years. During the period from 1967 till 1970, Engineer was a member of the playing eleven in all matches that India played. He opened the innings as well except during the short Test series against the touring New Zealand side in 1969 when India experimented with many young players. This was also the period when the famous spin quartet was making its impact felt for the first time in international cricket and Engineer's presence behind the stumps was a vital factor, his performances with the bat and behind the stumps during the tour of England in 1967 had him a contract to play for Lancashire county. He moved to Lancashire in 1968, he also stopped playing for Mumbai in Ranji Trophy, while making himself available for the national side. Engineer's short shrift with domestic cricket was not appreciated by the selectors, When the Indian side to tour the West Indies in 1971 was chosen, Merchant insisted that Engineer was not chosen as Engineer had not played any match in Domestic Cricket. Pochiah Krishnamurthy of Hyderabad was the wicketkeeper during this series but it soon became evident that he was not in the same league as Engineer. Hence when the squad to tour England was selected in April 1971, Engineer was included, despite Engineer informing the selectors that he would be available only for the Test matches and not for the rest of the tour because of his commitments with Lancashire. This series proved crucial for Engineer as he played two important innings in the third Test at Oval that India won. Engineer had moved to his position in the middle order during the tour of England in 1971. He continued to bat in that position during the series at home against England led by Tony Lewis. However, in the last Test at Mumbai, he was asked to bat at the top of the order again and he responded with a career-best knock of 121 in the first innings. During the tour of England in 1974, he was one of the few batsmen to put up a fight during the second and third Tests that India lost. During the home series against the West Indies in 1974-75, there were reports in the media that Engineer would be asked to lead the side in the second Test at Delhi after captain Pataudi was ruled out and stand-in skipper Sunil Gavaskar suffered a fracture to his thumb. Engineer was also congratulated by a senior Board official on the night before the match. But some last-minute developments put paid to his hopes and it was S Venkataraghavan who went out for toss the next day. But Engineer kept his composure and went ahead with his job where contributed substantially with the bat in the third Test at Kolkata that India won by 85 runs. In the next test at Chennai, Engineer was brilliant behind the stumps, diving full length to catch an edge off the bat of Viv Richards and effecting a lightning-quick stumping to remove Clive Lloyd. Unfortunately, he failed with the bat and was dismissed for naught in both innings of Mumbai Test, which turned out to be his final appearance in Test matches.\n\nEngineer was one of the first Indians to play as a professional in county cricket. Engineer played for English County club Lancashire from 1968 to 1976, which he played alongside West Indian great Clive Lloyd. When he made his debut, Lancashire had not won a major honour since 1950. After the 1967 tour of England, renowned cricket commentator John Arlott wanted Engineer to play for his beloved Hampshire. At the same time, Worcestershire and Somerset were also interested in Engineer, but Engineer finally decided on Lancashire for its great history and beautiful ground. By the time he left them after 1976, the team had won the Gillette Cup four times and the John Player League twice. Post-retirement, he decided to reside in Lancashire and also served as its vice-president. He got used to life in Manchester. He was provided with a house and a car to commute daily, the club also found a house for Engineer in Timperley, a suburb in South Manchester. Later, Engineer became a revered figure in Lancashire which had become his second home. Lancashire were the undisputed one-day kings in the 1970s and Engineer, became their popular talisman. His benefit match at Lancashire fetched him £26000, an astonishing sum for the era. During a county match between Derbyshire and Lancashire, Umpire Dickie Bird led both the teams off the field, at Buxton in June 1975. It was the first time in history that snow had stopped a first-class match, \"Crazy country. What kind of summer is this?\" said West Indies skipper Clive Lloyd as he waded through the snow. Farokh became a fan favorite in Lancashire. So much so, that once a cop stopped him for speeding on the streets of Manchester but let him off, saying: \"My father would kill me if I booked you.\" Farokh's stay at Lancashire, was because of Old Trafford's beauty and the crowd support they received, he recollects that during his time in Lancashire, fans would come from miles to see the team play, from the Old Trafford dressing room the team could see Warwick Road railway station and before the game, they would see packed trains emptying the passengers on the platform, the players also received regular fan mails, their lockers would be stuffed full of requests for autographs and invitations to parties. The John Player Sunday League was a revolution. Farokh's favorite innings in that competition was against Glamorgan at Southport, where he scored 78*.\n"}
{"id": "2113341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113341", "title": "NWA United States Women's Championship", "text": "NWA United States Women's Championship\n\nThe NWA United States Women's Championship was a sporadically used women's professional wrestling championship in the National Wrestling Alliance from 1968 until 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113350", "title": "Fort Monmouth", "text": "Fort Monmouth\n\nFort Monmouth is a former installation of the Department of the Army in Monmouth County, New Jersey. The post is surrounded by the communities of Eatontown, Tinton Falls and Oceanport, New Jersey, and is located about from the Atlantic Ocean. The post covers nearly of land, from the Shrewsbury River on the east, to Route 35 on the west; this area is referred to as 'Main Post'. A separate area (Camp Charles Wood) to the west includes post housing, a golf course, and additional office and laboratory facilities. A rail line, owned by Conrail, runs through Camp Charles Wood and out to Naval Weapons Station Earle. The post is like a small town, including a Post Exchange (PX), health clinic, gas station and other amenities. Until the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks the post was open to the public to drive through; after that time, the post was closed to all but authorized personnel. The main road through the fort was reopened to the public in 2017.\n\nThe post was home to several units of the U.S. Army Materiel Command and offices of the Army Acquisition Executive (AAE) that research and manage Command and Control, Communications, Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) capabilities and related technology, as well as an interservice organization designed to coordinate C4ISR, an academic preparatory school, an explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) unit, a garrison services unit, an Army health clinic, and a Veterans Administration health clinic. Other agencies, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Federal Emergency Management Agency and the National Security Agency, have presences on the post.\n\nThe post was selected for closure by the Base Realignment and Closure Commission in 2005. Most Army functions and personnel were required to be moved to Army facilities in Maryland—such as Aberdeen Proving Ground—and Ohio by 2011. The post officially closed on September 15, 2011. However, it was temporarily reopened on December 2, 2012, for the evacuation of the borough of Paulsboro's residents to be temporarily resettled to the former Fort Monmouth until it is deemed safe for them to move back to Paulsboro, following a freight train derailment on November 30, 2012.\n\nThe installation began with the lease of a defunct Monmouth Park Racecourse (later re-opened at another site in 1946) by the Army for a training site for officers. The location near Eatontown, with rail sidings out of Hoboken and proximity to the port of Little Silver, was ideal. Known temporarily as Camp Little Silver, it was renamed Camp Alfred Vail shortly after in September 1917. The Chief Signal Officer authorized the purchase of Camp Vail in 1919. The Signal Corps School relocated to Camp Vail from Fort Leavenworth that year. The Signal Corps Board followed in 1924. In August 1925 the installation was granted permanent status and was renamed Fort Monmouth. It was named in honor of the soldiers of the American Revolutionary War who died in the Battle of Monmouth; aptly, it is also located in Monmouth County. The first permanent building was built in 1928. Other structures were built to house units the Army consolidated at Fort Monmouth.\n\nIn 1928 the first radio-equipped meteorological balloon reached the upper atmosphere, a forerunner of weather sounding techniques universally used today. In 1938 the U.S. Army's first radio-based aircraft detection and ranging system (later called radar) was developed on post. A production model of this equipment detected the oncoming Japanese air attack on Pearl Harbor, but the warning it provided was discounted. In 1946 celestial communication was proved feasible, when the radar developed by the Project Diana team was used to bounce radio signals off the moon.\n\nDuring the late 20th century Fort Monmouth was home to the US Army Chaplain Center and School (USACHCS). Enlisted soldiers, non-commissioned officers (NCOs) and officers training to become Chaplain Assistants and Chaplains were trained at Fort Monmouth.\n\nAdditional property was purchased in 1941 for Camp Coles near Red Bank, Camp Charles Wood in Tinton Falls, and Camp Evans in Wall Township. At its peak during World War II, Fort Monmouth measured 1,713 acres (6.9 km²), and had billeting space for 1,559 officers and 19,786 enlisted personnel. The Eastern Signal Corps Training Center consisted of the Eastern Signal Corps Schools (enlisted, officer candidate, and officers) and the Replacement Training Center at Camp Charles Wood. The Signal Corps Officer Candidate School (OCS), the major activity on the main post, graduated 21,033 new Signal Corps second lieutenants between 1941 and 1946.\n\nMore communications units, including the Pigeon Breeding and Training Center, were consolidated into Fort Monmouth after the war ended. The pigeon service was discontinued in 1957; the birds were either sold at auction or donated to zoos.\n\nSpecial effects artist Harry Redmond, Jr. designed and constructed a new film studio for the Army Film Training Lab at Fort Monmouth during World War II.\n\nJulius Rosenberg had worked as a radar inspector at Fort Monmouth in 1942 and 1943. It is from the fort that he was accused and convicted of stealing proximity fuze plans and passing them on to the Soviet Union. Documents released by Russia after the Cold War showed that Julius Rosenberg was indeed a spy. Joseph McCarthy claimed in October 1953 that Julius Rosenberg had set up a wartime spy ring at Fort Monmouth, and that the ring might still be in operation. Two Fort Monmouth scientists, Joel Barr and Alfred Sarant, fled to the Soviet Union.\n\nThe hysteria surrounding Fort Monmouth and the Rosenbergs was not limited to Julius and Ethel; others with the last name Rosenberg (or Kaplan) lost their security clearance for no reason other than sharing a name with communists.\n\nBefore its BRAC closing was announced, Fort Monmouth was the home to the CECOM Life Cycle Management Command (CECOM LCMC). CECOM LCMC was a lead command for the Army in the area of C4ISR development, acquisition and sustainment. Though no longer the home of the US Army Signal Corps (after its move to Fort Gordon, Georgia in the 1970s), Fort Monmouth is sometimes referred to as the \"Soul of the Signal Corps\". It housed the official Time capsule of the Army Signal Corps until June 21, 2010, when it was removed for relocation to the U.S. Army Signal Center & School at Fort Gordon, Georgia. The fort also hosts the Avenue of Memories, a set of trees and monuments dedicated to Signal Corp soldiers who died in World War II. The memorial is a part of the main road through the Eatontown side of the fort.\n\nThe post was home to the CECOM Life Cycle Management Command (CECOM LCMC), which consists of the following:\n\n\nAlso located on the post were:\n\n\nMost of the personnel located on the post are civilians employed by DoD, or employees of companies under contract with the DoD.\n\nFort Monmouth was also noted for its SunEagles Golf Course, one of the most prominent DoD golf courses in the nation. It is now open to the public.\n\nSchool-aged children residing on post in grades 9 through 12 attended Monmouth Regional High School in Tinton Falls, part of the Monmouth Regional High School District.\n\nFort Monmouth was recommended for closure by the Pentagon in May 2005. BRAC voted in August 2005 to close the post; its decision was upheld by President George Bush and Congress. An appeal headed by U.S. Representatives Frank Pallone and Rush D. Holt, Jr. to remove the post from the list was made to the BRAC commission, but was rejected.\n\nIn particular, BRAC recommended:\n\n\nThe DoD estimated the closure of Fort Monmouth would cause the loss of 9,737 jobs (5,272 direct and 4,465 indirect jobs) between 2006 and 2011, leading to a 0.8% increase in unemployment. DoD also calculated the closure and other changes would save it about $1 billion in the long run.\n\nHowever, in June 2007, an investigation by the \"Asbury Park Press\" revealed that the projected cost of closing Fort Monmouth and moving its research functions to Aberdeen, Maryland, had doubled from $780 million to $1.5 billion. To this was to be added the $3.3 billion loss to New Jersey’s economy, coupled with the estimated $16 billion it would cost Maryland for needed infrastructure improvements to accommodate the largest job influx since World War II. In addition, recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) findings uncovered substantial errors in the Army estimation of BRAC cost savings—in one case turning a projected saving of $1 billion into one of just $31 million. In light of these issues, the House Armed Services Committee was to hold a hearing on the BRAC 2005 legislation. The final closure ceremony was held on September 15, 2011.\n\nOn April 28, 2006, then-Governor of New Jersey Jon Corzine signed into law the Fort Monmouth Economic Revitalization Act, which established the Fort Monmouth Revitalization Planning Authority, to plan the redevelopment of Fort Monmouth once it closed. The legislation creating the commission, proposed by State Senators Joseph Kyrillos and Ellen Karcher, received bipartisan support, but only after wrangling in the legislature over its composition and authority. FMERPA completed the Fort Monmouth Reuse and Redevelopment Plan in 2008, although an appellate court threw out the portion of the plan concerning affordable housing.\n\nFMERPA is no longer active following the creation of the Fort Monmouth Economic Revitalization Authority (FMERA) to provide investment, continuity and economic growth to the communities impacted by the federal government's decision to close Fort Monmouth. The bill was sponsored by Sen. Jennifer Beck (R-Monmouth) and Assembly members Joseph Cryan (D-Union), Albert Coutinho (D-Essex), Angel Fuentes (D-Camden), Annette Quijano (D-Union) and Upendra Chivukula (D-Somerset) and signed into law by Gov. Chris Christie Tuesday, August 17, 2010. FMERA was to advance FMERPA's Reuse and Redevelopment Plan for economic development, growth and planning, with a focus on technology-based industries, for the of real estate at Fort Monmouth following the base closure in September 2011.\n\nThe authority holds meetings at their headquarters, located in the former Fort library in Oceanport. As mandated by federal law, the authority must advertise for notices of interest from any state, county, municipal, or private, non-profit agency which would provide homeless assistance to Monmouth County residents.\n\nIn December 2016, the Monmouth County Board of Chosen Freeholders issued $33 million in bonds to allow FMERA to purchase outright of land on the base from the Army. As a condition of the bonds, the county reconstructed the main road through the base to allow for public travel between Route 35 / CR 537 and Oceanport Avenue for the first time since 2001. The road reopened on January 17, 2017 and subsequently became an extension of CR 537.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113360", "title": "Meredith Salenger", "text": "Meredith Salenger\n\nMeredith Dawn Salenger (born March 14, 1970) is an American actress and voice artist. Her credits include the 1985 film \"The Journey of Natty Gann\", as the title character, and the 1989 teen comedy \"Dream a Little Dream\".\n\nSalenger was born and raised in Malibu, California, the daughter of Dorothy, an interior designer, and Gary Salenger, a dentist.\n\nSalenger attended Santa Monica High School and enrolled at Harvard University from 1988 to 1992, and lived in Mower Hall during her freshman year, where Tanya Selvaratnam was one of her roommates. Salenger graduated cum laude with a degree in psychology. She received certificates in \"Court-Based Mediation of Family Law Matters\" and \"Mediating the Litigated Case\" from the Straus Institute for Dispute Resolution at Pepperdine University School of Law in 2009 and 2011, respectively. She works as a mediator for the Agency for Dispute Resolution in Beverly Hills, California, when she is not filming.\n\nAs a child, Salenger enjoyed performing in front of her family and friends. Her mother took her to her first acting class when she was eight years old. Her first role was a small part as a 'singing and dancing orphan' in the feature film \"Annie\", directed by John Huston. Salenger also did a number of television advertisements.\n\nSalenger's first starring role was in the Disney film \"The Journey of Natty Gann\", co-starring John Cusack and Ray Wise, the first movie to win her Best Actress in a Drama award at the Young Artist Awards for her portrayal of Natty Gann. After starring in four more films by her eighteenth birthday, including \"A Night in the Life of Jimmy Reardon\", she left Hollywood for Harvard to further her education.\n\nSalenger resumed her acting career upon her return to Hollywood with credits including \"Lake Placid\" and \"The Third Wheel\". Salenger has also appeared in independent films, including \"Quality Time\" and \"Sparkle & Charm\". Other major roles include \"The Kiss\" (1988) and \"Dream a Little Dream\" (1989).\n\nSalenger appeared in a 1998 episode of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". She also recorded a song titled \"Flow Through Me\" with Koishii and Hush; and she appeared as a background member of the Counting Crows video for \"Hanging Around\".\n\nSalenger appeared in two episodes of \"Dawson's Creek\" in 2002 as film critic Amy Lloyd, and guest-starred on \"Cold Case\" playing victim Sloane Easton on the episode \"Ravaged\". Salenger had a cameo in the Disney film \"Race to Witch Mountain\" in 2009, where she played a television reporter named Natalie Gann.\n\nSalenger has done the voices of several characters in Cartoon Network's \"\", including Jedi Padawan Barriss Offee and Ione Marcy during the second season, Che Amanwe Papanoida during the third season, and Pluma Sodi during the fourth season. She also appeared as Lisa Sanders in the one-hour Nick at Nite drama series \"Hollywood Heights\" which lasted 80 episodes, as well as several characters in \"Mad\" and \"Robot Chicken\" television series. In addition, Salenger voiced a Nightsister ghost in a season three episode of \"Star Wars Rebels\". She can be seen opposite Elias Koteas in \"Jake Squared\" along with Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Jason Leigh.\n\nSalenger and comedian Patton Oswalt were engaged in July 2017. They married on November 4, 2017. She is stepmother to Oswalt's daughter, Alice, born in April 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2113363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113363", "title": "Embodiment 12:14", "text": "Embodiment 12:14\n\nEmbodiment 12:14 were an Australia Christian metal band formed in Adelaide, as Embodiment in 1992, initially they performed death metal. They released two albums, \"Elements of This Man-Made Man\" (1998) and \"Inroads Out\" (2005), before disbanding in 2006.\n\nEmbodiment 12:14 were formed in Adelaide in 1992, as Embodiment, by Aaron Harslett on drums, Luke Martin on guitar, Ben Reid on guitar, and Darren Reid on lead vocals. Initially they played death metal and contributed tracks to three compilation albums by various artists. In 1997 they slightly changed their name to become Embodiment 12:14 due to an American band of similar name, Embodyment; the \"12:14\" was added as a reference to \"a couple of verse’s taken from Phillipians 3 12-14.\"\n\nThey supported Metal and Hardcore acts, Agnostic Front, Anthrax, Good Clean Fun, Killswitch Engage and Chimaira. Embodiment 12:14 released their album, \"Elements of This Man-Made Man\" in 1998 via Trial & Error Records. The band has influenced metal and hardcore bands, Shai Hulud. In 2002 Trial & Error issued a split extended play with three tracks by Embodiment 12:14, \"The Bridge Is Out\", \"Penknife\" and \"Coming of Age\" and another four tracks by label mates, Not for You. Owen McGregor-Hart of \"Oz Music Project\" observed, \"[they] give us 3 sharp tracks of emotion filled hardcore... [and] show us their true colours. Combining raw guitars, both screaming and melodic vocals and a strong rhythm section, you're left wish a sweet, sweet taste in your mouth from this release.\"\n\nThe group's second album, \"Inroads Out\", appeared in 2003 and was recorded by the line-up of Darren Reid on vocals; Harslett on drums; Michael Wright on guitar; Kyle Bloksgaard on guitar and vocals; Bear (Greg Smith) on bass guitar; Rodger Smith on keyboards, vocals and programming; Tim Lawrence on rhythm guitar and vocal harmonies. It was recorded at Soundhouse Studio by Anj and produced by the group with Anj. Tracks received \"consistent rotation\" on Triple J, national youth radio.\n\nAidan Quinn of \"Punk Hardcore\" felt that with the album, \"these dudes still have it, a lot more melodic-metal that basically could be summed up as Shai Hulud cross Inflames. Nice vocals, both melodic and heavy... amazing new guitar work, the addition of keys and solid drumming with heaps of stand out fills, make sure you check these guys out as they are the shit for melodic metalcore[...] with a huge focus on melody, technicality and a strong christian influence.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113369", "title": "Viola Concerto (Bartók)", "text": "Viola Concerto (Bartók)\n\nThe Viola Concerto, Sz. 120, BB 128 (also known as Concerto for Viola and Orchestra) was one of the last pieces written by Béla Bartók. He began composing his viola concerto while living in Saranac Lake, New York, in July 1945. The piece was commissioned by William Primrose, a respected violist who knew that Bartók could provide a challenging piece for him to perform. He said that Bartók should not \"feel in any way proscribed by the apparent technical limitations of the instrument\"; Bartók, though, was suffering from the terminal stages of leukemia when he began writing the viola concerto and left only sketches at the time of his death.\n\nPrimrose asked Bartók to write the concerto in the winter of 1944. There are several letters between them regarding the piece. In one from September 8, 1945, Bartók claims that he is nearly done with it and only has the orchestration to complete. The sketches however show that this was not truly the case. When Bartók died, the piece was finished by his close friend Tibor Serly in 1949. A first revision was made by Bartók's son Peter and Paul Neubauer in 1995, and it was revised once more by Csaba Erdélyi. The concerto was premiered on December 2, 1949, by the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra with Antal Doráti conducting and Primrose as violist.\n\nThe concerto has three movements, and Bartók states in a letter dated August 5, 1945 that the general concept is, \"a serious Allegro, a Scherzo, a (rather short) slow movement, and a finale beginning Allegretto and developing the tempo to an Allegro molto. Each movement, or at least 3 of them will, [be] preceded by a (short) recurring introduction (mostly solo for the viola), a kind of ritornello.\" (The aforementioned idea of a thematic introduction to each movement was also used in Bartók's String Quartet no. 6 Sz. 114.) The first movement is in a loose sonata form. The slow second movement is significantly shorter, and closes with a very short scherzo movement that is an attacca right into the third movement. The time stamps, as seen in Bartók's manuscript, state that the first movement should be 10’20\", the second 5’10\" and the third 4’45\".\n\nThe first and third movements of the concerto is said to loosely contain a phrase that is reminiscent of the Scottish tune \"Gin a Body Meet a Body, Colmin' Thro' the Rye.\" This is probably done in honor of William Primrose's heritage.\n\nBartók's manuscript only specifies: flute, oboe, 2 clarinets, bassoon, horns, 2 trumpets, timpani, strings.\n\nTibor Serly's edition is orchestrated for: piccolo, 2 flutes, 2 oboes, 2 clarinets in B, 2 bassoons, 3 horns in F, 3 trumpets in B, 2 trombones, tuba, timpani, percussion and strings.\n\nPeter Bartók and Paul Neubauer's edition is orchestrated for: piccolo, 2 flutes, 2 oboes (2nd doubling cor anglais), 2 clarinets in B, 2 bassoons (2nd doubling contrabassoon), 4 horns in F, 3 trumpets in B, tenor trombone, bass trombone, tuba, timpani, percussion (2), strings.\n\nThere are some large discrepancies between the different editions of this concerto, due to little being known about Bartók's intentions. Some are as simple as the metronome markings for each movement. Each editor also had very different interpretations of fingerings for the concerto. One edition suggests beginning the first movement on the open A string, while others suggest beginning on the D string. The Peter Bartók edition, especially, has interesting fingerings because Paul Neubauer edited most of the viola part.\n\nMany bowings also differ between different editions, some of them inserted specifically to accent certain rhythms and high notes, such as in mm. 8-10 in the Tibor Serly edition, where William Primrose included some bowing suggestions to emphasize the syncopation of the line.\n\nOverall, there are a significant amount of surface level discrepancies such as bowings, fingerings and dynamics. However, some editions contain more changes than editor markings; in the Peter Bartók revision there are measures that are added, completely missing or with note changes, which can cause several discrepancies in the performance of the piece.\n\nPeter Bartók explains, \"It became clear that we could not merely compare the printed score with the final manuscript prepared from my father’s sketches by Tibor Serly, and discover engraving errors, but we would have to start with the sketch itself.\"\n\nThe first of the note changes begins in measure 44 on beat two, where there is an added D as a double stop against a D. In the next measure, the first beat is transposed down an octave, probably to facilitate performance. Everything remains consistent until measure 54. At this point Tibor Serly has the viola resting, and yet Peter Bartók has actually included two measure of a melody to the soloists’ line. The most significant changes have yet to appear. Tibor Serly's edition places measure 67 as a bar, but Peter Bartók splits it into a bar plus a bar, and he actually adds a group of triplets. It is now clear why an orchestra must be absolutely certain which edition they are performing and ensure everyone has the same parts. This trend of alterations continues as Peter Bartók adds octave displacements, and even omits what is measure 74 in the Tibor Serly score.\n\nTibor Serly also arranged the work as a Cello Concerto. After the completion, a gathering of friends of Bartók expressed an eight-to-six preference for the cello adaption over the original.\n\nCellist János Starker was the first to play and record the transcribed version.\n\n\nOther recordings:\n\nAs a cello concerto:\n\n"}
{"id": "2113375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113375", "title": "KV20", "text": "KV20\n\nKV20 is a tomb in the Valley of the Kings (Egypt). It was probably the first royal tomb to be constructed in the valley. KV20 was the original burial place of Thutmose I (who was later re-interred in KV38) and later was adapted by his daughter Hatshepsut to accommodate both her and her father. The tomb was known to the Napoleonic Expedition in 1799, but a full clearance of the tomb only was undertaken by Howard Carter in 1903, although it had been visited by several explorers between 1799 and 1903. KV20 is distinguished from other tombs in the valley, both in its general layout and because of the atypical clockwise curvature of its corridors.\n\nThe location of KV20 was known to the French expedition of 1799 and to Belzoni, who worked in the area in 1817. A first attempt to excavate the tomb was undertaken by James Burton in 1824, who cleared it as far as the tomb's first chamber. Although Lepsius explored it in 1844 and 1845, no further attempts to excavate the tomb were undertaken until Carter started his clearance of the rock-hard fill in the corridor in the spring of 1903. This excavation was conducted by Carter as Inspector of the Antiquities Service, but the work was sponsored by Theodore M. Davis, who published a report of the work in 1906.\n\nAfter Carter's work in the tomb ended, no further activities have been carried out. Since 1994 the burial chamber has been inaccessible due to debris deposited by flooding.\n\nKV20 is located in the easternmost branch of the valley near the later tombs KV19, KV43, and KV60. Its plan is of unusual shape, consisting of a series of five curving, descending corridors, two of which end in chambers. These corridors bend east-south-west in a clockwise fashion, which is a unique feature amongst the tombs in the valley. At the bottom of this descending passage is a suite of chambers, connected to each other by a further corridor. The burial chamber is a three-pillared room and it has three small side-rooms at its northern end. The tomb has a total length of 210 meters.\nThe upper part of the corridors is cut into good quality limestone, but the lower parts of the passage and the chambers at the bottom are cut in a layer of softer shale. Because of this difference, the lower parts of the tomb, including the roof of the burial chamber, have collapsed partially. The soft rock in the burial chamber also was unsuitable for decoration and therefore, limestone slabs inscribed with chapters from the Amduat in red and black inks were intended to line the walls. Carter found fifteen of these slabs in the burial chamber while other similar blocks, probably from the same series, were found in KV38.\n\nApart from a foundation deposit of Hatshepsut, the only objects found in KV20 come from the burial chamber and the corridor leading into it. Items found were stone vases bearing the names of Ahmose-Nefertari, Thutmosis I, and Hatshepsut, two quartzite sarcophagi inscribed for Thutmose I and Hatshepsut (as pharaoh), a canopic chest for Hatshepsut (again as pharaoh), the limestone blocks bearing funerary text (see above), and several fragments of the usual funerary furnishings. The sarcophagus of Thutmose originally was inscribed for Hatshepsut, but later altered for the former king.\nA box inscribed for Hatshepsut as pharaoh, containing the remains of a mummified liver or spleen was recovered from the DB320 royal cache. Other items associated with Hatshepsut, including the legs and footboard of a couch or bed and a fragmentary cartouche-shaped lid are of uncertain origin, but might come from either the Deir el Bahari cache or KV6 (tomb of Ramesses IX).\n\nFragments of at least one anthropoid coffin belonging to a mid-eighteenth dynasty female ruler (presumably Hatshepsut), fragmentary wooden panels with decoration that links them to objects found in KV20, and a faience vessel, possibly belonging to Thutmose I, were recovered from the shaft in the burial chamber of KV4, together with remains of royal funerary equipment belonging to several other New Kingdom rulers.\n\nDespite the foundation deposit of Hatshepsut and the existence of another tomb for Thutmose I, (KV38), it is now generally presumed that KV 20 originally was quarried for the latter king. Re-evaluation of the architecture of KV38 and some of its content has shown that it is unlikely that this tomb pre-dates the reign of Thutmose III. It also has been noted that the proportions of the KV20 burial chamber are different from those in the rest of the tomb and that they display a design relationship to the architecture of Hatshepsut's pharaonic mortuary temple.\n\nIt therefore has been suggested that KV20 extended originally, only to its present penultimate chamber in which Thutmose I first was interred, and that the tomb was re-cut and refurbished during the reign of Hatshepsut to accommodate the burial of both her and her father. Later the burial of Thutmose I was moved again, into KV38, by his grandson Thutmose III while the burial of Hatshepsut probably remained in KV20, eventually suffering from robbery (and official dismantling).\n\nAn unidentified mummy, recovered from DB320 and found within coffins prepared by Thutmose III for Thutmose I is usually identified as the later king. The body of Hatshepsut has not yet been identified with certainty and the mummified liver or spleen found in DB320 might be all that remains of her, although it also has been suggested that one of two female mummies found in KV60 is her. A molar found in the wooden box containing her liver, was matched to one of these mummies in 2007, making it likely that the mummy belongs to Hatshepsut.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113376", "title": "Tavaj Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Tavaj Linhas Aéreas\n\nTAVAJ Linhas Aéreas was a Brazilian airline founded in 1994 and based in Manaus, Brazil. It operated an extensive network in the Northern and Central-West regions of Brazil. It ceased operations in 2004.\n\nThe airline traces its origins to an air taxi company Taxi Aéreo Vale do Juruá, established in Cruzeiro do Sul in September 1972. In March 1994 it was transformed into a regional scheduled operator, changed its name to TAVAJ Transportes Aéreos Regulares S/A, and moved its base to Rio Branco. In 2002 TAVAJ moved its base again, this time to Manaus. It ceased its operations in 2004.\n\nInitially it was a direct competitor of TABA – Transportes Aéreos da Bacia Amazônica and flew with a fleet of 5 Embraer EMB 110 Bandeirante. In 1995 TAVAJ added further 2 EMB110 Bandeirante and the first Fokker F27 MK600. In 1997, as a project of major expansion, TAVAJ leased 4 Bombardier Dash 8-200B directly from the manufacturer but only 2 were delivered.\n\nIn 1999 TAVAJ suffered a hard blow during the currency exchange devaluation crisis. Because of high leasing and insurance costs, the airline was forced to return the 2 Dash 8-200B. Continuous economic difficulties lead TAVAJ to cease passenger operations in 2004.\n\nIn 1998 TAVAJ was operating flights to 31 cities in the states of Acre, Amazonas, Goiás, Mato Grosso, Pará, and Rondônia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113379", "title": "Corey Collymore", "text": "Corey Collymore\n\nCorey Dalanelo Collymore (born 21 December 1977) is a former Barbadian cricketer, who represented the West Indies team in both Tests and ODIs cricket as seam bowler. \n\nHe has not played any form of cricket since 2014.\n\nIn a side that so often chopped and changed he became one of their most experienced bowlers. His knowledge of putting the ball in the right place and his high work rate are qualities that have been highly sought after in the current West Indian team. He often shared the new ball with his childhood friend Fidel Edwards.\n\nSince 1999 he was in and out of the team due to both form and injury. His main injury complaint has been stress fractures. At the end of the West Indies' tour of England in 2000 many had written him off as he again broke down. \n\nA determined man, he came back strongly and was part of the West Indies' World Cup campaign in 2003. He was recalled to the Test team where they hosted the Sri Lankans. After five wickets in the first Test, his career defining innings would come in the second. He led the charge to a seven wicket victory with 7 for 57.\n\nHis mature approach and accuracy with the ball was shown during India's tour of the West Indies in 2006. Collymore would finish with an economy rate of 2.33, a class above the more erratic younger bowlers. The younger Collymore bowled around the 90 mph mark but due to a back injury he was forced to remodel his bowling action which reduced his pace.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113383", "title": "The Newz", "text": "The Newz\n\nThe Newz was a half-hour syndicated sketch comedy television series that aired in 1994 and 1995. It starred Tommy Blaze, Mystro Clark, Deborah Magdalena, Dan O'Connor, Stan Quash, Brad Sherwood, Nancy Sullivan, Shawn Alex Thompson, and Lou Thornton. In addition to the main cast, regular guest stars included Melissa Savage, Mark Fenlon, Justin Cambridge, and Tim Watters as Bill Clinton. The series was aired from Universal Studios in Orlando, Florida.\n\nThe show was notable for being the first ever nightly scripted sketch comedy show, and was conceived and created by Executive Producer Michael Wilson. Rather than weekly as are most sketch comedies; the show aired five nights a week, plus a repeat episode on Saturdays. The writers were: Wayne Page (Producer / Head Writer), Jeff McCarthy, Jon Ezrine, Michael Price, David Litt, Andrew Ornstein, Micheal Globerman, JoJo Liblier, Terry Ward, Shang Forbes and Micheal Wilson (Executive Producer)\n\nRecurring segments included:\n\nAccording to Blaze, the show was canceled when it \"had mysteriously and inexplicably run out of money\" because \"the Executive Producer - not Michael Wilson - had misplaced about 1.5 million dollars.\"\n"}
{"id": "2113388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113388", "title": "Rhoon", "text": "Rhoon\n\nRhoon is a village that borders the municipality of the city of Rotterdam, South Holland, the Netherlands.\n\nAccording to its history it was established in 1199 and was ruled by the \"lords of Duiveland\". In the 14th century the village was struck by many floods.\nIn the last big flood, the North Sea flood of 1953, the Dutch government implemented the \"deltawerken\" (Delta Works). This is a large protection barrier of dikes and dams to keep the water of the North Sea out during high tides. In 1969 Rhoon also became part of this plan and a large dike was established around the island of IJsselmonde.\n\nRhoon is part of the island of IJsselmonde and situated in the south of this island.\nOn the lands outside the dikes is a small yacht marina on the banks of the river Oude Maas, and also a \"griend\" which is a tidal forest. The river Oude Maas has a tidal difference of around 1.2 meter in a twice daily cycle.\n\nSince 1 January 1985, the village has been part of the municipality of Albrandswaard together with Poortugaal.\n\nThe village has a connection to the city of Rotterdam by Rotterdam Metro line D, through Rhoon station.\n\nIn Rhoon is the Dutch Consulate General of Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113390", "title": "FV180 Combat Engineer Tractor", "text": "FV180 Combat Engineer Tractor\n\nThe FV180 Combat Engineer Tractor or C.E.T. is an amphibious specialist armoured vehicle of the British Army and has been in general service since 1976. A tracked, lightly armoured vehicle, with amphibious capability, the CET is used by Royal Engineers in ground preparation for bridge construction and towing activities in the front line of battle, such as digging vehicle fighting pits, constructing earthen barriers, repairing roads, recovery of disabled vehicles from water and other obstacles, preparing riverbanks for vehicle crossings and clearing obstacles.\n\nThe two crew sit in tandem positions on the left hand side of the vehicle, each with a set of driving controls facing opposite directions. A large earthmoving bucket is fitted at the rear of the vehicle and a rocket-propelled anchor on a 100m hawser attached to an 8 tonne winch can be fitted to the front. When operated from the rear seat the bucket is used for earth moving; clearing obstacles, paths or digging tank or gun pits and anti-tank ditches. When operated from the front-facing seat it can be driven on the road, and the anchor can be used to pull the CET up steep obstacles such as riverbanks. The winch rope can be deployed to the front or the rear of the vehicle with a maximum pull of 8 tonnes in both configurations.\n\nThe vehicle is NBC (Nuclear, Biological and Chemical) proofed and has an air filtration unit, supplying clean air to the crew when operating with the crew hatches closed down in a contaminated environment. The NBC air system is also used to inflate the buoyancy aids required to trim the vehicle when swimming.\n\nAn Auxiliary Lifting Attachment (ALA) - a davit with a winch rope roller - fitted to the inside of the earthmoving bucket was used for lifting loads of up to 4tonnes. Loads such as Medium Girder Bridge pallets could be lifted vertically to a height of 1.8m. This then allowed a cargo vehicle to back under the suspended load, the CET could not travel or turn with a suspended load on the ALA due to lateral weakness of the ALA and the proximity of the load to the earthmoving bucket. Use of the ALA was discontinued in the 1990s due to difficulties in annual testing of the safe working load, and a reduced requirement for its use.\n\nThe amphibious propulsion is provided by two Dowty water impellers, one mounted on each side of the vehicle and controlled by the commander in the rear seat facing forwards. The water jets are used to steer the vehicle when swimming, this is with the use of movable cowls directing the flow of water. When not in use, the propulsion unit water intakes are closed off with armoured covers to prevent damage during digging operations. Flotation aids are required to trim the vehicle for swimming and a \"wash board\" is fitted to the front of the vehicle to prevent the bow wave flooding the crew compartment when entering water. Maximum speed in water is 8.5 knots, the vehicle will wade in 1.8m of water and requires preparation for operating in deeper water this as it achieves buoyancy. FV180 can tow a \"Giant Viper\" anti-mine system. It can be airlifted by a C-130 Hercules aircraft.\n\nFrom 2013 the CET is being replaced by a new, larger vehicle - the 30 tonne Terrier Armoured Digger. This is better protected, equipped with night vision and can be remotely operated if required in more hazardous circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113394", "title": "To Vima", "text": "To Vima\n\nTo Vima () is a Greek daily newspaper first published in 1922 by Dimitris Lambrakis, the father of Christos Lambrakis, as \"Elefthero Vima\" (Free Tribune).\n\nIt was owned by Lambrakis Press Group (DOL), a group that also publishes the newspaper \"Ta Nea\", among others in its fold of publications. The assets of DOL were acquired in 2017 by Alter Ego Media S.A. \"To Vima\" is a high-quality newspaper in Greece, and arguably the most influential in political issues; it was published daily until 2011, but since publishes only its flagship Sunday edition, whose current managing editor is Stavros Psycharis. To Vima is historically the newspaper to which prominent politicians would most commonly provide interviews or write articles. Eleftherios Venizelos, Georgios Papandreou, Nikolaos Plastiras, Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou are among those who wrote for the newspaper.\n\nThe newspaper features as columnists prominent journalists within the Greek media, including Yiannis Pretenderis and Vassilis Moulopoulos. Some of the newspaper's regular columnists include academics, university professors (such as Konstantinos Tsoukalas, Nikos Mouzelis, or Dimitris Psychogios, who contributes under a nom-de-plume), political scientists and a number of politicians. The Sunday edition of the newspaper used to be a staple of Greek press, while today it competes both with the centre-left \"To Proto Thema\" and the high-quality conservative \"Kathimerini\". \"To Vima\", by Greek standards, is considered center-left and is politically aligned with the centrist (reformist) wing of the Greek social-democratic party PASOK. The majority of publications from within the Lambrakis Press fold are also politically aligned with the party. Some of its former editor have occupied key ministerial positions with the PASOK, such as Petros Efthimiou and Giorgos Romeos; it is also not uncommon for some of its journalists to stand for parliament, mainly with PASOK.\n\nTo Vima had a circulation of 114,035 in October 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113395", "title": "Poortugaal", "text": "Poortugaal\n\nPoortugaal is a village that is situated near the municipality of Rotterdam. Together with Rhoon, Poortugaal forms the municipality of Albrandswaard. The village has a long history dating back to the 15th century. It has a church dating from that period. The name is probably derived from Portugal.\n\nSince January 1, 1985, the village has been part of the municipality of Albrandswaard together with Rhoon.\n\nThe village has a connection to the city of Rotterdam by Rotterdam Metro line D, through Poortugaal station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113401", "title": "Hoogvliet", "text": "Hoogvliet\n\nHoogvliet is a borough of Rotterdam, Netherlands. As of 1 January 2004, it had 36,619 inhabitants. There is also a national chain of Dutch supermarkets with the same name.\n\nThe village Hoogvliet was first mentioned on 26 May 1326 in the archive of the \"heren van Putten & Strijen inv. nr. 144\". It used to be called Oedenvliet, Oudenvliet and Odenvliet. It was a separate municipality between 1817 and 1934, when it merged with Rotterdam.\n\n\nHoogvliet has a connection to the city of Rotterdam by Rotterdam Metro lines C and D, through Tussenwater, Hoogvliet, and Zalmplaat stations.\n\nParking places are free of charge. During rush hours and if the Spijkenisser bridge is open, the road from the freeway to Spijkenisse may be clogged.\n"}
{"id": "2113408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113408", "title": "Léon Frissen", "text": "Léon Frissen\n\nLeonardus Johannes Petrus Maria (Léon) Frissen (Beek, 24 June 1950) was Queen's Commissioner or Queen's Governor of the province of Limburg, Netherlands.\n\nIn the Dutch province of Limburg, the Queen's Commissioner is usually called \"Gouverneur\" (governor), as in Belgium. Similarly, the \"Provinciehuis\" (Province Hall) at Maastricht is called \"Gouvernement\" (Governor's Residence). This local custom arose from the particular status of the current province in the nineteenth century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113416", "title": "DB320", "text": "DB320\n\nTomb TT320 (previously referred to as DB320), otherwise known as the Royal Cache, is an Ancient Egyptian tomb located next to Deir el-Bahri, in the Theban Necropolis, opposite the modern city of Luxor. It contains the last resting place of High Priest of Amun Pinedjem II, his wife Nesikhons, and other close family members, in addition to an extraordinary collection of mummified remains and funeral equipment of more than 50 kings, queens, and other New Kingdom members of the royalty, as it was later used as a cache for royal mummies during the Twenty-first Dynasty.\n\nThe tomb is thought to have initially been the last resting place of High Priest of Amun Pinedjem II, his wife Nesikhons, and other close family members. Pinudjem II died around 969 BCE, in a time of decline of the Egyptian kingdom, during which mummies from former dynasties were vulnerable to grave robbery. During Ramesses IX's reign, he had teams that went out and inspected the tombs of pharaohs. If it were discovered that repairs to the tomb or the mummy were needed, arrangements would be made to make the necessary repairs. The tombs that were inspected were found untouched at that time.\n\nDuring Herihor's reign, however, some tombs and mummies were found to be in need of what they called \"renewing the burial places\". The tombs of Ramesses I, Seti I, and Ramesses II required \"renewing\" after pillaging, and this led to the royal mummies being moved to this tomb to protect them, with each coffin given dockets stating when they were moved and where they were reburied; some of the mummies had been moved multiple times before they were placed here.\n\nIt was initially believed that this tomb originally belonged to an Eighteenth Dynasty queen who was found buried here. However, mummies were cached here in the Twenty-first Dynasty and the Eighteenth Dynasty queen was found at or near the entrance of the tomb, suggesting that she was placed in it last, which would indicate that this was not her tomb. If this was her tomb she would have been placed at the far, or back, side of the tomb. When the last of the mummies were placed in TT320, it seemed that the opening was naturally covered with sand and possibly other debris such as rocks, rendering it difficult to find. The first documented case of someone finding this tomb was in 1881. It is possible that this tomb was discovered prior to 1881 but there is no documentation indicating that it was found prior to this.\n\nIn 1881, a tomb-robber named Abd el-Rassul discovered TT320. Later research, conducted by Gaston Maspero, stated that Abd el-Rassul's family discovered TT320 as early as 1871, because items such as canopic vases and funeral papyri from this tomb showed up on the antiquities market in Luxor as early as 1874. For example, the Book of the Dead of Pinudjem II was purchased in 1876 for £400. The story that Abd el-Rassul Ahmed told was that one of his goats fell down a shaft and when he went down the shaft to retrieve the goat, he stumbled across this tomb. As he looked around, he discovered that this was no ordinary tomb. He saw that the mummies entombed in TT 320 were royal. This was indicated by the royal cobra head dress on some of the coffins. Abd and his brother plundered this tomb and lived off of the profits for many years until they were caught. Local authorities were expecting to find several tombs belonging to the family of Herihor. When items started appearing on the antiquities market with their names on them began, local authorities started to investigate the items and were able to trace them back to the Abd el-Rassul family. Authorities interrogated and tortured the two brothers until one of the brothers eventually gave up the location of the tomb where the items were plundered from. Authorities were sent out to TT320 immediately to secure it.\n\nAuthorities arrived at TT320 without the head of the Egyptian Service of Antiquities, because he was on vacation. Instead, the only other European member of the team, Emil Brugsch, was sent with one of the first Egyptian Egyptologists, Ahmed Kamal, to explore and examine TT320. Rather than just exploring, Brugsch had all of the contents, including the mummies, of this tomb removed within 48 hours of them entering this tomb. Neither Brugsch nor Kamal documented the tomb before having the contents removed, which made future study of this tomb difficult. Locations of the coffins were not documented and items were not catalogued. Brugsch went back later to document the tomb but the problem with this is that when he went back, he was not able to remember every detail of the tomb. His recollection of the tomb is questionable since he did not document the details immediately upon entering the tomb. The removal of the items from TT320 so quickly presented problems that the removal team at the time did not take into account.\n\nThe hasty removal of the items in TT320 was not done carefully. When the items were received in Cairo, it was discovered that some coffins had damage that would have happened if they were banged around during removal or transport. Evidence suggests that the damage to the coffins happened during removal from TT320. Brugsch documented the height of the different parts of the tomb and the measurement of the opening was just big enough to drag out the coffins. In addition to this, there were fragments of royal coffins and other items found in the bottom meter of debris in TT320. However, there were approximately ten coffins that were found with their foot ends missing. It is believed that this happened before they were placed in TT320 because there was no mention, by Brugsch, of foot ends whether they were whole, in pieces or fragments being found. A research team entered TT320 in 1998 for research and that team did not find any evidence of foot ends either. In addition to plundering of TT 320 and the royal tombs of the mummies found here, the mummies themselves were plundered also.\n\nOnce the coffins/mummies and items made it back to Cairo they were examined. It was found that not only were the tombs plundered but so were the mummies, and that some of the mummies were found in the wrong coffins. Some of the mummy's heads and limbs had been removed by tomb robbers to be able to get to amulets found under the wrappings of the mummies in addition to other precious ornaments found on the mummies. \n\nConsidering the inconsistencies of some of the mummies mentioned previously, one mummy in particular raises many questions due to inconsistencies in two of his papyri. The first papyrus, Book of the Dead of Djed Ptah Uefankh A was read incorrectly. The person who read it thought that one of Djed Ptah Uefankh A's titles was part of his name. On the second papyrus, The Amduat papyrus, Djed Ptah Uefa Ankh A's first title was \"the third prophet of Amun\". However, he is called \"the second prophet of Amun\" on his coffin. This is thought to be because the items that had \"the third prophet of Amun\" were prepared prior to him reaching the position of \"the second prophet of Amun\". Djed Ptah Uefa Ankh was believed to be royal because on the Amduat papyrus his \"priestly title\" is immediately followed by \"the king's son\" and that is followed by \"of Ramesses\". Similar text is found on the Book of the Dead papyrus with one exception, \"the king's son\" is followed by \"of the lord of the two lands\". This title is what gave the impression that he was royal but that title does not mean that he was royal. In fact it is believed that he was not royal at all. Cynthia Sheikholeslami says that \"It is clear that the actual title [of Djedptahiuefankh] should be understood as 'king's son of Ramesses' rather than as an indication of membership in the royal family\". There are eight other individuals known to hold this same title. It is argued that this title was given to someone from a certain region, more specifically a town in the Delta called Ramesses.\n\nThe chamber is reached by a nearly vertical chimney, which was left open in 1881, and has since filled with rocks and other debris (in fact every object that was left in the tomb has now been damaged in some way). It was reinvestigated in 1938. Since 1998 a Russian-German team led by Erhart Graefe has been working on reinvestigating and preserving the tomb.\n\nResearch teams have entered TT320 a number of times since its discovery, but the most successful research team entered TT320 in 1998. They cleared the passageways of fallen debris such as stones and fallen walls. They were able to find fragments of coffins and other small items. They were able to see some paintings after clearing debris away from the walls. These paintings, coupled with the archaeological fragments and the coffins, led this research team to conclude that this tomb was originally owned by a family from the Twenty-first Dynasty as a family tomb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113417", "title": "Total Linhas Aéreas", "text": "Total Linhas Aéreas\n\nTotal Linhas Aéreas S/A is an airline based in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, founded in 1988. It operates cargo and charter services.\n\nThe airline has its origins in 1988 as air taxi company called Total Aero Taxi, owned by Grupo Empresarial Rota.\n\nIn December 1994 Total was sold to Transportadora Sulista S/A, a group specialized in road transportation. It is from this time that dates the letter S that can be seen on its logo.\n\nIn 1996 Total started operating as a regular regional air carrier with authorization for passenger and cargo transportation, operating its own flights and also on behalf of other Brazilian airlines such as Transbrasil.\n\nIn 1999 Total participated with Interbrasil STAR in the creation of a shuttle service between Rio de Janeiro-Santos Dumont and Belo Horizonte-Pampulha using mostly the ATR-42 of Total.\nOn Nov 13, 2007 TRIP Linhas Aéreas and Total Linhas Aéreas agreed to merge, and on May 2008, after approval by the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil, the merger was concluded. According to this agreement, all passenger services were transferred to TRIP Linhas Aéreas whereas charter and cargo flights remained under the brand Total Linhas Aéreas.\n\nOn May 2012, days before the announced purchase of TRIP Linhas Aéreas by Azul Brazilian Airlines Trip and Total were separated. However Total decided to continue with only cargo and charter flights operations.\n\nPresently Total operates four ATR42-500 for regular charter flights, particularly for Petrobras in Amazonas and five Boeing 727-200F for cargo and nightmail flights as per contract with Brazilian Post and Telegraph Corporation and the Central Bank of Brazil, among others.\n\nAs of September 2014 Total Linhas Aéreas regularly operated services to the following destinations in Brazil:\n\nThe Total Linhas Aéreas fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of August 2019):\n\nThe airline previously operated the following aircraft:\n\nTotal Linhas Aéreas has no Frequent Flyer Program.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113421", "title": "Shulman", "text": "Shulman\n\nShulman is a Jewish-Ashkenazi surname that means literally \"shul-man\" (\"synagogue-man\"). The name was given to the head of the synagogue or to the synagogue's Rabbi. It can also appear as a result of double transliteration to and from Cyrillic alphabets of the German surname Schulmann.\n\nNotable people named Shulman include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2113425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113425", "title": "Anglican Diocese of Manchester", "text": "Anglican Diocese of Manchester\n\nThe Diocese of Manchester is a Church of England diocese in the Province of York, England. Based in the city of Manchester, the diocese covers much of the county of Greater Manchester and small areas of the counties of Lancashire and Cheshire.\n\nAfter passage of the Bishopric of Manchester Act 1847, the Diocese of Manchester was founded on 1 September 1847, having previously been part of the Diocese of Chester.\n\nThe diocese was founded in accordance with the Third Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, appointed to consider the state of the Established Church in England and Wales, printed in 1836. It recommended the formation of the Bishopric of Manchester, and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners Act 1836 (6 and 7 William IV cap. 77) was passed that year whereby the King, by Order-in-Council was empowered to carry into effect the recommendations of the commissioners. It provided that the sees of St. Asaph and Bangor should be united on the next vacancy in either, and on that occurring the Bishop of Manchester should be created.\n\nThe union of the sees never took place and the Bishopric of Manchester Act 1847 was brought forward which authorised the Ecclesiastical Commissioners to bring forward an alternative reorganisation scheme in Chambers which received royal assent and the bishopric was constituted.\n\nThe diocese on its creation in 1847 originally covered the historic hundreds of Salford, Blackburn, Leyland and Amounderness and the Parish of Leigh, which lay in the hundred of West Derby. However, with the creation of the Diocese of Blackburn in 1926, which took the three northern hundreds, Manchester was left with just the hundred of Salford and Leigh. The final boundary change to the diocese was in 1933, by annexing Wythenshawe from the Diocese of Chester.\n\nAt the same time the diocese was founded, the collegiate church in Manchester was elevated to cathedral status to become the Cathedral Church of St Mary, St Denys and St George where the bishop's throne (\"cathedra\") is located.\n\nThe diocesan Bishop of Manchester, David Walker, is the ordinary of the diocese and is assisted by Mark Davies, Bishop suffragan of Middleton, and Mark Ashcroft, Bishop suffragan of Bolton. The Bishop of Middleton oversees the archdeaconries of Manchester and Rochdale, and the Bishop of Bolton the archdeaconries of Bolton and Salford. Alternative episcopal oversight (for parishes in the diocese who reject the ministry of priests who are women) is provided by the provincial episcopal visitor (PEV) the Bishop suffragan of Beverley, Glyn Webster. He is licensed as an honorary assistant bishop of the diocese in order to facilitate his work there. Besides Webster, there are four retired honorary assistant bishops licensed in the diocese:\n\nThe diocese is divided into four archdeaconries, each divided into a number of deaneries.\n\nArchdeaconry of Manchester (created 1843)\nArchdeaconry of Bolton (created 1982)\nArchdeaconry of Rochdale (created 1910)\nArchdeaconry of Salford (created 2009)\n\nThe first, and thus far only, Archdeacon of Salford, since 2009, is David Sharples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113429", "title": "Joe Pyne", "text": "Joe Pyne\n\nJoe Pyne (September 22, 1924 – March 23, 1970) was an American radio and television talk show host, who pioneered the confrontational style in which the host advocates a viewpoint and argues with guests and audience members. He was an influence on other major talk show hosts such as Bill O'Reilly, Glenn Beck, Wally George, Alan Burke, Chris Matthews, Morton Downey, Jr., Bob Grant, and Michael Savage.\n\nJoseph Pyne was born in Chester, Pennsylvania. His father, Edward Pyne, was a bricklayer; his mother, Catherine, was a housewife. Pyne graduated from Chester High School in 1942, and immediately enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. He saw combat in the South Pacific, where he earned three battle stars. In 1943, during a Japanese bombing attack, he was wounded in the left knee; he earned a Purple Heart as a result of his injuries. In 1955, he lost the lower part of that leg due to a rare form of cancer.\n\nDischarged from the Marines at the end of World War II, Pyne attended a local drama school to correct a speech impediment. While studying there, he decided to try radio. He worked briefly in Lumberton, North Carolina, before he was hired at a new station, WPWA, in Brookhaven, Pennsylvania. However, he argued with the owner and was fired. Next, he got a job at radio station WILM (AM) in Wilmington, Delaware, the first of three times he would work at that station. He moved to WVCH, a new station in Chester, which went on the air in March 1948. Seeing little chance to advance his career in Chester, Pyne left after a year and a half. He moved to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where he was hired at WLIP, owned by local station owner William Lipman (hence the call letters). After six months of hosting innocuous programs such as \"Meet Your Neighbor\" from various grocery stores, he quit during a confrontation with WLIP management in which he threw Lipman's typewriter against a wall. Pyne worked at several stations in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and began to change his style of broadcasting.\n\nPyne gradually tired of being a disc jockey who made comments about politics and current events. He developed his on-air persona as an opinionated host who knew something about everything. He returned to WILM, where he debuted as a talk show host in 1950. He would later tell reporters that he first experimented with two-way talk during his time in Kenosha. His new show was unique. He named it \"It's Your Nickel\", a popular idiomatic phrase when a call from a pay phone cost five cents. The format was Pyne expressing his opinions on various topics. Listeners would call to ask questions, offer their own opinions, or raise new topics. At first, Pyne didn't put callers on the air; he paraphrased for the audience what they had said. Soon the callers and his interaction with them became the heart of the show. Pyne became famous for arguing with or insulting those with whom he disagreed. One of his trademark insults was \"Go gargle with razor blades.\"\n\nBy the early 1950s, television was replacing radio as America's main medium. In 1954, Pyne moved to television with \"The Joe Pyne Show\", broadcast by WDEL-TV in Wilmington. In 1957, he moved to Los Angeles. His initial show was unsuccessful, and he returned to Wilmington. He hosted a TV talk show on WVUE, which was also seen in Philadelphia, and received positive reviews from critics. In the late 1950s the local black press generally praised him for inviting black newsmakers on his show to discuss issues of concern to their community. One of his regular guests was a member of the editorial staff of the area's black newspaper, the \"Philadelphia Tribune\", usually a columnist or the newspaper's publisher. Pyne continued this program until late 1959, when he returned to Los Angeles. This time, he was more successful. By 1960, he was hosting a radio show on KABC (AM). The acerbic Bob Grant took over Pyne's show in 1964, and Pyne continued on KLAC. This led to a television show on KTTV.\n\nIn 1965, during the Watts Riots in Los Angeles, Pyne was interviewing a black militant on his TV show. At one point, Pyne opened his coat to reveal that he was carrying a handgun. His guest did likewise. The station suspended Pyne for one week as a result of this stunt, which led to both the FCC considering pulling KTTV's license \"and\" syndication companies looking at distributing Pyne's show nationally. Later that year, Viacom did begin syndicating \"The Joe Pyne Show\", carried by as many as 85 television stations (and 250 radio stations) at its peak. At the height of his fame, he was making $200,000 annually. At the beginning of each show he was introduced by an announcer as \"the loveable, but opinionated Joe Pyne!\"\n\nIn 1966, NBC gave Pyne a daytime game show, \"Showdown\". Its distinguishing feature was that contestants who missed a question would fall to the floor in a breakaway chair. \"Showdown\" lasted only three months and was replaced by \"The Hollywood Squares\", which would run for 14 years, ending in 1980.\n\nPyne spoke out against racial discrimination and supported the Vietnam War. He ridiculed hippies (a favorite target), homosexuals, and feminists. Though generally a conservative, Pyne spoke in favor of labor unions. His tendency toward insult and vitriol offended most critics, who called him \"outrageous,\" \"belligerent,\" and \"self-righteous.\" Groups such as the Anti-Defamation League accused him of catering to bigots; however, audiences kept listening and watching.\n\nThere are many documented cases of Pyne getting into altercations with people on his show. He preferred controversial guests such as Anton Szandor Lavey, Sam Sloan and invited members of the Ku Klux Klan, the American Nazi Party, and followers of murderer Charles Manson. Pyne argued this was educational, since it exposed these violent groups to the public eye. \"The Joe Pyne Show\" was not only verbally confrontational: at times the conflict became physical, with chairs being thrown at Pyne by the interviewee. If the \"discussion\" got too heated, the guest would often walk off, or Pyne would himself throw the guest off the show, with the parting comment, \"take a hike.\" Still, Pyne once described himself as an \"overly compensating introvert.\"\n\nA notorious story of a confrontation on Pyne's television show involves guest Paul Krassner, the editor of \"The Realist\". Pyne made insulting remarks about Krassner's acne scars. Without missing a beat, Krassner asked Pyne if his wooden leg caused any difficulty in having sex with his wife. Pyne was bewildered, so he sought comments from his audience, which, at this point in his career, was made up of whomever KTTV could bring in from Hollywood Boulevard. The audience happened to include musician and activist Phil Ochs, whom Krassner had brought along to the studio. Ochs very calmly remarked, \"What Paul Krassner has just done is in the finest tradition of American journalism.\" No video of this incident survives; Krassner insists that it occurred, but was edited out of the broadcast.\n\nA similar exchange reportedly occurred with Frank Zappa: Pyne is reported to have said \"I guess your long hair makes you a woman\", to which Zappa responded \"So I guess your wooden leg makes you a table.\"\n\nMaulana Karenga, a black author, political activist, and creator of Kwanzaa, was a frequent guest on the show, as was Robert Dornan (\"B-1 Bob\"), later to become a congressman from Orange County.\n\nGay activists Harry Hay and John Burnside—who were a couple from 1962 until Hay's death in 2002—appeared on Pyne's show in 1967.\n\nIn the 1966 film \"Unkissed Bride\" (aka \"Mother Goose A Go-Go\") Pyne appears as himself hosting a portion of his radio show discussing psychiatrists, and then later in a car with his wife out for dinner, and including a chauffeur who answers a car phone call from someone calling him as if he's still hosting the phone-in radio show.\n\nThe 1969 film \"Midnight Cowboy\" includes a brief clip of a fictional TV talk show similar to Pyne's, with screenwriter Waldo Salt appearing in a cameo as the host.\n\nPyne developed lung cancer from his smoking habit, and died in Los Angeles on March 23, 1970, at the age of 45 and was cremated. He was survived by his fifth wife Britt Larsen Pyne, their daughter Claudia, and his other children, Cathee, Ed, and Sheila.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113431", "title": "David Rotheray", "text": "David Rotheray\n\nDavid Rotheray (born 9 February 1963, Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England) is an English rock and pop musician, best known for being the lead guitarist for The Beautiful South.\n\nRotheray was born the last of five children. His parents were both intellectuals and had met through the Young Communist League. Having much older brothers and sisters sped up his musical progress; by the age of 10 he was listening to rock and imagined being in a band. His chosen instrument at the time was the bass guitar.\n\nRotheray joined his first band when he was aged 13; it was called Mammoth, at one time performing the then-current Sex Pistols song, \"Pretty Vacant\" at a school concert, without any microphones. At that time Rotheray's musical tastes were for progressive rock, his favourite being Pink Floyd. His parents were worried but still allowed him to play and drove him to clubs to perform. Eventually, Mammoth evolved into a band called The Newpolitans. Both Mammoth and the Newpolitans featured Hugh Whitaker on drums, who later became the drummer for The Housemartins. The Newpolitans also later featured Dave Hemingway on drums, who also became drummer for the Housemartins and then a singer with the Beautiful South.\n\nThe Newpolitan's style was a mixture of the current musical styles, from the Style Council to the Gang of Four. Band members included temporary additions, mainly for demo recordings, were saxophonist Kev Christian and the trumpet players Andrew Nicholson and Andy Russell. The Newpolitans recorded a self-financed single, but the failure of the single provided the catalyst for the band's demise. Rotheray and Hemingway then went on to form the Velvetones with other musician friends from Hull.\n\nWhilst studying for a PhD at Hull University, living on Grafton Street in Hull, Rotheray met Paul Heaton who formed the Beautiful South and they began writing songs together.\n\nIn 2001, Heaton released the album, \"Fat Chance\". However, as the bulk of the tracks on \"Fat Chance\" were written by Heaton, or with collaborators other than Rotheray, it was decided that Rotheray too would have a side project whilst The Beautiful South were on a recording hiatus.\n\nHomespun originally featured Rotheray and Sam Brown. The band released three albums. Brown was replaced by Helen 'Aitch' McRobbie as lead vocalist before Homespun split up in 2008. Rotheray concentrated on a solo project involving different singers from the contemporary scene.\n\n\nRotheray announced the release of his first 'solo' album, \"The Life of Birds\" for 16 August 2010, on the Proper Music label. Although ostensibly a solo effort, the record featured collaborations with ten different singer/songwriters including Alasdair Roberts, Jim Causley, Eliza Carthy and Camille O'Sullivan.\n\n\nFollowing its release in 2010, \"The Life of Birds\" was generally well received critically. In November 2010 and again in March 2011, Rotheray embarked on a tour, playing the album in full, with Jim Causley and Bella Hardy handling all the vocal duties. The live shows were also well received.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113433", "title": "Dan Breen", "text": "Dan Breen\n\nDaniel Breen (; 11 August 1894 – 27 December 1969) was a volunteer in the Irish Republican Army during the Irish War of Independence and the Irish Civil War. In later years he was a Fianna Fáil politician.\n\nDan Breen was born in Grange, Donohill parish, County Tipperary. His father died when Dan was six, leaving them very poor.\n\nHe was educated locally, before becoming a plasterer and later a linesman on the Great Southern Railways.\n\nBreen was sworn into the Irish Republican Brotherhood in 1912 and the Irish Volunteers in 1914. On 21 January 1919, the day the First Dáil met in Dublin, Breen—who described himself as \"a soldier first and foremost\"—took part in the Soloheadbeg Ambush. The ambush party of eight men, nominally led by Séumas Robinson, attacked two Royal Irish Constabulary men who were escorting explosives to a quarry. The two policemen, James McDonnell and Patrick O’Connell, were fatally shot during the incident. The ambush is considered to be the first incident of the Irish War of Independence. \n\nBreen later recalled: \"\"...we took the action deliberately, having thought over the matter and talked it over between us. [Seán] Treacy had stated to me that the only way of starting a war was to kill someone, and we wanted to start a war, so we intended to kill some of the police whom we looked upon as the foremost and most important branch of the enemy forces ... The only regret that we had following the ambush was that there were only two policemen in it, instead of the six we had expected...\"\"\n\nDuring the conflict, the British put a £1,000 price on Breen's head, which was later raised to £10,000. He quickly established himself as a leader within the Irish Republican Army (IRA). He was known for his courage. On 13 May 1919, he helped rescue his comrade Seán Hogan at gunpoint from a heavily guarded train at Knocklong station in County Limerick. Breen, who was wounded, remembered how the battalion was \"vehemently denounced as a cold-blooded assassins\" and roundly condemned by the Catholic Church. After the fight, Seán Treacy, Séumas Robinson and Breen met Michael Collins in Dublin, where they were told to escape from the area. They agreed they would \"fight it out, of course\". Breen and Treacy shot their way out through a British military cordon in the northern suburb of Drumcondra (Fernside). They escaped, only for Treacy to be killed the next day. Breen was shot at least four times, twice in the lung.\n\nThe British reaction was to make Tipperary a 'Special Military Area', with curfews and travel permits. Volunteer GHQ authorised enterprising attacks on barracks. Richard Mulcahy noted that British policy had \"pushed rather turbulent spirits such as Breen and Treacy into the Dublin area\". The inculcation of the principles of guerrilla warfare was to become an essential part of all training. They joined Collins' Squad of assassins, later known as the Dublin Guard, when Tipperary became \"too hot for them\". and Dublin was the centre of the war.\n\nBreen was present in December 1919 at the ambush in Ashtown beside Phoenix Park in Dublin where Martin Savage was killed while trying to assassinate the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, Viscount French. The IRA men hid behind hedges and a dungheap as the convoy of vehicles came past. They had been instructed to ignore the first car, but this contained their target, Lord French. Their roadblock failed as a policeman removed the horse and cart intended to stop the car.\n\nBreen rejected the Anglo-Irish Treaty, which made him, like many others, angry and embittered: I would never have handled a gun or fired a shot… to obtain this Treaty… writing on the second anniversary of Martin Savage's death, do you suppose that he sacrificed his life in attempting to kill one British Governor-General to make room for another British Governor-General?\n\nRegarding the continued existence of Northern Ireland from 1922, and an inevitable further war to conquer it to create a united Ireland, Breen commented: \n\nIn the June 1922 general election Breen was nominated as a candidate by both the pro- and anti-Treaty sides, in the Waterford–Tipperary East constituency, but was not elected.\n\nBreen was elected to Dáil Éireann at the 1923 general election as a Republican anti-Treaty Teachta Dála (TD) for the Tipperary constituency. Following the Anglo-Irish Treaty, Breen joined the Anti-Treaty IRA in the Civil War, fighting against those of his former comrades in arms who supported the Treaty. He was arrested by the National Army of the Irish Free State and interned at Limerick Prison. He spent two months there before going on hunger strike for six days, followed by a thirst strike of six days. Breen was then released.\n\nBreen was married on 12 June 1921, during the War of Independence, to Brigid Malone, a Dublin Cumann na mBan woman. They had met in Dublin when she helped to nurse him while he was recovering from a bullet wound.\n\nSeán Hogan was best man, and the bride's sister Aine Malone was the bridesmaid. Photographs of the wedding celebrations taken by 5th Battalion intelligence officer Séan Sharkey are published in \"The Tipperary Third Brigade a photographic record\". Breen was at the time one of the most wanted men in Ireland, and South Tipperary was under martial law, yet a large celebration was held. The wedding took place at Purcell's, \"Glenagat House\", New Inn, County Tipperary. Many of the key members of the Third Tipperary Brigade attended, including flying column leaders Dinny Lacey and Hogan.\n\nThe Breens had two children, Donal and Granya.\n\nBreen was an atheist.\n\nBreen wrote a best-selling account of his guerrilla days, \"My Fight for Irish Freedom\" in 1924, later republished by Rena Dardis and Anvil Press. He represented Tipperary from the Fourth Dáil in 1923 as a Republican with Éamon de Valera and Frank Aiken. He was the first anti-Treaty TD to take his seat, in 1927. Defeated in the June 1927 general election, Breen travelled to the United States, where he opened a speakeasy. He returned to Ireland in 1932, and regained his seat as a member of Fianna Fáil in the Dáil at that year's general election. He represented his Tipperary constituency without a break until his retirement at the 1965 election.\n\nDuring World War II he was said to hold largely pro-Axis views. When Ailtirí na hAiséirghe failed to win any seats in the 1944 Irish general election he remarked that he was sorry that the party had not done better as he had studied their programme and found a lot to commend. In 1946 he became secretary of the Save the German Children Society. He attended the funeral of Nazi spy Hermann Gortz on 27 May 1947. Irish-American John S. Monagan visited Breen in 1948 and was surprised to see two pictures of Adolf Hitler, a medallion of Napoleon and a radio which was a Telefunken. Breen told him \"the revolution didn't work out,\" and \"to get the government they have now, I wouldn't have lost a night's sleep.\" He also said that he fought for freedom, but not for democracy. In 1943 Breen sent his \"congratulations to the Fuhrer. May he live long to lead Europe on the road to peace, security and happiness\".\n\nAfter the End of World War II in Europe the German Legation in Dublin was taken over by diplomats from the USA in May 1945, and \".. they found a recent letter from Breen asking the German minister to forward his birthday wishes to the Fuhrer, just days before Hitler committed suicide.\"\n\nBreen was co-chairman of the anti-Vietnam War organisation \"Irish Voice on Vietnam\".\n\nHe died in Dublin in 1969 and was buried in Donohill, near his birthplace. His funeral was the largest seen in west Tipperary since that of his close friend and comrade-in-arms, Seán Treacy at Kilfeacle in October 1920. An estimated attendance of 10,000 mourners assembled in the tiny hamlet, giving ample testimony to the esteem in which he was held. \n\nBreen was the subject of a 2007 biography, \"Dan Breen and the IRA\" by Joe Ambrose.\n\nBreen is mentioned in the Irish folk ballad \"The Galtee Mountain Boy\", along with Seán Moylan, Dinny Lacey, and Seán Hogan. The song, written by Patsy Halloran, recalls some of the travels of a \"Flying column\" from Tipperary as they fought during the Irish War of Independence, and later against the pro-Treaty side during the Irish Civil War.\n\n\n\n\n<includeonly></includeonly>"}
{"id": "2113435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113435", "title": "NWA United States Heavyweight Championship (San Francisco version)", "text": "NWA United States Heavyweight Championship (San Francisco version)\n\nThe NWA San Francisco United States Championship was a version of the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship that was defended in NWA San Francisco and, later, Big Time Wrestling. The title, which originated as the American Wrestling Alliance United States Championship and was renamed in 1968, existed from 1960 until 1981.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113444", "title": "Kamran Akmal", "text": "Kamran Akmal\n\nKamran Akmal (Punjabi, ; \nborn 13 January 1982) is a Pakistani international cricketer, who plays for Pakistan as a right-handed batsmen & wicketkeeper. He started his international career in November 2002 with a Test match at Harare Sports Club.\n\nKamran Akmal is a quick-scoring batsman and a wicket-keeper, who has achieved 6 centuries in Test cricket. However, his first century was vital – his 109 from the number eight position at Mohali, coming in with Pakistan in a lead of 39 against India in the first Test, ensured that the visitors could draw the match. His form against the touring England in 2005 made him one of the most important players in the team. Naturally, he is a batsman that plays lower down the order but has also opened in limited over formats. As an opener he has scored two back to back centuries in ODIs against England. Coming in lower down the order in Test matches, he played one memorable innings. He saved Pakistan from a score of 39/6, scoring a century, to a competitive 245 which helped Pakistan win the match and the series.\n\nHis batting was highly productive in early 2006 as he scored seven international hundreds within the space of 6 months. Since his tour of England in Summer 2006 however his batting form dwindled and steadily become worse. His wicket-keeping also worsened and dropped many catches on both the England tour and on a tour to South Africa in early 2007. He then scored an international hundred in the Bangladeshi tour of Pakistan in 2008. He later moved to have some injuries and did not play for some days but later he was again brought into the team.\n\nAkmal was dropped for the 2008 Asia Cup as a result of his poor wicket-keeping. He was replaced by Sarfraz Ahmed who performed very well at the domestic level and also because of Sarfraz's strong showing in the U-19 World Cup. Akmal was named in the 30 man probable squad for the 2008 ICC Champions Trophy.\n\nAkmal was part of the Pakistan team that won the T20 World Cup in 2009. He was notable for his quick stumpings, dismissing 4 batsmen in one match against Netherlands.\n\nOn 12 November 2008, Akmal hit three consecutive 6s in the last over. As a result, Pakistan won the first ODI in Abu Dhabi against West Indies.\n\nOn 17 July 2010, Akmal was appointed the vice-captain of the Pakistani test squad but later removed because of his alleged involvement in spot fixing.\n\nIn August 2012, Akmal was recalled for the three ODI series against Australia.\n\nIn Feb–March 2017, he played for Peshawar Zalmi in Pakistan Super League 2017. In the 3rd Qualifying match he scored 104 runs, the first century in PSL 2017. In this match Peshawar Zalmi won and moved to final of PSL for first time.\n\nIn the 2nd Test match in Sydney on the 2009–10 tour of Australia, Akmal dropped four catches in the Australian innings, three of those coming from Michael Hussey. Hussey went on to score 134* and was involved in a massive 9th wicket partnership stand of 133 runs with Peter Siddle. Pakistan eventually went on to lose the match by 36 runs, after being dismissed for just 139 in the second innings. Later it was alleged that he, along with pace bowler Rana Naved-ul-Hasan were involved in match fixing, and were questioned by Pakistan Cricket Board and subsequently dropped for the Twenty20 series against England.\n\nIn early September 2010, the International Cricket Council (ICC) sent an official notice to Kamran Akmal telling him that he is under investigation for allegedly fixing the Sydney Test. For the subsequent series against South Africa in October 2010 Akmal had an operation to remove his appendix and was unavailable for the limited-overs squad. Akmal was able to recover from the operation to participate in the two-match test series but Zulqarnain Haider was selected ahead of him. Another reason also emerged that Kamran Akmal, Shoaib Malik, Umar Amin and Yasir Hameed were not selected for the tour due to the fact that suspicions were raised that they were involved with the spot-fixing scandal that included Salman Butt, Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif. Another player Wahab Riaz was under investigation for match fixing but the ICC had interrogated him and he was no longer part of the investigation therefore he was allowed to take part on the tour of South Africa that included two Twenty20 Internationals, five ODI matches and two Test matches. Though this has not been confirmed by the board, it is believed that the reason they were not picked was that the suspicion had not been cleared. The ICC confirmed that Akmal had been barred from entering the team. Once his investigation was completed he was available for national selection.\n\nKamran Akmal has been constantly criticized for his lack of consistent wicket-keeping. During the 2010 Australia tour it was once said by the Pakistani fans \"That other teams have wicketkeeper behind the stumps while our team just has 32 teeth\". \n\nAfter another horrendous series behind the stumps against Sri Lanka in January 2009, journalists and former players called for his removal from the national team. His wicket-keeping steadily improved, with a very strong showing in the 2009 T20 World Cup, including a world-record performance of four stumpings in a single match against the Netherlands. However, during the second test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground he dropped four catches, including three chances from Michael Hussey in one session on Day 4. Hussey went on to score a match winning century with the Pakistan team losing in a shock result after dominating the first three days of play. He was subsequently dropped for the third test, being replaced by Sarfraz Ahmed. After this tour Akmal saw a steady improvement in his wicket-keeping for the 2010 ICC World Twenty20, 2010 Asia Cup and against Australia in July 2010 however the next test series against England saw Akmal drop three easy catches and miss a stumping. The match as a consolation saw Akmal take a superb catch of Kevin Pietersen before dropping a catch on the very next ball against Paul Collingwood. In the first innings Akmal dropped a catch of Eoin Morgan when he was on 23 who then went on to score 130. Despite having another keeper, Zulqarnain Haider, in the squad, Pakistani captain Salman Butt announced it was too early in the series as only one match had been played to decide the fate of Kamran Akmal.\n\nAkmal was signed on to the Rajasthan Royals, and played in the inaugural season of the IPL. He played five matches in the tournament, as Wicket-keeper and top-order batsman, including the final of the tournament against the Chennai Super Kings. He took two catches in the first innings, however he was run out for six runs during the Royal's chase. The Royals went on to win the tournament after a thrilling finish. He did not play in 2009 because Pakistani players were not selected by any IPL teams to participate that season as a result of the tense atmosphere after the 2008 Mumbai attacks.\n\nKamran was picked (\"bought\") for US$50,000 by the Peshawar Zalmi side. He had an average scoring of just 151 runs in the 2016 season scoring, with a highest score of 45. He was retained on the back of his tremendous performance in 2016–17 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy. In the inaugural match of 2017 season against Islamabad United he scored 88 runs off just 48 balls. He lost his rhythm in the middle of the season but found his form at right time against Karachi Kings in a do-or-die match scoring a century off only 60 balls, ensuring his team a place in the final. He was later adjudged player-of-the-match. He finished the tournament as the leading run-scorer with 353 runs and won the green cap and the Hanif Mohammad Award for best batsman, as well as the Imtiaz Ahmed award for the best wicket keeper of the season with a total of 12 dismissals.\n\nOn 3 June 2018, he was selected to play for the Toronto Nationals in the players' draft for the inaugural edition of the Global T20 Canada tournament. In September 2018, he was named in Balkh's squad in the first edition of the Afghanistan Premier League tournament.\n\nIn the 2016–17 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy, Akmal was the highest run-scorer in the tournament making 1,035 runs. In November 2017, he scored 150 not out batting for Lahore Whites against Islamabad in the 2017–18 National T20 Cup. He became the first batsman for Pakistan to score 150 runs in a T20 match. He also hit the most number of sixes in a domestic T20 match in Pakistan and became the third batsman to make five consecutive fifties in T20 cricket. During the 2017-18 National T20 Cup he along with Salman Butt set the world record opening partnership in T20 history of unbeaten 209 runstand, surpassing the previous highest opening partnership of 207 in any form of T20 cricket held by Joe Denly and Daniel Bell-Drummond. The record runstand was also the third highest partnership in terms of runs for any wicket in T20 history.\n\nIn April 2018, he was named as the captain of Federal Areas' squad for the 2018 Pakistan Cup. In the opening fixture of the tournament, against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, he scored 105 runs and was named the man of the match. He was the leading run-scorer for Federal Areas in the tournament, with 313 runs in four matches. In March 2019, he was named as the captain of Punjab's squad for the 2019 Pakistan Cup.\n\nIn September 2019, he was named in Central Punjab's squad for the 2019–20 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy tournament.\n\nHis brothers are Adnan Akmal and Umar Akmal, who are also professional cricketers, the former being a keeper-batsman and the latter being a specialist batsman as well as part-time wicket-keeper. He married in 2006 and lives with his wife and children. He is a matriculated of Central Model School, Lahore.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113447", "title": "Musée Marmottan Monet", "text": "Musée Marmottan Monet\n\nMusée Marmottan Monet is located at 2, rue Louis Boilly in the 16th arrondissement of Paris and features over three hundred Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings by Claude Monet, including his 1872 \"Impression, Sunrise\". It is the largest collection of his works.\n\nThe museum also contains works by Berthe Morisot, Edgar Degas, Édouard Manet, Alfred Sisley, Camille Pissarro, Paul Gauguin, Paul Signac, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and others. It also houses the Wildenstein Collection of illuminated manuscripts and the Jules and Paul Marmottan collection of Napoleonic era art and furniture.\n\nMarmottan Museum's fame is the result of a donation in 1966 by Michel Monet, Claude's second son and only heir.\n\nThe nearest métro station is La Muette, on line 9.\n\nOriginally a hunting lodge for the Duke of Valmy, the house at the edge of the Bois de Boulogne was purchased by Jules Marmottan in 1882 who later left it to his son Paul Marmottan. Marmottan moved into the lodge and, with an interest in the Napoleonic era, he expanded his father's collection of paintings, furniture and bronzes. Marmottan bequeathed his home and collection to the Académie des Beaux-Arts. The Académie opened up the house and collection as the Museum Marmottan in 1934.\n\nThough originally a showcase for pieces from the First Empire, the nature of the museum's collection began to change with two major donations. In 1957, Victorine Donop de Monchy gave the museum an important collection of Impressionist works that had belonged to her father, Doctor Georges de Bellio, physician to Manet, Monet, Pissarro, Sisley and Renoir, and an early supporter of the Impressionist movement. In 1966, Claude Monet's second son, Michel Monet, left the museum his own collection of his father's work, thus creating the world's largest collection of Monet paintings. In 1985, Nelly Duhem, adopted daughter of the painter Henri Duhem, donated his large collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist works (which included several Monets) to the museum.\n\nJacque Carlu, then curator of the museum, built a special exhibition space for the Monet collection in a lower level of the museum. Inspired by the hall designed for Monet's \"Water Lilies\" murals in the Musée de l'Orangerie, the large, open room allows visitors to see a progression of Monet's work, as well as to view his canvases both up close and from afar. One of the most notable pieces in the museum is Monet's \"Impression, Sunrise\" \"(Impression, Soleil Levant)\", the painting from which the Impressionist movement took its name. The painting was stolen from the Musée Marmottan in 1985 but recovered five years later and returned to the permanent exhibit in 1991.\n\nSince 1975 the museum has organized two exhibitions annually dedicated to an individual or collections, including Toulouse-Lautrec in 1976, Boilly in 1984, Daumier in 1989, Goya in 1990, Boldini in 1991 and Pissarro in 2017. The museum's paintings from late in the career Claude Monet were exhibited at the New Orleans Museum of Art and Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco in 1995. The works later traveled to the Walters Art Museum, San Diego Museum of Art and Portland Museum of Art in 1998-1999.\n\nOn 27 October 1985, during daylight hours, five masked gunmen with pistols threatening security and visitors entered the museum and stole nine paintings from the collection. Among them were \"Impression, Sunrise (Impression, soleil levant)\" by Claude Monet, the painting from which the Impressionism movement took its name. Aside from that also stolen were \"Camille Monet and Cousin on the Beach at Trouville\", \"Portrait of Jean Monet,\" \"Portrait of Poly, Fisherman of Belle-Isle\" and \"Field of Tulips in Holland\" also by Monet, \"Bather Sitting on a Rock\" and \"Portrait of Monet\" by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, \"Young Woman at the Ball\" by Berthe Morisot, and \"Portrait of Monet\" by Seiichi Naruse. The stolen paintings were valued at $12 million.\n\nA tip-off led to the arrest in Japan of a yakuza gangster named Shuinichi Fujikuma who had spent time in French prison for trafficking heroin and was sentenced for five years. There he met Philippe Jamin and Youssef Khimoun who were part of an art syndicate. Fujikuma, Jamin and Khimoun planned the Marmottan theft. In Fujikuma's house, police found a catalog with all the stolen paintings from the museum circled. Also found were two paintings by Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot stolen in 1984 from a museum in France. This led to the recovery of the stolen paintings in a small villa in Corsica in December 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113449", "title": "Transportes Charter do Brasil", "text": "Transportes Charter do Brasil\n\nTransportes Charter do Brasil (TCB) was a cargo airline based in São Paulo, Brazil. It was established in 1994 and operated charter cargo services throughout the Americas until 2006. Its main base was Viracopos International Airport, São Paulo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113450", "title": "Marmottan", "text": "Marmottan\n\nMarmottan may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2113466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113466", "title": "Schürmann", "text": "Schürmann\n\nSchürmann is a family name that comes from Old German language, meaning \"one who shears,\" probably referring to sheep-shearing. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113473", "title": "Michael A. Epstein", "text": "Michael A. Epstein\n\nSir Michael Anthony Epstein, CBE, FRS, FMedSci (born 18 May 1921) is a British pathologist and academic. He is one of the discoverers of the Epstein–Barr virus, along with Yvonne Barr and Bert Achong.\n\nEpstein was educated at St. Paul's School in London, Trinity College, Cambridge and Middlesex Hospital Medical School. Epstein was Professor of Pathology, 1968–85 (now Professor Emeritus), and Head of Department, 1968–82 at the University of Bristol. In 1979 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London and was its Vice-President from 1986 to 1991. He was awarded its Royal Medal in 1992. He was awarded the CBE in 1985 and knighted in 1991. Epstein was a Fellow of Wolfson College, Oxford from 1986 until 2001, and has been an Honorary Fellow since 2001. He became a founding Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences in 1998. In 2006, Epstein was awarded a D.Sc. from Bristol. He is a Distinguished Supporter of Humanists UK. \n\nEpstein was the first person to propose that Burkitt's lymphoma was a cancer caused by a virus. Upon hearing a lecture given by Denis Parsons Burkitt in 1961 about this newly described cancer, Epstein changed his research focus from cancer causing viruses in chickens to searching for a viral origin of Burkitt's lymphoma. After more than two years of working with tumour cells from Burkitt's patients and subsequently working to isolate a virus from them, the Epstein–Barr virus was finally discovered in February 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113477", "title": "Okinawa Islands", "text": "Okinawa Islands\n\nThe are an island group in Okinawa Prefecture, Japan and are the principal island group of the prefecture. The Okinawa Islands are part of the larger Ryukyu Islands group and are located between the Amami Islands of Kagoshima Prefecture to the northeast and the Sakishima Islands of Okinawa Prefecture to the southwest.\n\nThe Okinawa Islands, apart from the main island, contain three smaller island groups: the Kerama, Yokatsu and Iheya-Izena island groups.\n\nThe Okinawa Islands are the political, cultural and population center of Okinawa Prefecture. The prefectural capital of Naha is within the island group. 90% of the population of the prefecture reside within the Okinawa Islands, primarily on the largest island of the group, Okinawa Island. Access to the various Okinawa Islands is primarily via small airports which connect to Naha Airport. Additionally, the islands are connected via ferry service to the Port of Naha in the prefectural capital.\n\nThe Okinawa Islands are within the subtropical climate zone, which supports the production of sugarcane, pineapples and cut flowers. The military bases of the United States in Okinawa Prefecture are located on the Okinawa Islands.\n\nHistorically the rule of the Ryukyu Kingdom, centered on Okinawa Island, consolidated the Okinawa Islands before spreading south to the Miyako and Yaeyama Islands and north to Amami Ōshima.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113492", "title": "Aubrac", "text": "Aubrac\n\nAubrac is a small village in the southern Massif Central of France. The name is also applied to the surrounding countryside, which is properly called L'Aubrac in French. The Aubrac region has been a member of the Natura 2000 network since August 2006. It straddles three \"départements\" (Cantal, Aveyron and Lozère) and three \"régions\" (Auvergne, Midi-Pyrénées and Languedoc-Roussillon).\n\nAubrac is a volcanic and granitic plateau that extends over an area of 1,500 km. The volcanic eruptions occurred between 6 and 9 million year ago and were of Hawaiian type with fluid lavas. There are therefore no individual volcanic cones. The volcanic zone occupies the west side while the other part of the plateau is formed of granite. The average altitude is about 1,200 meters with the highest point at 1,469 meters (Signal de Mailhebiau) in the south. All the region has been eroded by glaciers during three glacial periods. The Aubrac includes four glacial lakes: lac des Salhiens, lac de Saint-Andéol, lac de Souveyrols and lac de Born. In the south, the highest summits of the Aubrac dominate the Lot valley, which lies 1,000 m below.\n\nBovine breeding is the main activity on the plateau. Aubrac has its own bovine species called \"Aubrac\", which is well adapted to the environment. The cows are bred for their meat while, before the 1960s, they were bred for their dairy products. The milk was made into cheese in \"burons\" or \" mazucs \", which are small structures in the middle of the pastures. Today, the majority of these structures are in ruin. The \"Laguiole\" (pronounced \"Layole\") cheese is now only made by a dairy in the village of Laguiole and resembles Cantal cheese.\n\nThe region is also known for its knife industry. It is here that the Laguiole knife is made by around thirty local craftsmen. The factory of Forge de Laguiole was designed by Phillippe Starck.\n\nBy 1000 BC, the Celts had occupied the region. In the period of Roman Gaul, Gaulish tribes called Gabalians (Lozère) and Rutènians (Aveyron) occupied the area. Julius Caesar stated that the Gabalians were survivors of the Battle of Alesia. Their capital Anderitum became Javols. The Rutenians, who may have come from the Danube delta and who gave their name to the Rouergue, became allied with Vercingetorix.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages, Grégory of Tours recorded an incident of a Pagan rite at the lake near Mount Hélanus. Later, a pilgrim of St. James, Adallard (a Flemish viscount), survived after a fight in the area; out of gratitude to God he built the Dômerie (hospital) at Aubrac. The village of Aubrac grew around the hospital.\n\nThe Dômerie was home to monks and the knights of the Order of Aubrac until the French Revolution. The monks fed and sheltered passing pilgrims, and rang a \"Bell of the Lost\" during times of snow. The rules of life at the Dômerie in Latin dating from the Middle Ages are available in an online version.\n\nIn the 11th century, a certain Gilbert, who married Tiburge, countess of Provence, appointed himself count of Gévaudan. This Gilbert had a daughter, Douce I, Countess of Provence, who was married to Ramon Berenguer, Count of Barcelona, and brought him all the rights to Gévaudan, Aubrac, and Carladès.\n\nThe rule of the counts of Barcelona in Gévaudan gave rise to a serious argument with the bishop of Mende, who considered himself lord and count of the country. After many local conflicts and the war between the lords of Armagnac's French kings Charles VII and Louis XI this country lost its true identity. However, the pilgrim route to Santiago de Compostela has always brought many visitors.\n\nEvery last weekend of August, a literary festival takes place in Aubrac: Rencontres aubrac\n\nMedieval latin text\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113504", "title": "Anationalism", "text": "Anationalism\n\nAnationalism () is a term originating from the community of Esperanto speakers. It denotes a range of cosmopolitan political concepts that combine some or all of the following tendencies and ideas:\n\nAlthough conceived within the World Anational Association (\"SAT\", \"Sennacieca Asocio Tutmonda\") and promoted by its founder Eugène Lanti, anationalism is not espoused by that organization as its official ideology.\n\nAnationalistic ideas appeared in embryonic form in the plan for an \"International Esperantist Workers' Federation\" put forth by the Bohemian Esperantist Workers' Federation before World War I. These ideas, having gained impetus as a result of the war, were central to the thinking of the founders of SAT in 1921. They are very apparent in Lanti's work \"For la Neŭtralismon!\" (\"Away with Neutralism!\"), which first appeared under the pseudonym \"Sennaciulo\" (\"Nationless Man\").\n\nThe first members of SAT often regarded anationalism as a kind of all-embracing overall ideology of SAT, and liked to call themselves \"sennaciuloj\" (\"nationless people\"). Nevertheless, prior to the publication of Lanti's \"Manifesto de la Sennaciistoj\" (\"Manifesto of the Anationalists\") \"anationalism\" was a term that was applied to several rather diverse ideas. For many members of SAT who espoused anationalism at that time, it simply meant \"(proletarian) internationalism plus Esperanto\" or it signified a workers' version of L.L. Zamenhof's \"homaranismo\".\n\nA comparison of \"ABC de Sennaciismo\" written by Elsudo (Kolchinski) and published by SAT, with the \"Manifesto de la Sennaciistoj\" (\"Manifesto of the Anationalists\") shows how large a gap existed between various concepts of anationalism. Elsudo clearly defines SAT in his work as a \"movement for anationalism\". Ernst Drezen at the time of the schism in the workers' Esperanto movement of the 1930s, reproached SAT not so much for its \"anationalism\", something the communists within SAT had previously advocated as they understood it, but for its \"Lanti-brand anationalism\".\n\nLittle by little, a concept of anationalism was formulated in articles by Lanti in the organs of SAT.\n\nIn 1928, Lanti published a brochure, \"La Laborista Esperantismo\" (\"Worker Esperantism\"), in which he devoted an entire chapter to the definition of the new term. The anationalist tendency had previously encountered no opposition in the non-partisan organization. But in 1929 SAT entered a crisis, and anationalism became the main argument used by the opposition to attack the organization's leadership.\n\nThat opposition claimed that anationalism was pro-imperialist and, as such, \"counterrevolutionary\". The sudden and unexpected attack moved Lanti to publish anonymously in 1931 a brochure in 3000 copies: \"Manifesto de la Sennaciistoj\", which was later translated into several languages, including a French version that appeared in 2000 copies.\n\nAnationalism was defined as follows in that manifesto: \"\"What characterizes anationalism is not primarily its acknowledgement of the huge role played by production of artifacts in the world. It is that capability that has made man the king of other living beings. Human beings adapt nature to their own needs, while animals must adapt to nature. Anationalists therefore do not deny the great strength that lies in the human will. They do not doubt that humans cannot shed their own weight or jump away from their own shadow. Nevertheless, the limited space in which man is free to act is relatively large. His will can thus engender great works. We therefore believe that the fateful laws of history are only relative.\"\"\n\nThe following quotation from the same work, which provides for a more precise understanding of the new doctrine, was denounced in its time by Stalinist internationalists for clearly contradicting the then prevailing theory of \"construction of socialism in one country\": \"\"The anationalists combat all that is national: national languages and cultures, national customs and traditions. For them, Esperanto is their primary language and they consider national languages to be merely auxiliary. They refuse to participate in any national struggle and they acknowledge as necessary and advantageous to the exploited class only class struggle that seeks to eliminate classes, nationalities and all forms of exploitation.\"\" (ibid.)\n\nAs the heretical doctrine that was so expressed met up with opposition in SAT, the anationalists coalesced to form a faction independent of the organization, which they continued to support fervently. They began to publish the \"Sennaciista Bulteno\" (\"Anationalist Bulletin\") on a fairly regular basis.\n\nAnarchism as a political movement was very supportive during this time of anationalism as well as of the Esperanto language. After the Spanish Civil War, Francoist Spain persecuted anarchists and Catalan nationalists, among whom the use of Esperanto was extensive.\n\nAfter Lanti's death in 1947 and the post-war reconstitution of SAT, the anationalists revived their SAT faction in 1948 under the chairmanship of R. Roberts. Anationalists in SAT initiated and funded two reeditions of the \"Manifesto de la Sennaciistoj\" (1951 and 1971) and several other of Lanti's writings on anationalism.\n\nIn 1978, the SAT congress in Lectoure passed a resolution over the objections of the anationalists, which declared, among other things: \"\"The preservation of ethnic language and culture is linked to the struggle for a new social order, and, as such, is part of the general efforts on the part of SAT's members to achieve justice and individual liberty.\"\"\n\nDuring the 80's, while T. Burnell was the secretary of the Anationalist Faction, a \"Declaration on Anationalism\" was passed, which emphasized the struggle of the anationalists against nationalism and in favor of a general individual right to self-determination including the individual right to define one's own identity as an exercise of free will. The faction remained active, with the exception of periods of inactivity during the 80's and 90's, during which the debate over anationalism continued unabated in \"Sennaciulo\", the monthly organ of SAT.\n\nAt the SAT congress in Nagykanizsa (Hungary) in 2001, the Anationalist Faction of SAT was reestablished as a result of renewed interest in anationalism and related subjects, which had evidenced itself previously, when an \"anationalism\" internet mailing list was founded. During that meeting another \"Declaration on Anationalism\" was passed, which was a revised version of the previous declaration.\n\nThe presently active anationalists in the Anationalist Faction cultivate and develop the universalistic and (radical) antinationalist currents of thought that were characteristic of previous formulations of anationalism. Their orientation is less strictly Lantian than that of previous generations of anationalists, and they do not seek to achieve doctrinal uniformity. Some members of the Faction work to oppose ideologies that have become very influential within the general Esperanto movement in the past decades: ethnism, the instrumentalization of Esperanto in favor of various sorts of identity politics, differentialism (ethnopluralism) and language nationalism and purism (so-called \"language defence\").\n\nOutside of SAT and the Anationalist Faction there are also a number of Esperantists that adhere in various degrees to anationalist ideas. Anationalism has generally not been propagated outside the Esperanto-speaking community. Lanti justified this in Chapter 5 of \"La Laborista Esperantismo\" with the statement that \"disseminating anationalism among those who differ by language would be as foolish as teaching literature to illiterates\". This view, however, has been modified at times, as national language translations of the \"Manifesto de la Sennaciistoj\" were published out of the conviction that this would help to popularize Esperanto. The \"Manifesto\", moreover, concludes with a direct appeal to non-speakers of Esperanto: \"The anationalists call upon the workers of the whole world: Learn Esperanto! Esperantists denationalize yourselves!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2113516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113516", "title": "Prins Alexander", "text": "Prins Alexander\n\nPrins Alexander is a borough in the northeast of Rotterdam, Netherlands.\n\nPrins Alexander has 7 neighbourhoods:\n\nPrins Alexander is connected to the city center of Rotterdam through Rotterdam Metro lines A and B, with line A connecting to Binnenhof station and line B to Nesselande station.\n\nRotterdam Alexander railway station, on the main line from Rotterdam to Utrecht, is located in the center of the borough.\n\nLarge parts of Prins Alexander lie in the Prins Alexanderpolder. This polder was reclaimed from peat fen near the river Rotte, north east of the city. In total 14 peat fens were laid dry. The fens were drained between 1865 and 1874, resulting in 2,660 acres of farmland. The polder was named after Prince Alexander of the Netherlands (1851-1884).\n"}
{"id": "2113517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113517", "title": "TRIP Linhas Aéreas", "text": "TRIP Linhas Aéreas\n\nTRIP Linhas Aéreas S/A (formerly Transporte Aéreo Regional do Interior Paulista) was a domestic regional airline based in Campinas, São Paulo State, Brazil.\n\nAccording to the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil (ANAC) between January and December 2012 Trip had 4.47% of the domestic market share in terms of passengers per kilometre flown.\n\nThe airline was established in 1998 with two Embraer EMB 120 Brasilias and was wholly owned by the Caprioli Group until November 2006, when Águia Branca Group (Chieppe family) bought 49% of its capital.\n\nOn January 25, 2007 TRIP Linhas Aéreas has placed an order for seven new ATR 72-500s with options for a further five of the twin turboprops, this deal is its first new ATR order, and the first for the ATR 72-500 in Brazil. The Pratt & Whitney Canada PW127-powered aircraft will be configured with 68 seats. With this growth the company expect have more than 500 employees by 2010. As of January 2007, the company has 500 employees.\n\nOn November 13, 2007 TRIP Linhas Aéreas and Total Linhas Aéreas agreed to merge, a transaction which was completed on May 2008. The brand Trip is dedicated to passenger service whereas Total is dedicated to charter and cargo services.\n\nOn September 4, 2008, it was announced that SkyWest Airlines agreed to purchase up to 20% of the shares of TRIP Linhas Aéreas. The purchase was done in 3 installments and was completed by 2010. In early May 2012 TRIP bought back the shares.\n\nOn August 20, 2010, with the bankruptcy of Flex Linhas Aéreas, Trip took over its services provided to Aerodrome Flight Information Service (AFIS), and Meteorology Service (MET) and Airport Information Service (AIS) on several airports in Brazil through the Flex Communication Center (FCC). FCC serves, among others: TAM Airlines, VRG Linhas Aéreas (operator of Gol and Varig brands), VarigLog, Avianca Brazil, NHT Linhas Aéreas, and Embraer.\n\nIn order to optimize the use of its aircraft, TRIP announced on July 27, 2011 the creation of TRIP Cargo, the cargo division of TRIP Linhas Aéreas. On a first moment, TRIP Cargo will only use the cargo compartment of its aircraft operating scheduled passenger flights. However, as soon as demand justifies, TRIP cargo will start using ATR-72s for pure cargo flights during the night, when not operating passenger flights. The conversion of the aircraft can be done in 15 minutes.\nOn September 9, 2011 TRIP Linhas Aéreas placed an order for 18 new ATR 72-600s with options for further 22. Nine of the 18 aircraft will be purchased directly from ATR with the remaining to be leased from Air Lease Corporation and GE Capital Aviation Services. With the entry into service of the 18 firm ATR 72-600s, TRIP Linhas Aéreas will become the largest ATR operator in the world, with a fleet of 51 ATRs. The new aircraft will be configured for 68 passengers.\n\nOn March 30, 2011, TAM Airlines signed a letter of intentions to purchase up to 31% of the shares of TRIP Linhas Aéreas. Both airlines maintain code-share agreements since 2004. A final decision had however been postponed, and finally in February 2012 the purchase agreement was not renewed. Code-sharing operations ended on March 28, 2013.\n\nOn May 28, 2012, it was announced that Azul Brazilian Airlines purchased TRIP creating the holding Azul Trip. During the year 2012 the brands will co-exist operating in integrated form but eventually, upon government approval, they will merge, maintaining the name Azul.\n\nOn a press release dated of September 7, 2012, (the Brazilian Independence Day), Azul and Trip officially announced some visible characteristics of the merger:\n\nAzul and Trip started comprehensive code-sharing operations on December 2, 2012, and all flights carry now only the IATA code of Azul. However already on October 1, 2012 Trip started operating flights on behalf of Azul. On March 6, 2013 Brazilian authorities gave the final approval for the merger with a few restrictions related to code-sharing with TAM Airlines and slot use at Rio de Janeiro-Santos Dumont Airport. On May 6, 2014 the merger process was completed with the final approval from Brazilian authorities. That day the brand TRIP ceased to exist.\n\nAs of December 2012 the fleet of Trip Linhas Aéreas included the following aircraft:\n\nTudo Azul is Trips's Frequent Flyer Program. It is based on amounts spent and not on flown miles. Members earn 5% of the ticket value on their accounts, which later can be redeemed as a ticket discounts. It is valid also for Azul Brazilian Airlines flights.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113531", "title": "Holly Robinson Peete", "text": "Holly Robinson Peete\n\nHolly Elizabeth Robinson Peete (born September 18, 1964) is an American actress and singer. She is known for her roles as Judy Hoffs on the Fox TV police drama \"21 Jump Street\", Vanessa Russell on the ABC sitcom \"Hangin' with Mr. Cooper\", and Dr. Malena Ellis on the NBC/WB sitcom \"For Your Love\". She also served as one of the original co-hosts of the CBS Daytime talk show, \"The Talk\".\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Peete entered Sarah Lawrence College in New York. She majored in Psychology and French. After she graduated in 1986, she considered attending graduate school and perhaps working in languages for the U.S. State Department. However, she decided to give an acting career a chance. Within a short time, Peete found roles on a television series and in two films.\n\nPeete's children's book, \"My Brother Charlie\", won her an NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Literary Work in March 2011. In 2012 the book was awarded the Dolly Gray Children's Literature Award. \n\nIn March 2016, a reality series debuted titled \"For Peete's Sake\", documenting the everyday life of her family. \n\nShe is currently partnered with GreatCall as a caregiver ambassador.\n\nPeete was born Holly Elizabeth Robinson in Mount Airy, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the daughter of Dolores and Matt Robinson (the original Gordon on \"Sesame Street\"). Her mother was a school teacher, in public relations, and later a personal talent manager, and her father a producer/writer. She has an older brother named Matthew Thomas Robinson III. She attended Greene Street Friends School in nearby Germantown. In 1974, her family moved to California. Peete graduated from Santa Monica High School in Santa Monica, California, where her classmates included Rob Lowe, Yvette Lee Bowser, and Lori Petty. Peete graduated from Sarah Lawrence College with a degree in psychology and French. Peete studied abroad for a year at the Sorbonne, and is fluent in French. While there she sang in Paris nightclubs, including a performance with jazz musician Lionel Hampton at the Hotel Meridian Jazz Club.\n\nIn 1969, she made her first television appearance by playing a little girl named Sally on the very first episode of \"Sesame Street\". She recalls that when she was six years old, she kept blowing her line, saying \"Hi, Daddy\", instead of \"Hi, Gordon\", his character's name. She ended up with just an appearance where she walked down the street with Big Bird. At the age of 11, Holly worked for the children's show \"Kidsworld\" as a celebrity correspondent; she interviewed many actors and actresses for the program. As an actress, she has appeared on the TV series \"21 Jump Street\" (1987–1991), \"Hangin' with Mr. Cooper\" (1992–1997), \"For Your Love\" (1998–2002), and \"Like Family\" (2003–2004). She was featured in the video for the 1990 hit single \"Whip Appeal\" by Babyface as the sultry radio host at the beginning of the video. In 1992, she portrayed Diana Ross in \"\". Robinson most recently starred on the UPN comedy \"Love, Inc.\". The show lasted just one season, and was canceled after the WB/UPN merger.\n\nRobinson has also had a limited career as a singer and recording artist, including the introductory song to \"21 Jump Street.\" She contributed a variety of songs to the soundtrack of the film \"Howard the Duck\". (She appeared as a musician/singer in a minor role in the film.) She recorded the theme song \"We Got Our Love\" for the 1988 film \"Three for the Road\". She and Dawnn Lewis, along with R&B quartet En Vogue, performed the theme song for the first season of \"Hangin' with Mr. Cooper\".\n\nIn 2006, she won, along with fellow writer Daniel Paisner, the Quills Award in Sports for the book \"Get Your Own Damn Beer, I'm Watching the Game!: A Woman's Guide to Loving Pro Football\".\n\nIn 2010, she participated in \"The Celebrity Apprentice 3\", playing for her own charity, the HollyRod Foundation, which provides support for families with Parkinson's disease or autism.\n\nRobinson began co-hosting \"The Talk\", a CBS daytime talk show, on October 18, 2010. In this forum, Robinson was known for expressing herself through her ethnicity and being especially vocal about African American issues and, since her son Rodney is affected by it, autism. In April 2011, Robinson hosted a weekly series on \"The Talk\" promoting autism awareness.\n\nAfter serving on \"The Talk\" for its first season, Robinson along with Leah Remini were released from the show. Failure to ever disclose why the two were let go brought on a great deal of audience criticism of the show, as well as protests from the stars' fans.\n\nRobinson hosted the 42nd NAACP Image Awards, alongside Wayne Brady, on March 4, 2011.\n\nThe Peete family star in a reality TV series on OWN, entitled \"For Peete's Sake\". The series follows the lives of Peete and her husband Rodney as they juggle career choices with their family life.\n\nOn June 10, 1995, Robinson married Rodney Peete, a National Football League quarterback. He proposed by surprising Holly during an episode of \"Hangin' with Mr. Cooper\". They have four children: twins, daughter Ryan Elizabeth Peete and son Rodney Peete, Jr. (born October 19, 1997), and sons born in August 2002 and February 2005. \n\nOne of their twins, Rodney Jr., was diagnosed with autism at age three. Robinson plays baseball for Sierra Canyon, the same school where Bronny James and Zaire Wade play basketball.\n\nAfter her father was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, Robinson and her husband co-founded the HollyRod Foundation, which is dedicated to help find a cure for the disease, as well as for autism, and assist those living with the conditions.\n\nIn September 2012, Nestle's Carnation Breakfast Essentials announced they had teamed up with Robinson, featuring her as the spokesperson for the brand. On October 4, 2012, Robinson was inducted as an honorary member of Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113540", "title": "Ommoord", "text": "Ommoord\n\nOmmoord is a neighbourhood in the borough Prins Alexander, part of the municipality of Rotterdam, South Holland, the Netherlands. Ommoord is surrounded by the neighbourhoods Zevenkamp, Het Lage Land and Terbregge. It has around 25.000 inhabitants across 12.500 households.\n\nThe river Rotte flows through the north of Ommoord. \n\nOmmoord has 15 neighbourhoods: Bloemenbuurt (Flower-neighbourhood), Bremmenbuurt (Broom), Distelbuurt (Thistle), Doornenbuurt (Thorn), Grasbuurt (Grass), Heidebuurt (heather), Bessenbuurt (Berry), Klaverbuurt (Clover), Kruidenbuurt (Herbs), Middengebied-West (Middle area-West), Middengebied-Centrum (Middle area-Center, Middengebied-Oost (Middle area-East), Mossenbuurt (Moss), Rozenbuurt (Rose) and the Varenbuurt (Fern).\n\nTwo buslines extend into \"Ommoord\": 34 en 35.\n\nThe Calandlijn line of the Rotterdam subway extends into \"Ommoord\" and has 4 stations in it:\n\n"}
{"id": "2113542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113542", "title": "Zevenkamp", "text": "Zevenkamp\n\nZevenkamp is a neighbourhood in the borough Prins Alexander, Rotterdam.\n\nThe City of Rotterdam, Netherlands acquired the about 540 acres in 1978, in a land exchange with Capelle aan den IJssel and Zevenhuizen. Until then, the area was a rural polder. \n"}
{"id": "2113554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113554", "title": "KV34", "text": "KV34\n\nTomb KV34 in the Valley of the Kings (near the modern-day Egyptian city of Luxor) was the tomb of 18th dynasty Pharaoh Thutmose III.\n\nOne of the first tombs to be dug in the Valley, it was cut high in the cliff face of the furthermost \"wadi\". A steep corridor leads down, in a dog-leg shape, from the entrance past a deep well to a trapezoidal antechamber. Beyond the antechamber lies the cartouche-shaped burial chamber, off which stand four smaller side chambers. The stone sarcophagus in which Thutmose's body was placed is still in place in the burial chamber, albeit damaged by tomb robbers.\n\nMany of the wall decorations are in an unusual style not found elsewhere in the Valley of the Kings. On a yellow-tinged background (intended to resemble aged papyrus), the earliest known version of the \"Amduat\" is traced, depicting the gods of Ancient Egypt as simple (almost naive) stick figures, in papyrus writing style. The \"Litany of Ra\" also appears in the burial chamber, with a similar execution. (Also, on the way up the staircase to the tomb, you can see on the cliff wall graffiti done by the workmen building the tomb.)\nThe tomb was plundered in antiquity and its location lost. It was rediscovered and first excavated in 1898 under Victor Loret.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113557", "title": "Model (art)", "text": "Model (art)\n\nAn art model poses for any visual artist as part of the creative process, providing a visual reference for the human figure in a work of art. However, more than being simply the subject of art, models are often thought of as muses, a source of inspiration without whom the art would not exist. The most common types of art works that use models are figure drawing, figure painting, sculpture and photography, but almost any medium may be used. \n\nArt models are often paid professionals with skill and experience but are rarely employed full-time, and artists may also rely on friends and family to pose. Paid art models are usually anonymous and unacknowledged subjects of the work. Models are most frequently employed for art classes or by informal groups of artists that gather to share the expense of a model. Models are also employed privately by professional artists. Although commercial motives dominate over aesthetics in illustration, its artwork commonly employs models. For example, Norman Rockwell used his friends and neighbors as models for both his commercial and fine art work. An individual who is having their own portrait painted or sculpted is usually called a \"sitter\" rather than a model, since they are paying to have the work done rather than being paid to pose.\n\nBeginning with the Renaissance, drawing the human figure from living models was considered the most effective way to develop the skill of draftsmanship. In the twentieth century, it became established that it is best to draw from life, rather than copying two dimensional images such as photographs. In addition, an artist has a connection to drawing another human being that cannot exist with any other subject. Models for life drawing classes are usually nude. In the classroom setting, where the purpose is to learn how to draw the human form in all the different shapes, ages and ethnicity, there are no real limitations on who the model can be. In some cases, the model may pose with various props, one or more other models, against real or artificial background, in natural or artificial light.\n\nThe role of art models has changed through different eras as the meaning and importance of the human figure in art and society has changed. Nude modeling, nude art and nudity in general are at times subject to social disapproval, at least by some elements in society. In recent years, a connection has been made between social issues of body image and art modeling, with some promoting life drawing of real people as an alternative to social media representations of idealized bodies.\n\nPoses can range in length from seconds to many hours. There is a drawing exercise where the model slowly but continuously moves, but the shortest is usually one minute. Short dynamic poses are used for gesture drawing exercises or warm-ups, with the model taking strenuous or precarious positions that could not be sustained for a longer pose—just long enough for the artist to quickly capture the essence of it. Drawing sessions proceed through groups of 5, 10, 15, or 20 minute poses generally for a total of three hours. Active, gestural, or challenging standing poses are often scheduled at the beginning of a session when the models' energy level is highest. Specific exercises or lesson plans may require a particular type of pose, but more often the model is expected to do a series of poses with little direction. The more a model knows about the types of exercises used to teach art, the better they become at posing.\n\nPoses fall into three basic categories: standing, seated and reclining. Within each of these, there are varying levels of difficulty, so one kind is not always easier than another. Artists and life drawing instructors will often prefer poses in which the body is being exerted, for a more dynamic and aesthetically interesting subject. Common poses such as standing twists, slouched seated poses and especially the classical contrapposto are difficult to sustain accurately for any amount of time, although it is often surprising what a skilled model can do. The model's level of experience and skill may be taken into account in determining the length of the posing session and the difficulty of the poses.\n\nWhile posing, a model is expected to remain essentially motionless, and usually remains silent. Exact requirements may vary depending upon the artist or instructor, but an experienced model will not speak, wriggle, scratch, or readjust during the pose. To accommodate the physical limitations, a schedule such as 20 to 25 minutes of posing, with five- or ten-minute breaks is observed. These breaks—during which the model usually wears a robe or puts on clothing—allow the model to stretch, relax and attend to other needs.\n\nIn art schools classrooms or studios, the model usually poses on a raised platform called the model stand or dais. In sculpture studios this platform may be built to rotate to allow for a 360° view for every artist. Long poses are generally required for painting (hours or days) and sculpture (perhaps days). To aid in resuming a long pose after a break, chalk marks and/or masking tape are often placed on the model stand.\n\nModels for life drawing classes usually pose nude, though visually non-obstructive personal items such as small jewelry and eyeglasses may be worn. In a job advertisement seeking nude models, this may be referred to as being \"undraped\" or \"disrobed.\" Art models who pose in the nude for life drawing are also called life models or figure models. While the majority of sessions have a single model, when the budget permits two or more may pose together.\nDuring art school classes or in other academic settings, strict rules that apply to models, students, and instructors are observed to maintain decorum and emphasize the serious intent of figure studies. Photography is generally forbidden, and in some schools, the students (sometimes including non-art students) are not allowed to also be models, as it creates the possibility of conflict for the institution. Admission to and visibility of the area where a nude model is posing is tightly controlled. Disrobing is done discreetly, and the model wears a robe when not posing. It is generally prohibited for anyone (including the instructor) to touch a model. Very close examinations are only made with the permission of the model. Some institutions allow only the instructor to speak directly with a model. Experienced models avoid any sexually suggestive poses. Art instructors and institutions may consider the incident of a male model gaining an erection while posing cause for termination, or at any rate, grounds for not hiring him again. Any of these policies may vary in different parts of the world. In Europe and South America attitudes are more relaxed, while in China and Korea attitudes are more repressed.\n\nIn non-academic settings, models may pose as requested by artists within the limits of the law and their own comfort, including work that requires physical contact with other models, the artist, or the public. French artist Yves Klein applied paint to models' bodies which were then pressed into or dragged across canvas both as performance art and as painting technique. In 2010 at the Museum of Modern Art, a retrospective of the work of Marina Abramović included two nude models standing in a narrow doorway through which visitors passed, replicating a work performed by the artist and a partner in 1977.\n\nThe conventions for professional artists working in private are much less defined, especially as the models are often friends or family. However, artists who hire individuals with whom they have no prior relationship tend to observe art school standards in order to make models feel more comfortable, and to avoid possible legal issues. Professional artists often hire the same models on a regular basis. When a comfortable working relationship is established, many artists relax their standards and models do the same. This may be something as simple as not undressing in another room, or not wearing a robe during breaks. In addition, silence is no longer necessary if the artist is comfortable working and conversing with the model. A more collegial relationship may develop where artist and model feel that they are collaborating. However, in a private studio environment, with an artist on a deadline or with commission guidelines, stricter work standards may apply regarding punctuality and holding longer, more demanding poses, but also require higher rates of pay.\n\nChuck Close apologized when several women accused him of making inappropriate comments when they came to his studio to pose, but initially denied any wrongdoing. \n\nArtists frequently have used family members as models, both nude and otherwise, in creating their works. The relationship between male photographers and their wives as models is studied in Arthur Ollman's book, ‘’The Model Wife. It focuses on the photographers Baron Adolph de Meyer, Alfred Stieglitz, whose model wife Georgia O’Keefe was a celebrated artist in her own right, Edward Weston, Harry Callahan, Emmet Gowin, Lee Friedlander, Masahisa Fukase, Seiichi Furuya, and Nicholas Nixon.\nIn Western countries, there is generally no objection to either sex posing nude for or drawing members of the opposite sex. However, this was not always so. In 1886, Thomas Eakins was famously dismissed from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Art for removing the loincloth from a male model in a mixed classroom. Similarly, Victorian modesty sometimes required the female model to pose nude with her face draped (\"Masked Nude\" by Eakins, for example). European arts academies did not allow women to study the nude at all until the end of the nineteenth century. Even today there remain some schools where the employment of nude models is limited (male models wearing jockstraps) or prohibited, usually for religious reasons.\n\nAll of the above is based upon a moderate position regarding the value of figure studies and nudity in art. There are also schools or studios that may be more conservative, or more liberal.\nMany art programs in Christian institutions consider nudity in any form to be in conflict with their beliefs, and therefore hire only clothed models for art classes. Brigham Young University does not allow nude models, describing their policy as self-censorship within the context of the school's honor code.\nOther institutions view the absence of figure studies as bringing into question the completeness of the art education offered. Some recognize that an appreciation of the beauty of the human body is compatible with a Christian education. Gordon College not only maintains the need for nude figure studies as part of a complete classical art education, but sees the use of models clad in swimwear or other revealing garments as placing the activity in the context of advertisement and sexual exploitation.\n\nJames Elkins voices an alternative to classical \"dispassionate\" figure study by stating that the nude is never devoid of erotic meaning, and it is a fiction to pretend otherwise. Even the staunch advocate of classical aesthetics Kenneth Clark recognized that \"biological urges\" were never absent even in the most chaste nude, nor should they be unless all life is drained from the work. However, most models maintain that posing nude need not be any more sexual than any other coed social situation as long as all participants maintain a mature attitude. However, decorum is not always maintained when either a model or the students are not familiar with the often unspoken rules. Models may be apprehensive about posing for incoming freshmen who, having never encountered classroom nudity, respond immaturely.\n\nAcceptance of the erotic is apparent in the work and behavior of some artists, for example Picasso was also famous for having a series of model/muse/mistresses through his life: Marie-Thérèse Walter, Fernande Olivier, Dora Maar, and Françoise Gilot. The painter John Currin, whose work is often erotic, combines images from popular culture and references to his wife, Rachel Feinstein.\n\nA feminist view is the male gaze, which asserts that nudes are inherently voyeuristic, with the viewer in the place of the powerful male gazing upon the passive female subject.\n\nThere has been controversy regarding the status of photography as a fine arts medium that is reflected in the unwillingness of some nude models for other fine art media to also pose for photography. The experience of nude modeling for an amateur photographer is different from that of posing for figure drawing/painting. Traditional media create a single image that is not a \"true likeness\" of the individual model, but photographs require a release in order to protect the model's right to privacy. The hourly rate of pay for models posing for fine art photography is much higher than for other media, although less than for commercial photography.\n\nOccasionally the distinction of participating in Fine Art may make a young amateur model willing to pose for a photographer, with unexpected consequences; examples being Vanessa Williams and Madonna. A signed print of one of the nude photographs of Madonna taken by Lee Friedlander in 1979 sold at auction in 2012 for $37,000. Although largely a result of her fame, the model does not share in this increased value of the artwork.\n\nPainting classes, and artists doing historical themed works often require clothed or costumed models who take poses that may be sustained until the work is completed. This creates some demand for clothed models in those schools that continue to teach academic painting methods. Some models may promote their services based upon having interesting or varied costumes. Clothing is required in public venues, such as Dr Sketchy's Anti-Art School, but occurs in more traditional settings as well, such as the fund-raising marathons sponsored by the Bay Area Models Guild. Other than costumes, the work requirements and conditions of clothed models for art are identical to that of nude models.\n\nPortraits generally have a client or \"sitter\" rather than a model as the subject; and are now often done from photographs at least in part, although artists prefer to have at least some hours of live sitting particularly at the beginning to better capture the personality, and at the end for final touches.\n\nMost models learn on the job, but many have experience in the performing arts, athletics, or yoga that provide a basis for posing, such as strength, flexibility, and a well-developed sense of kinesthesis.\n\nIn some countries there are organizations which concern themselves with the competence, conduct and reliability of art models. An example is the Register of Artists' Models (RAM) in the United Kingdom. Some basic training is offered to beginners and membership is by audition – to test competence, not to discriminate on grounds of physical characteristics. RAM also acts as an important employment exchange for models and publishes the 'RAM Guidelines', which are widely referred to by models and employers. A similar organization in the United States, the Bay Area Models Guild in California, was founded in 1947. Groups also exist in Australia, Sweden, Washington, D.C., and several other cities in the United States.\n\nThese groups may also attempt to establish minimum rates of pay and working conditions, but only rarely have models been sufficiently organized to go on strike.\n\nUnlike fashion modeling, modeling in an art school classroom is for the purpose of learning how to draw humans of different shapes, ages, and ethnicity. Obese models may be in demand by experienced artists.\n\nChildren are generally excluded from modeling nude for classes. The minimum age can vary, but is often 15 to 18. Despite being nonsexual in nature, this may be influenced by the age of consent (i.e. at or slightly below). Children are not good candidates for art modeling since they lack the ability to hold still. A small number of photographers have done fine art works of nude children, under special circumstances, such as Sally Mann photographing her own children. Less well-known photographers have been charged as criminals for photos of their own children. Jock Sturges photographed entire families of naturists which led to an FBI investigation. Some writers characterize many of these images as sexualizing children regardless of artistic merit.\n\nGender roles and stereotypes in society are reflected in a different experience for male and female models, and different responses when those not in the arts learn that someone is a nude model. However, both male and female models tend to keep their modeling career distinct from their other social interactions, if for different reasons. Attitudes toward male nudity, issues of homosexuality when male models work from male artists, and some bias towards the female form in art may lead to less opportunity for male models, and works of art that include male nudity are much less marketable. However, historically this has not been the case (See below).\n\nJob description posted by art schools includes statements that poses are nude, and requirements are generally limited to being able to hold poses up to 45 minutes, and to follow cues from the instructor. \nModels cannot be students at the Art Academy of Cincinnati or Orange Coast College, but students may model as Oregon State University\n\nSome colleges have lists of guidelines, while others have extensive manuals that describe policies regarding both in-class and outside interaction by models, students, and faculty; with special consideration for issues of sexual harassment.\n\nThe Columbus College of Art and Design guidelines specifically state that students are discouraged from forming any amorous relationship with models, and must report any existing relationship to avoid possible conflicts. Male models must remain in an unaroused state. Models may not be accompanied by non-class members.\n\nGuidelines at St. Olaf College specifies tight control on access to the room when models are posing, forbids photography, and discourages comments on models' appearance.\n\nThe Greeks, who had the naked body constantly before them in the exercises of the gymnasium, had far less need of professional models than the moderns; but it is scarcely likely that they could have attained the high level reached by their works without constant study from nature. It was probably in Ancient Greece that models were first used. The story told of Zeuxis by Valerius Maximus, who had five of the most beautiful virgins of the city of Crotone offered him as models for his picture of Helen, proves their occasional use. The remark of Eupompus, quoted by Pliny, who advised Lysippos, \"Let nature be your model, not an artist\", directing his attention to the crowd instead of to his own work, also suggests a use of models which the many portrait statues of Greek and Roman times show to have been not unknown. The names of some of these models of the era are themselves known, such as the beautiful Phryne who modeled for many paintings and sculptures.\n\nThe nude virtually disappeared from Western art during the Middle Ages due to a combination of civil disorder and the attitude of the early Christians. This changed with the Renaissance and the rediscovery of classical antiquity, when painters generally made use of their relatives and friends as models, of which many examples might be quoted from Venice, Florence, Rome and other places, and the stories of Titian and the duchess of Ferrara and of Botticelli and Simonetta Vespucci, go to show that ladies of exalted rank were sometimes not averse to having their charms immortalized by the painter's brush. The story of the love between Raphael and his mistress-model Margarita Luti (\"La Fornarina\") is \"the archetypal artist-model relationship of Western tradition\". \n\nArt modeling as an occupation appeared in the late Renaissance when the establishment of schools for the study of the human figure created a regular demand, and since that time the remuneration offered ensured a continual supply. However, academy models were only men until the 19th Century, as were the students. The status of nude models has fluctuated with the value and acceptance of nudity in art. Maintaining the classical ideals of Greece and Rome into the Christian Era, nudity was prominent in the decoration of Catholic churches in the Renaissance, only to be covered up with draperies or fig leaves by more prudish successors. The Protestant Reformation went even further, destroying many artworks. From being a possibly glamorous occupation celebrating beauty, being a nude model was at other times equivalent to prostitution, practiced by persons without the means to gain more respectable employment. The costumed models used to create historical paintings may not have been a distinct group, since nude studies were done in preparation for any figure painting.\n\nIn 19th century Paris, a number of models earned a place in art history. Victorine Meurent became a painter herself after posing for several works, including two of the most infamous: \"Manet's Olympia\" and \" Le déjeuner sur l'herbe\". Joanna Hiffernan (c. 1843after 1903) was an Irish artists' model and muse who was romantically linked with American painter James Abbott McNeill Whistler and French painter Gustave Courbet. She is the model for Whistler's painting \"\" and is rumored to be the model for Courbet's painting \"L'Origine du monde\". Suzanne Valadon, also a painter, modeled for Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Henri Toulouse-Lautrec, Pierre Puvis de Chavannes, and Edgar Degas. She is best known as the figure in Renoir's \"Dance at Bougival\", and she was the mother of the painter Maurice Utrillo.\n\nWhen Victorian attitudes took hold in England, studies with a live model became more restrictive than they had been in the prior century, limited to advanced classes of students that had already proved their worthiness by copying old master paintings and drawing from plaster casts. This is in part because many schools were publicly funded, so decisions were under the scrutiny of non-artists. Modeling was not respectable, and even less so for women. During the same period, the French art atelier system allowed any art student to work from life in a less formal atmosphere, and also admitted women as students. Live figure studies only returned to its classical status in art education throughout the England, Europe and the United States with the approach of the 20th Century.\n\nIn the postmodern era, the nude has returned to gain some acceptance in the art world, but not necessarily the art model. Figure drawing is offered in most art schools, but may not be required for a fine art degree. Peter Steinhart says that in trendy galleries, the nude has become passé, while according to Wendy Steiner there has been a revival in the importance of the figure as a source of beauty in contemporary art. Some established living artists work from models, but more work from photographs, or their imagination. Yet privately held open drawing sessions with a live model remain as popular as ever.\n\nWhile there have been a number of films that exploited the artist/model stereotype, a few have more accurately portrayed the working relationship.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113567", "title": "Laleh Park", "text": "Laleh Park\n\nLaleh Park (Pârk-e Laleh, formerly called Park-e Farah after Farah Diba), is a large recreation area of the Iranian capital Tehran.\n\nIt is well-kept and has beautiful green areas adjacent to Keshavarz Boulevard in the south, The Ministry of Agriculture in the east, Iran's National Carpet Museum to the northwest, and the Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art in the west.\n\nThis park (one of c. 800 parks in Tehran) lies in central Tehran and north of Tehran University. Laleh Park is one of the biggest parks in Tehran.\n\nLaleh Park provides pathways for walking and shade for picnics and relaxation. The park has become a popular meeting place for young people and a picnic area for families. Around the park are some popular coffee shops, fast-food outlets, and shopping centres and designer boutiques in nearby Valiasr Square.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113568", "title": "Lizo Mzimba", "text": "Lizo Mzimba\n\nLizo Mzimba is an English journalist and television presenter, currently the Entertainment Correspondent for BBC News.\n\nHe attended the independent Solihull School (during which time he was also leader of the Birmingham Schools' Symphony Orchestra) and The University of Birmingham. Whilst at Birmingham he was a member of the student TV station, winning awards at NaSTA (National Student Television Association). By 1991 he was contributing to \"Sounds\" magazine.\n\nMzimba was one of the longest-serving presenters, a reporter and an assistant producer for CBBC's \"Newsround\" between 1998 and May 2008; second only to John Craven.\n\nDuring his time as the presenter of \"Newsround\", he appeared as himself on \"The Basil Brush Show\" episode Basil's Millions.\n\nIn 2008, he became the BBC News Entertainment Correspondent. Along with the traditional BBC News bulletins and the News Channel, he has also appeared on \"BBC Breakfast\". Mzimba has also appeared as himself on \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2113570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113570", "title": "Aftab Ahmed (Bangladeshi cricketer)", "text": "Aftab Ahmed (Bangladeshi cricketer)\n\nAftab Ahmed Chowdhury (, born 10 November 1985) is a former Bangladeshi cricketer, who played all formats of the game. He is a right hand batsman and right arm medium bowler. In August 2014, he announced his retirement from all forms of cricket after 2014/15 domestic season to focus on coaching.\n\nAftab Ahmed was born and spend most of his childhood in Chittagong. His first school was St. Mary's School. In his early days Aftab was careless about playing international cricket and even thought of it as a torture. He even refused to get admitted into BKSP as he had to leave his family and friends for it. But his father was valiant fan of sports and wanted his son to become a cricketer.\n\nAftab remained passive about his cricketing career and have the record of leaving camp. He was also frustrated about the camps as he was not selected. He said, \"I was called many times in the camp but never got a chance in the team.\" But his waiting paid dividend when he finally received a call from the team.\n\nOne day as he was playing he received a long awaiting call from the national team. But his father who played a major role in his emerging was unable to hear the announcement. He died during the 1999 Cricket World Cup\n\nHe made his international debut at the 2004 Champions Trophy, and, despite scoring a thirteen-ball duck was persisted with owing to good performances at Under-19 level for Bangladesh. In only his third match of his career he took five wickets to become the first Bangladeshi bowler to achieve this feet in ODI. With his gentle medium pace he took 5 for 31 against New Zealand in the second of three ODI between the two teams, which has led him to bowl ten overs in most Bangladeshi games.\n\nHis record-breaking success earned him a man of the match award in that match against New Zealand. Though he got early success with bowl in hand he still considered him as a batsman who can bowl a bit. He first major success with the bat came in at one of the historical moments of Bangladesh cricket. In the 100th ODI match of Bangladesh, Ahmed scored his maiden fifty which later proved to vital as Bangladesh narrowly beat India by 14 runs in that match.\n\nThat was also the first home victory for the team. He made an important knock of 81 not out against Zimbabwe to clinch the series at the last game as it hanged 2–2 before the decider. Bangladesh came back from 2–0 down and won the series to become only the second team to win a five match series after losing the first two games.\n\nIn the disappointing Test series against England when Bangladesh first toured England, in 2005, he scored his first Test fifty with 82 not out as Bangladesh made 316 in the second innings of the second Test.\n\nHe and also made 51 in the first ODI against England in the 2005 NatWest Series. In Bangladesh's victory over Australia in 2005, Ahmed scored 23 from 17 balls. Again in 2005 when Bangladesh was nearly 60 runs away to register their first victory over Sri Lanka Aftab came to the crease and made a match winning 50-run partnership with Alok Kapali.\n\nOn 16 September 2008 the Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) announced a ten-year ban for Aftab along with other 13 other Bangladeshi cricketer for joining the unauthorised Indian Cricket League. However Aftab then quit the ICL and re-joined the Bangladesh national cricket team with his first assignment being against England in 2010. He is now retired from international and domestic cricket.\n\nIn Bangladesh's first match in the 2007 ICC World Twenty20 championship, Aftab smashed an unbeaten 62 off 49 balls as he and Mohammad Ashraful made a 109 run stand to beat the West Indies with 2 overs to spare. In their second match vs the South Africans he top scored with 36 off 14 balls before he was bowled by Morné Morkel.\n\nIn 2010, he was left out of the Bangladesh squad for 2010 Asia Cup after he scored only 52 runs at an average of 17.33 in three matches against England. He got just one opportunity in the World Twenty20 but was dismissed for 1 against Australia. After this he has never selected in Bangladesh squad.\n\nIn August 2014, he announces his retirement from all forn of cricket after 2014/15 domestic season to focus on coaching. This came after his poor form in Dhaka Premier League and first-class season where he averaged 23.81 for Gazi Tank and 18.20 in three first-class games. For the 2014 Dhaka Premier League, he played for Brothers Union.\n\nAftab Ahmed is criticised for not taking time at the crease and often regarded unnatured in Tests. But he determined to plunge forward with his own style. He insisted, \"If I do not have the ability to play Test cricket, I would not. But I also want to say I will achieve that quality. But not changing my own style.\"\n\nIn March 2006 Aftab signed a contract with PHP Group a well-known industrial group in Bangladesh to be their official brand ambassador.\n\nTest Debut: vs New Zealand, MA Aziz, 2004\n\nODI Debut: vs South Africa, Birmingham, 2004–2005\n\n"}
{"id": "2113571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113571", "title": "Clan MacInnes", "text": "Clan MacInnes\n\nClan MacInnes is a Scottish clan originally from the western highlands of Scotland. The origin of clan (MacInnes, McInnes, or in Gaelic: Mhic Aonghais or MacAonghais) is Morvern and Ardgour, Argylshire, with its clan name coming into existence in the 13th century. The clan's chief and his heirs were assassinated in the 14th century meaning that the clan no longer has a clan chief. Clan MacInnes is not associated - in any way - with the Clan Innes which hails from Moray (see \"Related Names\" below).\n\nThe clan has two mottos and crests (one of which is disputed), that were both devised in the mid-19th century along with the clan's tartans, when a great revival of all things Scottish was underway. In 2004 a new motto and crest was matriculated by Lord Lyon and granted to the International Association of Clan MacInnes members for their use.\n\nThe clan's plant badge is 'holly'; possibly referring to the indigenous Morvern tribe called the Creones, who were later given the distinction 'The Red Berry People'.\n\nFrom the Gaelic Mac Aonghais or mhic Aonghais (\"Sons of Angus\"). \"Mac\" or \"Mc\" (as they are interchangeable) means son or family of, \"aon\" means one or unique, and \"gusa\" means choice. Therefore, 'Unique Choice' or 'Chosen One'. Mac does not imply strict blood-lines, but could reflect kinship, dependent allies or tenants.\n\nWhilst a mythical 7th century kindred named Cenél nÓengusa of Islay appears in the Senchus fer n-Alban - ('The History of the Men of Scotland' - an Old Irish medieval text believed to have been compiled from a 7th-century text in the 10th century, and then transposed in the 14th century), so too do four other kin groups with the same kindred naming that were earlier, or contemporary, from Northern Ireland. They are the Cenél nÓengusa of Eochaid Muinremuir mac Oengus, Rí na Dál Riata; Cenél nÓengusa of Uí Echach Cobo; Cenél nÓengusa of Fergnae mac Oengusso Ibdaig; and Cenél nÓengusa or Mag Aonghusa. None of them have any bearing on the origin of the clan name of mhic Aonghais, (MacInnes).\n\nAnd so two question has more recently been, \"Where did the\n\nThe first option is that the name \"mhic Aonghais\", (MacInnes), as the 'sons of Angus', may well have originated with either Aonghais Mor (d.1294) or Aonghais Og (d.c.1330), (Somerled's great, grandson, or great, great, grandson), with surnaming contemporary around the time of Aonghais Mor, and as a name bequeathed in support of the newly named Clann Donald, who the tribe adhered to. As the first chief of Clann Donald - Aonghais Mor (d.1294) was styled Angus of Islay (as was Aonghais Og). This name may have found synergy later after the writing of the Senchus fer n-Alban) with the Cenél nÓengusa of Islay from the 7th century. The Senchus was recorded (no doubt faithfully) by Lúcás Ó Dalláin as Chief Sennachie and Bard of the Uí Maine. as he may have known that a number of the Scottish Dal Riata migrants (as genetics now proves), were related back to the Ui Maine prior to the settling of the western seaboard of Scotland and the formation of the Scottish kingdom of Dal Riata.\n\nThe second option was that as a kindred from Morven that it originated with a kindred chief by the name of Aonghais. One possibility was the chief who was said to have been killed shortly prior to the tribe's request to Somerled for him to lead them as a war-band against invading Lochlann (Vikings).\n\nThird, it could well have come from a kindred Iona abbot with the given name of Aonghais, or it could have been in recognition of the kindred's support of an abbot named Aonghais, along with the kindred's association with Iona harking back to the time of Columba. In this case, the prefix of ‘Mac’ may be referring to its definition as that of a ‘devotee.’\n\nFourth, the name could well hark back to the clan's original roots as remembered by the Church, (or by Somerled's Macdonald descendants), as having originally been a resident group of tribal Creones, or ‘Picts’, (for want of a better term), and thus remembered as the ‘sons of Oengus’ in reference to the renowned Pict king Oengus I. He was the kindred's over-king for a considerable period of time in the 9th century and they may have supported Oenghus I, or his brother, in battle in Loch Linnhe against further encroachment by those from Lorne.\n\nThen lastly, the scenario given that the created link to the 7th century Cenel n'Oenghusa on Islay could not have been made until after the recording of the Senchus fer n-Alban, was that the name could have come from Church accounts in the 13th century of their having been an earlier mythical Cenél nÓengusa, or from oral history. With no known connection to them, other than they knew that some had arrived from Ireland, it seems unlikely given that Cenel or kindred naming in the 7th century only lasted with father and son, (e.g. Oengus had a son Iain and he would be known as Iain mac Oengus (of the 'Cenel'or kin of Oengus) Iain's son Brion would be known as Brion mac Iain, or Cenel n'Iain). If this was the case the clan would have had to take at face value a name based on ’invented tradition’ at that time unless someone knew the oral genealogy all the way back to the 7th century. The clan would certainly adopted this link in mid 19th-century, but for an entirely different reason. It was at this time during a renaissance in all things 'Gaelic' that several arrived at this supposed traditional, mythical account of the origins of many of the clans, (including MacInnes and Macdonald), to show that they linked back to the kings of Ireland and entities such as 'Conn of a Hundred Battles' and 'Niall of the Nine Hostages', that had been politically purported earlier.\n\nThe traditional account of the origin of Clan MacInnes', therefore, has their ancestors among the early inhabitants of Islay, Jura and the Kintyre peninsula in Scotland, generally part of the region known as Argyll. These Scotti, a Celtic, Gaelic-speaking people, supposedly first appeared there as settlers from Ireland in c.500 when Fergus Mór, king of the north Irish kingdom of Dál Riata, and his two brothers, Loarn and Óengus, expanded their lands into southwestern Alba. Óengus had supposedly already established a colony on Islay, and / or Jura, before Fergus's arrival and the Cenel n'Óengusa was recorded much later as having been the master of ships for the new kingdom. This kindred, (that at that time would have only extended over two generations name-wise), was then considered in the mid 19th century, to be the first of the MacInnes clan. Given this fiction, it was then added, that he must have also been buried on Iona. The account of this Óengus, (or Cenél nÓengusa), as the originator of Clan MacInnes is, in all reality, 19th century 'invented tradition'. It thus needs to be consigned to legend with clan members made aware of the truth regarding their clan's likely 13th-century name origin.\n\nWhat we definitely now believe is that the clan, (at the time it was awarded its name in the 13th century of Clan mhic Aonghais - MacInnes)), was from Morvern, Argyleshire, (the peninsula bounded by Loch Sunart and Loch Linnhe and adjacent to the Isle of Mull), and that as a kindred, or tribe, it was made up of three distinct earlier ancestral groups. It is also now evident from DNA testing that the largest grouping who made up the kindred prior to its naming certainly had their origin/s in Northern Ireland as Irish 'Scoti (but not from any purported Cenél nÓengusa on Islay). It appears from genetic distance (GD) calculations that some of these kindred were likely to have migrated to Scotland prior to 500 AD, while others no doubt arrived with the creation of the Scottish 'kingdom of Dal Riata, (Dalriada), in Argyle after 500 AD, (or possibly with St Columba in the mid 6th-century).\n\nEvident from MacInnes DNA testing, also, is that the next kin group in size was already based in Morvern at the time of the formation of the Scoti 'kingdom of Dal Riata'. They had resided there since c.2000BC, (or earlier), and like the Irish Scoti they were also genetically Y-DNA Hapolotype R1b from an earlier Beaker culture. These were the people from the tribe that the Greco Roman geographer Ptolemy referred to in c.150 AD as the 'Creones', (later known as 'Picts'). Given that the Irish Sea had created no great barrier over time to these seagoing people those from the northeast of Ireland (that by that time may have included Cruithne and Irish Scoti from Ireland). They had assimilated over the centuries with western seaboard indigenous Pictish peoples and their culture but not in large numbers. This more than likely had been occurring for millennia as we now know from the Rathlin Island Beaker burial finds. It was out of these early times, and then following the arrival of Christianity and St, Columba in the 6th century, that several of this kindred attached themselves to the Church on what had been their ancestral isle, now named Iona. It is believed that tribal members, (later MacInneses), lived on Iona with Columba, with tradition recalling that a number of the kindred's chiefs were buried there. MacInnes tradition also says that Columba selected the site where the Kiel Church now stands in Lochaline, Morvern, on Creone tribal land.\n\nFrom the late 8th century these two groups continued to form an infused Gaelic kindred with others along the western seaboard,(from Ardnamurchan south to Kintyre, and under various Pict or Scoti over-lords), until their next challenge appeared in the form of marauding Vikings. This was the third group that would add their genetic make-up to the clan, (other than other minor assimilated DNA types not mentioned here - Refer to the Clan MacInnes Association DNA project results). These Vikings were the Danish or Norse of Y-DNA Haplotype R1a, that is the haplotype of Somerled mac Gillebride's line. His Norse Gilli ancestors would be the tribe's ruling overlords (on behalf of the Norse Earl of Orkney) administering their domains from the island of Coll, or Colonsay. MacInnes tradition places their Morvern kindred very close to, (if not related on the female side), to this Jarl Gille line, with one Gille traditionally believed to have been a mhic Aonghais chief.\n\nPushed out of his title and the isles by other invading Vikings in the late 11th, or early 12th-century, Gille Admonan's son Gillebride, (along with his son Somerled), lived for a period in the caves on Morvern with the clan's (tribe's) kindred. Following Gillebride's death in Ireland, Somerled (d.1164) returned to Morvern when the time was right. As an alliance later known as Siol Gillebride, or 'Seed of the Servant of St. Bride', (that included those who would later become the clans of MacInnes, MacGillivray, the sept of MacMaster and clan MacEacharn), and under the leadership of Somerled, they managed to expel their Viking enemies from their lands. This was the start of a change in Somerled's fortunes with his descendants going on to become Lords of the Isles. Somerled's daughter Bethoc would become the first Prioress of Iona, while his grandsons were the first of the lines of Clan Donald and Mac Dougall.\n\nIt was around this time that Clan MacInnes was awarded its name as mhic Aonghais (MacInnes). Whether its definition as the 'sons of chosen one' was known at that time is a moot point. From this time Clan MacInnes chiefs would go on to have a close association with Clan Donald, with their last clan chief being a foster father to one of the sons of the First Lord of the Isles, John of Islay. It was this MacInnes chief's unfortunate advice to John of Islay that would see his, and the clan's, downfall. In recommending that John should divorce his wife Amie MacRuari in favour of the daughter of the future King Robert II of Scotland, the MacInnes chief made a fatal error in not considering that Amie's scorn was likely to be served cold. Amie, thus, later got her revenge by telling her ex-husband that MacInnes had continually complained after being lodged in John's residence, (Ardtornish Castle, Morvern), that the place stank like a dog's kennel. This slight against John's good name, and his position as First Lord of the Isles, was enough for him to react by ordering the punishment of MacInnes to be left in the hands of Donald MacLean (son of Lachlan Maclean of Duart), thus hopefully killing two birds with one stone. Lachlan had expressed a prior interest in the MacInnes lands in Morvern and Lochaber and perhaps John of Islay saw this as a way of also repaying a previous debt. And so in the mid 14th-century the Clan MacInnes chief, along with his sons, were assassinated by the MacLeans, thus preventing any future claims of title by Clan MacInnes. As an outcome, MacLean was awarded the old MacInnes lands along with the MacInnes castle of Ardgour.\n\nFollowing the MacInnes chief's untimely death many of the clan scattered to Ardnamurchan, Moidart, Lochaber Appin, Craignish, and even Glencoe. Then following the demise of the Lordship of the Isles in the late 15th century, a number moved to the Isle of Skye under the protection of MacDonald of Sleat, who by that time they recognised as their rightful Laird, and his entitlement to the title as Lord of the Isles; and under the protection of MacKinnon of Strath. Five longships are said to have made the journey, each holding a family group, and it is from these five families that are descended the five lineages of the name of MacInnes on the Isle of Skye.\n\nRemaining clan kin in Morvern continued to now act as vassals occupying the keep of Kinlochaline in Lochaline that had been built some say the MacInneses. By this time it was in Campbell hands and many remaining dispossessed clan members thus supported Clan Dugall Craignish while others migrated to Perthshire and joined the MacGregors. This move lead to an ill-informed claim that MacInnes was a sept of MacGregor. It should also be noted at this juncture that Clan Innes is also unrelated to Clan MacInnes, with Clan Innes having its origins in Moray (east of Inverness).\n\nThis castle is on Morvern, on the west edge of Scotland, just across from the Isle of Mull. The castle occupies a commanding position atop a rocky summit at the head of Loch Aline, overlooking a small peaty stream called Gear Abhain, or short river. The stream runs by the castle into Loch Aline then finally into the Sound of Mull. The area at one time had long been occupied by Clan MacInnes. Clan MacInnes was keeper of the castle, which may have been used as a hold for supplies. Clan MacInnes and MacMaster's remained as keepers of the castle after the lands were granted to MacLean by charter.\n\nIt was said that one of the Clan women, Dubh-Chal (Lady of the Black Veil), paid the architect an amount of butter equal in size to the castle, thus the name Caisteal an Ime or castle of butter. The main fireplace has a carving of a woman holding an object in one hand that some assume is Dubh-Chal. The new owners had the carving painted in the same style as it may have been originally. Dubh-Chal is buried at the Kiels (Kiel Church) along with (reported) several Chieftains and the mother of St. Columba.\n\nThe castle is noteworthy in the size of the boulders that were used to construct its walls. The castle is four stories tall, measures 43 x 34 feet and has walls which are ten feet thick. Most of the stones in the walls are composed of Lias limestone which contains fossils, very rare in Scotland. Because of its size, it is not known for sure if the castle was actually occupied or used as a keep. The ramparts were made for pouring boiling oil with the unique feature of firepits in the ramparts.\n\nThe outside holds a carving of what appears to be a fish, a salmon. Some have theorized that this is the salmon that Somerled wanted the MacInnes men to catch for him before he led them to oust the Norsemen that were terrorizing the settlement. The story of Somerled can be found here http://macinnes.org/somerled/somerled.html.\n\nIn 1645, during the English Civil War, the Kinlochaline castle was attacked and burned by Alasdair Mac Colla, \"Colkitto\" serving under James Graham, 1st Marquess of Montrose, as a member of Clan Graham. Clan MacInnes retained control of the castle following this attack, and also after a later attack in 1679 during a feud with the Archibald Campbell, 9th Earl of Argyll. The castle, which was then heavily damaged, was abandoned by Clan MacInnes around 1690.\n\nIn the Jacobite rising of 1745 - known as the '45', while MacDonald of Sleat sat on the fence with his MacInnes forces who wanted to join Charles Edward Stewart, other MacInnes clansmen took up arms on both sides of the fight. Some supported Campbells and the House of Argyll, while the MacInneses of Morvern, Lochaber and Appin, supported Prince Charles Edward Stuart and fought beside Stewart of Ardshiel, who commanded of the Appin (Stewart) Regiment. Several with MacKinnon of Strath on Skye also supported the Prince. A MacInnes clansman, MacMaster of Glenaladale, raised Prince Charles banner at Glenfinnan. Four MacInnes men were killed and two wounded at the battle of Culloden with others were likely captured and subsequently hanged. Donald Livingstone, the 18-year-old son of Anna MacInnes of Morvern, saved the Appin Banner from Culloden and smuggled it home. The banner is now housed in the Museum of Scotland. These kinsmen are buried in the cemetery of Kiel Kirk (Kiel Church) in Lochaline Morvern. This church and cemetery still exist today with many of the older gravestones housed in the session house next to the church. Another hardy individual, John McInnes from Elgol on Skye, helped row Prince Charles to safety. Following his capture by the 'Black Captain' James Fergussone of the 'bomb' HMS Furnace, he was given 500 lashes, (in instalments of 50), in an attempt to have him tell of the Bonny Prince's whereabouts. After refusing to divulge any details he was left for dead in Loch na Dal, from where, after his recovery, he would marry into a MacInnes family from Leitir Fura, Sleat.\n\nFollowing Culloden numbers of MacInnes clansman joined the British Army with several participating in The French and Indian War that comprised the North American theater of the worldwide Seven Years' War of 1756–63. Following this period several of the clan settled North Carolina. These settlers, along with several of their descendants back in Scotland, went on to fight in the American Revolutionary War in South and North Carolina, New York and Halifax, and finally at Yorktown, that resulted in Cornwallis's eventual surrender in 1781. Other MacInnes clansmen back in Scotland then joined up and fought in the Napoleonic Wars, including many of the campaigns in Spain, at the Heights of Spain, and finally at Quatre Bras and Waterloo in 1815.\n\nA family of MacInneses from Leitir Fura in Sleat, (that overlooks the Sound of Sleat), became notorious smugglers of brandy and rum from France in the latter half of the 18th-century. They supplied not just the Isle of Skye, but many of the Outer Hebrides, until their 'tack' was terminated in the 1790s.\n\nFrom the mid-1700s to the second half of the 19th century the Highland Clearances, would drive many MacInnes kin from their homes with voluntary, or forced, emigration, (notably on Skye and Mull, but later in Morvern). These Clearances were designed to get the tenant farmers off the land to make room for more profitable Cheviot sheep. Higher rents, poverty, and crop failures, (such as the potato blights and famines of the 1840s), also contributed to the tide of emigration that emptied the highlands during the 19th Century. Numerous parish cemeteries in Morvern, Lochaber, Appin, Glencoe, and throughout Argyll, Ardnamurchan, Moidart, on Mull, Iona and Skye, all bear testament to these unfortunate times.\n\nWhilst clan members still live throughout Scotland, England, many migrating families now have loyal clan members where they now live in The United States of America, Canada (Nova Scotia), Australia, New Zealand, and other countries around the world. In line with the International Association of Clan MacInnes motto: \"MacAonghais a-rithist!\",('Again MacInnes!') they adhere to the Scottish saying that, \"A Scot is a Scot to a Hundred Generations.\"\n\nThis first crest and motto harks back to a legendary 13th-century story from Morvern or Ardgour and an incident when a MacInnes clansman was awakened by a bee to lead his forces in surprising and defeating a party of Viking raiders. As the traditional emblem of the clan of a bee on a thistle flower, with the Gaelic motto:'E Labore Dulcedo' [\"In labour, (we find) pleasure\"], this device was not registered at the time it was devised in the mid-19th century. It was adopted, many think, incorrectly by clan Innes of Moray (who have no connection to clan MacInnes). This is still a matter of dispute as this badge is also claimed by the Innes clan. Refer to Clan MacInnes Association page for an explanation of how this occurred:\n\nhttp://macinnes.org/crests/WhatHappenedTB.html\n\nIn 1960, a branch of the clan (whose ancestors were from Skye) matriculated arms from which was adopted the second crest and motto, arms of a Right Arm in Proper Tartan Holding a Bow, with the motto: GHIFT DHE AGUS AN RIGH, [\"By the grace of God and king\"]. This crest was adopted for use by the Council of Chiefs. Since there was no Clan Chief, the arms were lodged with Lord Lyon King of Arms.\nThis crest pertains to MacInneses of Skye - being that of the extended arm of an archer that relates \"Sliochd Neill a’ bhogha\", (The Line of Neil of the Bow), whose kin from the mid 16th century were hereditary bowman to Clan McKinnon of Strath. This registered device is now the commercially accepted crest and motto of the clan.\n\nAnother branch of the MacInneses who emigrated from Skye to settle in Nova Scotia in the 19th century named their farm Malagawatch. They too adopted the \"arm & bow\" crest and the motto as part of their amoral arms, as the registered Arms of MacInnes of Malagawatch.\n\nIn 2004, the International Association of Clan MacInnes (IACM) was granted Arms by the Court of Lord Lyon which incorporated the \"arm & bow\", with slight modifications, atop a wholly new coat of arms incorporating significant symbols related to the history of the clan. The new motto is MacAonghais a-rithist which means MacInnes again, a reference to the new effort to bring the clan back together. See the crest above.\n\nThe history of crests associated to Clan MacInnes are here.\n\nhttp://macinnes.org/symbols.html#crests\n\nIn the context of Scottish clans, septs are families that followed another family's chief, or in this instance - part of the extended family and that hold a different surname. There are two septs of Clan MacInnes, the MacMasters of Ardgour and MacNeish. There are also many spelling variations of each as well as many spelling variations of MacInnes. Here is a list on the macinnes.org web site but this list is not exhaustive.\n\nThere are many other Anglicised spellings of the Gaelic name 'mhic Aonghais', or MacInnes (McInnes), including... MacInnis, Macinnis, McInnis, McGinnis (not to be confused with McGuinness), McKinnis, MacAngus, McAninch, McIninch, McNinch, McKynes, M'Aneiss, McCanse, McCants, McNiesh, McAnsh, McAinsh, MacAngus - (along with others). There are 157 variants of the spelling of the name 'MacInnes'.\n\nThe name \"Innes\" is often linked to MacInnes. Clan Innes had a later origin in Moray and has no link to Clan MacInnes ancestrally. However, a number of those with the surname \"MacInnes\" may have dropped the \"Mac\", (in common with holders of other Mac- names), following the '45' when it was unfavourable to be identified as a Gaelic speaker. Likewise, those with the surname \"Innes\" may have added \"Mac\". You see the dilemma. Both the International Association of Clan MacInnes and the Clan Innes Society can assist you in your search.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113573", "title": "New Current", "text": "New Current\n\nThe New Current () in the history of Latvia was a broad leftist social and political movement that followed the First Latvian National Awakening (led by the Young Latvians from the 1850s to the 1880s) and culminated in the 1905 Revolution. Participants in the movement were called \"jaunstrāvnieki\".\n\nThe beginning of the New Current is usually given as 1886, when the movement's newspaper, \"Dienas Lapa\" (\"The Page of the Day\"), was founded by Pēteris Bisenieks, who ran the Riga Latvian Craftsmen's Credit Union. Pēteris Stučka, who later headed the Latvian Bolsheviks, became the editor of \"Dienas Lapa\" in 1888. From 1891 to 1896, the paper was edited by Bisenieks and Rainis (the nom de plume of Jānis Pliekšāns). Rainis, who became Latvia's foremost dramatist and the literary figure \"inseparably linked to the birth of the independent Latvian nation and the struggle for freedom\" [Aivars Stranga], was also the leading figure in the New Current. Under Rainis and Stučka—the latter was again editor in 1896-97 -- \"Dienas Lapa\" turned to socialism; shut down by the Ministry of the Interior in 1897, the paper took a moderate turn under the editorship of the philosopher and publicist Pēteris Zālīte (formerly an editor of \"Mājas Viesis\"—see the Young Latvians article) between 1899 and 1903; despite its moderation under Zālīte, the paper was again shut down by the censors, re-emerging in 1905 as the Social Democratic newspaper before its permanent closure.\n\nThe historian Arveds Švābe describes the New Current as \"connected to the political awakening of the Latvian working class, its first organizations, and the propagandization of socialist ideas.\". Most historians point to what the painter Apsīšu Jēkabs called \"the beginning of a cleft between the Latvian farmer and his farm hand\" in the 1870s, and by 1897 there were 591 656 landless peasants in what is now Latvia (compared to 418 028 smallholders and their dependents). \n\nTheir partial urbanization led to a growing proletariat, fertile ground for the ideas of western European socialism, and this coincided with a loss of momentum for the Young Latvians, whose ideas had been enfeebled by national romanticism as a gulf grew between the bourgeoisie and the poor, the leading nationalists of the era having been arrested and exiled. Rainis smuggled German Marxist literature into Latvia in two pieces of luggage in 1893: the work of Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, and Karl Kautsky. This \"luggage with the dangerous contents,\" as the historian Uldis Ģērmanis called it, was the seed of the Latvian Social Democratic Party.\n"}
{"id": "2113590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113590", "title": "My Number One", "text": "My Number One\n\n\"My Number One\" is a song recorded by Greek-Swedish singer Helena Paparizou. The song was written by Christos Dantis, Natalia Germanou, Manos Psaltakis and produced by Christos Dantis. It is best known as the Greek winning entry at the Eurovision Song Contest 2005, held in Kiev.\n\n\"My Number One\" awarded the first victory to Greece in Eurovision. The song is notable for casting elements of traditional Greek music in a contemporary dance music setting: its arrangement includes bouzoukis and a solo featuring a Cretan lyra. The song's lyrics describe the singer's appreciation for her lover who is lauded as \"my number one\" and \"the only treasure I'll ever have\".\n\nBefore Eurovision, ERT used an internal selection method to choose Paparizou. They chose her, and then had composers submit songs. They then picked four songs with Paparizou for her to sing at a Greek National Selection. At the Greek National Selection, Paparizou would have to sing the songs, and the public would vote via televoting to a special jury, that would determine what song to send to Eurovision. The songs to pick from were \"My Number One\", \"OK\", \"Let's Get Wild\" and \"The Light in Our Soul\". Shortly before the Greek national selection, it was revealed that \"The Light in Our Soul\" was released by the artist Big Alice in Germany, which broke the rules. The song was then disqualified from the selection prossess, leaving just three songs to select. The chorus of the winning track has already become a chant for AEK Athens supporters.\n\nThe voting to pick the song consisted of televoting, and a jury. Televoting held a 60% outcome to the song, and the jury held a 40% outcome. In the end, \"My Number One\" gained a combined 66.47% from televoting and jury votes, and was chosen to represent Greece in 2005 Eurovision Song Contest. Shortly after the song was picked, the videoclip was shot in just 1 day at the Thessaloniki Science Center and Technology Museum in Thessaloniki.\n\nAfter the song was picked, Paparizou went on a European promotional tour. Paparizou visited over 20 countries on her tour, and sang on various TV shows, as well as gave many interviews. This method proved popular, and was used by many countries in 2006, including by Greece again in 2006.\n\nAs Greece had finished the 2004 Eurovision Song Contest in third place, the song was pre-qualified for the final in 2005. Thus, it was performed nineteenth on the night, following Croatia's Boris Novković and Lado with \"Vukovi umiru sami\" and preceding Russia's Natalia Podolskaya with \"Nobody Hurt No One\".\n\nDuring the performance, Paparizou did a stage show of the song. Some of the best remembered visuals from the show include her dancing a traditional Greek Pontian dance, the 4 dancers making the shape on the number 1 of the floor (showed from aerial camera) and her playing an imaginary lyra while her dancers pick her up. At the close of voting, it had received 230 points, finishing at the head of a 24-strong field.\n\nAt the Congratulations special in late 2005, the song was named as one of the five greatest Contest entries of all time, earning the 4th place in ESC history.\n\n\"My Number One\" also held 2 Eurovision records:\n\nAfter Greece won Eurovision, a mass party started on the streets of Athens. People went out onto the streets with Greek flags, and started singing \"My Number One\", as well as honking car horns. This was similar to when Greece won Euro 2004, the 2005 Eurobasket title and when Greece won the silver medal in the 2006 FIBA World Championship. When Paparizou arrived back to Greece from Kiev, mass crowds met her at the Athens International Airport, where she held up a Greek flag and the trophy.\n\nAfter the Eurovision Victory, the video for the song was released in several countries throughout Europe. It went to #1 in both Greece and Paparizou's native Sweden for 4 weeks and was certified gold in both countries. The song was played constantly in Greece all through the summer. The success of the single is credited to the popular remix from Chris \"The Greek\" Panaghi which Sony (Greece) commissioned for the remix.\n\nAfter the release of \"My Number One\", a Swedish album followed which contained \"My Number One\" and in Greece Paparizou re-released her first album \"Protereotita\" featuring \"My Number One\" and the other songs in the running for Eurovision pre-selection. It has sold over 90,000 copies in Greece and was certified double platinum.\n\nIn 2006 the heavy metal band Dream Evil recorded a tongue-in-cheek cover of the song for their album \"United\".\n\nIn 2009, \"My Number One\" made its way to the PlayStation 3 karaoke game, \"Singstar\", as a downloadable content. It was previously released in the Swedish version of the game, but it is the first time it has become accessible to players from all over Europe. It is also the first time that a song from a Greek singer is included in the \"Singstar\" game.\n\nIn early 2006, it was announced that \"My Number One\" and \"Mambo!\" would be remixed and released in the United States by Moda Records. On August 22, a maxi CD single was released to record stores, featuring 10 remixes, and the original song; the mixes were also released as digital downloads on June 4. The song peaked on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play chart at number 8 and number 25 on the Billboard Hot Dance Singles Sales. In September 2006, the \"Georgie’s #1 Radio Anthem Mix\" was added to popular American retailer Abercrombie & Fitch's store playlist nationwide.\n\nIn 2013, musician Manos Psaltakis announced that, a Greek court ruled in his favour as the rightful composer of 2005 Eurovision winner \"My Number One\" and against Christos Dantis, the artist so far credited as the main composer of the song.\n\n\n\nThe music video of \"My Number One\" premiered in the US in 2006. There were two separate videos. One is the original video, that was also shown in Europe. The second is a re-edited version of the same video, to the beat of the Josh Harris Remix from the CD Single.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113601", "title": "Thrill Jockey discography", "text": "Thrill Jockey discography\n\nThis is the discography of the record label Thrill Jockey\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113603", "title": "Alice Ambrose", "text": "Alice Ambrose\n\nAlice Ambrose Lazerowitz (November 25, 1906 – January 25, 2001) was an American philosopher, logician, and author.\n\nAlice Loman Ambrose was born in Lexington, Illinois and orphaned when she was 13 years old. She studied philosophy and mathematics at Millikin University (1924–28). After completing her PhD at the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1932, she went to Cambridge University (Newnham College) to study with G. E. Moore and Ludwig Wittgenstein, where she earned a second PhD in 1938.\n\nHaving become a close disciple of Wittgenstein, Ambrose later related her association with him in \"Ludwig Wittgenstein: Philosophy and Language\" (1972), a volume co-edited with her husband Morris Lazerowitz. Along with fellow student Margaret MacDonald she secretly (since he did not allow this) made notes during Wittgenstein's lectures, which were later published. She was one of a select group of students to whom Wittgenstein dictated the so-called Blue and Brown Books, which outline the transition in Wittgenstein's thought between his two major works, \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" and \"Philosophical Investigations\". Wittgenstein terminated their association abruptly in 1935, when Ambrose decided, with encouragement from G.E.Moore, to publish an article entitled \"Finitism in Mathematics\" in the philosophical journal \"Mind\" which was intended to give an account of Wittgenstein's position on the subject.\n\nAmbrose began her career at the University of Michigan, when she returned to the United States in 1935. She then took a position in Smith College in 1937, where she remained for the rest of her career. She was awarded the Austin and Sophia Smith chair in Philosophy in 1964 and became Professor Emeritus in 1972. Between 1953 and 1968, she was editor of the \"Journal of Symbolic Logic\". \nShe worked chiefly in logic and mathematical philosophy, writing a primer on the subject with her husband which became a widely used textbook and was known as \"Ambrose and Lazerowitz\". She collaborated with her husband on a number of works: \"Fundamentals of Symbolic Logic\" (1948), \"Logic: The Theory of Formal Inference\" (1961), \"Philosophical Theories\" (1976) and \"Essays in the Unknown Wittgenstein\" (1984). Even after her retirement she continued to teach and guest lecture at Smith and other universities around the country until her death, at the age of 94, on January 25, 2001.\n\nHer personal papers are held at Smith College Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113608", "title": "Supercontinent cycle", "text": "Supercontinent cycle\n\nThe supercontinent cycle is the quasi-periodic aggregation and dispersal of Earth's continental crust. There are varying opinions as to whether the amount of continental crust is increasing, decreasing, or staying about the same, but it is agreed that the Earth's crust is constantly being reconfigured. One complete supercontinent cycle is said to take 300 to 500 million years. Continental collision makes fewer and larger continents while rifting makes more and smaller continents.\n\nThe most recent supercontinent, Pangaea, formed about 300 million years ago (0.3 Ga). There are two different views on the history of earlier supercontinents. The first proposes a series of supercontinents: Vaalbara ( 3.6 to c. 2.8 billion years ago); Ur ( 3 billion years ago); Kenorland ( 2.7 to 2.1 billion years ago); Columbia ( 1.8 to 1.5 billion years ago); Rodinia ( 1.25 billion to 750 million years ago); and Pannotia ( 600 million years ago), whose dispersal produced the fragments that ultimately collided to form Pangaea.\n\nThe second view (Protopangea-Paleopangea), based on both palaeomagnetic and geological evidence, is that supercontinent cycles did not occur before about 0.6 Ga (during the Ediacaran Period). Instead, the continental crust comprised a single supercontinent from about 2.7 Ga (Gigaannum, or \"billion years ago\") until it broke up for the first time, somewhere around 0.6 Ga. This reconstruction is based on the observation that if only small peripheral modifications are made to the primary reconstruction, the data show that the palaeomagnetic poles converged to quasi-static positions for long intervals between about 2.7–2.2, 1.5–1.25 and 0.75–0.6 Ga. During the intervening periods, the poles appear to have conformed to a unified apparent polar wander path. Thus the paleomagnetic data are adequately explained by the existence of a single Protopangea–Paleopangea supercontinent with prolonged quasi-integrity. The prolonged duration of this supercontinent could be explained by the operation of lid tectonics (comparable to the tectonics operating on Mars and Venus) during Precambrian times, as opposed to the plate tectonics seen on the contemporary Earth.\nThe kinds of minerals found inside ancient diamonds suggest that the cycle of supercontinental formation and breakup began roughly 3.0 billion years ago (3.0 Ga). Before 3.2 billion years ago only diamonds with peridotitic compositions (commonly found in the Earth's mantle) formed, whereas after 3.0 billion years ago eclogitic diamonds (rocks from the Earth's surface crust) became prevalent. This change is thought to have come about as subduction and continental collision introduced eclogite into subcontinental diamond-forming fluids.\nThe hypothesized supercontinent cycle is overlaid by the Wilson Cycle named after plate tectonics pioneer John Tuzo Wilson, which describes the periodic opening and closing of oceanic basins from a single plate rift. The oldest seafloor material found today dates to only 170 million years old, whereas the oldest continental crust material found today dates to 4 billion years, showing the relative brevity of the regional Wilson cycles compared to the planetary pulse seen in the arrangement of the continents.\n\nIt is known that sea level is generally low when the continents are together and high when they are apart. For example, sea level was low at the time of formation of Pangaea (Permian) and Pannotia (latest Neoproterozoic), and rose rapidly to maxima during Ordovician and Cretaceous times, when the continents were dispersed. This is because the age of the oceanic lithosphere provides a major control on the depth of the ocean basins, and therefore on global sea level. Oceanic lithosphere forms at mid-ocean ridges and moves outwards, conductively cooling and shrinking, which decreases the thickness and increases the density of the oceanic lithosphere, and lowers the seafloor away from mid-ocean ridges. For oceanic lithosphere that is less than about 75 million years old, a simple cooling half-space model of conductive cooling works, in which the depth of the ocean basins \"d\" in areas in which there is no nearby subduction is a function of the age of the oceanic lithosphere \"t\". In general,\n\nwhere \"κ\" is the thermal diffusivity of the mantle lithosphere ( ), \"a\" is the effective thermal expansion coefficient for rock ( ), \"T\" is the temperature of ascending magma compared to the temperature at the upper boundary ( 1220 °C for the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, 1120 °C for the eastern Pacific) and \"d\" is the depth of the ridge below the ocean surface. After plugging in rough numbers for the sea floor, the equation becomes:\n\nwhere \"d\" is in meters and \"t\" is in millions of years, so that just-formed crust at the mid-ocean ridges lies at about 2,500 m depth, whereas 50-million-year-old seafloor lies at a depth of about 5,000 m.\n\nAs the mean level of the sea floor decreases, the volume of the ocean basins increases, and if other factors that can control sea level remain constant, sea level falls. The converse is also true: younger oceanic lithosphere leads to shallower oceans and higher sea levels if other factors remain constant.\n\nThe surface area of the oceans can change when continents rift (stretching the continents decreases ocean area and raises sea level) or as a result of continental collision (compressing the continents increases ocean area and lowers sea level). Increasing sea level will flood the continents, while decreasing sea level will expose continental shelves.\n\nBecause the continental shelf has a very low slope, a small increase in sea level will result in a large change in the percent of continents flooded.\n\nIf the world ocean on average is young, the seafloor will be relatively shallow, and sea level will be high: more of the continents are flooded. If the world ocean is on average old, seafloor will be relatively deep, and sea level will be low: more of the continents will be exposed.\n\nThere is thus a relatively simple relationship between the supercontinent cycle and the mean age of the seafloor.\n\nThere will also be a climatic effect of the supercontinent cycle that will amplify this further:\n\nThere is a progression of tectonic regimes that accompany the supercontinent cycle:\n\nDuring break-up of the supercontinent, rifting environments dominate. This is followed by passive margin environments, while seafloor spreading continues and the oceans grow. This in turn is followed by the development of collisional environments that become increasingly important with time. First collisions are between continents and island arcs, but lead ultimately to continent-continent collisions. This is the situation that was observed during the Paleozoic supercontinent cycle and is being observed for the Mesozoic–Cenozoic supercontinent cycle, still in progress.\n\nThere are two types of global earth climates: icehouse and greenhouse. Icehouse is characterized by frequent continental glaciations and severe desert environments. Greenhouse is characterized by warm climates. Both reflect the supercontinent cycle. It is now a short greenhouse phase of an icehouse world.\n\nPeriods of icehouse climate: much of Neoproterozoic, late Paleozoic, late Cenozoic.\n\nPeriods of greenhouse climate: Early Paleozoic, Mesozoic–early Cenozoic.\n\nThe principal mechanism for evolution is natural selection among diverse populations. As genetic drift occurs more frequently in small populations, diversity is an observed consequence of isolation. Less isolation, and thus less diversification, occurs when the continents are all together, producing both one continent and one ocean with one coast. In Latest Neoproterozoic to Early Paleozoic times, when the tremendous proliferation of diverse metazoa occurred, isolation of marine environments resulted from the breakup of Pannotia.\n\nA north–south arrangement of continents and oceans leads to much more diversity and isolation than east–west arrangements. North-to-south arrangements give climatically different zones along the communication routes to the north and south, which are separated by water or land from other continental or oceanic zones of similar climate. Formation of similar tracts of continents and ocean basins oriented east–west would lead to much less isolation, diversification, and slower evolution, since each continent or ocean is in fewer climatic zones. Through the Cenozoic, isolation has been maximized by a north–south arrangement.\n\nDiversity, as measured by the number of families, follows the supercontinent cycle very well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113609", "title": "Dianne Warren", "text": "Dianne Warren\n\nDianne Warren (born August 28, 1950 in Ottawa, Ontario) is a Canadian novelist, dramatist and short story writer, who lives in Regina, Saskatchewan.\n\nWarren was born in Ottawa, Ontario. Her mother grew up on a farm in Saskatchewan and worked in Ottawa during the 1940s. Her father, a World War II veteran, was from a small lumber town in the Ottawa Valley. Her parents met in Ottawa after the war, married, had two babies, and then moved to Saskatchewan. Although the family travelled back to Ottawa every few years to visit that side of the family, the extended family that Dianne grew up with was her mother's family, who remain farm and ranch people. She spent as much time as possible with her grandparents on the farm and grew up loving the prairie landscape.\n\nShe studied art at university and graduated with a degree in Fine Arts. She continued writing during those years, although in isolation and without the benefit of mentors or writing friends. About the time that she turned thirty, she decided she needed to learn more about writing. She took some writing classes through the English Department at her local university, and met several published and emerging writers that remain friends and colleagues to this day. She was invited to join a writing group called The Bombay Bicycle Club and the diligence with which its members approached the art of literary critique set her on the path to becoming a published writer.\n\nHer most recent book, \"Cool Water\" (released as \"Juliet in August\" in the US), won the Governor General's Award for English fiction in Canada. It has been published in several countries since then, including France and Australia.\n\nHer first book, \"The Wednesday Flower Man,\" was published in 1987 by the burgeoning Saskatchewan press Coteau Books. Two more story collections followed: \"Bad Luck Dog\" in 1993 and \"A Reckless Moon\" in 2002. She has a soft spot for \"Bad Luck Dog\" because it won the Saskatchewan Book of the Year Award about the same moment that Joe Carter hit the home run that won the Toronto Blue Jays the World Series. The room at the Saskatchewan Book Awards erupted in cheers (for Joe Carter).\n\nShe also wrote three stage plays in those years, all of which were produced by 25th Street Theatre in Saskatchewan. Her play \"Serpent in the Night Sky\" was short-listed for the Governor General's Award for drama in 1989. She no longer writes plays.\n\nHer first novel \"Cool Water\" was published in 2010 in Canada and in 2012 in the US (as \"Juliet\" in August). She claims to have been working on this book her whole life since it is informed by the iconography of the western books and movies she grew up with, and the shadow of the past in the novel is, in a sense, her family's past.\n\nDianne lives in Regina, Saskatchewan with her husband, visual artist Bruce Anderson. They have two sons. She is currently at work on a new novel. Her hobbies are still reading and horses.\n\nWarren's first short story was published in 1982 in the anthology \"Saskatchewan Gold\". Her fiction has appeared in anthologies such as \"The Old Dance\", \"Fire Beneath the Cauldron\" and \"Concrete Forest\". Her short story collections include \"The Wednesday Flower Man\" (1987), \"Bad Luck Dog\" (1993) and \"A Reckless Moon\" (2002).\n\nAll three plays premiered at Twenty-Fifth Street Theatre and were all directed by Tom Bentley-Fisher.\n\nWarren also wrote several dramatic works for CBC Radio.\n\n\"Bad Luck Dog\" won three Saskatchewan Book Awards, including Book of the Year.\n\nWarren also won the National Magazine Gold Award for Fiction and the Western Magazine Award for Fiction. She won the Marian Engel Award from the Writers' Trust of Canada in 2004.\n\nShe published her first novel, \"Cool Water\", in 2010. The novel won the Governor General's Award for English-language fiction at the 2010 Governor General's Awards, and was also longlisted for the Scotiabank Giller Prize.\n"}
{"id": "2113615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113615", "title": "Chief visionary officer", "text": "Chief visionary officer\n\nA chief visionary officer or chief vision officer (CVO) is an executive function in a company like CEO or COO. The title is sometimes used to formalize a high-level advisory position and other times used to define a higher ranking position than that held by the CEO. In some cases, the CVO is added to the CEO title (for CEO/CVO status), much in the same way that people with multiple university degrees list them after their names. \n\nThe CVO is expected to have a broad and comprehensive knowledge of all matters related to the business of the organization, as well as the vision required to steer its course into the future. The person in charge must have the core-competencies of every executive, and the visionary ideas to move the company forward, defining corporate strategies and working plans. The role has expanded to include formalizing the company’s strategic-planning processes, forging new working relationships and synergies across the organization, and establishing greater transparency and accountability for those people carrying out the company’s strategy.\n\nCompanies add CVOs (or consider doing so), sometimes interchangeable with CSO - Chief Strategy Officer, to their management teams for several reasons. Changes to the business landscape — complex organizational structures, rapid globalization, new regulations, the struggle to innovate — make it more difficult for CEOs to be on top of everything, even in areas as important as strategy execution and vision direction. Strategy development has become a continuous process, and successful execution depends on rapid and effective decision making. Further, as Harvard Business School professor Joseph L. Bower has noted, iron-fisted control of execution often eludes the top team’s grasp, as line executives seek to define strategy on their own terms. (See Bower and Clark G. Gilbert’s “How Managers’ Everyday Decisions Create—or Destroy—Your Company’s Strategy,” February 2007.)\n\nEinar Stefferud, co-founder and CVO of First Virtual Holdings in 1994, is usually recognized as the first CVO. Another early CVO was Tim Roberts of Broadband Investment Group. Roberts said he invented the title to recognize the visionary attributes needed to integrate a complex business with many diverse aspects. Roberts chose the title to define his role in the organization, and didn't intend the designation to proliferate across the corporate world in the way that it has.\n"}
{"id": "2113624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113624", "title": "Kinlochaline Castle", "text": "Kinlochaline Castle\n\nKinlochaline Castle is a 15th-century Scottish tower house on the Ardtornish estate in Morvern in the Highland council area. It is also known as Caisteal an Ime (Scottish Gaelic for \"Castle of Butter\") because a Lady of Clan MacInnes, Dubh Chal (Lady of the Black Veil), is said to have paid the builder with butter equal to the volume of the castle. \n\nKinlochaline Castle is located at the head of Loch Aline, positioned strategically for coastal defence. Four stories tall, 43 by 34 feet, with walls that are 10 feet thick blocks of rare sandstone. The castle was burned in 1644, when it was besieged by Alasdair Mac Colla during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. The castle was attacked by the Archibald Campbell, 9th Earl of Argyll in 1679, during a feud. Kinlochaline was abandoned about 1690. \n\nRe-construction in the late 1990s was overseen by Historic Scotland. The castle is now a residence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113628", "title": "Valentin Voloshinov", "text": "Valentin Voloshinov\n\nValentin Nikolaevich Voloshinov (; June 18, 1895, St. Petersburg – June 13, 1936, Leningrad) was a Soviet/Russian linguist, whose work has been influential in the field of literary theory and Marxist theory of ideology.\n\nWritten in the late 1920s in the USSR, Voloshinov's \"Marxism and the Philosophy of Language\" (tr.: \"Marksizm i Filosofiya Yazyka\") attempts to incorporate the field of linguistics into Marxism. The book's main inspiration does not come from previous Marxists, whom Voloshinov saw as largely indifferent towards the study of language. Voloshinov's theories are instead built on critical engagement with Wilhelm von Humboldt's concept of language as a continuous creative or \"generative\" process, and with the view of language as a sign-system posited by Ferdinand de Saussure. To some extent, Voloshinov's linguistic thought is also mediated by the analyses of his Soviet contemporary Nicholas Marr.\n\nFor Voloshinov, language is the medium of ideology, and cannot be separated from ideology. Ideology, however, is not to be understood in the classical Marxist sense as an illusory mental phenomenon that arises as a reflex of a \"real\" material economic substructure. Language, as a socially constructed sign-system, is what allows consciousness to arise, and is in itself a material reality. Because of this belief that language and human consciousness are closely related, Voloshinov holds that the study of verbal interaction is key to understanding social psychology. Voloshinov further argues for understanding psychological mechanisms within a framework of ideological function in his book \"Freudianism: A Marxist critique\".\n\nVoloshinov argues that it is a mistake to study language abstractly and synchronically (i.e. in an unhistorical manner), as Saussure does. For Voloshinov, words are dynamic social signs, which take different meanings for different social classes in different historical contexts. The meaning of words is not subject to passive understanding, but includes the active participation of both the speaker (or writer) and hearer (or reader). While every word is a sign taken from an inventory of available signs, the manipulation of the word contained in each speech act or individual utterance is regulated by social relations. In Voloshinov's view, the meaning of verbal signs is the arena of continuous class struggle: a ruling class will try to narrow the meaning of social signs, making them \"uni-accentual\", but the clash of various class-interests in times of social unrest will make clear the \"multi-accentuality\" of words.\n\nBy virtue of his belief that the \"struggle for meaning\" coincides with class struggle, Voloshinov's theories have much in common with those of Italian Communist Antonio Gramsci, who shared an interest in linguistics. Voloshinov's work can also be seen to prefigure many of the concerns of poststructuralism.\n\nVoloshinov devotes the last portion of Marxism and the Philosophy of Language to a treatment of reported speech in order to show social and temporal relations between utterances to be integral properties of language. This was taken up by Roman Jakobson in an essay entitled: \"Shifters and Verbal Categories,\" and influenced the development of the Prague School of functional linguistics as well as linguistic anthropology.\n\nThrough an entirely parallel evolution, Volosinov's model of dialogism, of meaning being functionally contextual and of cognition/consciousness emerging from verbal behaviour, prefigured the empirically derived poststructuralist model of language and cognition Relational Frame Theory which emerged in the 1990s, and upon which CBT and ACT therapies are based.\n\nSome scholars believe that works bearing Voloshinov's name were actually authored by his colleague Mikhail Bakhtin, although the topic is still the subject of debate; a few of these works have been added to reprinted editions of Bakhtin's collected works.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113631", "title": "Amanda Foreman (historian)", "text": "Amanda Foreman (historian)\n\nAmanda Lucy Foreman (born 1968) is a British/American biographer and historian. Her books include \"Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire\", \"A World on Fire\", and \"The World Made by Women\". She also wrote and starred in a four-part documentary regarding the role of women in society, entitled \"The Ascent of Woman\". Currently, she is a columnist for The Wall Street Journal bi-weekly 'Historically Speaking' and an Honorary Research Senior Fellow in the History Department at the University of Liverpool.\n\nForeman was born in London. Her parents were Evelyn (Smith) and the screenwriter and film producer Carl Foreman (1914–1984). Her father moved to England to work after being blacklisted by the Hollywood movie studios during the McCarthyism of the 1950s. Her brother, Jonathan Foreman, is an international correspondent and film critic. She has five children and is married to Jonathan Barton.\n\nAmanda Foreman was educated at Hanford School, a girls' junior independent school in southwest England, \nfollowed by various girls' boarding schools. She attended Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, New York, then Columbia University, before returning to England in 1991. She was awarded a 1993 Henrietta Jex-Blake Senior Scholarship at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. At Oxford, Foreman completed an MPhil thesis \"Politics or Providence?: Why the Houses of Parliament voted to abolish the slave trade in 1807\" (1993) and a DPhil with her thesis \"The political life of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, 1757–1806\" (1998) which was then turned into her first biography.\n\nAfter completing her DPhil, Foreman remained at Oxford as a researcher, and in 1998 she published her first book, \"Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire\", based on her doctoral thesis. Published by HarperCollins in the UK and Random House in the US, the book was an international best-seller and reached number one in the UK as a hardback, paperback, and reissue nine years later. It was shortlisted for the 1998 Guardian First Book Prize, and won the 1998 Whitbread Prize for Best Biography.<ref name=\"Whitbread/Costa\"></ref> The book has been the subject of a television documentary, a radio play starring Judi Dench, and a film, \"The Duchess\", starring Ralph Fiennes and Keira Knightley.\n\nForeman's most recent book, \"A World on Fire\", a history of British-American relations in the American Civil War, was published in 2010 by Penguin in the UK on 30 June, and in 2011 by Random House in the US. The book was a critical success in both countries and a national best-seller in the US. Writing in \"The Guardian\", Jay Parini stated, \"One can hardly overestimate the brilliance of Foreman's conception, seeing this turning point in American history from a British viewpoint, drawing on a vast range of actors on this great stage, including lesser-known British sympathisers who fought on either side in this conflict or journalists.\" Adam I.P. Smith of \"History Today\" said, \"Amanda Foreman's magnificent new book . . . resembles nothing so much as \"War and Peace\".\" In a rare accolade, \"The New York Times Book Review\" awarded Foreman her second cover review. Michael Burlingame of \"The Wall Street Journal\" heralded Foreman as \"such an engaging writer that readers may find this 958-page volume too short\". Hendrik Hertzberg of \"The New Yorker\" wrote: \"The pages fly like the wind – like \"Gone with the Wind\" – because there's so much life, so much action, and so many vivid people in them.\"\n\nIn 2011, \"A World on Fire\" was \"highly commended\" by the judges of the PEN Hessell-Tiltman Prize. It was chosen as a \"Book of the Year\" by The New Yorker and \"The Economist\" and named one of the \"Ten Best Books of 2011\" by \"The New York Times\", Bloomberg, \"The Washington Post\", the \"Chicago Tribune\", and NPR.\n\nIn 2012, \"A World on Fire\" won the Fletcher Pratt Award for excellence in Civil War history writing. It was a finalist for the 2012 Lincoln Prize, the Lionel Gelber Prize, and the National Book Critics Circle Award. It was also nominated for the Jefferson Davis Prize.\n\nIn September 2015, \"The Ascent of Woman\", Foreman's acclaimed four-part documentary regarding the role of women in society, was first aired on BBC 2. The series received positive reviews, with \"The Telegraph\" calling it \"powerful, inspiring, and important.\"\n\nThe series was subsequently programmed on Netflix in 2016.\n\nForeman's next book, \"The World Made by Women: A History of Women from the Apple to the Pill\", is slated for publication by Random House (US) and Allen Lane (UK) in 2021.\n\nIn 2018, twenty-five years after Queen Elizabeth II opened Buckingham Palace to the public during the summer months, Royal Collection Trust set a new precedent by inviting an outsider, Foreman, to curate an exhibition for the 2019 Buckingham Palace Summer Opening.\n\n'Queen Victoria's Palace' opened on 18 July 2019. The exhibition, which coincided with the 200th anniversary of Queen Victoria's birth, argued that Victoria's transformation of Buckingham Palace laid the foundations for the modern Monarchy. The refurbished Palace reflected a new form of gendered power. Victoria replaced the 'male' values of glory, wealth, lineage, and conquest with the 'female' values of family, duty, patriotism, and public service. \"These four \"female\" virtues formed the pillars not only of her reign but of every one that followed\".\n\nThe show delighted the public and critics. Singled out was Foreman's introduction of modern technology, including holograms and CGI projections on walls and ceilings, to enhance the exhibition experience. The Guardian newspaper reported: \"The story of how Victoria and Prince Albert rebuilt the palace into the most glittering court in Europe is explored through paintings, sketches and costumes, and includes a Hollywood-produced immersive experience that brings to life the balls for which she was famous.\"\n\nForeman also co-wrote a book to accompany the exhibition, 'Queen Victoria's Palace'.\n\nIn addition to her work as a historian and biographer, Amanda Foreman also writes for radio, television and print media. Her work is spread across a broad range, and includes a meditation on the role of the historian for BBC Radio 3, a documentary series on the Georgians, 1714-1832, for BBC Radio 4, a discussion of the Anglo-American relationship for Andrew Neil's \"This Week\" on BBC One,<ref name=\"This Week (5/26/11)\"></ref> cover interviews with Emma Watson and Keira Knightley for \"Vogue\", profiles of Hillary Clinton and Nancy Pelosi for Porter, and a cover story on Margaret Thatcher for \"Newsweek\" in December 2011. Foreman herself has graced the covers of both \"The Sunday Times Magazine\" and \"The Lady\" in the UK. She is also a passionate advocate for freedom of speech and has written about the subject for many publications. In addition to freedom of speech, Foreman has campaigned on a variety of other issues, from justice for Jean McConville to gender equality. In 2016, Foreman received the St. George's Society of New York's Anglo-American Cultural Award, which recognizes individuals who have made significant contributions to the US-UK cultural world.\n\nIn 2013, Foreman founded the House of SpeakEasy, a literary nonprofit based in New York City that brings authors and their audiences together in innovative and entertaining ways. The organization hosts a series of acclaimed literary cabarets in New York City, where writers are invited to speak informally on the evening's theme. Past participants include Salman Rushdie, Susan Minot, Jeff Kinney (author), Elif Şafak, and Yusef Komunyakaa. House of SpeakEasy also operates several community outreach programs under the umbrella name Seriously Involved. SpeakFreely provides free tickets to teachers and writing students to come to the shows put on by Seriously Entertaining. SpeakTogether works with Union Settlement in East Harlem, bringing writers together with senior high school students in Union Settlement's college readiness initiative. John Guare, Susan Cheever, David Gilbert (author), Michael Jan Friedman and Lemon Andersen are among the writers who have taken part in the program.\n\nForeman has served as a judge on the \"Guardian\" First Book Award (1999), the Orange Prize for Fiction (2000), the National Book Award (2010), the Cheltenham Booker Prize (2011), the Dan David Prize (2012), the Pen Hessell-Tiltman Prize (2012), and the Man Booker Prize (2012). Most recently, she was appointed chair of the Man Booker Prize (2016).\n\nIn 2013, Foreman began writing \"Historically Speaking\", a biweekly column on history and world affairs, for \"The Wall Street Journal\". In 2014, she also joined Smithsonian magazine and \"The Sunday Times\" as a regular columnist.\n\nForeman was invited by the Royal Collection to curate an exhibit about Queen Victoria at Buckingham Palace for the summer of 2019.\n\n\nDr. Amanda Foreman has contributed essays and introductions for: \n\"Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation: A Propaganda Tool for the Enemy?” by Amanda Foreman\n\"Coda: Roundtable on Memory\" by Amanda Foreman\n\"Greenwich Village\" by Amanda Foreman\n\"How to Lose Allies and Alienate People\" by Amanda Foreman\n\"Hyde Park, London\" by Amanda Foreman\n\"Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation: A Propaganda Tool for the Enemy?” by Amanda Foreman\n\"The Trent Incident Leads to War\" by Amanda Foreman \n\"A politician’s politician: Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire and the Whig party\" by Amanda Foreman\n\nFrom Empress Wu Zeitan to Margaret Thatcher explored their role from the Palaeolithic era to Britain today, revealing their extraordinary and often overlooked impact in the forging of the modern world.\nDr. Amanda Foreman talked about the international response to the Civil War, particularly by Great Britain, in her speech.\n\nAwards:\n\nFinalist:\n\nForeman has dual citizenship, and splits her time between New York City, Kinderhook, New York, and London.\n\nShe is an Honorary Research Senior Fellow in the Department of History at The University of Liverpool.\n\nOutside of her professional life, Foreman is a passionate gardener.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113647", "title": "BKN", "text": "BKN\n\nBKN, or Bohbot Kids Network (also BKN Kids), were syndicated blocks of animated TV series owned by Bohbot Communications and its subsidiaries or successors. BKN also is used to referred to Bohbot Communications and its subsidiaries or successors.\n\nBKN Kids and BKN Kids II did not initially share programming as to grant the networks Syndex protection.\n\nBohbot Kids Network, BKN Kids Network or BKN (originally known as Amazin' Adventures until 1997), is a defunct children's programming block operated by Bohbot Entertainment that aired in syndication from 1992 to 2000.\n\nOn September 13, 1992, Bohbot Entertainment launched \"Amazin' Adventures\", a syndicated action-oriented block that aired for two hours on Sundays. Byrne Enterprises sold barter for the block. During the 1996–1997 season, \"Amazin' Adventures\" also aired for an hour on weekdays.\n\n\"Amazin' Adventures\" was re-launched as the BKN Kids Network in September 1997. By 1997, the network had signed up 104 stations reaching 75% of the US, with 65 stations airing BKN in pattern and 35 stations signing on for three years. Stations that aired the BKN block included BHC Communications stations, WCIU-TV, WPGH-TV, and The WB 100+ Station Group. During BKN's first season, its programs were split into three blocks: the \"Extreme Block\" (\"Extreme Dinosaurs\" and \"Extreme Ghostbusters\") and the \"Comedy Block\" (\"\" and \"Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog\") on weekdays, and \"Amazin’ Adventures\" (\"Captain Simian & the Space Monkeys\") on weekends.\n\nOn August 29, 1999, BKN was re-positioned as an action-oriented block; it was referred to internally as \"Bulldog TV\" because the block's bumpers featured an animated bulldog. Bulldog TV stopped airing on most stations in 2000, but The WB 100+ Station Group continued to air reruns of BKN shows during the 2000–2001 season.\n\n\nBKN Kids II (branded as BKN on-air) is a defunct children's programming block operated by Bohbot Entertainment that aired in syndication from 1999 to 2000.\n\nWith multiple offers in top 50 markets for BKN, Bohbot Entertainment planned to launch a second syndication network, BKN Kids II, in September 1998 to meet the demand. Station groups affiliating with BKN 2 at launch included Sinclair Broadcast Group, Tribune Broadcasting, Clear Channel Communications and ACME Communications. Bohbot planned to use several of its library series, \"Mighty Max\", \"\", \"The Mask: The Animated Series\", and \"Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog\" to fill out the schedule. The block's launch was postponed to August 29, 1999. BKN Kids II ceased to exist in 2000.\n\n\nBohbot Communications (BC) was an advertising and marketing company specializing in the children's market.\n\nBohbot Communications Inc. was founded on November 19, 1985 as a media planning and buying service. BC added additional services over the following 10 years: animated children’s programming syndicator, program syndication sales distribution, licensing and merchandising. After previous attempts at local promotions and request from promotional agencies at 1995 NATPE, Bohbot entered the national promotions field in 1996.\n\nBohbot Entertainment distributed 65 episodes of \"Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog\" in syndication starting in 1993. BE picked up \"Double Dragon\" for syndication in 1993.\nBohbot Communications Inc. in January 1994 split its operations into two units, Bohbot Media Worldwide (BM) and Bohbot Entertainment Worldwide (BE). Bohbot Media would take over BC's media planning and buying services, while Bohbot Entertainment took over BC's TV distribution, licensing and merchandising, promotions and public relations operations. In 1994, Bohbot Media agreed to distribute \"A.J.'s Time Travelers\" for Time Travelers, Inc. to Fox Children's Network for which the various Bohbot entities were sued in 1995 along with the producers.\n\nIn March 1997, BE and DIC Entertainment agreed to a three-year output deal for Bohbot Kids Network consisting of five series. BE launched BKN Kids Network in September of that year By October, Bohbot Enterprises Worldwide, Inc., Bohbot Entertainment, Bohbot Media and the International Division were renamed BKN, Inc. (BKN), Bohbot Entertainment & Media Inc. (BEM), Quantum Media International, Inc. (QMI) and BKN International respectively.\n\nIn April 1998, United Television and Columbia TriStar Television took a minority stake in BEM.\n\nWith multiple offers in top 50 markets for the Bohbot Kids Network, Bohbot Entertainment scheduled the launch of a second syndication network, BKN Kids II, for September 1998 to meet the demand. BE also looked for shows from other syndicators to include in BKN Kids II. With financial setbacks that had happened in the past, a consortium of banks gave Bohbot $100 million in new financing in September 1998. Two new blocks were announced at the same time as well as the new chairman/CEO of Bohbot Kids Network, Rick Ungar. BKN also indicated that long-term network affiliation agreements were under close to being finalized with Chris-Craft/United Television, Tribune Broadcasting, Paramount Stations Group, Sinclair Broadcast Group and the WB network's WeB fill-in cable network. BKN also purchased Epoch Ink Animation which was renamed to BKN Studios.\n\nBKNI went public and independent of BKN in 1999 on the Frankfurt Neuer Market stock exchange with BKN retaining 34% ownership.\n\nIn January 2000, Bohbot Entertainment & Media Inc. was sued by Sinclair Broadcast Group over a supposed failure of Bohbot to purchase enough advertising on the broadcasting group's TV stations as agreed to in their BKN Network carriage agreement. In July, the \"A.J.'s Time Travelers\" case ended in which the various Bohbot entities and Time Travelers entities had to pay damages with BKN paying $10 million, BEM $10 million and QMI, $5 million.\n\nBKN International in January 2001 acquired BKN, Inc.'s operating assets with BKN, Inc. would continue as a holding company with its BKNI holdings.\n\nBKN International (BKNI) was a German kids TV production and distribution company.\n\nBKN International was originally the Cologne, Germany based international arm of BKN, Inc. BKNI went public and independent of BKN in 1999 on the Frankfurt Neuer Market stock exchange with BKN retaining 34% ownership. The \"Jumanji\", \"Starship Troopers\" and \"Extreme Ghostbusters\" series were being produced by BKNI for Sony Pictures by 2001. BKN International in January 2001 acquired BKN, Inc.'s operating assets: BKN animation library (5th largest at the time in the US), L.A. studio and its trademark for $28.1 million. BKN, Inc. would continue as a holding company with it BKNI holdings. Following the BKN acquisition, Sony Pictures Family Entertainment Group (SPFEG) purchased a 3.8% stake in BKNI from BKN, Inc. as the company expanded into US and Asia. Under the deal, SPFE president Sander Schwartz became a member of the company's supervisory board while Allen Bohbot moved from the advisory board chairmanship to the management board's chairmanship.\n\nBy October 2005, BKN New Media Inc. agreed to a $10 million outsourcing partnership with UTV Toons of India.\n\nIn January 2009, BKNI was involved in talks to buy Entertainment Rights. The company was delisted from the London stock exchange while remaining on the Deutsche Bourse. In mid-year, BKN International filed for insolvency and began its sale of its assets in December 2009.\n\nBohbot left the company by July 2010 to start up a new company, 41 Entertainment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113653", "title": "Bastian Schweinsteiger", "text": "Bastian Schweinsteiger\n\nBastian Schweinsteiger (; born 1 August 1984) is a German retired professional footballer who usually played as central midfielder. Earlier in his career, he primarily played as a wide midfielder.\n\nHe spent 17 seasons at Bayern Munich, playing in exactly 500 matches across all competitions and scoring 68 goals. His honours at the club include eight Bundesliga titles, seven DFB-Pokal titles, a UEFA Champions League title, a FIFA Club World Cup title and a UEFA Super Cup title. He joined Manchester United in 2015, playing sparingly for 18 months before moving to Chicago Fire.\n\nSchweinsteiger played for the German national team from 2004 to 2016. He is Germany's fourth most-capped player of all time, having earned 121 caps and scored 24 goals. He was selected in their squads for four European Championships and three World Cups, including their victory at the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Following Philipp Lahm's international retirement on 2 September 2014, Schweinsteiger was named captain of the national team. He played his last match for Germany against Finland on 31 August 2016, after which he retired from international football.\n\nSchweinsteiger signed with Bayern Munich as a youth team player on 1 July 1998 and rose through the club's youth sides. A talented youth ski racer, he had to decide between pursuing a professional career in skiing or one in football. Having won the German youth championship in July 2002, Schweinsteiger quickly earned a place in the reserves, producing a string of solid third-division displays. He initially earned a reputation for being a rebel off the pitch, making headlines for the wrong reasons but has since settled down.\n\nDuring his first appearances in the titular eleven, he played left-back. After just two training sessions with the first team, coach Ottmar Hitzfeld gave Schweinsteiger his debut, at the age of 18, as a late substitute in a UEFA Champions League game against RC Lens in November 2002, and the youngster made an immediate impact, creating a goal for Markus Feulner within minutes. He signed a professional contract the following month and went on to appear in 14 Bundesliga games in 2002–03, helping Bayern to a league and cup double. The next season, he played 26 Bundesliga games. He scored his first Bayern goal against VfL Wolfsburg in September 2003.\n\nSurprisingly sent back to Bayern's reserve team by new coach Felix Magath at the beginning of the 2005–06 season despite his international exploits of the summer in the Confederations Cup, Schweinsteiger swiftly returned to play a role in the double-winning campaign and scored in Bayern's Champions League quarter-final first leg defeat at Chelsea.\n\nOver the next three seasons, up until the end of 2007–08, Schweinsteiger made 135 appearances in all competitions for Bayern Munich (Champions League, Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal), scoring 10 goals in the process.\n\nOn 15 August 2008, Schweinsteiger scored the first Bundesliga goal of the 2008–09 season. In December 2010, he extended his contract with Bayern until 2016.\nOn 25 April 2012, Schweinsteiger scored from the last and match-clinching penalty kick against Real Madrid to send Bayern through to the 2012 UEFA Champions League Final, where they would face Chelsea. The match, played at Bayern's Allianz Arena, ended 1–1 and went to a penalty shoot-out. With the shoot-out poised at 3–3, Schweinsteiger's effort beat Petr Čech but not the post, allowing Didier Drogba to seal the title for Chelsea with the next kick.\n\nIn the 2012–13 season, Schweinsteiger performed considerably well, continuing his duties as central midfielder along with new signing Javi Martínez. On 6 April 2013, Schweinsteiger scored a backheel flick goal against Eintracht Frankfurt which sealed the Bundesliga title for Bayern. The season ended on a high for Schweinsteiger, as Bayern secured a treble of Bundesliga, DFB-Pokal and Champions League.\n\nSchweinsteiger received the 2013 German player of the year due to his performance for Bayern Munich. He was described by then manager Jupp Heynckes as the best midfielder in the world and Heynckes wanted either Schweinsteiger, Ribéry or Thomas Müller to win the Ballon d'Or.\n\nHe scored an equaliser goal in the match against Manchester United in the first leg of their 2013–14 UEFA Champions League quarter-final at Old Trafford but saw a red card later in that match.\nHe made his 2014–15 season debut in a 4–0 win against 1899 Hoffenheim. He came in for Mario Götze in the 78th minute. On 16 May 2015, with Bayern having already won the league, he scored the opening goal in a 2–1 defeat at SC Freiburg. On 23 May 2015, Schweinsteiger scored on his 500th appearance for Bayern. This proved to be his last match with the club. He transferred to Manchester United on 13 July 2015, having been at Bayern for 17 years.\n\nSchweinsteiger was a fan favourite at Bayern and was usually called \"Fußballgott\" (football god) by Bayern's fans.\n\nOn 13 July 2015, Manchester United completed the signing of Schweinsteiger on a three-year contract for a fee of €9 million (£6.5 million). Manchester United had never before fielded a German in the first team; Markus Neumayr and Ron-Robert Zieler were at the club before him, but neither made it into the first team. Schweinsteiger was given shirt number 23 in pre-season, but switched to 31, which he wore at Bayern, before the official start to the season.\n\nSchweinsteiger made his pre-season debut for Manchester United in a friendly match against Club América on 17 July 2015. United defeated the Mexican club 1–0 in Seattle. His Premier League debut came on 8 August, as a 60th-minute substitute for Michael Carrick as the season began with a 1–0 home victory over Tottenham Hotspur, being booked eight minutes into his first appearance for a foul on Nacer Chadli. On 28 November he scored his first goal for the club, equalising with a header in a 1–1 draw against Leicester City.\n\nOn 7 December 2015, Schweinsteiger was punished with a three-match retrospective ban by The Football Association for striking West Ham United's Winston Reid in the throat in their meeting two days earlier.\n\nAfter the arrival of new manager, José Mourinho, Schweinsteiger was demoted and sent to training with the under-23 team. A number of high-profile former teammates have criticised Mourinho's handling of the matter, accusing Mourinho of showing a lack of respect for Schweinsteiger. He returned to first team training towards the end of 2016, and made his first appearance since March when he came on as a late substitute in the EFL Cup quarter-final against West Ham United on 30 November 2016. He made his first start in over a year in a 4–0 win in the FA Cup fourth round home tie against Wigan Athletic on 29 January 2017, in which he scored his first Old Trafford goal for Manchester United with an overhead finish. For his goal, as well as his assist to Marouane Fellaini for the opening goal, he was voted \"Man of the Match\" by the fans.\n\nOn 21 March 2017, Manchester United allowed Schweinsteiger to join Major League Soccer side Chicago Fire, subject to a medical and a visa being secured. The move was completed on 29 March. A few days later, Mourinho stated that he \"regretted\" the way he had treated Schweinsteiger. On 1 April, Schweinsteiger debuted for Chicago Fire, scoring in a 2–2 home draw against Montreal Impact. By mid-season, he would help guide Chicago to the top of the MLS standings and be voted into the \"MLS All-Star Fan XI\" (along with teammate Nemanja Nikolić) to face Real Madrid at the 2017 MLS All-Star Game in Chicago. After guiding the Fire back into the playoffs after a five-year drought, Schweinsteiger was awarded the contract option of another year in 2018. Schweinsteiger netted a goal and also provided an assist to Alan Gordon's equalising goal in the stoppage time in a 2–2 draw against Toronto FC on 29 April 2018. On 5 August, he scored a long-range goal to level the scoreline after coming on as a substitute in the second half, but his side were defeated in a 2–1 away loss against Real Salt Lake. On 11 July, Schweinsteiger scored a goal in the stoppage time and provided one assist to Aleksandar Katai's goal in a 4–3 home defeat against Philadelphia Union.\n\nOn 8 October 2019, Schweinsteiger announced his retirement from professional football. A few days after his retirement from active sports in October 2019, the ARD announced that Schweinsteiger will be accompanying live broadcasts of football matches as an expert in Qatar for the next three years up to and including the 2022 FIFA World Cup.\n\nSchweinsteiger made his international debut in June 2004 in a friendly against Hungary and earned 121 caps before his retirement from international football in 2016. He was part of the Germany squad for every major tournament from UEFA Euro 2004 until Euro 2016.\n\nRight after taking part in the under-21s' disappointing run at the 2004 European Championships, he was called up for Euro 2004. He set up the opening goal for Bayern teammate Michael Ballack in Germany's 2–1 loss against the Czech Republic.\n\nHe scored his first two international goals on 8 June 2005 against Russia and scored his first goal in a competitive match against Tunisia on 18 June 2005 at the Confederations Cup in Germany. He was called up to the 2006 FIFA World Cup on home soil and shot into prominence at the tournament with his two brilliant long-range strikes in the third-place match against Portugal, which won him the Man of the Match award. The match ended 3–1 with the 21-year-old nearly claiming a hat-trick but his deflected free kick was credited as an own-goal to Armando Petit.\n\nAt the age of 22, he had already played 41 matches for the German national team, a record for any German player at the time. This record was soon broken, however, by Lukas Podolski who was capped 44 times at the age of 22. At the same age, Lothar Matthäus (the German all-time record holder with 150 caps) had only played 13 times for the German national team.\n\nDuring Euro 2008 qualifiers, he scored two goals en route to a record 13–0 win over San Marino in San Marino. He scored the third goal in Germany's 4–1 win over Slovakia in Bratislava.\n\nSchweinsteiger lost his place in the starting 11 when Germany manager Joachim Löw moved striker Lukas Podolski to Schweinsteiger's usual position on the left wing to accommodate the strike partnership of Miroslav Klose and Mario Gómez, and he made two substitute appearances in the group stage. In the second match against Croatia, he was shown a straight red card for reacting to a challenge from Jerko Leko as Germany succumbed to a shock 2–1 defeat. After serving his suspension by missing the game against Austria, he returned to the starting line-up in the quarterfinal against Portugal, as Löw reverted to the old 4–4–2 formation when Gómez was benched after failing to make an impression. Once again he was instrumental in Germany's 3–2 win, scoring one goal and setting up the other two. He also scored his country's first goal in the 3–2 semifinal victory against Turkey. He captained the team for the first time in a friendly against the United Arab Emirates.\n\nSchweinsteiger featured often in 2010 World Cup qualifying, playing nine of the 10 games and contributing three goals. He started in Germany's third pre-warm-up game vs. Bosnia on 3 June 2010, and scored two penalties in a 3–1 victory in the space of four minutes, but in the 87th minute he was substituted off for Bayern Munich teammate Toni Kroos.\n\nDuring the 2010 FIFA World Cup, Schweinsteiger was charged with replacing the injured Michael Ballack at the centre of midfield. He performed admirably in this role, adding valuable leadership and international experience to a very young German side. He was vital to both the German attack and defence, as was apparent when he was named the Man of the Match after the quarter-final match against Argentina, where he provided two assists while also managing to contain Lionel Messi. Germany subsequently lost to Spain in the semi-finals. Germany was able to rally for a 3–2 victory over Uruguay in the third-place match, and, with Philipp Lahm resting on the bench because of illness, Schweinsteiger served as captain.\n\nOverall, Schweinsteiger recorded three assists in seven matches in South Africa, which tied him for the most assists in the finals with Dirk Kuyt, Kaká, Thomas Müller and Mesut Özil. In recognition of his excellent play throughout the tournament, he was chosen as one of 10 finalists for the prestigious Golden Ball, awarded to the most outstanding player of the tournament.\n\nSchweinsteiger established himself as first choice as defensive midfielder in Germany's qualifying group. He played five matches – once against each opponent: Belgium, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Austria and Turkey – and helped Germany win 10 out of 10 games, scoring once and providing one assist.\n\nSchweinsteiger started all five of Germany's matches at the UEFA Euro 2012 finals and assisted both of Mario Gómez goals in the 2–1 Group B win over rivals the Netherlands.\n\nSchweinsteiger made five appearances as Germany qualified for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. On 15 October 2013, he won his 100th cap for the national team in a 5–3 win over Sweden.\n\nAfter making a substitute appearance in the team's second match against Ghana, Schweinsteiger was selected to start in the third group game against the United States. He retained his place in the team for Germany's round of 16 match, a 2–1 win against Algeria. He was instrumental in the World Cup finals against Argentina and led the mid-field with sweeping passes for the German attack. Germany won the World Cup final 1–0 through Mario Götze's 113th-minute goal.\n\nPrior to the start of qualification, Schweinsteiger was appointed as the new captain for Germany after Philipp Lahm's retirement. On 23 March 2016 he sustained damage on his knee while he was training with the German national team which made him miss the rest of the Premier League season but he recovered just in time to be selected for Germany's 27-man provisional squad for UEFA Euro 2016. On 31 May, Schweinsteiger was selected for Germany's final 23-man squad for UEFA Euro 2016.\n\nOn 12 June 2016, Schweinsteiger scored in stoppage time after coming on late in a 2–0 group stage victory over Ukraine. Nine days later, Schweinsteiger set a new record for German player with the most appearances in a European Championship match. After the tournament, Schweinsteiger announced his retirement from competitive international football, having played in 120 games, scoring 24 goals. One month later, he participated in his last ever international appearance for Germany, against Finland in a friendly match. He was succeeded as captain by Manuel Neuer.\n\nSchweinsteiger largely operates in the centre, but he is versatile enough to provide an option on the wing, either on the left or right flank. During his years with Bayern, he was regarded as one of the best midfielders in the world. Schweinsteiger possesses a fearsome shot from range, as well as excellent crossing and a wicked delivery from set-pieces, while his boundless energy also serves him well. Described as a \"two-way player\" by Nick Amies, he has also been used in a variety of other roles, including as a holding midfielder, as an attacking midfielder, in a box-to-box role, as a playmaker, in a deep-lying midfield role, or even as a right-back. A powerful, physical, and elegant player, who also possesses good technique, skill, passing ability, vision, and creativity, Schweinsteiger is known for his ability to control and dictate the flow of his team's play in midfield, build attacks, and create chances for his teammates with his distribution. Dubbed the \"Midfield Motor\", Schweinsteiger is also a superb reader of the game and has scored spectacularly due to his good positioning. He has been called \"the brain\" of the German national team by coach Joachim Löw, and has also been described as a \"midfield mastermind\".\n\nBeyond his offensive and creative capabilities, he is also known for his defensive skills, work-rate, and tackling ability. For his performances, he was voted as the best German player of the year in 2013. Jonathan Wilson, when writing for \"The Guardian\" during the same year, labelled Schweinsteiger as a type holding midfielder that he described as a \"carrier\" or \"surger,\" namely \"a player capable of making late runs or carrying the ball at his feet.\" During his time with Chicago, Schweinsteiger has also occasionally been deployed as a central defender or sweeper in a three-man back-line, in addition to his usual role in midfield, courtesy of his vision and defensive skills; in this deeper role, he was not only given defensive responsibilities, such as marking opposing players, but was also given offensive duties, and was tasked with playing the ball out from the back, retaining possession, advancing into midfield, and controlling the play. Because of Schweinsteiger's wide range of skills, his former Chicago Fire manager, Veljko Paunović, described him upon his retirement in 2019 as \"unique and special,\" also commenting: \"He's a complete player, a total player. In Germany, where they know him even better than us, they call him a 'Fussballgott' [a \"football god,\" in German] because he represents everything.\"\n\nSchweinsteiger is Roman Catholic. He is known to fans as \"Schweini\" or \"Basti\", the latter to distinguish him from his elder brother, Tobias, a professional footballer who also played for Bayern Munich, albeit in the reserve team. Schweinsteiger was in a relationship with model Sarah Brandner from 2007 until July 2014. They lived in Munich together.\n\nIn September 2014, he began a relationship with Serbian tennis player Ana Ivanovic. The couple wed on 12 July 2016 in Venice, Italy. The couple have two sons: Luka, born on 17 March 2018 in Chicago, and an unnamed baby born on 30 August 2019.\n\nSchweinsteiger was a talented Ski-runner and is childhood friends with Felix Neureuther.\n\nRef.\n\nRef.\n\nGermany score listed first, score column indicates score after each Schweinsteiger goal\n\nBayern Munich Juniors\n\n\nBayern Munich II\n\n\nBayern Munich\n\n\nManchester United\n\n\nGermany\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113664", "title": "Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras", "text": "Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras\n\nThe Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras (BYSO) is a youth orchestra based in Boston, Massachusetts under the artistic leadership of Music Director, Federico Cortese. Since 1958, BYSO has served thousands of young musicians from throughout New England with three full symphonic orchestras, two young string training orchestras, six chamber orchestras, a preparatory wind ensemble, a chamber music program and a nationally recognized instrument training program for underrepresented youth from inner-city communities called the Intensive Community Program (ICP). The 2017-2018 season marks the celebration of BYSO's 60th Anniversary.\n\nEach year, BYSO auditions about 900 elementary and secondary students, accepting around half of them.\n\nBYSO offers over 20 performances in some of Boston's venues including Boston Symphony Hall, Jordan Hall at the New England Conservatory, Sanders Theatre at Harvard University and the Tsai Performance Center at Boston University. The orchestras and chamber ensembles rehearse every Sunday from September through June at Boston University College of Fine Arts, where BYSO has been in residence since it was established in 1958. The College of Fine Arts is a major sponsor of BYSO.\n\nBYSO receives funding from the National Endowment for the Arts, the premier federal arts funding agency in the United States, as well as numerous private and public funding sources. In 2007, the Massachusetts Cultural Council, the state’s agency for arts, humanities and sciences, announced continued support for the BYSO; it ranked the BYSO first among all orchestras in the state for its quality, outreach programs, and fiscal and administrative management.\n\nBYSO has the largest operating budget (in 2010, $2,372,974) of any youth orchestra in the United States, nearly double that of most youth orchestras.\n\nJoe Grimaldi is the current President of BYSO Board of Directors.\n\nThe Boston Youth Symphony, BYSO’s premier ensemble, is composed of 115 advanced players. The group performs a wide range of demanding orchestral repertoire and is led by Music Director, Federico Cortese, and Associate Conductor, Adrian Slywotzky.\n\nDuring the season, all members of BYS also participate in one of two chamber orchestras, BYS Sinfonietta or BYS Camerata, in which they explore music of the Classical period, including works by Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. BYS also annually performs full, semi-staged operas. By studying this repertoire in a chamber orchestra setting, BYS members develop specific techniques of ensemble playing and musical phrasing to a degree they may not otherwise experience within the larger orchestra. The BYS also holds an annual concerto competition open to all of its members.\n\nBYS performs at venues including Boston Symphony Hall, Sanders Theatre at Harvard University, and Jordan Hall at New England Conservatory. BYSO has built an international presence with tours and performances in venues in Israel, Columbia, Japan, Germany, Belgium, Yugoslavia, Finland, Sweden, Italy, France, Estonia, Latvia, Russia, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic, Great Britain, Ireland, Austria and Hungary.\n\nUnder the direction of conductor Mark Miller, the Repertory Orchestra is an advanced, full symphonic orchestra composed of 107 players of excellent technical and musical ability. Repertory Orchestra has performed in some of Boston's venues including Boston Symphony Hall, Sanders Theatre at Harvard University, Jordan Hall at New England Conservatory and the Tsai Performance Center at Boston University.\n\nDuring the season, all members participate in one of two chamber orchestras, Repertory Sinfonietta and Repertory Camerata, in which they explore music of the classical period, including great works by Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven. Mark Miller conducts Repertory Sinfonietta and John Holland conducts Repertory Camerata.\n\nThe Junior Repertory Orchestra, conducted by John Holland, has grown steadily from a small string orchestra to a full symphonic ensemble made up of more than 108 members. Members receive group and individual coaching, which enables them to build solid, fundamental technical and musical skills. John Holland began his first season as the JRO conductor in 2012-2013. Under his leadership, JRO performs four times during the year at several venues throughout the Boston area, including Boston Symphony Hall, Boston University's Tsai Performance Center and Sanders Theatre at Harvard University.\n\nDuring the year, all JRO members receive sight-singing and ear-training instruction as part of their experience at BYSO. These classes are taught by BYSO staff.\n\nThe Young People’s String Orchestra is conducted by Marta Zurad. YPSO has performed at such venues as Symphony Hall, Boston University’s Tsai Performance Center, Kresge Auditorium at MIT, and has been featured as part of WCRB's Cartoon Festival.\n\nThe Preparatory Winds, directed by Janet Underhill, is the Boston Youth Symphony Orchestras' newest ensemble, beginning its first season in 2006-2007. PW is an ensemble of winds, brass, and percussion where students work on orchestral style music in preparation for BYSO’s full symphony orchestras.\n\nThe Petit Ensemble is BYSO’s newest ensemble.\n\nBYSO's opera program began in 2008 with a semi-staged production of Mozart's \"Così fan tutte\". Since then, BYS has continued to put on a semi-staged opera every year in collaboration with professional singers from around the world. Performances take place at Harvard University's Sanders Theatre under the baton of Music Director Federico Cortese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113676", "title": "Gaspar Grande", "text": "Gaspar Grande\n\nGaspar Grande or Gasparee is an island in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago named for Gaspar de Percín. The island is in area and lies west of Port of Spain. It is one of the \"Bocas Islands\", which lie in the \"Bocas del Dragón\" (\"Dragon's Mouth\") between Trinidad and Venezuela.\n\nGaspar Grande is primarily limestone, and reaches a height of at its highest point. Gaspar Grande is home to the Gasparee Caves, a natural limestone cave system with a mysterious pool at its base. Other caves on the island include the White Cave, the Brioge Cavern and the Precipice Cavern. Vegetation on the island includes the Yellow Poui, Giant Cactus, Hog Plum, Silk Cotton, Agave, Manicou Fig, Naked Indian, Pelican Flower, Queen-of-the-Forest (Filipendula occidentalis), Cow Itch, Sugar Apple and Salt-fish Wood.\n\nLegend has it that another cave on the island, William Dampiers Tunnel, has a pirate's treasure chest which is easily accessible on certain days of the year.\n\nIn 1783, Gaspar Grande was granted to Gaspar de Percin Roque by governor José María Chacón. Events in its history include the Saga of Admiral Apodaca and the establishment of whaling stations on the island.\n\nPoint Baleine was once a whaling station, as indicated by its name, which is French for \"whaling point\". Located on the Southwestern end of Gaspar Grande, Point Baliene is one of the main drop off sites for visitors to the Gasparee Caves.\n\nBombshell Bay got its name from its historical past as there once was a fort located in this area. It is now a holiday resort.\n\nGasparee Caves is one of the more popular sites in Chaguaramas. The cave is full of geological formations such as stalactites, stalagmites, flowstones, pillars, ribbon, and fringed curtain.\n\nOther landmarks on the island include Bordel Bay, Winn's Bay, Goodwill's Bay and St. Madeline Bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113677", "title": "Huevos", "text": "Huevos\n\nHuevos (Spanish: \"Eggs\") is an island in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. The island is 1.01 km² (253 acres) in area. It is one of the \"Bocas Islands\", which lie in the \"Bocas del Dragón\" (\"Dragons' Mouth\") between Trinidad and Venezuela.\n\nVegetation of the island includes Yellow Poui, Hog Plum, Naked Indian, and Salt-fish Wood.\n\nPlaces at Huevos - Cape Garlio, Raya Del Caribe, Parasol (Umbrella) Rocks, Tortue Bay, Balata Bay, Point Braba\n\nThe \"Parasol Rocks\", also known as the \"Umbrella Rocks\", are a series of small rock formations located less than 50 metres to the east of Huevos. On 10 August 1800 a fifth-rate Royal Navy ship, HMS \"Dromedary\" was wrecked on the rocks with 500 passengers. All passengers and crew were rescued.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113678", "title": "Monos", "text": "Monos\n\nMonos is an island in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. It is one of the \"Bocas Islands\", which lie in the \"Bocas del Dragón\" (\"Dragons' Mouth\") between Trinidad and Venezuela. It is so named as the island was once home to noisy red howler monkeys (\"monos\" being the Spanish term for monkeys).\n\n"}
{"id": "2113680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113680", "title": "Chacachacare", "text": "Chacachacare\n\nChacachacare is an island in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, located at 10° 41' north latitude and 61° 45' west longitude. The island is in area. It is one of the Bocas Islands, which lie in the \"Bocas del Dragón\" (\"Dragons' Mouth\") between Trinidad and Venezuela. Chacachacare is the westernmost of the Bocas Islands which belong to Trinidad and Tobago. Patos Island, which lies further west, was part of Trinidad and Tobago until 1942, when it was ceded to Venezuela.\n\nThe island was spotted by Christopher Columbus on his third New World voyage on 12 August 1498, and his little fleet spent the night anchored in Monkey Harbour. He named the island 'Port of Cats' because he heard roars of what he thought were wildcats, mistaking the call of howler monkeys for wildcats. It has also been called \"El Caracol\" (the Snail) because of its shape. At various times in its history Chacachacare has served as a cotton plantation, a whaling station and a leper colony.\n\nThe Venezuelan revolutionary Santiago Mariño, who later joined forces with Simón Bolivar and was instrumental in the liberation of Venezuela from Spanish rule, used Chacachacare as a base for his successful 1813 invasion of Venezuela with a tiny band of 45 \"Patriots\". His sister, Concepción Mariño, played a part in the Venezuelan War of Independence from her estate on the island.\n\nThe island became a leper colony, established by the British government of the colony of Trinidad in the 1860s. The men and women of the colony were kept separate, they were not allowed visitors from the outside and were forbidden to leave. The lepers were cared for by French Dominican nuns, two of whom caught leprosy; one of the two committed suicide. \n\nIn 1942, 1,000 U.S. Marines were stationed on Chacachacare and built barracks all over the island, bringing with them diesel generators, which provided electrical power to the island for the first time. The authorities began to relax the strict rules of the colony, for instance, allowing men and women to mix. \n\nWith improved medical treatment for leprosy, and the decline of the Dominican order, the island was abandoned after 1984, when the nuns left their quarters and the last leper on the island died.\n\nIn 1999, Donald Trump visited Chacachacare during the Miss Universe contest and contemplated having a casino and hotel built on the island; the idea has not been pursued, however.\n\nToday, Chacachacare remains uninhabited, except for staff maintaining a lighthouse on the island, and the Hindu Temple founded in 1945 continues to be functional with religious activities. It is also regularly used for camping and visits by recreational boats. Many Trinidadians go to this island, as well as Monos and Huevos, for day trips. This is popularly referred to as \"going down the islands\".\n\nThe Bolo Rocks are a series of rocks located at the southwestern point of Chacachacare. They were named after a slave named Bolo who worked for a whaling station on the island.\n\nCabresse Island is a very small islet located just off the northern point of Chacachacare.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2113684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113684", "title": "Pressure 4-5", "text": "Pressure 4-5\n\nPressure 4-5 was an alternative rock/metal group hailing from Santa Barbara, California. The band released one studio album, \"Burning the Process\", in October 2001 and toured into the following year. They soon after broke up upon many of the band members leaving for lifestyles not relating to music.\n\nAlthough often categorized under the alternative and nu metal genres popular at the time, Pressure 4-5, not wanting to be pigeonholed with current trends, insisted they were not metal but rather a \"heavy rock band with introspective and somewhat intelligent lyrics\" and \"not chanting the next rap rock tech phrases in our songs.\"\n\nFormed in January 1998 by vocalist Adam Rich and guitarist Mark Barry, Pressure 4-5 started simply enough, as two college friends forming a band together. Things quickly picked up when another friend from college, Lyle McKeany, joined the group as bassist. Joe Schmidt later joined the band as DJ before switching to rhythm guitar. Jake Folwer joined after seeing an ad at a local drum shop; Schmidt later recruited his brother, Tom, to replace Fowler.\n\nThe band's moniker comes from Joe Schmidt's unwillingness to be the group's DJ. He rarely came for practices with the band, which left the remaining members wondering if they'd have 4 or 5 members, hence the name \"Pressure 4-5.\"\n\nIn 1999, the band released an independently released EP, entitled \"Antechnology\". They continued performing throughout California and, with the help of music websites and fanzines, quickly built a following. After a warm welcoming from the rock community and a large outpouring of support, Pressure 4-5 was quickly signed to DreamWorks Records in 2000, where they released their only full-length album, \"Burning The Process\", in autumn the following year. Amidst the alternative metal craze, 2001 would prove to be Pressure 4-5's most successful year; they acquired a spot on the Second Stage of Ozzfest 2001 before touring with groups like Dredg, The Used, and Lit. A live October performance in Colorado would also be taped for an MTV special in November. However, of the band's most memorable concert experiences include a sold-out show with Alien Ant Farm at WWF New York following the September 11 terrorist attacks. \"Burning The Process\" went on to sell 80,000 copies.\n\nUnfortunately, the band's success was short lived after the promotion of two singles, \"Beat The World,\" with a music video directed by Marc Webb, and \"Melt Me Down.\" The former performed quite well on modern rock mainstays such as MTV2 during 2001, and Pressure 4-5 started working on new material the following year with new blue graphics draping their website. By spring, their headlining spot on the MTV2 Presents Tour with Apex Theory and Lostprophets also allowed the band to preview their new music to audiences. Further exposure was gained through radio shows with the likes of Blink-182 and 311. After finishing up touring in December, Pressure 4-5 was scheduled to enter the studio to record some new songs in January 2003; however, Tom Schmidt and Lyle McKeany quit and the band was dropped from their record label. A few demos made with replacement musicians were recorded but never released. The band later disbanded in August 2003.\n\nJoe Schmidt later joined Primal Tribe with former Implant frontman Ben Ofstead and bassist Rob Cantrell. Vocalist Adam Rich is now the principal of Will C. Wood High School in Vacaville, California.\n\nIn 2013, bassist Lyle McKeany explained on his personal website how the band's contract with Dreamworks and EMI had put the band over a million dollars in debt, and recalled the moment when band management informed them they'd have to sell over a million albums to recoup that money.\n\n\"\"We recorded our album at NRG studios, which cost roughly $350,000. We also shot our video at Universal Studios, which cost roughly $250,000. Let\"('s) \"do the math: $500,000 advance (we had a 5-piece band) + $350,000 recording + $250,000 video = $1,150,000. And we had not even hit the road yet!\"\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113688", "title": "Barre Montpelier Times Argus", "text": "Barre Montpelier Times Argus\n\nThe Barre Montpelier Times Argus is a daily morning newspaper serving the capital region of Vermont. It was established in 1897. The newspaper claims that \"80% of all adults in the Barre/Montpelier area read the Times Argus for local news, state government, sports, and advertising information.\".\n\nThe \"Times Argus\" is the product of a union of the \"Barre Daily Times\" and the \"Montpelier Evening Argus\" in 1959. The \"Barre Times\" was founded by Frank E. Langley, a printer from Wilmot, New Hampshire. Langley and his wife printed the paper out of their house, with a news policy of \"Barre first and the rest of the world after.\" The first edition came out on March 16, 1897, and cost one cent. Langley's son remembered playing on the floor while Mrs. Langley set type in their Barre home.\n\nIn 1917, Langley encouraged his employees to become partners, and upon his death in 1938 six men became shareholders, including Alex Walker. Walker bought out his partners in 1958, and purchased the \"Montpelier Argus\" on August 29, 1959. The first \"Barre-Montpelier Times Argus\" was published on August 30, 1959.\n\nThe \"Montpelier Argus\" was struggling financially when it was purchased, working with an antiquated press and a dilapidated building (the \"Times Argus\" has a Montpelier office in the same building that once housed the \"Argus\", at 112 Main Street in Montpelier. Currently the office houses the Vermont Press Bureau and the Montpelier reporter for the \"Times Argus\").\n\nFounded as the weekly \"Argus-Patriot\" in 1863 by Hiram Atkins, the \"Argus\" became a daily on October 30, 1897. The first edition cost one cent, and included this proposition: \"...know how to make a newspaper, and one which will merit the name and prove a credit to the city of Montpelier.\" By then it was owned by Atkins' son Morris, who assumed ownership when his father died in 1893. Morris Atkins passed on the newspaper to his daughter Elaine in the 1940s. At that time, the newspaper had an all-female reporting staff due to World War II. One of those women, Doris Jones, started at the \"Argus\" in 1945 and was employed by the newspaper until 1995.\n\nIn 1959, the newspaper was bought by Walker, who then sold the combined newspaper to Robert W. Mitchell and Gene Noble, owners of the \"Rutland Herald\", in 1963. In 1979, Robert's son R. John became publisher of the \"Times Argus\". Mitchell and his son R. John bought out the Noble family in 1986, and the newspaper remains family-owned today.\n\nIn 2015, R. John Mitchell turned over publishing duties of the \"Times Argus\" to Catherine Nelson who had been vice president and CEO of the paper. R. John stayed connected to the newspaper by continuing to serve as the president and chairman of the board of directors while his son, Rob Mitchell, became editor-in-chief.\n\nIn 2016, the \"Times Argus\" and \"Rutland Herald\" were sold to Reade Brower of Maine and Chip Harris of New Hampshire. Earlier in the year, both papers had cut back their publication frequency from a daily cycle to four days per week. In 2018, Brower and Harris sold the \"Times Argus\" and \"Rutland Herald\" to Sample News Group.\n\nThe circulation area includes Washington, Orange, Lamoille, Addison, Caledonia, and parts of Chittenden, Franklin, Orleans and Windsor counties. The Barre Montpelier Times Argus is published Monday through Saturday with an expanded Sunday edition. A statement by the publisher on March 31, 2008 stated the newspaper had a daily circulation of 8,360.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113689", "title": "C. Howard's Violet candies", "text": "C. Howard's Violet candies\n\nC. Howard's Violet Candies (also called C. Howard Company, Inc. and Choward's) is the maker of C Howard's Fine Mints and Gum. The company's flagship product is its unique hard square tablet \"mint\" (candy) with a distinct violet aroma and taste. C. Howard's candies are also available in Lemon (flavored with natural oil of lemon), Spearmint (flavored with natural oil of spearmint), Tropical Guava, and Peppermint flavors. The candy is known for its nigh addicting flavor.\n\nThe company was started by Charles Howard with \"C Howard's Violet\", a confectionery mint, in New York City during the early 1930s in a small industrial loft on Broadway. The next product was a purple colored gum tablet named \"C Howard's Scented Gum\". The line was then expanded to include C Howard's Peppermints, Spearmints, and Lemon Mints.\n\nThe candy is mentioned in two episodes of the AMC series\" Mad Men\" and displayed in others. In \"Three Sundays\", we learn it was Archibald Whitman's favorite candy. In \"Far Away Places\", Peggy - who has an important presentation that day - anxiously searches in vain for her pack and explains to Abe that Donald Draper once gave it to her before a presentation. She dismisses Abe's suggestion to buy a replacement, because it \"wouldn't be the same\". When she finds it in her desk drawer at work, she tells her SCDP colleagues, \"Oh. Thank God. I couldn't take one more omen of doom.\" In season six, we see that she continues to keep the candy in her desk drawer, even at CGC.\n\nIt is also mentioned in Sarah Weeks' novel \"So B. It\" (2004), when Georgia gives one to Heidi. The indie pop band La Musique Populaire included their interpretation of the jingle \"C. Howard's Gum Has the Power of Taste\" on their CD set \"A Century of Song\".\n\nA reoccurring character in several Raymond Chandler novels also gets his nickname from the candy. Violets M'Gee is a homicide detective in the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office, as mentioned in his 1943 novel The Lady in the Lake: 'Well, they call him Violets M'Gee,' I said. 'On account of he chews little throat pastilles that smell of violets.' C.Howard's Violets are New York when one thinks New York City you think Knishes, Nathan's Hot Dogs and C.Howard's Violet Mints\n\n"}
{"id": "2113697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113697", "title": "The New Dick Van Dyke Show", "text": "The New Dick Van Dyke Show\n\nThe New Dick Van Dyke Show is an American sitcom starring Dick Van Dyke that aired on CBS from 1971 to 1974. It was Van Dyke's first return to series television since \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\".\n\nCBS was so eager to have Dick Van Dyke return to their network that they signed him to a three-year contract. Van Dyke was living in Cave Creek, Arizona, at the time and did not want to move back to Hollywood, so the network agreed to film the show at Southwestern Studio on Stage 1 in nearby Carefree, Arizona. \"Dick Van Dyke Show\" creator Carl Reiner wrote and directed numerous episodes, also serving as creative consultant.\n\n\nVan Dyke starred as Dick Preston, a local television talk show host at KXIV-TV in Phoenix, Arizona (the KXIV call sign actually belonged to a Phoenix radio station that Van Dyke co-owned). Like Van Dyke's previous series, this show divided its time between Dick's job in television and his home life with his wife and child. The show featured Hope Lange as his wife, Jenny; Arizona native Angela Powell as their daughter, Annie; Fannie Flagg as his sister, Mike; David Doyle as his boss, Ted; and Marty Brill and Nancy Dussault as the Prestons' friends, Bernie and Carol Davis. The Prestons also had a son, Lucas (played by Michael Shea seasons 1–2; Wendell Burton season 3), who was away at college and seen occasionally.\n\nThe show's Nielsen ratings were good during the first season. The show had a timeslot in CBS's highly rated Saturday night lineup which included \"All in the Family\", \"Funny Face\" and \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", which starred Van Dyke's former co-star. The ratings, however, were much lower than the shows surrounding it. In its second season, the show was moved to the network's low-rated Sunday night lineup and the ratings plummeted. CBS wanted to cancel the show but they had Van Dyke under a three-year contract, so the network decided to retool the show.\n\nFor the third season, the setting and production of the show moved to Hollywood. Dick and his family move there after he lands a role in a soap opera called \"Those Who Care\" in which he played Dr. Brad Fairmont. New cast members included Dick Van Patten as the show's producer, Barry Gordon as the show's writer, Henry Darrow as the stage manager, Barbara Rush as the show's star, and Richard Dawson and Chita Rivera as the Prestons' neighbors. In the fall of 1973, the beginning of its third year, CBS gave the series another time slot, this time on Monday nights at 9:30 P.M. immediately following \"Here's Lucy\" starring Lucille Ball. The network felt that Ball's series would provide a strong lead-in for \"The New Dick Van Dyke Show\".\n\nAn episode produced for the third season, \"Lt. Preston of the 4th Cavalry,\" included an off-camera scene in which Annie, Dick and Jenny's daughter, walked in on her parents having sex. CBS refused to air the episode, claiming it was incompatible with Van Dyke's family-friendly image. This so incensed Carl Reiner that he refused to continue on the show beyond the third season, citing the network's hypocrisy. Notably, CBS at this time was allowing a number of other shows, such as \"All in the Family\", which featured Reiner's son, Rob, to deal openly with much more controversial topics. Reiner promised never to work in television, particularly CBS, again.\n\nAlthough the show's ratings improved, Van Dyke did not enjoy working away from his home and did not want to continue the show without Reiner. After the third season, he chose not to renew his contract and moved back to Arizona.\n\nThe show was rarely run in syndication, though various local stations aired it occasionally in the 1970s. In the early 1990s, reruns aired briefly on TNT. In 2002, the Christmas episode \"The Jailbird\" aired as part of TVLand's traditional classic Christmas show marathon. In 2004, the show aired on GoodLife TV Network. The reruns included the previously unaired episode \"Lt. Preston of the 4th Cavalry\".\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2113700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113700", "title": "Guidant", "text": "Guidant\n\nGuidant Corporation, part of Boston Scientific and Abbott Labs, designs and manufactures artificial cardiac pacemakers, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, stents, and other cardiovascular medical products. Their company headquarters is located in Indianapolis, Indiana. Their main competitors are Medtronic, St. Jude Medical, and Johnson and Johnson.\n\nIn February 1972, Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc. (CPI) of St. Paul, Minnesota was formed. CPI was a highly successful start up venture, increasing sales from zero in 1972 to over $47 million and highly profitable when it was acquired by Eli Lilly in 1978 for $127 million. During the 1970s, Lilly acquired other medical device companies including IVAC of San Diego, Physio Control of Redmond WA, and Advanced Cardiovascular Systems of Santa Clara, CA. These companies formed the core product/therapy areas of the Medical Devices Division of Eli Lilly and Company.\n\nIn 1994, Lilly had a change in senior management and Randy Tobias, the new president & CEO, decided that Lilly would focus on its pharma and other related businesses. The Medical Devices Division was spun off and went public in late 1994 under the name of Guidant Corporation (NYSE and PCX: GDT). The new company focused on cardiac rhythm management (pacemakers and implantable defibrillators) and cardiac and vascular intervention products via coronary and peripheral stents, guidewires and balloon dilatation catheters. Less invasive heart surgery was another small business unit of Guidant.\n\nIn February 1999 the business acquired Sulzer Medicas electrophysiology business for $810 million cash and in November of the same year, acquired CardioThoracic Systems, Inc..\n\nIn July 2002 the company acquired Cook Group Incorporated, and months later in December, Guidant acquired Cardiac Intelligence Corporation.\n\nIn April 2003 the business acquired SyneCor, LLC, developer of a fully bioabsorbable vascular stent. Months later, in June 2003 Guidant acquired X Technologies, Inc. for $60 million.\n\nIn January 2004, the company acquired AFx inc., a pioneer in the field of microwave surgical cardiac ablation.\n\nJohnson & Johnson announced that it was acquiring Guidant on December 15, 2004, for $76 a share, at a cost of $25.4 billion. The deal was approved by Guidant stockholders on April 27, 2005. On May 25, Guidant reported 26 cases of implantable defibrillator failure, including one death. The same day, the New York Times published an article accusing Guidant of waiting years before notifying physicians about the problems. On June 17, Guidant issued a safety advisory on seven models of defibrillator, followed a week later by advising doctors to discontinue use of four models. The scope of the problems steadily increased, and on July 18, 2005, Guidant issued a warning for nine different models of pacemakers from 1997 to 2000. The next day, Johnson & Johnson warned that the acquisition may be delayed due to these issues. On September 22, Guidant issued safety advisories and recalls for 170,000 of their pacemakers, 56% of their total pacemakers. On October 18, Johnson & Johnson gave an announcement that they were exploring alternatives to the acquisition, followed by a November 2 warning that they might pull out of the deal due to the regulatory issues and legal liabilities. On November 7, 2005, Guidant sued Johnson & Johnson to force them to complete the deal. On November 15, the two companies announced a renegotiated purchase price of $63 a share, or $21.5 billion, a 15% price reduction.\n\nOn December 5, 2005, Boston Scientific made a surprise unsolicited $24.6 billion bid to acquire Guidant, offering $72 per share of Guidant, $36 in cash and a fixed number of Boston Scientific shares valued at $36 a share. Guidant's stock price rose 10% on the news. The offer was not actually finalized until after due diligence had been completed on January 8, 2006.\n\nOn January 11, 2006, Johnson & Johnson presented a counteroffer of $23.2 billion, still less than their original 2004 bid, which the Guidant board accepted. The next day, Boston Scientific increased their bid to $25 billion, followed the next day by Johnson & Johnson increasing their bid to $24.2 billion. It was not until January 17 that Boston Scientific produced a new offer of $27.2 billion ($80 per share), with the help of Abbott Laboratories. Abbott agreed to purchase $1.4 billion of Boston Scientific stock and pay $4.1 billion for Guidant's vascular intervention business upon completion of the merger. Without Abbott's financial assistance, it would have been unlikely that Boston Scientific could have produced the counteroffer.\n\nOn January 25, 2006, after Johnson & Johnson refused to raise their bid higher than $24.2 billion, Guidant declared Boston Scientific's offer \"clearly superior\" and accepted their bid. Guidant paid a $705 million termination fee to Johnson & Johnson.\n\nOn April 21, 2006, the deal with Boston Scientific was complete. This deal included Abbott Labs buying the vascular intervention business of Guidant for approximately $4.5 billion. \"Fortune\" magazine characterized the deal as the second worst deal ever, stating that the company paid too much for Guidant. On July 27, 2006, Boston Scientific posted a loss of $4.26 billion for the quarter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113705", "title": "Minimal change disease", "text": "Minimal change disease\n\nMinimal change disease (also known as MCD, minimal change glomerulopathy, and nil disease, among others) is a disease affecting the kidneys which causes a nephrotic syndrome. Nephrotic syndrome leads to the loss of significant amounts of protein in the urine, which causes the widespread oedema (soft tissue swelling) and impaired kidney function commonly experienced by those affected by the disease. It is most common in children and has a peak incidence at 2 to 6 years of age. MCD is responsible for 10-25% of nephrotic syndrome cases in adults. It is also the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome of unclear cause (idiopathic) in children.\n\nThe clinical signs of minimal change disease are proteinuria (abnormal excretion of proteins, mainly albumin, into the urine), edema (swelling of soft tissues as a consequence of water retention), weight gain, and hypoalbuminaemia (low serum albumin). These signs are referred to collectively as nephrotic syndrome. \n\nThe first clinical sign of minimal change disease is usually edema with an associated increase in weight. The swelling may be mild but patients can present with edema in the lower half of the body, periorbital edema, swelling in the scrotal/labial area and anasarca in more severe cases. In older adults, patients may also present with acute kidney injury (20-25% of affected adults) and high blood pressure. Due to the disease process, patients with minimal change disease are also at risk of blood clots and infections.\n\nFor years, pathologists found no changes when viewing kidney biopsy specimens under light microscopy, hence the name \"minimal change disease.\" Sometimes, the mesangium may have expanded, but otherwise there is no injury to kidney tissue itself.\n\nUnder immunofluorescence, there are no immunoglobulins or complement deposits bound to kidney tissue.\n\nWith the advent of electron microscopy, the changes now known as the hallmarks of the disease were discovered. These are diffuse loss of visceral epithelial cells' foot processes (i.e., podocyte effacement), vacuolation, and growth of microvilli on the visceral epithelial cells, allowing for excess protein loss in the urine.\n\nThe cause and pathogenesis of the pathology is unclear and it is currently considered idiopathic. However, it does not appear to involve complement or immune complex deposition. Rather, an altered T cell-mediated immunologic response with abnormal secretion of lymphokines by T cells is thought to modify the glomerular basement membrane, specifically the podocytes, increasing permeability. This allows the leakage of albumin and other serum proteins into the urine. Also, the exact cytokine responsible has yet to be elucidated, with IL-12, IL-18 and IL-13 having been most studied in this regard, yet never conclusively implicated.\n\nThere has been discussion of B cell involvement in nephrotic syndrome, especially minimal change disease due to the success of immunotherapy that target both B and T cells, increased markers for B cell activation during a relapse of minimal change disease, and alterations in B cell sub-classes during minimal change disease remission. However, considering that there is no immunoglobulin deposition noted on renal biopsy, it may be that B cells play a more secondary role in activating the T cells that lead to disease, which would explain the effectiveness of immunosuppressants that target B cells.\n\nWhen albumin is excreted in the urine, its serum (blood) concentration decreases. Consequently, the plasma oncotic pressure reduces relative to the interstitial tissue. The subsequent movement of fluid from the vascular compartment to the interstitial compartment manifests as the soft tissue swelling referred to as edema. This fluid collects most commonly in the feet and legs, in response to gravity, particularly in those with poorly functioning valves. In severe cases, fluid can shift into the peritoneal cavity (abdomen) and cause ascites. As a result of the excess fluid, individuals with minimal change disease often gain weight, as they are excreting less water in the urine, and experience fatigue.\n\nAs minimal change disease is a subset of nephrotic syndrome, diagnosis involves looking for a combination of edema, high amounts of protein in urine, low albumin and high serum cholesterol. Initial workup can include a urinalysis, kidney function tests, serum albumin level and a lipid panel. Microscopic amounts of blood are present in the urine of 10-30% adults with MCD.\n\nAs MCD is the most common type of nephrotic syndrome in children, renal biopsy is not usually done in children under the age of 10 unless there are concerning features that are unusual for the disease (high blood pressure, bloody urine, renal dysfunction) and if they fail to respond to corticosteroid therapy. These would suggest that it may not be minimal change disease. In adults, a renal biopsy is required as there is a much wider differential for nephrotic syndrome. As the name suggests, the renal biopsy of a patient with minimal change disease would show minimal or no evidence of disease in light microscopy, which is unique among the causes of nephrotic syndrome.\n\nThe first line therapy to minimal change disease is corticosteroids. For those are who are unable to tolerate corticosteroid treatment, cyclosporine is an alternative; other immunosuppressants have also been used such as llevamisole, calcineurin inhibitor, mycophenolate mofetil, rituximab though studies on their effectiveness is fairly limited. There is no common consensus on how long the corticosteroid therapy should be, with treatment length ranging from 4–12 weeks. Along with corticosteroid therapy, acute symptomatic management involves salt and fluid restriction to control the swelling.\n\nFor children who do not respond to corticosteroids (usually after a trial of 8 weeks), a trial of cyclosporine and corticosteroids can be tried.\n\nTreatment guidelines for adults is fairly limited, largely based on studies done on children. The mainline therapy is also corticosteroid therapy with other immunosuppressants as possible alternatives though, there is very little data on the these alternatives' efficacy. Other medications such as ACE inhibitors to reduce the amount of protein in the urine or statins to decrease high levels of cholesterol seen with nephrotic syndrome are generally unnecessary. ACE inhibitors may be considered in people with MCD who also have high blood pressure.\n\nMinimal change disease usually responds well to initial treatment with the first-line therapy: corticosteroids, with 95% responding. Younger children, who are more likely to develop minimal change disease, usually respond faster than adults with 50% of children having complete remission with 8 days of corticosteroid therapy and most other patients responding by the 4th week. Few do not respond to corticosteroids and have to rely on an alternative therapy. However, despite positive response to corticosteroids, relapses are common, requiring repeat treatment with corticosteroids. About 25% never relapse, another 25% relapse infrequently (one relapse within 6 months of initial response or 1-3 relapses in 12 months), and 50% relapse frequently (>2 relapses within 6 months of initial response or >4 relapses in 12 months). The relapse rate is the reason behind a discussion on continuing prednisone treatment to even beyond 12 weeks to possibly decrease relapse rate; several studies trying this have failed to show significant improvement. A majority of relapses seem to be triggered by respiratory infections. Long term, children can relapse several years after having no symptoms; though after 2 years, the risk is significantly lower.\n\nIn most children with minimal change disease, particularly among those who respond typically, there is minimal to no permanent damage observed in their kidneys. Complications primarily arise from the side effects of therapy. Prolonged use of corticosteroids can lead to immunosuppression (leading to infection), growth complications, weight gain.\n\nWhile most adults with minimal change disease do respond to corticosteroids, 25% fail to respond after 3–4 months of corticosteroid therapy though it is possible that these patients may not actually have minimal change disease and was incorrectly diagnosed. Adults with MCD tend to also respond more slowly to corticosteroid treatment when compared to children; response is longer, taking up to 3 or 4 months. Data in adults is less complete in comparison to children but relapses are also fairly frequent with 56-76% of patients relapsing and need further treatment with immunosuppressants, such as ciclosporin, tacrolimus, mycophenolate, and rituximab. There is little evidence to support the use of azathioprine for MCD.\n\nLike in children, complications primarily arise from the side effects of therapy. Prolonged use of corticosteroids can lead to immunosuppression (leading to infection), growth complications, weight gain.\n\nMinimal change disease is most common in very young children but can occur in older children and adults.\n\nIt is by far the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in children, accounting for 70-90% of children >1 year of age. After puberty, it is caused by minimal change disease about half the time. Among young children, boys seem to be more likely to develop minimal change disease than girls (about 2:1). Minimal change disease is seen in about 16 in every 100,000 children with it being more common in South Asians and Native Americans, but rarer in African Americans.\n\nIn adults, it accounts for less than 15% of adults diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome.\n\nMinimal change disease has been called by many other names in the medical literature, including minimal change nephropathy, minimal change nephrosis, minimal change nephrotic syndrome, minimal change glomerulopathy, foot process disease (referring to the foot processes of the podocytes), nil disease (referring to the lack of pathologic findings on light microscopy), nil lesions, lipid nephrosis, and lipoid nephrosis.\n"}
{"id": "2113707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113707", "title": "Talybont-on-Usk", "text": "Talybont-on-Usk\n\nTalybont-on-Usk () is a village and community in Powys, Wales, in the historic county of Brecknockshire (Breconshire). It lies on both the River Caerfanell and the Monmouthshire and Brecon Canal, about from the River Usk. In 2001 it had a population of 743, reducing to 719 at the 2011 Census.\n\nAllt yr Esgair is a steep-sided hill to the north east of Talybont, and has an Iron Age settlement on the summit. There are other Iron Age and Bronze Age sites in the vicinity and a Roman road flanks the slopes of Allt yr Esgair. A small castle was built at Pencelli during the Norman invasion and this was later replaced by the sixteenth century Pencelli House. The canal was built around 1800 to transport lime, coal and iron to Newport. There are some lime kilns to the east of the village and a tramroad was built to transport limestone from the crags above.\n\nThe village is located on the B4558 road about six miles southeast of Brecon and eight miles northwest of Crickhowell. It is a mile from the River Usk and on the Monmouthshire and Brecon Canal and is connected to the A40 trunk road on the other side of the Usk by a short section of unclassified road.\nThe village has a shop and several pubs. The valley one mile south of the village is dammed to form the Talybont Reservoir. This has a dam and there are forest trails in its vicinity. Talybont-on-Usk is a popular place for walkers and offers the Henry Vaughan walk through the nearby countryside where the 18th century poet once lived. Another walk can be followed along the line of the former Brinore Tramroad which runs south from the canalside wharf in the village around the western flanks of Y Wenallt and Tor y Foel before heading to Trefil via the head of the Dyffryn Crawnon valley.\n\nA Talybont-on Usk electoral ward exists, covering Talybont-on Usk and the neighbouring communities of Glyn Tarell and Llanfrynach. The population of this ward at the 2011 Census was 1,923. It elects one councillor to Powys County Council. The current councillor is Liam Fitzpatrick, an Independent.\n\nTalybont-on-Usk Community Council represents the community at the local level. Up to nine community councillors are elected or co-opted to the council.\n\n\nIn 2014 it was the venue for the Linuxbierwanderung.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113712", "title": "Tuned for Murder", "text": "Tuned for Murder\n\nTuned for Murder is the 9th pulp magazine story to feature The Avenger. Written by Paul Ernst, it was published in the May 1, 1940 issue of \"The Avenger\" magazine.\n\nThis novel was re-published under its original title by Paperback Library on February 1, 1973.\n\nStrange happenings in Garfield City, NY: a banker hands out money and insults; a respected scientist laughs and dances; nearby, dogs howl; a scientist, Cranlowe, has invented a weapon to stop war; other cases of insanity occur; a well-organized gang kidnaps and murders, trying to get Cranlowe’s super-weapon. The gang seemingly kills the Justice, Inc. team; Benson, Mac, Josh, and Smitty use the opportunity to go undercover. Josh, posing as a shoeshine boy at Garfield Gear, is found out and nearly killed. Nellie befriends Cranlowe's wife, is kidnapped, and takes on four men in a fight. Under terrible threats, Cranlowe won't reveal the weapon's formula. Jenner, president of Garfield Gear, controls the minds of others, but is controlled himself. The mind control device, an invention abandoned by Cranlowe, uses high-frequency vibrations unique to each individual. Benson's mind is apparently controlled; later, he fights a mind-controlled Smitty, who has easily overcome Josh, Mac and Nellie. Benson early on knows who the mastermind is, but Doc-Savage-like allows things to play out without informing his aides. The partly hypnotized mastermind shoots himself, and the super-weapon is finally turned over to the US government.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113714", "title": "Beamish, County Durham", "text": "Beamish, County Durham\n\nBeamish, previously named 'Pit Hill', is a village in County Durham, England, situated to the north east of Stanley. \n\nThe village is contained within Hell Hole Wood and is home to Beamish Museum, an open-air museum seeking to replicate a northern town of the early 20th century. Its principal public house is the Shepherd and Shepherdess, near the Beamish Museum entrance.\n\nTo the south is the village of No Place (also called Co-operative Villas). North West Beamish lies in the conservation area of Beamish Burn.\n\nTo the north of Beamish, Pockerley Manor preserves a rare though altered example of a pele tower in County Durham, probably dating from the 15th century with later alterations and additions. It is attached to a later farmhouse and the building is now known as Pockerley Manor. The tower has living accommodation built over a stone basement, the first floor reached through a stair built into the thickness of the wall, and the roof is largely original.\n"}
{"id": "2113717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113717", "title": "Rantanplan", "text": "Rantanplan\n\nRantanplan (; alternately spelled Ran-Tan-Plan and Ran Tan Plan) is a fictional hound dog created by Belgian comics artist Morris and French writer René Goscinny. Originally a supporting character in the \"Lucky Luke\" series, Rantanplan later starred in an eponymous series. Rantanplan is a spoof of Rin Tin Tin. In the Turkish translations of the series, he is indeed named Rin Tin Tin. English versions of the books have renamed him \"Rin Tin Can\" and \"Bushwack\" in the 1983 Hanna-Barbera animated Lucky Luke television series.\n\nThe character first appeared in the earliest panels of the story \"Sur la piste des Dalton\", published on February 4, 1960 in the Franco-Belgian comics magazine \"Spirou\", and later as an album in 1962. The character remained a fixture over a long series of \"Lucky Luke\" publications, resulting in a series of its own spin-off publications starting in 1987. Ten years after the death of Goscinny, for the production of the \"Rantanplan\" series, Morris collaborated with scenarists such as Jean Léturgie, Bob de Groot and Vittorio Leonardo.\n\nRantanplan (also known as Rin-Tin-Can in the English comics) is a prison guard dog often tasked with watching over the Dalton brothers or assisting Lucky Luke track them down each time they escape. However, he is unable to understand this and often mistakes Joe Dalton, who hates him psychotically, for a beloved owner. As well as being stupid, Rantanplan is extremely slow and accident-prone. However, he is very good-natured, and will follow Lucky Luke to the ends of the Earth. Like Averell Dalton, he has a huge appetite and will devour literally everything that is put in front of him, whether it is food or not, which has ranged from bars of soap to dishwater.\n\nLucky Luke's horse, Jolly Jumper, a very intelligent animal, holds Rantanplan in contempt, regarding him as one of Nature's great mistakes.\n\nIn 2006, the production company Xilam produced an animated series of Morris's \"Rantanplan\" stories in 90 second episodes, broadcast on France 3. It is broadcast in Canada on YTV under the name \"Rintindumb\", and was distributed by Warner Bros. Television. It featured the voices of Maurice LaMarche and Rob Paulsen. It was on Rovio's ToonsTV until 2015.\n\nDargaud\n\n\nLucky Productions\n\n\nLucky Comics\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113720", "title": "Michael Rensing", "text": "Michael Rensing\n\nMichael Rensing (born 14 May 1984) is a German footballer who currently plays as a goalkeeper for Fortuna Düsseldorf. He has also played for Bayern Munich II, Bayern Munich, 1. FC Köln, Bayer Leverkusen II, and Bayer Leverkusen.\n\nBorn to a German father and a Serbian mother, Rensing joined Bayern in 2000 from TuS Lingen, and went on to develop his talent in the club's youth sides.\n\nHe made two appearances for the reserve side in the 2001–02 season and spending the 2002–03 season in the Regionalliga Süd, making 34 league appearances and a cup appearance, and won a place in the UEFA Champions League squad at the start of the following campaign as he moved up the Bayern pecking order to become Oliver Kahn's deputy.\n\nRensing made his Bundesliga debut on 21 February 2004, playing the entire 90 minutes of the 1–0 home win against Hamburger SV. He also made an appearance against Schalke 04.\n\nRensing saw action in four Bundesliga matches and two cup matches in 2004–05 season and six Bundesliga matches in the 2005–06 season, and saw his first Champions League nod for an injured Oliver Kahn against Milan on 21 February 2006 (Milan keeper Dida was injured during the match, so both sides finished with reserve goalkeepers in goal), which ended in a 1–1 draw. On 15 April 2006, Rensing was involved in a strange incident prior to a match against Arminia Bielefeld. He took a warm-up shot that struck goalkeeper Oliver Kahn blackening his eye and forcing him to sit out the game. Rensing played in Kahn's place and Bayern went on to win the contest 2–0. In the 2006–07 season, he made a Bundesliga appearance against Borussia Mönchengladbach, two cup appearances, a league cup appearance against Schalke 04, and a Champions League match against Milan.\n\nAs Kahn moved towards the end of his career, Rensing gradually received more playing time, covering for Kahn in his final 2007–08 season on 10 occasions in the Bunesliga, once in the Cup, once in the league cup, and six in the UEFA Cup. Following Kahn's retirement in 2008, Rensing was given a chance as Bayern's first-choice goalkeeper, but was unable to cement his spot. He made 26 appearances in the Bundesliga, four cup matches, seven Champions League matches, and three reserve team matches. Following a poor start to the 2009–10 season, his experienced teammate Hans-Jörg Butt replaced him as the Bavarian club's first-choice goalkeeper. Rensing had played on matchdays one, two, and three. Although Rensing made a half-time substitute appearance for the unwell Butt in a 3–2 win at Werder Bremen on 23 January 2010 and made three appearances in the DFB-Pokal, and three matches for the reserve team. Bayern opted not to renew his contract at the end of the season.\n\nIn November 2010, Rensing joined Leicester City on trial but rejected the subsequent contract offer.\n\nOn 21 December 2010, Rensing moved to 1. FC Köln on a six-month contract. He made 17 league appearances in the 2010–11 season. Following his half-season at 1. FC Köln, Rensing was voted the No.3 keeper in Germany by kicker sports magazine. Due to his strong performance, Rensing's contract with 1. FC Köln was extended two years to 2013. He made 32 league appearances and an appearance in the Cup during the 2011–12 season. However, he was released by Köln upon the club's relegation in 2012. He finished his Köln career with 49 league appearances.\n\nRensing signed for Bayer 04 Leverkusen in August 2012, to serve as backup to Bernd Leno. In his only season for the club, he played in two league matches and a cup match for the first team and a league match for the reserve team.\n\nSince 1 July 2013, Rensing has played for the second division team Fortuna Düsseldorf.\nBefore the first match of the season Rensing stormed out of training and was thus dropped from the team for that match. The argument was concerning Fabian Giefer being selected as first choice keeper above him. Because of this he was told that he would not be picked for league games due to his \"Childish reaction\" over the incident. He ended up playing in five matches during the 2013–14 season. In the 2014–15 season, Rensing has played in 12 of the first 13 games of the season in the 2. Bundesliga, and has also played in the single DFB-Pokal game. He finished the season with 24 league matches played. Rensing continued being the first choice keeper during the 2015–16 season with the exception of the first round cup match against Rot Weiss Essen where Lars Unnerstall played. Rensing finished the 2016–17 season with 34 league appearances and two cup appearances. Rensing started the 2017–18 season by starting the first three league matches and the opening round of the German Cup. Rensing picked up an injury against 1. FC Kaiserslautern.\n\nHaving been Germany's number one goalkeeper at the U-19 level, Rensing joined the hosts' squad at the 2004 UEFA European Under-21 Championship finals, although he did not get off the bench. However, he had since become the first choice at U-21, helping his team qualify for the 2006 Euro Under-21 Championship. He is eligible to play both for Germany and Serbia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113721", "title": "The Littlest Hobo", "text": "The Littlest Hobo\n\nThe Littlest Hobo is a Canadian television series (French title: \"Le Vagabond)\" based upon a 1958 American film of the same name directed by Charles R. Rondeau. The series first aired from 1963 to 1965 in syndication, and was revived for a popular second run on CTV, spanning six seasons, from October 11, 1979 to March 7, 1985. The concept of the show was that of \"an ownerless dog\".\n\nAll three productions revolved around a stray German Shepherd, the titular Hobo, who wanders from town to town, helping people in need. Although the concept (of a dog saving the day) was perhaps similar to that of \"Lassie\" and/or \"Rin Tin Tin\", the Littlest Hobo's destiny was to befriend those who apparently needed help, portrayed by well known actors in celebrity guest appearance roles. Despite the attempts of the many people whom he helped to adopt him, he appeared to prefer to be on his own, and would head off by himself at the end of each episode.\n\nReferred to as “Gulliver” in a single episode, the dog is often referred to by the name Hobo or by the names given by temporary human companions. His origins, motivation, and ultimate destination are never explained on screen.\n\nFollowing the 1958 film, the 1960s original TV series was aired in syndication around the world, including the UK on the ITV between 1964–1967. Although the series was originally broadcast in black and white, it was in fact produced in colour. The VCI Entertainment DVD release of the series featured the colour versions of the episodes, except for the opening and closing credits which have only survived in black and white. Sixty-one episodes were broadcast over two seasons.\n\nStorer Programs Incorporated, a unit of the now-defunct Storer Broadcasting distributed the series to U.S. television stations during its 1960s run.\n\nThe German shepherd dogs featured in both 1960s and 1980s series were owned and trained by Charles (Chuck) P. Eisenmann. The primary star was named London, but several of London's relatives, including Toro, Litlon, and Thorn, also played scenes as the Hobo. Eisenmann used his own training methods to work with his dogs which involved educating them to think and understand very specific directions, to recognize colors, and to understand English, German, and French. He promoted his education method by touring with his dogs to offer live demonstrations, appearing on TV and radio shows and by writing books. Eisenmann recounts many stories from the filming of the series in his 1968 dog training book \"Stop! Sit! and Think\". Other books he wrote include \"The Better Dog: The Educated Dog\" which contains updated training material and \"A Dog’s Day in Court\" which offers a dog's point of view towards training methods.\n\nThe dogs are German Shepherds with \"reverse mask\" markings. After purchasing London, Eisenmann began to breed his own dogs, mostly studding out his males, even though he owned some females that he bred to as well. He bred particularly for the reverse mask, that is commonly seen on all of his dogs, and is unpopular with breeders of the German Shepherd dog as it is not in the breed standard.\n\nShiloh Shepherd dogs are stated to trace their heritage back to London's relatives and are inspired by the intelligence Eisenmann's dogs were reputed to have.\n\nIn 1979 CTV revived the series. The \"New Littlest Hobo\" (as it was sometimes called), which ran for six seasons, was shot on videotape rather than film. It has since been syndicated in many countries including the U.S. and UK. In the course of its run, a mixture of well-known Canadian and Hollywood guest stars appeared such as Al Waxman, Carol Lynley, John Ireland, Megan Follows, Rex Hagon, Alan Hale Jr., Jack Gilford, August Schellenberg, DeForest Kelley, Ray Walston, Morey Amsterdam, Jeff Wincott, Michael Ironside, Patrick Macnee, Abe Vigoda, Saul Rubinek, John Vernon, Keenan Wynn, Chris Makepeace, Karen Kain, Vic Morrow, Andrew Prine, Lynda Day George, Sammy Snyders, Henry Gibson, John Carradine, and Leslie Nielsen. Mike Myers appears as Tommy in episode 10 \"Boy on Wheels\".\n\nCharles (Chuck) P. Eisenmann appeared as a dog trainer named Chuck in the first-season episode \"Stand In\" and as dog kennel operator named Mr. Charles in part one of the episode \"Voyageurs\" from the sixth season.\n\nIn a nod to the original series, the dog that appeared in this series was credited also as \"London\".\n\nThe series aired on CTV on Thursday nights at 7:30p.m. Reruns continued on CTV, CTV Two, and other national networks up until 2012, when CTV replaced it with a block of music videos from Juicebox. In the UK the series premièred on the BBC on April 8, 1982, but only the first three seasons were shown and repeated until 1989. From April 1991 ITV picked up the series and each of the local companies played out the full series until late 1994.\n\nPlots ranged from the simple \"dog-helps-person\" stories to secret agent-type adventures.\n\nIn season 5's two-part episode \"The Genesis Tapes\" a scientist and a reporter theorized that Hobo was a type of superior canine. The reporter theorized that there was one dog and the scientist theorized that there were up to one hundred such dogs. The two-part episode had the scientist and reporter trying to capture Hobo to study him, with the reporter wanting a story and the scientist wanting to claim to be the first to discover the meta-canine as he put it. Hobo succeeds in destroying VHS tapes of himself that the scientist and reporter had intended to use to prove that he was an evolved canine. Both episodes feature flashback footage from the first five seasons of the series, with the first episode being the only episode of the revival series to include footage from the original 1960s series. The episode does not confirm that Hobo was indeed a superior canine either by evolution or design; it was simply the theory of the scientist and reporter.\n\nTrainer Chuck Eisenmann used several dogs to play the role of \"London\" as he had selected dogs entirely based on their appearance. He determined which dogs to use for the scenes by making use of their abilities such as if one dog did not mind carrying objects or if one were small enough to safely jump through a car window and maneuver through the seats. In Eisenmann's book, \"A Dog's Day in Court\", one of the dogs used in the 1970s series was London's grandson, who was also known as London.\n\nA 2005 episode of the CTV sitcom \"Corner Gas\", entitled \"The Littlest Yarbo\", pays tribute to the series by having a character (Hank Yarbo) convinced that a stray dog visiting the town is Hobo. The episode ends with a reprise of Terry Bush's \"Maybe Tomorrow\" theme song.\n\nThe show's theme, \"Maybe Tomorrow\", was sung by Terry Bush. In 2005, Bush commercially released the song on his debut album, entitled \"Maybe Tomorrow\". The song was later used in a 2011 Dulux paint advertisement. Additionally, in 2017, the song was in a Canada 150-themed Co-Op stores advertisement.\n\nVCI Entertainment has released 12 episodes from the original series to DVD. The release features the colour versions of the first 3 episodes, except for the opening and closing sequences which have only survived in monochrome. The last 9 episodes were released in black and white.\n\nMediumrare Entertainment have only released the first two seasons of \"The Littlest Hobo\" on DVD. The Season One DVD, featured the theme tune \"Maybe Tomorrow\" on DVD in Region 2 & 4 on April 26, 2010.\n\nIn 2017, episodes from the series began to be uploaded onto Encore+, a YouTube channel run by the Canada Media Fund and Google Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113730", "title": "Rasmussen's encephalitis", "text": "Rasmussen's encephalitis\n\nRasmussen's encephalitis, is a rare inflammatory neurological disease, characterized by frequent and severe seizures, loss of motor skills and speech, hemiparesis (weakness on one side of the body), encephalitis (inflammation of the brain), and dementia. The illness affects a single cerebral hemisphere and generally occurs in children under the age of 15.\n\nThe condition mostly affects children, with an average age of 6 years. However, one in ten people with the condition develops it in adulthood.\n\nThere are two main stages, sometimes preceded by a 'prodromal stage' of a few months. In the \"acute stage\", lasting four to eight months, the inflammation is active and the symptoms become progressively worse. These include weakness of one side of the body (hemiparesis), loss of vision for one side of the visual field (hemianopia), and cognitive difficulties (affecting learning, memory or language, for example). Epileptic seizures are also a major part of the illness, although these are often partial. Focal motor seizures or epilepsia partialis continua are particularly common, and may be very difficult to control with drugs.\n\nIn the chronic or \"residual stage\", the inflammation is no longer active, but the sufferer is left with some or all of the symptoms because of the damage that the inflammation has caused. In the long term, most patients are left with some epilepsy, paralysis and cognitive problems, but the severity varies considerably.\n\nIn Rasmussen’s encephalitis, there is chronic inflammation of the brain, with infiltration of T lymphocytes into the brain tissue. In most cases, this affects only one cerebral hemisphere, either the left or the right. This inflammation causes permanent damage to the cells of the brain, leading to atrophy of the hemisphere; the epilepsy that this causes may itself contribute to the brain damage. The epilepsy might derive from a disturbed GABA release, the main inhibitory neurotransmitter of the mammalian brain.\n\nThe cause of the inflammation is not known: infection by a virus has been suggested, but the evidence for this is inconclusive. In the 1990s it was suggested that auto-antibodies against the glutamate receptor GluR3 were important in causing the disease, but this is no longer thought to be the case. However, more recent studies report the presence of autoantibodies against the NMDA-type glutamate receptor subunit GluRepsilon2 (anti-NR2A antibodies) in a subset of patients with Rasmussen's encephalitis. There has also been some evidence that patients suffering from RE express auto-antibodies against alpha 7 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. By sequencing T cell receptors from various compartments it could be shown that RE patients present with peripheral CD8+ T-cell expansion which in some cases have been proven for years after disease onset.\n\nRasmussen's encephalitis has been recorded with a neurovisceral porphyria, and acute intermittent porphyria. \n\nThe diagnosis may be made on the clinical features alone, along with tests to rule out other possible causes. An EEG will usually show the electrical features of epilepsy and slowing of brain activity in the affected hemisphere, and MRI brain scans will show gradual shrinkage of the affected hemisphere with signs of inflammation or scarring.\n\nBrain biopsy can provide very strong confirmation of the diagnosis, but this is not always necessary.\n\nDuring the acute stage, treatment is aimed at reducing the inflammation. As in other inflammatory diseases, steroids may be used first of all, either as a short course of high-dose treatment, or in a lower dose for long-term treatment. Intravenous immunoglobulin is also effective both in the short term and in the long term, particularly in adults where it has been proposed as first-line treatment. Other similar treatments include plasmapheresis and tacrolimus, though there is less evidence for these. None of these treatments can prevent permanent disability from developing.\n\nDuring the residual stage of the illness when there is no longer active inflammation, treatment is aimed at improving the remaining symptoms. Standard anti-epileptic drugs are usually ineffective in controlling seizures, and it may be necessary to surgically remove or disconnect the affected cerebral hemisphere, in an operation called hemispherectomy or via a corpus callosotomy. This usually results in further weakness, hemianopsia and cognitive problems, but the other side of the brain may be able to take over some of the function, particularly in young children. The operation may not be advisable if the left hemisphere is affected, since this hemisphere contains most of the parts of the brain that control language. However, hemispherectomy is often very effective in reducing seizures.\n\nIt is named for the neurosurgeon (1910–2002), who succeeded Wilder Penfield as head of the Montreal Neurological Institute, and served as Neurosurgeon-in-Chief at the Royal Victoria Hospital.\n\nThe Hemispherectomy Foundation was formed in 2008 to assist families with children who have Rasmussen's Encephalitis and other conditions that require hemispherectomy.\n\nThe RE Children's Project was founded in 2010 to increase awareness of Rasmussen's Encephalitis. Its primary purpose is to support scientific research directed toward finding a cure for this disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113734", "title": "Kyll", "text": "Kyll\n\nThe Kyll (), noted by the Roman poet Ausonius as \"Celbis\", is a 128 km long river in western Germany (North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate), left tributary of the Moselle. It rises in the Eifel mountains, near the border with Belgium and flows generally south through the towns Stadtkyll, Gerolstein, Kyllburg and east of Bitburg. It flows into the Moselle in Ehrang, a suburb of Trier.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113739", "title": "Bombardier Flexity Classic", "text": "Bombardier Flexity Classic\n\nThe Bombardier Flexity Classic is a model of light-rail tram manufactured by Bombardier Transportation. Although it is marketed as the most traditionally designed member of the \"Flexity\" family, it is nevertheless a modern bi-directional articulated tram with a low-floor section allowing good accessibility, especially to passengers in wheelchairs. Flexity Classic trams run on in Australia, in Essen, in Dresden, and in Leipzig.\n\nFlexity models operate in a number of German cities; Norrköping and Stockholm in Sweden; Kraków and Gdańsk in Poland; and Adelaide in South Australia.\n\nThe Flexity Classic’s closest competitors are Alstom’s Citadis, the Combino and Avanto from Siemens, and Bombardier's other \"Flexity\" trams.\n\nIn 2006 TransAdelaide began to replace the Type H cars operating on the Glenelg tram line with 11 Flexity Classic trams built in Bautzen, Germany by Bombardier Transportation. The first of the new cars was delivered to the Glengowrie depot in November 2005 and entered revenue service on 9 January 2006. As they were delivered through 2006 the new trams operated side-by-side with the Type H cars that had been operating the service since 1929. (Those trams were withdrawn progressively until five ran on special occasions; since 2015 they have been in storage.) A further order of four in 2008 brought the total to 15, numbered 101–115.\n\nThe Flexity cars are painted in a standard Adelaide Metro colour scheme of white with yellow, blue and red ends, very similar to Adelaide’s metropolitan bus fleet. However, many now display \"all-over advertising\" that considerably alters their appearance, with only the yellow ends untouched.\n\nThe trams have low floors throughout 70 per cent of their length, and are accessible to pushchairs and wheelchairs through each of the three sets of doors. Their features include air conditioning, heating, recorded video surveillance and automated audio and visual announcements of the next stop. Roving conductors are employed.\n\nThe internal layout accommodates 64 seated passengers and another 115 standing. Initial overcrowding owing to the popularity of the rejuvenated Glenelg line and the short route extension through the business area of Adelaide, and the inadequacy of air conditioning in Adelaide's hot summers, led to adverse reactions from commuters and local media, but the faults were soon rectified and supplementation by Type 200 Alstom Citadis trams has minimised overcrowding.\n\nThe Flexity Classic XXL model was developed for the Dresden Transport Authority by the German factory Bombardier Transportation in Bautzen. It is long, runs on twelve axles and has a capacity of 260 passengers with 153 seats.\nThe Flexity Classic XXL (classification NGT D12DD) has, because of Dresden's altitude differences of , a power-to-weight ratio of . The tram has been in service since 2003 and serves tram lines with a high peak load of passengers. The exterior is specially designed for the Dresden Transport Authority, which owns 43 trams.\n\nThe Flexity Classic XXL is also in service in Leipzig, Germany (classification NGT12-LEI) with the Leipzig Transport Authority (LVB). Although the exterior design is customized, the tram offers the same capacity. It has been in service since 2005. The LVB first ordered 12 trams of this type, then exercised an option for another 12 trams in September 2005 and a third (slightly changed) batch of 9 was delivered in late 2011/early 2012.\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20090706051021/http://www.bombardier.com/en/transportation/products-services/rail-vehicles/light-rail-vehicles/flexity-trams/adelaide--australia?docID=0901260d8000bcec\n\n"}
{"id": "2113757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113757", "title": "Varig Logística", "text": "Varig Logística\n\nVarig Logística S.A., operating as VarigLog, was a cargo airline, based in Jardim Aeroporto, Campo Belo, São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nAll operations were suspended on 1 February 2012 and on 27 September 2012 it was declared bankrupt.\n\nThe airline started operations in September 2000 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Varig.\n\nVarig Log was purchased for US$48.2 million by the consortium Volo do Brasil in December 2005 during the split-up of the assets of Varig. Volo do Brasil comprised the MatlinPatterson Funds and the Brazilian investors Marcos Antonio Audi, Marcos Hapfel and Luiz Eduardo Gallo. The negotiation was concluded in June 2006, after strict regulatory approval, particularly concerned with the participation of foreign capital, limited by Brazilian laws to 20%.\n\nIn July 2006, Volo bought its one-time parent Varig (the \"new\" Varig, founded in 2005) but less than one year later Varig was divested from the Volo group, when on 28 March 2007 Gol Linhas Aéreas Inteligentes, the parent company of budget carrier Gol Transportes Aéreos, purchased Varig for US$320 million.\n\nIn March 2008, there were reports of asset transfers between (LC) VARIG Logistica and (JW) Arrow Air as Arrow Air Cargo was also being absorbed into the MatlinPatterson holding company but they were not implemented.\n\nSince March 2008, Varig Log has accumulated debts with both large and small suppliers which led to the request to be placed under bankruptcy protection on 3 March 2009. The Brazilian former investors accuse MatlinPatterson of mismanagement with the intention of leading Varig Log to bankruptcy. While VarigLog is protected, the legal battle continues.\n\nThe company is in \"debtor-in-possession financing / receivership\" at this time, and is under the direction of the successor organization to Volo, the Synergy Group. Published reports as of October 2009 are that the Synergy Group had acquired a controlling majority share holdings of Varig Logistica.\n\nBetween June 2007 and June 2009 Varig Log maintained an operational agreement with FedEx in Brazil.\nGermán Efromovich (Synergy Group) gave up to buy the airline in 2011. On 3 February 2011 the company suspended its operations and on 27 September 2012 it was declared bankrupt.\nAs of March 2011, VarigLog operated services to the following scheduled destinations:\n\n\nAs of December 2011 the fleet of VarigLog included the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "2113767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113767", "title": "Joe Hendron", "text": "Joe Hendron\n\nJoseph Gerard Hendron (born 12 November 1932) is a Northern Ireland politician, a member of the moderate Irish nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP).\n\nHendron, also a local GP physician for 40 years, was first elected as a political representative of Belfast West in 1975 to the Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention. He was later elected to Belfast City Council in 1981 and in 1982 to the Northern Ireland Assembly.\n\nHendron was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Belfast West between April 1992 and May 1997 in the UK Parliament in London. He had taken the seat from Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams at his third attempt with a majority of 1%. He became the only nationalist MP to defeat Adams. The seat had previously been held for the SDLP by Gerry Fitt (later Lord Fitt) until 1983. Hendron attracted unprecedented cross-community support from Nationalists and Unionists in the constituency. This was the only example where an SDLP candidate received a high amount of Unionist votes in Belfast West that un-seated a Sinn Fein candidate.\n\nAdams regained the seat at the next election in May 1997.\n\nIn 1996 Hendron was elected to the Northern Ireland Forum and in 1998 to the newly reconvened Northern Ireland Assembly. However he lost his seat in the 2003 Northern Ireland Assembly election to a member of Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party.\n\nHe was appointed a member of the Northern Ireland Parades Commission in 2005 Dr Hendron retired in December 2010 from this body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113779", "title": "Robert Muller", "text": "Robert Muller\n\nRobert Muller (March 11, 1923 – September 20, 2010) was an international civil servant with the United Nations. Serving with the UN for 40 years and rising to the rank of Assistant Secretary-General, his ideas about world government, world peace and spirituality led to the increased representation of religions in the UN, especially of New Age Movement. He was known by some as \"the philosopher of the United Nations\".\n\nBorn in Belgium, Robert Muller grew up in the Alsace-Lorraine region in France (on the border of Germany) as a French citizen. His childhood home was on the border. The border issues he saw as a child had a significant impact on his life and his decision to work at the United Nations. During his youth Robert Muller experienced constant political and cultural turmoil. He knew the horrors of World War II, of being a refugee, of the Nazi occupation in France, imprisonment and escape from prison. During the war he was a member of the French Resistance where towards the end of the war he unsuccessfully tried to prevent the slaughter of a group of captured German soldiers. This was a major life event that led to work for peace. After the war he returned home and earned a Doctorate of Law from the University of Strasbourg. In 1948 he entered and won an essay contest on how to govern the world, the prize of which was an internship at the newly created United Nations.\n\nDr. Muller began working at the United Nations just as it was forming. He devoted the next 40 years of his life behind the scenes at the United Nations, focusing his energies on nurturing a better world, including working for the environment, economics and peace. He was instrumental in the conception of many multilateral bodies, including the UN Development Programme, the World Food Programme, the UN Population Fund, and the World Youth Assembly. He rose through the ranks at the UN to the official position of Assistant Secretary-General and served under three Secretaries-General.\n\nRobert Muller created a \"World Core Curriculum\" that earned him the UNESCO Prize for Peace Education in 1989. The \"World Core Curriculum\" helped inspire the growing Global Education movement. More than 30 Robert Muller schools were founded throughout the world, including LIFE School in Panajachel, Guatemala, from which students have gone on to pursue degrees in International Affairs.\n\nHe was the recipient of multiple awards and honors, including the Albert Schweitzer International Prize for the Humanities and the Eleanor Roosevelt Man of Vision Award.\n\nIn addition to his duties at the University for Peace, he devoted time to his writings and was an internationally acclaimed, multilingual speaker and author of fourteen books published in various languages. One of his major writings came from writing one idea-dream each day for nurturing a better world. His goal was to have written 2000 ideas and dreams by the beginning of the new millennium. He achieved this and went on to write over 7000 ideas and dreams. In his speeches he spoke of these idea-dreams and over the years noted that many of these ideas were being worked on and some had been completed.\n\nAt the prompting of many of his friends, admirers and non-governmental organizations, Robert Muller was a candidate as a global citizen in 1996 for the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations. He was also nominated multiple times for the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nRobert Muller died on September 20, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113796", "title": "Jordan Hall", "text": "Jordan Hall\n\nJordan Hall is a 1,051-seat concert hall in Boston, Massachusetts, the principal performance space of the New England Conservatory. It is one block from Boston's Symphony Hall. It is the only conservatory building in the United States to be designated a National Historic Landmark. This building is currently under study by the Boston Landmarks Commission for landmark status.\n\nIts architect was Edmund M. Wheelwright of Boston's Wheelwright & Haven, who later designed nearby Horticultural Hall. The hall's unusual square floor plan reflects its underlying plot of land but despite its shape, the hall has excellent acoustics, and all seats on both the main floor and horseshoe-shaped balcony have unobstructed views of the stage. The hall's prominent organ is modeled upon one found in a church within the former hospital complex of Santa Maria della Scala in Siena.\n\nThe hall opened in 1903, as a gift of Eben D. Jordan II, a Conservatory trustee and son of the founder of the Jordan Marsh store.\n\nThe dedication concert, performed by the Boston Symphony Orchestra, was held October 20, 1903. Newspaper accounts deemed the hall \"unequaled the world over,\" and the Boston Globe reported that it was \"a place of entertainment that European musicians who were present that evening say excels in beauty anything of the kind they ever saw.\" Even a decade later, it describes itself as an \"imposing Conservatory Building\".\n\nThe Hall was restored in 1995 and has since won awards, including the 1996 Massachusetts Historical Commission Preservation Award, the Victorian Society in America's Preservation Commendation, the 1996 Boston Preservation Alliance Award, the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America Award of Merit, and the Illuminating Engineering Society 1996 Lumen Award. The Conservatory's main building, which includes Jordan Hall, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980 and designated a National Historic Landmark in 1994; in both cases the name used is \"New England Conservatory of Music.\"\n\nMany performances have taken place in Jordan Hall, including some 650 student performances a year as well as appearances by virtually every important classical musician of the past century. That list includes performers Nadia Boulanger, Pablo Casals, the Martha Graham Dance Company, James Galway, pianists Arthur Rubinstein, Cyril Scott, Ferruccio Busoni, Vladimir de Pachmann, Angela Hewitt, Radu Lupu, Rudolf Serkin, Richard Goode, Krystian Zimerman, Garrick Ohlsson, Yundi Li, clarinetist Richard Stoltzman and violinist Isaac Stern; vocalists Marian Anderson, Peter Pears, Dawn Upshaw, Ben Heppner, David Daniels, and Lorraine Hunt Lieberson; guitarists Andrés Segovia, Christopher Parkening, Julian Bream, and Sérgio and Odair Assad; conductors Arthur Fiedler and Kurt Masur; composers Béla Bartók, Benjamin Britten, John Cage, Olivier Messiaen, and Aaron Copland; jazz legends Stan Getz and Benny Goodman; The Yale Whiffenpoofs; and the Budapest, Juilliard, Guarneri and Tokyo string quartets.\n\nJordan Hall is home to \"From the Top\", a National Public Radio classical music show hosted by New England Conservatory alumnus Christopher O'Riley. In addition, the Boston Modern Orchestra Project, New England String Ensemble, Festival Youth Orchestra, the Boston Civic Symphony, and the Boston Philharmonic play many of their concerts at Jordan Hall. In 1973, The New England Ragtime Ensemble, then a student group called The New England Conservatory Ragtime Ensemble, recorded their Grammy Award-winning album \"The Red Back Book\" on the Jordan Hall stage.\n"}
{"id": "2113803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113803", "title": "Tomas Antonelius", "text": "Tomas Antonelius\n\nTomas Antonelius (born Tomas Gustafsson; 7 May 1973) is a Swedish former footballer, who became an economics student since his retirement. He began his career playing as \"Tomas Gustafsson\", before changing his name in 2001. The reason for this change was that \"Gustafsson\" is a very common name in Sweden and it caused a lot of confusion, he chose \"Antonelius\" as it was the married name of his older sister.\n\nA self-confessed AIK supporter, Antonelius played for Brommapojkarna, AIK, Coventry City in the Premier League and Copenhagen in Denmark. He also had a brief stint with Canadian side Winnipeg Fury, during a year in college in North America.\n\nWhilst at AIK, he played against Arsenal in the 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League. At the time, Arsenal were playing their home European games at Wembley Stadium, giving Antonelius a run out at the famous ground.\n\nIn December 1999, Antonelius joined Coventry City for an undisclosed fee, signing a three-and-a-half-year contract. He made his debut against Arsenal, coming on as a late substitute for Youssef Chippo, as Coventry won 3–2.\n\nIn February 2002, he joined Danish Superliga side Copenhagen. However, he suffered a serious knee injury, 1,5 years after joining the club and never played football again. He announced his retirement in September 2003, due to this failure to recover from the injury.\n\nHe was part of the Swedish squad at Euro 2000 and the 2002 World Cup.\n\nWinner:\n\nWinner:\n"}
{"id": "2113826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113826", "title": "Vils", "text": "Vils\n\nVils can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2113830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113830", "title": "Ebony White", "text": "Ebony White\n\nEbony White is a fictional character from the 1940s syndicated newspaper comics series \"The Spirit\", created by Will Eisner. He first appeared in the June 2, 1940 debut instalment of \"The Spirit\" and became one of the three major characters in the first nine years of \"The Spirit\"s twelve-year run, until being phased out in late 1949. He is a black sidekick to Denny Colt, the title character. His age is ambiguous: throughout most of his nine-year run he's portrayed as a resourceful young boy around twelve years of age, while at the beginning of the strip he is clearly an adult who drives a taxi. He frequently helps The Spirit out of tough situations.\n\nThe character is cited as an example of racial stereotyping in mainstream 20th century United States culture. His name is a racial pun and his short stature and exaggerated facial features - which include large white eyes and thick pinkish lips - are typical of the era's darkie interpretation of blacks. He is routinely depicted as being less than five feet tall and resembles a stereotypical pickaninny. As a loyal assistant to the hero, he has been compared by a few critics to the classic/infamous Uncle Tom stereotype. However, the storyline refers to the character as The Spirit's unofficial ward/work partner, with the two sharing a home life in their Wildwood Cemetery headquarters, located beneath Denny Colt's tombstone. Despite his exaggerated, caricatured appearance & speech patterns, Ebony is always treated with respect by his fellow cast-members and he develops beyond his comic-relief minstrel stereotype as the series progresses. Eisner later introduced other non-caricature African-American characters, such as the no-nonsense Detective Grey, who defied the media stereotypes of the day. Some of the later Ebony-era instalments show The Spirit and the Dolan family sponsoring Ebony's formal education (the closeness of their relationship is illustrated by the crimefighter reading letters from his protégé to the Commissioner and other friends).\n\nEisner reported receiving letters of both praise and criticism for the character at the time. In a 1966 \"New York Herald Tribune\" feature by his former office manager-turned-journalist, Marilyn Mercer, Mercer stated that \"Ebony never drew criticism from Negro groups (in fact, Eisner was commended by some for using him), perhaps because, although his speech pattern was early Minstrel Show, he himself derived from another literary tradition: he was a combination of Tom Sawyer and Penrod, with a touch of Horatio Alger hero, and color didn't really come into it\".\n\nEisner later expressed mixed feelings about his portrayal of Ebony White. He acknowledged that he was conscious at the time that he was using a racial stereotype but remained unapologetic about it, stating that \"at the time humor consisted in our society of bad English and physical difference in identity.\" In reference to his graphic novel \"Fagin the Jew\", Eisner acknowledged parallels between Charles Dickens' use of racial stereotyping for the Fagin character (which Eisner criticized) and Eisner's own portrayal of Ebony White but asserted that his own work had not \"capitalized on\" the stereotype.\n\nAppearances aside, Ebony was a well-heeled performer in The Spirit's efforts. Many are the occasions where Ebony disarms a villain and finds minutiae evidence The Spirit himself has overlooked. Although appearing to be about twelve years of age, Ebony is able to drive a car and occasionally works as a taxi driver; his occupation has given him an encyclopedic comprehension of Central City. In many stories, Ebony exhibited above average knowledge of science; for example, in one installment he constructed a Morse Code transmitter using a standard light bulb socket and an electric alarm. Ebony and The Spirit develop a son/father bond very early in the life of the strip and this is maintained through to Ebony's final appearance. The Spirit, Commissioner Dolan, Ellen Dolan and the Central City police force in general all hold Ebony noteworthy for his skill at field research and his instinctive understanding of human nature. Ellen and the police all consider Ebony as much their personal charge as he is The Spirit's, providing him with a loving family unit and appreciating his participation in crime-solving.\n\nEbony debuted (as a resourceful taxi-driver) in the first-ever Spirit Section, published Sunday June 2nd 1940 and distributed in the Sunday editions of Register and Tribune Syndicate newspapers. He became a mainstay of the strip and the principal member of The Spirit's supporting cast, alongside Commissioner Eustace P. Dolan, until Eisner phased him out of the narrative in late 1949 and replaced him with another assistant, the Caucasian and blond-haired but far-less-capable Sammy. Ebony's last \"starring\" role in a Spirit story (a semi-regular event where he was the focus of the story rather than The Spirit himself, usually with a comic twist) was \"Young Dr Ebony\" published on Sunday May 29th 1949. \nSammy first appeared in \"The Ballgame\" published on Sunday July 31st 1949 (as part of a six-episode story arc set in the South Seas, in which Ebony does not appear). Sammy returns to Central City with The Spirit (and is welcomed into the cast by Ebony, Commissioner Dolan and Ellen Dolan) in \"The Return\" published Sunday August 14th 1949. Ebony makes two wordless one-panel appearances over the next two weeks, in \"The Candidate\" published Sunday August 21st 1949 and \"White Cloud\" published August 28th 1949, before making his final appearance in five panels of \"Lurid Love\" (a humorous tale focused on Sammy's love life, similar in tone to earlier tales of Ebony's romantic exploits) published Sunday September 18th 1949. \nAfter this (apart from one final mention of his name in the text-based splash page of \"The Inner Voice\" published Sunday November 6th 1949) Eisner phased Ebony out of The Spirit Section altogether (without fanfare or explanation) and Sammy functioned as The Spirit's assistant for the strip's final three years, until The Spirit Section came to an end in October 1952.\n\nEbony is credited as the composer of the song \"Ev'ry Little Bug\" - which appeared regularly in the background of The Spirit Section between 1946 and 1950. The initial lines of the song were first uttered during the story \"Poole's Toadstool Facial Cream\" in June 9, 1946's Spirit Section and, by the end of 1946, all of the song's lyrics had appeared, sung by various characters in Central City. During 1947, Will Eisner collaborated with his WWII service buddy Bill Harr, who composed a melody for Eisner's lyrics. The completed song appeared in the April 27, 1947 Spirit Section, entitled \"Ev'ry Li'l Bug\" - a tale in which Ebony composes the song and the sheet music appears on the final page of the story. A couple of months later, in the June 29, 1947 section (entitled \"Wiffenpoof\"), Ebony persuades real-life operatic singer Robert Merrill to sing the tune. Shortly after this section appeared, \"Ev'ry Little Bug\" was published by the Robbins Music Corporation of New York as sheet music (with an image of Ebony on its cover page). After three more appearances in the strip, \"Ev'ry Little Bug\" remained dormant until 1987, when music producer John Christensen assembled a recording featuring five versions of the tune, released by Kitchen Sink as a picture disc with an exclusive Spirit/Ebony image illustrated by Eisner. The record featured Billy Mumy (of \"Lost In Space\" fame) playing guitar on some of the tracks. \nIn total, \"Ev'ry Little Bug\" featured in twelve Spirit Sections:\n\n\nIn DC Comics' Spirit comic-book series, which began in 2007, White is portrayed as a fourteen-year-old street kid, illegally driving a taxi. In an early appearance, the script alludes critically to his historic racist portrayal, with a character asking if he \"will be standing on The Spirit's lawn with a lantern\". He is portrayed as putting his street experience and his daring attitude to work at The Spirit's service. His origins are now tied to Colt's, with White being the cabbie who brought Colt to the place in which Colt apparently met his demise. Knowing of his death, a guilt-stricken White acknowledged that his previous prejudices against Colt, whom he had considered an amateurish detective afraid to sully his hands, were harsh, and that White could have helped him more. Colt, after awakening from his apparent death, then asked White for help. The youngster gladly accepted, keeping himself on call for his new friend. Commissioner Dolan later learns of White's illegal taxi setup but does nothing to stop him.\n\nThe character also appears in Brian Azzarello's neo-noir \"First Wave\" universe, once again as the sidekick of The Spirit. Here Ebony is portrayed as a teenage girl rather than a young boy.\n\nIn the 2015 series Ebony White's real first name is \"Aloysius\" and now a Private investigator working with a boy named \"Sammy Strunk\" (an update of Ebony's mid-1949 successor as the Spirit's partner) and his cousin Francis \"Bolder\" White.\n\nEbony appears as a character named \"Eubie\" in the 1987 \"Spirit\" TV movie, played by Bumper Robinson. Here, he is a young hustler who becomes The Spirit's sidekick following Denny Colt's awakening.\n\nThe character did not appear in the very-poorly-received December 2008 motion picture adaptation of Will Eisner's series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113836", "title": "Majesty Crush", "text": "Majesty Crush\n\nMajesty Crush was an American indie rock band which belonged to the shoegazing genre popularized in the UK in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Hailing from Detroit, Michigan, Majesty Crush formed in 1990 and broke up in 1995. The band's lineup consisted of lead singer David Stroughter (1966-2017), bassist Hobey Echlin, guitarist Michael Segal and drummer Odell Nails III.\n\nMajesty Crush served as the opening act at shows in the early 1990s for such bands as Jesus Jones, Mazzy Star, Royal Trux, and The Verve. The song \"No. 1 Fan\" picked up significant radio airplay on Windsor, Ontario's 89X, and led to Majesty Crush signing with Dali Records, a Warner/Elektra subsidiary. The label released \"Love 15\", the band's lone studio album, in 1993. \nAllMusic's Joshua Glazer described the album as \"a testament to what might have been, if only the band's four members lived in Manchester instead of Detroit.\" \nThe band's momentum came to an abrupt halt, however, when Dali folded within a month of the album's release. \nMajesty Crush returned a year later with the self-released \"Sans Muscles\" EP before breaking up in 1995. \nDavid Stroughter went on to form the band P.S. I Love You.\n\nIn 2009, Full Effect Records released the compilation album \"I Love You in Other Cities: The Best of Majesty Crush 1990–1995\". \"OC Weekly\"s Dave Segal remarked that the album \"offers 14 reasons why we should still care about this footnote in shoegaze-rock history.\" AllMusic's Heather Phares called it \"a good retrospective of a band that just may have been in the wrong place at the wrong time.\" Laura Witkowski of \"Metro Times\" said the album \"feels like the work of a superfan, one keen to share his excitement for a band deserving of more attention than it received.\"\n\nWhile incorporating the same lush, dreamy sound as other shoegazing acts of the time, it was the lyrics of Majesty Crush songs that set them apart from other artists of the genre. Stroughter's often strange and obsessive lyrics cover such subjects as stalking Jodie Foster (\"No. 1 Fan\"), torture (\"Boyfriend\"), heroin (\"Horse\"), a female cashier at an adult book store (\"Sunny Pie\"), actresses (\"Uma\"), tennis stars (\"Seles\") and Italian porn stars (\"Cicciolina\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2113837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113837", "title": "Muskegon Community College", "text": "Muskegon Community College\n\nMuskegon Community College (MCC) is a public community college in Muskegon, Michigan. The college offers 49 associate degree programs and 33 certificate programs. The college's main campus is located on a 111-acre campus in Muskegon, with extension centers in Ottawa and Newaygo counties.\n\nMCC was founded as Muskegon Junior College in 1926 and has been continually accredited by the Higher Learning Commission of North Central Association since 1929. The community college district was created via the Michigan Constitution of 1963 along with an elected Board of Trustees and the college moved to its current campus location, an Alden B. Dow designed facility that opened to the public in 1967. In 1995, the Stevenson Center for Higher Education opened; it comprised a consortium of Ferris State University, Grand Valley State University, and Western Michigan University, designed to increase access to educational opportunities for Muskegon residents. In 2010 the Outdoor Learning Lab, a focal point of green technology and center for MCC's new Alternative and Renewable Energy certificate program, opened. Several new or expanded buildings were constructed or commissioned from 2014.\n\nMuskegon Junior College was established by the Muskegon Board of Education in 1926 and was housed on the third floor of what was then the new Muskegon High School. It was a pioneering effort, since only four other two-year institutions existed in Michigan at the time.\n\nBy 1934, enrollment of both the College and the high school had grown beyond the capacity of a single building. The Junior College, therefore, moved into the former Hackley School in downtown Muskegon across from Hackley Park (now the Board of Education Building).\n\nIt was appropriate that the College should occupy the old Hackley building, which had been presented to the public schools of Muskegon by Charles Hackley after fire had destroyed the original Central School. The city's First Citizen believed that a community was obliged to offer its youth the kind of training which would enable them to earn a good livelihood and at the same time contribute to the well-being of the community.\n\nAt the time of its move into this facility and for 17 years after, Muskegon Junior College was primarily geared to those students intending to complete at least four years of college. Muskegon's reputation in this field of the \"college transfer\" program was an enviable one, and continues to be so today.\n\nThen in June 1951, after an enabling act by the Michigan Legislature, the name and educational scope of the College was changed. \"Muskegon Junior College\" became \"Muskegon Community College,\" thereby reflecting the expanded nature of the College's programs.\n\nThey were broadened to serve a larger number of students with a wider variety of interests. Courses were added in retailing, the vocations, the technical fields, public health, and the trades. These courses enabled young men and women to prepare themselves for a specific field of employment in two years of training beyond high school. There was no shrinking of the transfer program, only an expanded curriculum to serve a larger segment of the community.\n\nIn the post World War II years, enrollment climbed quickly and the Community College \"campus\" had to grow accordingly. The Muskegon Board of Education, which still operated the College, utilized available space in many of its buildings, and rented other community facilities when enrollment exceeded the capacities of those buildings.\n\nBy the early 1960s, enrollment had topped 2,000 and the College was operating full-time at Hackley, Vanderlaan, and Wilson schools and part-time at eight other locations. The time had come for another step in the development of the College.\n\nThe Board of Education formed a Special Citizens Committee to study the entire program and make recommendations. The Committee proposed that the College be separated from the public school system, that a county-wide community college district be created, that a board of trustees be elected to plan, build, and operate the school, and that millage be voted in sufficient amount and for enough years to build and operate the College.\n\nIn April 1963, the county overwhelmingly approved the recommendations of the committee and elected the first Board of Trustees. The elected board went to work immediately and by September of that year had purchased the campus on which the College exists today.\n\nAlden B. Dow and Associates was named architect and by the summer of 1965 drawings were completed and construction begun. The Vocational-Technical Wing was completed and occupied in the fall of 1966 and the following September the entire complex was placed in service. Formal dedication ceremonies were held October 22, 1967, with Dr. Ashley Montagu, one of the world's foremost anthropologists, delivering the dedicatory address.\n\nThe first addition to the new campus was the Frauenthal Foundation Fine Arts Center, completed in 1968 and named for the Muskegon industrialist whose gift had made the Center possible – A. Harold Frauenthal.\n\nWhen the new district was created, the name of the College was changed to Muskegon County Community College; but in the spring of 1969, at the request of the Board of Trustees, the State Board of Education approved changing the name once again to Muskegon Community College.\n\nJanuary 1995 brought the completion of the Stevenson Center for Higher Education on the campus of Muskegon Community College. The Center houses upper level courses and programs offered by Ferris State University, Grand Valley State University, Michigan State University, and Western Michigan University. These institutions, along with Muskegon Community College, have formed a \"consortium\" to coordinate offerings to meet the needs of West Michigan residents.\n\nThe facility is about one-third the size of the main building and was constructed to complement existing architecture. Attached to the main building near the Technical Wing, the James L. Stevenson Center for Higher Education contains communication technology with all of its 35 rooms connected via fiber optics for voice, video and data transmission. In addition to housing the educational programs of the consortium member institutions, the Center is also the new home for MCC's Media Center and Graphic Design program.\n\nNewly opened in January 2006, the Hendrik Meijer Library Information Technology Center offers students and the community communication capabilities, including wireless Internet access, library facilities/technologies and classrooms, and an Internet café. The facility has three levels overlooking the woods and creek, and offers special services including interlibrary loan, photocopy machines, group study rooms, a quiet reading room, a workstation for visually impaired persons, and both group and individual orientations.\n\nIn 2010 the Outdoor Learning Center, featuring a green roof, opened to the public. The Center contains many alternative energy demonstration technologies, serving as a laboratory for MCC students enrolled in a certificate program for Wind and Solar Alternative Energy technologies.\n\nBuilding upon its two decades of offering classes in Grand Haven, MCC opened its Ottawa County Center in 2012 inside the Grand Haven Community Center.\n\nIn 2012, MCC and the Muskegon Area Intermediate School District (MAISD) launched the Early College of Muskegon County offering select high school students an intense five-year program leading to both a high school diploma and an associate degree. The concept was expanded and MCC offered Early College of Newaygo County, North Ottawa County Early College and South Ottawa Early College.\n\nIn November 2013, Muskegon voters approved $24 million to support four MCC facilities expansion projects outlined as goals in the College's 2010-2015 Master Plan.\n\nIn September 2014, MCC signed a purchase agreement with The Herald Publishing Co. LLC and the owners of the former Muskegon Chronicle building, to buy the building and an adjacent parking lot for a downtown campus. In December 2017, the Peter and Carolyn I. Sturrus Technology Center opened as the new home to MCC's Applied Technology programs in CAD, Electronics/Automation, Engineering, Machining, Metal Casting, Materials, and Welding, as well as to MCC's Experiential Learning Program.\n\nIn June 2015, local developer Jonathan Rooks donated the 23,790 square-foot former Masonic Temple to MCC for its Entrepreneurial Studies program and related business-generating activities. Nick Sarnicola, a West Michigan native and highly successful entrepreneur, and his wife, Ashley, then created a $200,000 permanent endowment through their Next Gen Foundation to the Foundation for Muskegon Community College to support an annual $10,000 cash award for the best business idea generated by an MCC entrepreneurial program graduate. The Rooks-Sarnicola Entrepreneur Institute opened in June 2018 and also houses the Lakeshore Fab Lab.\n\nIn August 2015, MCC opened its $9.6 million Science Center, home to the MCC Life Sciences Department and the College's biology labs and research areas. In April 2016, the facility earned the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certification for its sustainable strategies used in its design and construction - one of only four buildings in Muskegon to have received this high honor.\n\nThe same year, MCC purchased the Muskegon Family YMCA's West Western Avenue property on Muskegon Lake for $1.17 million as part of the college's community-focused health and wellness initiative, which includes the construction of a new center on campus. The building opened in 2016 at the MCC Lakeshore Fitness Center.\n\nIn 2017, MCC was the top-ranked Michigan community college by BestColleges.com for its gainful employment, graduation rates, and earnings outcomes. MCC has earned acclaim as a national leader in student success, having been named an Achieving the Dream Leader College, as well as a Top 50 Best Value community college in the U.S. MCC ranked 27th among the 1,711 community and other two-year colleges in the nation evaluated for gainful employment and earnings outcomes.\n\nIn November 2018, the 52,000 square foot MCC Health and Wellness Center opened on the main campus. The facility houses the College's Health, Physical Education and Recreation Department; the Medical Assistant Program; the Athletic Department Office; a state-of-the-art Health Simulation Lab for MCC students in nursing, respiratory therapy, and medical assistant programs; learning spaces and classrooms; the Ron Gaffner Multipurpose Room; a regulation wood floor gymnasium; a one-tenth mile indoor running track; and a fitness center. The Mercy Health Partners Primary Care Center, a collaboration between MCC and its Mercy Health and Grand Valley State University educational partners, is also located there.\n\nIn Fall 2019, the new MCC Arts and Humanities Center is scheduled to open on the main campus\n\nThe campus is located on the northwest corner of Marquette Ave. and Quarterline Rd., near the boundary of Muskegon, Michigan and Muskegon Township, Michigan. It extends westward towards Harvey Street along U.S. Highway 31, where the Muskegon Area Career Technical Center is located. University Park Golf Course, the only community college-owned golf course in the State of Michigan, opened in 1968 and is located across from the main campus at the northeast corner of the intersection.\n\nThe Academic Complex was designed by Alden B. Dow. It features an enclosed court and two wings, with Four-Mile Creek flowing underneath.\n\nThe campus includes the Technology Building, the Hendrik Meijer Library & Information Technology Center (opened January 2006), the Bartels-Rode Gymnasium, the Frauenthal Foundation Fine Arts Center with the Overbrook Theater and Art Gallery, the Stevenson Center for Higher Education, the Science Center, the Health and Wellness Center, and an Art Building.\n\nThe main building has three levels: Level 1 is at ground level. Level 2 is below it. Level 3 is at the bottom.\n\nAs defined by the Michigan Legislature, the official service area of Muskegon Community College includes territory within the following school districts:\nThe Stevenson Center for Higher Education opened in 1995. Originally named the Muskegon Center for Higher Education, it was named in honor of James Stevenson, the College President who spearheaded its construction.\n\nThe top floor houses a television studio, a computer laboratory, a conference room, a lecture hall, media services, graphics technology. The middle floor houses conference rooms and classrooms, and the bottom floor houses classrooms.\n\nIn addition, the Center houses programs from the following universities.\n\nThe Career Technical Center houses K-12 vocational-technical programs in partnership with the Muskegon Area Intermediate School District. It opened in 2005.\n\nMuskegon Community College operates MCC-TV, a Public, educational, and government access (PEG) cable TV station, that markets educational, cultural and informative programs that advance the mission of the College. MCC TV can be viewed in Muskegon County and Newaygo County on Comcast Channels 98 and 902, and in Ottawa County, Oceana County, northern Muskegon County and northern Allegan County on Charter Channel 190.\n\nMCC Radio is an online radio station operated by the college.\n\nMuskegon Community College is home to the Carr-Fles Planetarium, which was completely renovated in 2012 and remains West Michigan's only free planetarium, and also owns an observatory at the Muskegon County Wastewater Treatment Facility.\n\nMuskegon Community College offers its students 17 intercollegiate sports, more than any other community college in the state of Michigan. The team nickname is \"Jayhawks\" and the school colors are Royal Blue and Gold. MCC competes in the following intercollegiate sports - Men's and Women's Basketball, Men's and Women's Soccer, Men's and Women's Cross Country, Men's and Women's Bowling, Men's and Women's Indoor Track, Men's and Women's Outdoor Track, Baseball, Softball, Women's Volleyball, Men's Golf and Wrestling. All indoor athletic events are held in the Bartels-Rode Gymnasium. Baseball and softball are played on the respective fields adjacent to the gymnasium.\n\nMCC competes in the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA) Region XII and the Michigan Community College Athletic Association (MCCAA).\n\nNational Championships:\n\nClub Sports National Championships:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113842", "title": "KV46", "text": "KV46\n\nTomb KV46 in the Valley of the Kings is the tomb of Yuya and his wife Tjuyu, the parents of Queen Tiye, the wife of Amenhotep III, and King Ay. It was discovered in February 1905 by James E. Quibell. Quibell was sponsored by Theodore M. Davis, who published an account of the excavation in 1907.\n\nKV 46 consists of a staircase leading down to a further descending corridor and a unique burial chamber. The walls of the tomb are not decorated and were probably never meant to be: the walls are unplastered and were not smoothed.\n\nUntil the discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb in 1922, this was the richest and best preserved tomb found in the valley, and the first to be found with major items \"in situ\" apart from the Tomb of Kha or TT8 which was rather the tomb of an Egyptian nobleman. Located in a small branch of the main valley between two later Ramesside tombs, KV46 contained the mostly intact sarcophagi of Yuya and Tjuyu. Differences in the embalming techniques used for Yuya and Tjuyu indicates that they died at different times and were placed in the tomb accordingly.\nKV46 was robbed in antiquity, most probably three times: a first time shortly after the closure of the tomb, and then twice during the construction of the adjacent tombs KV3 and KV4. During the first looting, only perishable products such as oil were removed. The second and third times however the looters took most of the jewellery but were not able to remove Yuya and Tjuyu's funerary masks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113844", "title": "Bill Gertz", "text": "Bill Gertz\n\nWilliam D. \"Bill\" Gertz (born March 28, 1952) is an American editor, columnist and reporter for \"The Washington Free Beacon\" and \"The Washington Times\". He is the author of six books and writes a weekly column on the Pentagon and national security issues called \"Inside the Ring\". During the administration of Bill Clinton, Gertz was known for his stories exposing government secrets.\n\nGertz was born on Long Island, New York. He is Jewish. He has attended Washington College and George Washington University. He has also written for \"National Review\", \"The Weekly Standard\" and \"Air Force Magazine\". He has lectured on defense, national security, and media issues at the Defense Department’s National Security Leadership Program, Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, the FBI National Academy, the National Defense University, and the CIA. He has been a media fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University. He lives in Maryland.\n\nIn 2008, Gertz was subpoenaed to the Santa Ana, California federal court to testify in the case of Chi Mak, who was convicted of providing United States Navy technology to China. Gertz refused to answer questions about his sources, citing the Fifth Amendment.\n\nDuring 1996 Gertz reported in the \"Washington Times\" on Chinese sales of nuclear technology to Pakistan. In 1997 he reported on Russian aid to Iran's nuclear weapon program, based on information given him by the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad. In 1998 he reported on United States sale of missile technology to China. In 2004, Gertz wrote that Syria, possibly with the aid of Russian troops, transferred Iraqi weapons of mass destruction stockpiles to its own military installations.\n\nGertz's 2000 book, \"The China Threat: How the People's Republic Targets America\", presented the case that China's military was more modern and powerful than was its reputation in the United States military and intelligence communities. His 2002 book, \"Breakdown: How America's Intelligence Failures Led to Sept. 11\", examined the activities of United States intelligence agencies prior to the 2001 terrorist attacks. His 2004 book, \"Treachery: How America’s Friends and Foes Are Secretly Arming Our Enemies\", accused United States allies, including France and Germany of helping to arm terrorists. His 2008 book, \"The Failure Factory: How Unelected Bureaucrats, Liberal Democrats, and Big Government Republicans Are Undermining America's Security and Leading Us to War\", said that many federal bureaucrats hold liberal views on foreign policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113848", "title": "Moosajee Bhamjee", "text": "Moosajee Bhamjee\n\nMoosajee Bhamjee (born 4 December 1947) is a former Irish Labour Party politician and psychiatrist. He was Ireland's first Muslim Teachta Dála (TD).\n\nBhamjee was born in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa in 1947. His father emigrated from India in 1906 and had set up a hardware shop there. He died in 1964 so it was decided that one of the sons would take over the shop while another would go for further education. Moosajee travelled to Dublin in 1965 where he studied medicine at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. His two other brothers also travelled to Dublin around the same time to study medicine. After he received his degree, Bhamjee returned to South Africa where he began working as a general practitioner. He returned to Ireland in 1975 and married a girl he first met when studying in Dublin. They moved to Galway and later to Cork where he trained as a psychiatrist. In 1984 Bhamjee started a permanent post at Our Lady's Hospital in Ennis less than 20 miles from his wife's home-place of Cooraclare.\n\nBhamjee joined the Labour Party in 1991 and was the party's candidate at the 1992 general election. Bhamjee became a TD for Clare, traditionally a Fianna Fáil stronghold. He was in fact the last candidate to become a member of the 27th Dáil. Bhamjee, due to his Indian heritage, was immediately nicknamed \"the Indian among the cowboys\". While the Labour Party formed a coalition government with Fianna Fáil, Bhamjee was a backbencher. He still worked as a consultant psychiatrist while he was a TD. He declined to stand again at the 1997 general election and retired from politics to continue his career in the health service.\n\nIn November 2011, Bhamjee spoke out against the views of Fine Gael politician Darren Scully, saying they represented the \"beginning of official racism\" in Ireland and describing comments by him as \"enlightenment\" for the \"small neo-Nazi following in this country\".\n\nIn December 2011, Bhamjee called for the addition of the drug Lithium to the Irish drinking water supply. Bhamjee stated that “there is growing scientific evidence that adding trace amounts of the drug lithium to a water supply can lower rates of suicide and depression”.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113849", "title": "Wilson Cycle", "text": "Wilson Cycle\n\nThe Wilson cycle is a model where a continental rift breaks up a continent, leading to the formation of an ocean basin between two lithospheric plates. The separation of the two plates is followed later by convergence that leads to the closure of the ocean basin, and eventually to the collision of the two continental blocks.\n\nIt has been suggested that Wilson cycles on Earth started about 3 Ga (3 billion years) ago in the Proterozoic Eon of Earth's history.\n\nThe model is named after its originator John Tuzo Wilson. The term \"Wilson cycle\" was introduced in 1974 by Kevin C. A. Burke, who was a colleague and friend of Wilson.\n\nA Wilson cycle is not the same as a supercontinent cycle, which is the break-up of one supercontinent and the development of another and takes place on a global scale.\n\nThe Wilson cycle rarely synchronizes with the timing of a supercontinent cycle. However, both supercontinent cycles and Wilson cycles were involved in the formation of Pangaea and of Rodinia.\n"}
{"id": "2113850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113850", "title": "Times Square (Hong Kong)", "text": "Times Square (Hong Kong)\n\nTimes Square () is a luxury shopping centre and office tower complex in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong. The complex, owned by Wharf Properties, part of The Wharf (Holdings) Limited group, opened in April 1994.\n\nThe site was previously occupied by the original Sharp Street tram depot of the Hong Kong Tramways, another of the Wharf's subsidiary operations acquired in 1974. The Executive Council approved Tramways' plan to relocate its depots to Sai Wan Ho and Sai Ying Pun in July 1986, on the argument that the HK$3.5 million in operating costs savings would allow for tram fares to be held down. Additionally the noise of maintenance and tram movements at night was said to have long been a nuisance to surrounding residential buildings.\n\nThe area was predominantly residential, and the Town Planning Board insisted that the project did not include any more residential space. In July 1987, Wharf unveiled draft plans to redevelop the site into of office and retail space. Following the relocation of Wanchai depot, the site was surrendered to its associate in 1988.\n\nIn 1991, the concrete plans were announced: the project would create 186,000 m of retail and office complex, an estimated construction cost of HK$ 2 billion.\n\nAt the time, this part of Wanchai/Causeway Bay was deemed \"not a very attractive part of town\". The developer's debt levels and the uncertainty over sovereignty also rendered project financing more problematic. Now it is considered prime property in the heart of Causeway Bay.\n\nThe project consists of 83,700 m of retail space, and two office towers with 102,300 m of accommodation.\n\nTimes Square is considered the first of its kind, the first \"vertical mall\" in Hong Kong. Due to the high land price in Hong Kong, and the higher yield on retail property, Times Square departs from the common western model of the flat shopping mall. The space allocated to retail is configured over 9 stories. The mall and lifts to the office tower are accessible by long escalators linking the ground floor podium and the first level of the mall.\n\nThe anchors of the mall are Lane Crawford, city'super, and UA Cine Times.\n\nIt is common practice for owners to allow naming buildings after its important tenants and giving illusion of ownership. The entire complex remains owned by Wharf, but western and eastern office towers of the complex have been named \"Shell Tower\" and \"Tower One\" respectively. Both towers were designed by the architect firm Wong & Ouyang.\n\n\nTenants of Tower Two:\n\nMirroring its namesake in New York City, the plaza in front of the building is one of two main gathering points, along with the harbour, for Western New Year celebrations in Hong Kong. In the hours leading up to 00:00 on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, the area is packed with revelers waiting for the midnight countdown, which is done by the \"lowering\" of lights on a wall. However, the celebration have been cancelled since 2014.\n\nUnder the terms of a Deeds of Dedication signed with the Government, of the ground floor was set aside for public access, pedestrian passage and passive recreation. However, the company has the right to organise exhibitions there, and charge fees. The exact details of the concessions to the developers were not made public.\n\nBetween July 2003 and March 2005, a corner of the piazza was leased to Starbucks Coffee. The company claimed it was an \"unintentional oversight\" that was quickly corrected after notification was received from the Buildings Department.\n\nIn 2008, controversy was again sparked following complaints that private security guards attempted to stop people lingering in the public area, and building management apologised for their \"over-zealous\" guards. Since then, there has been a wider campaign in Hong Kong to re-examine provisions for public open space, and the government \"quid pro quo\" with property developers.\n\nThe Secretary for Justice, filed a writ in the High Court on behalf of the Government against Times Square Ltd and its parent company Wharf Group, seeking to recover rental fees of as much as HK$124,000 a day for use of the Causeway Bay piazza dating back to 1993. Commentators describe it as a landmark lawsuit which may have significant implications for other property owners if it is successful.\n\nThe company believes that it has not charged more than what is allowed in the deed, but welcomed the case saying it would ultimately provide for guidance on the proper interpretation of the relevant clauses in the deed of dedication concerned.\n\nTimes Square is served by Causeway Bay Station of the Mass Transit Railway (MTR) system. There is an underground passage which directly links the building, and an exit, coined \"A1\" opens into the ground floor podium level.\n\nIt is also accessible by tram in the direction to Happy Valley or Shau Kei Wan. Lastly it is served by various bus and minibus routes.\n\nThe Times Square Marketplace Mall was featured in the 2003 film \"\" where a department store that is marked as 'closed for renovation' is secretly hiding a biological weapons production plant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113856", "title": "Orchard View Schools", "text": "Orchard View Schools\n\nOrchard View Schools is a school district in Muskegon Township, Michigan, south of the Muskegon River in Muskegon County, Michigan. It is a member of the Muskegon Area Intermediate School District.\n\n\nAs of fall 2007, Orchard View Community Education is housed in the former Orchard View Elementary building, now named Orchard View Community Education Center. Orchard View Elementary and Jolman Elementary merged at the old high school building.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113864", "title": "Hauteville-Lompnes", "text": "Hauteville-Lompnes\n\nHauteville-Lompnes is a former commune in the Ain department in eastern France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Plateau d'Hauteville.\n\nThe commune was formed in 1942 by the union of Hauteville and Lompnes. In 1964 it absorbed the neighbouring communes of Lacoux and Longecombe.\n\nThe Sanatorium Félix Mangini was established in 1899 by Frédéric Dumarest. It was dedicated to the care of tuberculosis patients.\n\nThe river Albarine flows southwestward through the commune's northern part.\n\nHauteville-Lompnes is famous for its deposits of marble which has been used in the construction of many monumental buildings, among them the Empire State Building in New York City and the Kōkyo Imperial Palace in Tokyo.\n\nA notable feature is the castle d'Angeville, a family possession of the family of that name since 1657. A scion of that family was Henriette d'Angeville, the second woman to climb Mont Blanc, for whom a street in Hauteville is named; her brother, the count d'Angeville, lived in the castle in the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nToday the town is more oriented towards tourism, with cross country and downhill skiing in the winter and range of summertime activities, including walking, hiking and fishing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113866", "title": "Talybont, Bangor", "text": "Talybont, Bangor\n\nTalybont (otherwise Tal-y-bont), is a small village to the southeast of the city of Bangor in Gwynedd, north Wales, in Llanllechid community.\n"}
{"id": "2113867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113867", "title": "Godfrey-Lee Public Schools", "text": "Godfrey-Lee Public Schools\n\nGodfrey-Lee Public Schools is a public school district located in the city of Wyoming, Michigan. The district's main high school is Lee High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113868", "title": "Rock Around the Clock (film)", "text": "Rock Around the Clock (film)\n\nRock Around the Clock is the title of a 1956 musical film that featured Bill Haley and His Comets along with Alan Freed, the Platters, Tony Martinez and His Band and Freddie Bell and His Bellboys. It was produced by B-movie king Sam Katzman (who would produce several Elvis Presley films in the 1960s) and directed by Fred F. Sears.\n\nThe film was shot over a short period of time in January 1956 and released in March 1956 to capitalize on Haley's success and the popularity of his multimillion-selling recording \"Rock Around the Clock\" that debuted in the 1955 teen flick \"Blackboard Jungle\", and is considered the first major rock and roll musical film. Haley's 1954 recording was previously played over the opening credits of \"Blackboard Jungle\" and the same recording was used for the opening of \"Rock Around the Clock\", marking a rare occasion where the same recording opened films released in such a short interval (the recording would be used once again to open the 1973 film \"American Graffiti\").\n\n\"Rock Around the Clock\" tells a highly fictionalized rendition of how rock and roll was discovered. As band manager Steve Hollis observes that big band dance music is failing to draw audiences any longer, he comes across a new sound that piques his interest. While traveling through a small farming town, he attends the local teenage dance and is introduced to rock and roll music and dancing, in the person of local band Bill Haley & His Comets and their associated dancers. Convinced that rock and roll will be the next big thing, Hollis strikes a deal to manage the group and also strikes up a romance with dancer Lisa Johns.\n\nHollis then turns to agent Corinne Talbot, who handles bookings for nearly all of the venues in which Hollis needs the band to play to gain them exposure. Talbot's primary interest in Hollis, however, is to have him marry her as she has been wooing him for some time, and she's determined to prevent him from succeeding without his working directly for her agency, and Lisa in any event. First, she books the band into a traditionally conservative venue, expecting them to reject the band's brash new sound. But instead, the teens and adults there are excited by the music and embrace it enthusiastically. Next, Talbot simply blacklists Hollis and his acts from the venues she controls. But Hollis maneuvers around her by calling in a favor owed to him by disc jockey Alan Freed. The resulting booking in Freed's venue grants the Comets the exposure they need in spite of Talbot's efforts.\n\nTalbot's final play is to agree to sign the group to a three-year contract that will secure their future, but only on the condition that Johns agree not to marry during the term of that contract. Johns agrees to those terms and Talbot launches their career with a national tour, confident that the contract's marriage prohibition will drive a wedge between Hollis and Johns. Once the contract is signed and the tour begins - climaxing in the Comets and other groups appearing on a coast-to-coast television broadcast - Hollis reveals that he and Johns married quickly during the time it took to draw up the contract. Talbot good-naturedly accepts defeat as they watch the TV broadcast end with Lisa and her dancing partner, her brother Jimmy, dancing as the Comets sing \"Rock Around the Clock\".\n\n\nFeaturing the musical talents of:\n\n\nNo soundtrack album was ever released for the film in North America, though some foreign compilation albums were released as a tie-in. The performance of \"Rudy's Rock\" is the only Haley song performed live on camera and while an off-air recording taken from the film would be released in Germany in the 1990s (as part of the Hydra Records Haley compilation album, \"On Screen\"), a proper studio-quality recording from the set has yet to be released. The band also performs live on camera during a brief rehearsal prior to lip-synching to the Decca recording of \"R-O-C-K\".\n\n\"Rock Around the Clock\" is heard three times in the film - once over the opening credits, again in a brief rendition of the opening verse during a montage, and again at the end where only the last verse is heard. \"See You Later Alligator\" was a brand-new recording, having been taped at Decca's Hollywood studio in December 1955, only a few weeks before filming began.\n\nA few months prior to shooting the film, the Comets had undergone a major change in personnel, with several members leaving the group. As a result, most of the songs lip-synched in the film actually feature a different line-up of musicians from those shown performing. The only songs on which all musicians shown on screen were also involved in the recording session are \"See You Later Alligator\", the rehearsal prior to \"R-O-C-K\" and the live-on-camera rendition of \"Rudy's Rock\". During the performances of \"Rock Around the Clock\", Franny Beecher is shown playing the guitar for Danny Cedrone, who had originally been on the recording session, and who had died 18 months earlier. Cedrone's guitar work can also be heard on \"ABC Boogie\", the opening bars of which are performed off-camera.\n\nReflecting Alan Freed's real-life concerts and radio broadcasts, film advanced the cause of integration by showing white musicians performing in the same venues as black and Hispanic performers. Not only that, but at the end of the film the all-black Platters vocal group briefly share the stage with the all-white Comets and Bellboys groups.\n\n\"Rock Around the Clock\" was one of the major box office successes of 1956, and soon many more rock and roll musical films (notably the big-budget \"A\" picture \"The Girl Can't Help It\") would be produced. Within a year, Elvis Presley (whose first film, 1956's \"Love Me Tender\", was a western, not a rock and roll film) would soon appear in the most popular films of the genre, including \"Jailhouse Rock\" and \"King Creole\". Other major films around this time included \"Rock, Rock, Rock\" and \"The Big Beat\".\n\nLater in 1956, Bill Haley and His Comets headlined a loose sequel, \"Don't Knock the Rock\", also directed by Sears and produced by Katzman and again featuring Alan Freed as himself. Rushed into production in order to capitalize on the success of \"Rock Around the Clock,\" the sequel failed to duplicate the earlier film's success, though it helped popularize one of its performers, Little Richard.\n\nIn 1961, Katzman produced the similarly titled, \"Twist Around the Clock\" starring Chubby Checker, which cribbed the script and followed the basic plot to \"Rock Around the Clock,\" and as such is often referred to as a remake of the Haley picture, just five years after the original. Like \"Rock Around the Clock,\" it was also followed up with a sequel, \"Don't Knock the Twist.\"\n\n\"Rock Around the Clock\" was never released officially on VHS or laserdisc in North America. On January 23, 2007, Sony Pictures (current owners of the Columbia catalog) released the first Region 1 DVD edition of the film alongside \"Don't Knock the Rock\". The film was not, however, released in its original aspect ratio, and was instead cropped for widescreen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113884", "title": "Mavulis Island", "text": "Mavulis Island\n\nMavulis Island is the northernmost of the Batanes Islands and the northernmost island in the Philippines. It is part of the province of Batanes. The island is uninhabited but it is guarded by the military. It is also frequently visited by local fishermen (mostly from Itbayat and Basco) for fishing adventures. \n\nThe island has a newly constructed military and fishermen shelter, a helipad, lighthouse, and a flagpole on the top of the hill in the island.\n\nOlder Batan natives also called the island Dimavulis or Dihami, meaning \"north\" in Ivatan. By some members of the Spanish colonial government it was called Diami, and it is known as Yami or Y'Ami on most American Colonial Era maps of the Philippines. The latter should not be confused with the aboriginal Yami of Taiwan that live on islands farther north beyond Philippine territorial limits, but are geographically, culturally and linguistically related to the Ivatan people. The island is also called Amianan, meaning \"north\" in Ilocano.\n\nThe island is part of the Luzon Volcanic Arc, and is located southeast of the southern tip of Taiwan's main island and 98 km to the nearest Taiwanese island, the \"Lesser Orchid Island\" . The distance to Luzon is . The island is 2.2 km long and up to a kilometer wide. The highest point, Y'Ami Hill, is high. The island is rocky on the coasts but covered in lush vegetation, including mangrove, vuyavuy palms and other native shrubs. Coconut crabs are found on the island in large numbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113897", "title": "Patricia Morison", "text": "Patricia Morison\n\nEileen Patricia Augusta Fraser Morison (March 19, 1915 – May 20, 2018) was an American stage, television and film actress of the Golden Age of Hollywood and mezzo-soprano singer. She made her feature film debut in 1939 after several years on the stage, and amongst her most renowned were \"The Fallen Sparrow\", \"Dressed to Kill\" opposite Basil Rathbone and the screen adaptation of \"The Song of Bernadette\". She was lauded as a beauty with large blue eyes and extremely long, dark hair. During this period of her career, she was often cast as the \"femme fatale\" or \"other woman\". It was only when she returned to the Broadway stage that she achieved her greatest success as the lead in the original production of Cole Porter's \"Kiss Me, Kate\" and subsequently in \"The King and I\".\n\nEileen Patricia Augusta Fraser Morison was born in Manhattan on March 19, 1915, although some sources have erroneously given her year of birth as 1914.\n\nHer father, William R. Morison, who billed himself under the stage name of Norman Rainey, was born in Belfast, and was a playwright and occasional actor, best known for his role as a servant in the Mervyn LeRoy production of \"Little Women\". Her mother, Selena Morison (née Fraser), worked for British Intelligence during World War I. After graduating from Washington Irving High School in New York, Morison studied at the Arts Students League while taking acting classes at the Neighborhood Playhouse. She also studied dance under Martha Graham. During this time she was employed as a dress shop designer at Russeks department store.\n\nMorison made her stage debut at the Provincetown Playhouse in the musical revue \"Don't Mind the Rain,\" in which she sang a song \"Simple Silly I.\" Her Broadway debut came in November 1933, with a short-lived play, \"Growing Pains\". After that, she proceeded to understudy Helen Hayes in the role of \"Victoria Regina.\" She understudied all the other women in the cast. When Hayes was sick, they merely closed the show until Hayes recovered and Morison never had the opportunity to play the lead role.\n\nIn 1935, four years before her official film debut, Morison made her first appearance on film in an automobile propaganda short, \"Wreckless\". In 1938, Morison appeared in the musical \"The Two Bouquets,\" which ran for only 55 performances. Among the other cast members was Alfred Drake, who, years later, would star opposite Morison in the Broadway hit \"Kiss Me, Kate\".\n\nWhile appearing in \"The Two Bouquets,\" Morison was noticed by talent scouts from Paramount Pictures, who — at the time — were looking for exotic, dark-haired glamorous types similar to Dorothy Lamour, one of their star commodities. Morison was subsequently signed to a contract with Paramount. She made her feature film debut in the \"B\" film \"Persons in Hiding\" (1939). Also in 1939, Paramount considered her for the role of Isobel in their adventure film \"Beau Geste\", starring Gary Cooper and Ray Milland, but the role instead went to Susan Hayward. The following year she appeared opposite Milland in the Technicolor romance \"Untamed,\" a remake of the Clara Bow vehicle, \"Man Trap\" (1926).\n\nDespite Morrison's promising beginnings, she was assigned to several second-tier pictures such as \"Rangers of Fortune\" (1940) and \"One Night in Lisbon\" (1941), both with Fred MacMurray, and \"The Round Up\" (1941) with Richard Dix and Preston Foster. On a loan-out to 20th Century-Fox she played one of her first villainess roles in \"Romance of the Rio Grande\" (1941), which starred Cesar Romero as the Cisco Kid. She left Paramount after a series of unrewarding roles, such as \"Night in New Orleans\" (1942), \"Beyond the Blue Horizon\" (1942), and \"Are Husbands Necessary?\" (1942). She was reportedly dropped from \"The Glass Key\" (1942) due to her towering over her co-star Alan Ladd.\n\nBy 1942, the United States had become involved in World War II and, as a result, Morison became one of many celebrities who entertained American troops and their allies. In November of that year she joined Al Jolson, Merle Oberon, Allen Jenkins, and Frank McHugh on a USO Tour in Great Britain.\n\nMorison returned to acting in the cinema as a freelance performer. One of her better roles — albeit a small supporting one — was that of Empress Eugénie in \"The Song of Bernadette\" (1943) starring Jennifer Jones. She appeared in \"The Fallen Sparrow\" (1943) with John Garfield and Maureen O'Hara, and \"Calling Dr. Death\" (1945), one of the \"Inner Sanctum\" films, starring Lon Chaney Jr.\n\nIn 1944, Morison briefly abandoned her film work and returned to the Broadway stage. In April, she opened at the Adelphi Theatre in the musical comedy, \"Allah Be Praised!\". The play, however, was unsuccessful and closed after a very brief run of only 20 performances.\n\nReturning to films once again, Morison continued to be cast in supporting roles, all too often as \"femme fatales\" or unsympathetic \"other women\", including the Spencer Tracy-Katharine Hepburn vehicle, \"Without Love\" (1945), and the Deanna Durbin comedy-mystery \"Lady on a Train\" (1945).\n\nShe played formidably villainous roles in the final installments of Universal's Sherlock Holmes series and MGM's The Thin Man series — respectively, \"Dressed to Kill\" (1946), and \"Song of the Thin Man\" (1947). She played the female antagonist in \"Tarzan and the Huntress\" (1947), the penultimate film starring Johnny Weissmuller as Edgar Rice Burroughs' title character.\n\nHer few leading roles during this time were in \"B\" pictures, notably as Maid Marian opposite Jon Hall's Robin Hood in the Cinecolor production \"The Prince of Thieves\" (1947) for Columbia, then did three films for Robert Lippert, the action film \"Queen of the Amazons\" (1947), with Richard Arlen in the sepia-toned western \"The Return of Wildfire\" (1948) and an espionage film shot in Mexico, \"Sofia\" (1948). She played the role of Victor Mature's despairing, suicide-driven wife in \"Kiss of Death\" (1947). Her role was cut from the final print, over censorship concerns and the producers' reputed belief that audiences at that time were not ready for a scene depicting suicide. Morison also starred in a 1948 espionage story, \"Sofia\".\n\nAfter a long absence from the screen, Morison portrayed George Sand in the 1960 Franz Liszt biopic, \"Song Without End\".\n\nIn 1948, Morison again abandoned her film career and returned to the stage, and achieved her greatest success. Cole Porter had heard her sing while in Hollywood and decided that she had the vocal expertise and feistiness to play the female lead in his new show, \"Kiss Me, Kate\". Morison went on to major Broadway stardom when she created the role of Lilli Vanessi, the imperious stage diva whose own volatile personality coincided with that of her onstage role (Kate from \"The Taming of the Shrew)\". \"Kiss Me, Kate\" featured such songs as \"I Hate Men,\" \"Wunderbar\", and \"So in Love\", reuniting Morison with her former Broadway co-star Alfred Drake. The play ran on Broadway from December 30, 1948 until July 28, 1951, for a total of 1,077 performances. Morison also played in the London production of \"Kiss Me, Kate,\" which ran for 400 performances.\n\nIn February 1954, Morison took over the role of Anna Leonowens in the Rodgers and Hammerstein production of \"The King and I,\" which co-starred Yul Brynner in his star-making role as the King of Siam. The musical premiered in 1951, originally with Gertrude Lawrence as Leonowens. Lawrence was subsequently replaced by Celeste Holm, Constance Carpenter, Annamary Dickey, and finally Morison, who appeared in \"The King and I\" until its Broadway closing on March 20, 1954, and then continued with the production on the national tour, which included a stop at the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera (from May 5, 1954). She played the role at the Municipal Theatre in St. Louis, Missouri; the production opened on June 11, 1959. \n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, Morison made several appearances on television, including several variety shows. Among these were a production of \"Rio Rita\" on \"Robert Montgomery Presents\" (1950) and a segment from \"The King and I\" on a 1955 broadcast of \"The Toast of the Town\" starring Ed Sullivan. Morison also appeared in \"\" broadcast March 28, 1954 on all four American TV networks of the time.\n\nMorison and Alfred Drake recreated their \"Kiss Me, Kate\" roles in a \"Hallmark Hall of Fame\" production of the play broadcast in color on November 20, 1958. She also appeared with Howard Keel in a production of \"Kate\" on British television in 1964. In 1971 she and Yul Brynner performed \"Shall We Dance\" from \"The King and I\" on a broadcast of the Tony Awards.\n\nAmong her non-musical television performances were a recurring role on the detective series \"The Cases of Eddie Drake\" (1952) co-starring Don Haggerty on the DuMont Television Network and a guest appearance with Vincent Price on \"Have Gun – Will Travel\" (1958) starring Richard Boone. Years later she appeared in the made-for-TV movie \"Mirrors\" (1985) and a guest role in 1989 on the popular sitcom \"Cheers\". She was also featured in the documentary \"If You're Not In the Obit, Eat Breakfast\", a television film which premiered in 2017.\n\nThroughout the 1960s and 1970s, Morison performed on stage numerous times — largely in stock and touring productions. These included both musical and dramatic plays, among them \"Milk and Honey, Kismet, The Merry Widow, Song of Norway, Do I Hear a Waltz?, Bell, Book and Candle, The Fourposter, Separate Tables,\" and \"Private Lives\".\n\nShe performed in still more productions of \"Kiss, Me Kate\" at the Seattle Opera House (opening in April 1965) and the New York City Center (opening May 12, 1965).\n\nIn August 1972, she appeared in a production of \"The Sound of Music\" at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion in Los Angeles.\n\nIn November 1978 she again played the leading role in \"Kiss Me, Kate\" at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre in England.\n\nMorison made only three film appearances after her stage triumph in \"Kiss Me, Kate.\" These were a cameo part as writer George Sand in the biopic \"Song Without End\" (1960), co-starring Dirk Bogarde as composer Franz Liszt, in which director George Cukor thought Morison's voice was too feminine so had it re-dubbed with a different actress, another cameo in the comedy film \"Won Ton Ton, the Dog Who Saved Hollywood\" (1976), and as herself in the documentary \"Broadway — The Golden Years\" (2003).\n\nIn July 1985, Morison traveled to New Zealand to star in the role of Alika in the Michael Edgley revival of Sir Robert Helpmann & her friend Eaton Magoon Jr's Hawaiian musical \"Aloha\" at His Majesty's Theatre, Auckland, directed by Joe Layton and musically directed by Derek Williams, who had also orchestrated and conducted the world première at Hamilton Founders Theatre in 1981.\n\nOn November 18, 1999, Morison attended the opening night performance of the successful \"Kiss Me, Kate\" Broadway revival, the first such revival in New York, starring Brian Stokes Mitchell and Marin Mazzie (in the role Morison originated in 1948). At the time of her death in May 2018, Morison was one of the very few living cast members, and the only surviving featured player from that original production.\n\nIn later years Morison devoted herself to painting — one of her early passions — and had several showings in and around Los Angeles. Never married and childless, she lived in the Park La Brea apartment complex in Los Angeles from 1961 onwards.\n\nIn December 2012, at age 97, she appeared on stage in an evening entitled \"Ladies of an Indeterminate Age\" at the Pantages Theatre in Los Angeles. Her co-stars included Charlotte Rae and Anne Jeffreys.\n\nIn March 2014, at age 99, she appeared onstage for \"Broadway Backwards\" 9, a benefit for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS and the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Community Center at the Al Hirschfeld Theater. She sang \"Brush Up Your Shakespeare\" from \"Kiss Me, Kate\".\n\nIn conjunction with her 100th birthday, the Pasadena Playhouse sponsored an evening with Patricia Morison on March 15, 2015, including an audience Q & A session and selections from \"Kiss Me, Kate\" performed by the guest of honor. Morison was also interviewed in the \"Los Angeles Times\" on March 7, 2015, and by namesake Patt Morrison on KPCC radio in Los Angeles.\n\nMorison died on May 20, 2018, at her home in West Hollywood. She was 103 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113900", "title": "Vils (Danube)", "text": "Vils (Danube)\n\nThe Vils is a river in Bavaria, Germany, it is a right tributary of the Danube.\n\nThe Vils is formed by the confluence of its two source rivers, the Kleine Vils and the Große Vils, in Gerzen. It is long ( including \"Große Vils\"). It flows east through a rural area with small towns, including Aham, Frontenhausen, Marklkofen, Reisbach, Eichendorf and Aldersbach. It flows into the Danube in Vilshofen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113918", "title": "Talybont, Barmouth", "text": "Talybont, Barmouth\n\nTalybont (otherwise Tal-y-Bont) is a village north of the town of Barmouth in mid Wales.\n\nTalybont benefits from a railway station on the Cambrian Line and has many caravan sites, a hair dresser, a pub called the 'Ysgethin Inn' and a restaurant.\n\nIt is also home to the annual Dyffryn and Talybont Fun day, held on the last Sunday in July.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113922", "title": "Kassel Airport", "text": "Kassel Airport\n\nKassel Airport (formerly \"Kassel-Calden Airport\", German \"Flughafen Kassel\") is a minor international airport serving the German city of Kassel in the state of Hesse. It is located west of Calden, northwest of Kassel and is mainly used for business and general aviation. There is also a flight school, an ultralight flying school, and a parachuting school based on site.\n\nBuilt on farmland, ASL lying NNE of the Hoher Dörnberg, the airport was opened on 11 July 1970. It has been operated as a public–private partnership since 1991.\n\nA completely new regional airport has been built next to the old airport to accommodate commercial chartered and scheduled carriers as well as the business and general aviation from the old airport. The new airport has officially opened on 4 April 2013 with the arrival of a Germania flight from Frankfurt Airport.\n\nThe new airport faced several struggles when opened. The most important customer at first was the travel agency branch of REWE Group, with charter flights to the Mediterranean region. Originally, these were planned to be operated by XL Airways Germany. Following the bankruptcy of that airline, Enter Air was contracted instead, but also pulled out on 20 March 2013. The flights to Tenerife operated by Germania where scheduled to end in October 2013 but already terminated on 22 August 2013 due to low demand. Additionally, the flights to Antalya offered by Tailwind Airlines were reduced in frequency and served less than once a week.\n\nGermania as the airports main user announced that their service to Palma de Mallorca would resume in the 2014 summer season. They also took over the flights to Antalya which had been offered by Tailwind Airlines during the 2013 summer season. While no airline or tour operator offered flights out of Kassel Airport during the 2013/14 winter season, Germania operated two flights per week to Palma de Mallorca and also two flights per week to Antalya in the following 2014 summer season. In the winter season 2014/2015 Germania operated flights to Antalya and Fuerteventura once a week. The airline also announced flights to Palma de Mallorca, Antalya, Heraklion and Hurghada for summer season 2015 and therefore increasing their presence at Kassel Airport.\n\nOn 15 March 2014 the airports' chief executive was fired with immediate effect. In January 2015, the airport was renamed \"Kassel Airport\".\n\nIn December 2015, Germania announced it would reduce flights to and from Kassel due to low demand, the route to Hurghada ceased entirely by 30 December 2015.\n\nIn May 2016, it has been reported that the airport's construction phase is under investigation for violating rules regarding competition and transparency during its procurement. In June 2016, criticism has been made public that there won't be any scheduled flights during the entire winter 2016/2017 schedule. The state government of Hesse will review the airport's financial prospect in 2017 and might vote for the airport to be shut down.\n\nIn September 2016, Germania announced that they will not return to the airport for the 2017 summer season leading to the cancellation of all three seasonal services to Antalya, Heraklion and Palma de Mallorca and leaving the airport with barely any scheduled flights. Shortly after, newly founded German leisure charter airline Sundair announced they would base an aircraft at Kassel Airport during the 2017 summer season serving up to 13 weekly flights to destinations around the Mediterranean. The finance minister of Hesse stated that this would be the airport's final chance to establish sustainable operations before being legally downgraded to an airfield due to a lack of consistent commercial services.\n\nIn May 2017, Amazon.com announced it would end its cargo flights from Kassel to Doncaster Sheffield Airport which led to the reduction of freight operations at the airport by half as Amazon was the largest customer. Amazon maintains a major logistics and delivery facility in nearby Bad Hersfeld.\n\nIn December 2017, the state government of Hesse announced not to downgrade the airport to an airfield as previously proposed due to an expected positive outlook regarding the negative financial and operational situation.\n\nKassel features one single small passenger terminal building with basic facilities such as car rental desks and some shops. As there are no jet bridges, buses and walk-boarding are in use.\n\nThe old airport used to have a single asphalt runway, 04/22 (040°/220°), which is . There was a parallel grass strip north of the main runway, which is . The new runway 09/27 has a length of and width of .\n\nThe airport features two aprons, one in front of the passenger terminal for two mid-sized aircraft such as the Airbus A320 family and a separate one for general aviation aircraft.\n\nThe following airlines operate regular scheduled and charter flights at Kassel Airport:\n\nThe nearest other minor international airport is Paderborn Lippstadt Airport approx. to the northwest.\n\nKassel Airport can be reached via the federal highway \"B7\" which is itself connected to motorway A7. The express-bus route 100 connects the airport with Kassel city center (journey time approx. 25 minutes) as well as Kassel-Wilhelmshöhe station (40 minutes), which is an important long-distance railway hub.\n\nDuring the 1970s the airfield was used for motor racing with several international series visiting including Interserie sports car championship. Events ran from 1972 to 1982 on a 2.6 kilometre circuit. Today a celebratory weekend of historic racing cars is held at the airport on aprons in August each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113926", "title": "They Don't Care About Us", "text": "They Don't Care About Us\n\n\"They Don't Care About Us\" is the fifth single from Michael Jackson's album \"\", released on June 16, 1995. It is a protest song and remains one of the most controversial pieces Jackson ever composed. In the US, media scrutiny surrounding allegations of antisemitic lyrics were the catalyst for Jackson issuing multiple apologies and re-recording the song with altered lyrics. The singer countered allegations of antisemitism, arguing that reviews had misinterpreted the context of the song, either unintentionally or deliberately.\n\n\"They Don't Care About Us\" was accompanied by two music videos directed by Spike Lee. The first was shot in two locations in Brazil, in Pelourinho, the historic city center of Salvador, and in a favela of Rio de Janeiro called Dona Marta, where the state authorities had tried to ban all production over fears the video would damage their image, the area and prospects of Rio de Janeiro staging the 2004 Olympics. Still, the residents of the area were happy to see the singer, hoping their problems would be made visible to a wider audience. The second video was shot in a prison and contained video footage of multiple references to human rights abuses.\n\nCommercially, \"They Don't Care About Us\" became a top ten hit in all European countries and number one in Czech Repbulic, Germany, Hungary and Italy. In the US, the song peaked at number 30 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\n\"They Don't Care About Us\" was performed during Jackson's third and final concert series, the HIStory World Tour which ran from 1996 to 1997 as part of a medley with \"Scream\" and \"In the Closet\". The song was set to be performed on Jackson's This Is It comeback concert series at The O2 Arena in London from July 2009 to March 2010 but the shows were cancelled due to his sudden death on June 25, 2009. \"They Don't Care About Us\" was remixed with parts of songs such as \"Privacy\" (from the album \"Invincible\") and \"Tabloid Junkie\", and released on the \"Immortal\" album, in November 2011.\n\nThe song begins with a group of children singing the chorus, \"All I wanna say is that they don't really care about us\". In between the chorus lines, one child chants, \"Don't worry what people say, we know the truth.\" after which another child says, \"Enough is enough of this garbage!\" It is played in the key of D minor and the track's time signature is common time. The song, which is cited as being a pop song, has a moderately slow tempo of 90 beats per minute. Instruments used include synthesizers, percussion and guitar. Jon Pareles stated that Jackson was calling himself \"a victim of police brutality\" and a \"victim of hate\". He continued, \"A listener might wonder just who 'Us' is supposed to be ... To make the songs lodge in the ear, Jackson uses elementary singsong melodies – a 'nyah, nyah' two-note motif in 'They Don't Care About Us' ... and he comes up with all kinds of surprises in the arrangements\".\n\nJames Hunter of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine noted that musically, Jackson was no longer trying to hide any eccentricities he had, he expressed the opinion that in \"They Don't Care About Us\", the pop musician sounded more embattled than ever. Jim Farber of \"New York Daily News\" said that Jackson \"snarled\" while singing, that the song \"clicked\" and has an \"original clattering rhythm\". The review of \"HIStory\" in \"The Washington Times\" noted of \"They Don't Care About Us\": \"[it] follows fast, inviting more pathos – and more controversy. With haunting clapping and a police scanner in the background\". \"The Sacramento Bee\" described it as a \"looped reggae-lite dance beat\". \n\nThe song gained renewed attention and relevance due to its use during Black Lives Matter protests in 2014 and 2015.\n\nIn the UK, it peaked at number four and stayed on the chart for three months. The song found particular success in Europe, peaking within the top ten in all countries, except in Spain, where peaked at number 11, and remained in the chart for just one week. European highlights came in Austria, Switzerland, France, Belgium and Sweden, in these countries the song became a top five hit and stayed in their respective charts for a minimum of 21 weeks. The song reached the top of the charts for three weeks in Germany and stayed a full 30 weeks in the survey. It is the longest consecutive chart run of a Michael Jackson song in the German charts.\nThe lyrical controversy surrounding \"They Don't Care About Us\" brought partial commercial disappointment in the US. It peaked at number 30 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, falling short of the record breaking success of the two previous singles \"Scream/Childhood\" and \"You Are Not Alone\", yet the song peaked at number 10 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot R&B Singles chart.\n\nProducing the first video proved to be a difficult task for Jackson. State authorities unsuccessfully tried to ban the singer filming in Salvador (Pelourinho) and in Rio de Janeiro. Officials in the state of Rio feared images of poverty might affect tourism and accused Jackson of exploiting the poor. Ronaldo Cezar Coelho, the state secretary for Industry, Commerce and Tourism demanded editing rights over the finished product, stating, \"I don't see why we should have to facilitate films that will contribute nothing to all our efforts to rehabilitate Rio's image\". Some were concerned that scenes of poverty and human rights abuses would affect their chances of hosting the Olympics in 2004. Others supported Jackson's wish to highlight the problems of the region, arguing that the government were embarrassed by their own failings.\n\nA judge banned all filming but this ruling was overturned by an injunction. Although officials were angry, the residents were not and Jackson was surrounded by crowds of enthusiastic onlookers during filming. One woman managed to push through security to hug Jackson who continued dancing while hugging her. Another woman appeared and hugged him from behind. He then fell to the ground as police pulled the two women off him and escorted them away. After the director helped Jackson get up off the street, he continued to sing and dance. This incident made it into the music video. 1,500 policemen and 50 residents acting as security guards effectively sealed off the Dona Marta favela. Some residents and officials found it offensive that Jackson's production team had negotiated with drug dealers in order to gain permission to film in one of the city's shantytowns.\n\nThe music video was directed by Spike Lee. Asked why he chose Lee to direct the video, Jackson responded, \"'They Don't Care About Us' has an edge, and Spike Lee had approached me. It's a public awareness song and that's what he is all about. It's a protest kind of song ... and I think he was perfect for it\".\n\nJackson also collaborated with 200 members of the cultural group Olodum, who \"swayed to the heavy beat of Salvador's 'samba-reggae' music\". The media interest surrounding the music video exposed Olodum to 140 countries around the world. It brought them worldwide fame and increased their credibility in Brazil. At the beginning of the video, a Brazilian woman says \"Michael, eles não ligam pra gente\" which means \"Michael, they don't care about us\".\nSpeaking of the music video, in \"The New Brazilian Cinema\", Lúcia Nagib observed:\n\nIn 2009, \"Billboard\" described the area as \"now a model for social development\" and claimed that Jackson's influence was partially responsible for this improvement.\n\nFor the first time in his career, Jackson made a second music video for a single. This second version was filmed in a prison with cell mates; in the video Jackson is seen handcuffed. It also contains real footage of police attacking African Americans, the military crackdown of the protest in the Tiananmen Square, the Ku Klux Klan, war crimes, genocide, execution, martial law, and other human rights abuses. This version is rarely to never played on television and has less than a tenth of the views of the Rio video on YouTube.\n\nThe first music video of the song appears on the box set \"\", and the video albums \"HIStory on Film, Volume II\" and \"Vision\"; the latter additionally includes the prison version.\n\nThe voice intro, \"Michael, Michael, eles não ligam pra gente\" (Portuguese for \"they don't care about us\"), was recorded by Angélica Vieira, producer of Manhattan Connection.\n\n\"They Don't Care About Us\" was only performed as part of the opening medley for the HIStory World Tour, along with \"Scream\" and \"In the Closet\". The segment for \"They Don't Care About Us\" began with a short, military-style dance sequence and contained an excerpt of \"HIStory\". A short unedited video clip released after Jackson's death of the June 23, 2009 rehearsal for the This Is It concert series shows Jackson performing the song as the main song in a medley with parts of \"HIStory\" song as well as \"Why You Wanna Trip On Me\" and \"She Drives Me Wild\" from \"Dangerous\". The song was later remixed and featured as part of Cirque du Soleil's .\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported the song contained racist and anti-Semitic content on June 15, 1995, a day before the album's release. The publication highlighted the lyrics, \"Jew me, sue me, everybody do me/ Kick me, kike me, don't you black or white me.\" Jackson responded directly to the publication, stating:\n\nWhen questioned further about the lyrics on the ABC News program \"Prime Time Live\", Jackson stated, \"It's not anti-Semitic because I'm not a racist person ... I could never be a racist. I love all races.\" The singer also said that some of his closest employees and friends were Jewish. That same day, Jackson received support from his manager and record label, who described the lyrics as \"brilliant\", that they were about opposition to prejudice and taken out of context. The following day, two leading members of the Jewish community stated that Jackson's attempt to make a song critical of discrimination had backfired. They expressed the opinion that the lyrics used were unsuitable for a teenage audience that might not understand the song's context, adding that the song was too ambiguous for some listeners to understand. They accepted that Jackson meant well and suggested that the entertainer write an explanation in the album booklet.\n\nOn June 17, Jackson issued another public apology for his choice of words. He promised that future copies of the album would include an apology. By this point, however, two million copies of the record had already been shipped. The singer concluded, \"I just want you all to know how strongly I am committed to tolerance, peace and love, and I apologize to anyone who might have been hurt.\" The next day, in his review of \"HIStory\", Jon Pareles of \"The New York Times\" alleged, \"In ... 'They Don't Care About Us', he gives the lie to his entire catalogue of brotherhood anthems with a burst of anti-Semitism.\"\n\nOn June 21, Patrick Macdonald of \"The Seattle Times\" criticized Jackson, stating, \"He may have lived a sheltered life, but there really is no excuse for using terms like 'Jew me' and 'kike' in a pop song, unless you make it clear you are denouncing such terms, and do so in an artful way.\" Two days later, Jackson decided, despite the cost incurred, he would return to the studio and alter the offending wording on future copies of the album; \"Jew me\" and \"Kike me\" would be substituted with \"do me\" and \"strike me\". The music video and some copies of the album still carry the original words, but with loud, abstract noises partially drowning them out. He reiterated his acceptance that the song was offensive to some. Spike Lee commented \"While \"The New York Times\" asserted the use of racial slurs in 'They Don't Care About Us', they were silent on other racial slurs in the album. The Notorious B.I.G. says \"nigga\" on \"This Time Around,\" another song on the \"HIStory\" album, but it did not attract media attention, as well as, many years before, use in lyrics of word \"nigger\" by John Lennon.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113927", "title": "Blacktown Hospital", "text": "Blacktown Hospital\n\nBlacktown Hospital is an acute care hospital in Blacktown, New South Wales, Australia, about 34 kilometres from the Sydney CBD. Together with Mount Druitt Hospital and associated community health centres, it is a part of the Western Sydney Local Health District (WSLHD).\n\nBlacktown Hospital provides a wide range of health services including:\n\n\nIt operates a 24-hour emergency department and a full Intensive Care Unit and CCU. It also has 24-hour medical imaging and pathology services on site.\n\nThe hospital is a teaching hospital of the Western Sydney University's Blacktown-Mount Druitt Clinical School and University of Sydney's Western Clinical School. \n\nThe Hospital also includes Bungarribee House, a psychiatric unit that, along with Cumberland Hospital provides mental health services to western Sydney. The hospital's sub-acute mental health care facility, called the Melaleuca Unit, opened in 2014.\n\nIn September 1956, a public meeting was held to discuss the need for a hospital in the town. Following petitions to the State Health Department for a facility, tenders were called for the £1.5 million hospital in July 1961. The foundation stone was laid on 19 May 1963. \n\nThe original Blacktown District Hospital building was completed in January 1965 and \"commenced rendering its service to the public on the 28th April, 1965\". It was officially opened on 28 April 1965 by then NSW Health Minister Billy Sheahan. This building has since been demolished, but was located on the site of the current Building C (Clinical Services Building, 2016). \n\nThe original district hospital building was considered unique for its innovative design which included \"Spanish style courtyards\", high tech catering equipment and the only \"single-storey, double corridor hospital in the world\". It had a capacity of 152 beds.\n\nNurses were given strict dress code instructions before the opening, including no eye make-up and wearing a distinct shade of lipstick. Matron Erella Macaulay was made the first director of nursing after opening the first nursing school in Blacktown in 1964. In its first year, nurses helped deliver 500 babies.\n\nThe first executive officers included J.G.S Moffat (first Chairman of the Board of Directors), Anthony P. Suleau (first Chief Executive Officer), and Erella F. Macaulay (Matron).\n\nA modern kiosk, medical superintendent's quarters and resident medical officers' quarters were added in 1965.\n\nA Volunteer Service was established in 1969 following a meeting of the Hospital Auxiliary. Volunteer roles originally included cleaning thermometers, filing patient records, cleaning slides in Pathology, rolling bandages, collecting X-rays, counting tablets in Pharmacy, feeding patients, feeding babies for adoption, writing letters for patients, folding nappies, attending to flowers, and washing patients' hair. \n\nA four-bed cardiac care unit opened in 1971. \n\nA new Maternity Wing opened in 1976. This building is currently the Regional Dialysis Centre/Admin Building.\n\nThe first purpose-built birthing centre in NSW opened at the hospital in 1991 for low-risk mums-to-be with three birth rooms, all with en-suite. Beds had \"pretty bedspreads\", vertical drapes and plenty of light, and were designed to feel like a bedroom at home. Mothers-to-be were encouraged to wear their own nightgowns and use their own baby clothes, and partners and families were welcome. The first baby born in the unit was a baby boy weighing 4.22 kilos, to mother Marilyn Lentern and husband Paul. Sisters Sarah, Miriam and Bethany waited in the new lounge with their grandparents until they were beckoned in to the room to see their new brother. The Lenterns were presented with a basket of flowers, a photograph album and a bottle of champagne to celebrate the first birth in the centre. \n\nA new hospital building was completed in 1999 to meet growing healthcare demand. It was designed by McConel Smith & Johnson. This building currently houses the hospital's emergency department, some wards, clinics and operating theatres.\n\nIn 2012, the NSW Government announced Blacktown & Mount Druitt Hospitals Expansion Project Stage 1. \nIn the first stage of expansion, Blacktown Hospital projects included facilities for sub-acute mental health, more parking, infrastructure and service enhancements and a new clinical services building for cancer, cardiac, respiratory and aged care, with an extensive art and culture program. Stage 1 concluded with the opening of the new clinical services building in April 2016. The building was officially opened by the then Premier of NSW Mike Baird and then Minister for Health Jillian Skinner on Tuesday 17 May 2016. \n\nTo date the project has won 14 awards for design, consultation, arts and culture, and innovation including three International Academy for Design & Health World Congress Academy Awards for Best International Hospital Project under 40,000 square metres, Best Interior Design and its arts projects. \n\nStage 2 of the project is currently underway to deliver a new acute services building, car park expansion and further refurbishment. \n\nThe car park extension was officially opened by the Premier of NSW the Hon Gladys Berejiklian MP on 8 February 2018. The car park was the first hospital car park in NSW with a red/green light parking guidance system. \nConstruction of the acute services building commenced in 2017 and will be completed in 2019. The new acute services building will include facilities for emergency, operating theatres, intensive care, maternity, birthing, newborn health, and paediatrics. Further refurbishment of the existing 1999 hospital building will be completed in 2020 to provide expanded ambulatory care and other services.\n"}
{"id": "2113935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113935", "title": "Kick (disambiguation)", "text": "Kick (disambiguation)\n\nA kick is an attack using a foot, knee or leg.\n\nKick, Kicking, Kicks, or The Kick may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113941", "title": "Small skipper", "text": "Small skipper\n\nThe small skipper (\"Thymelicus sylvestris\") is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae.\n\nIt has a rusty orange colour to the wings, upper body and the tips of the antennae. The body is silvery white below and it has a wingspan of 25–30 mm. This butterfly is very similar in appearance to the Essex skipper (\"Thymelicus lineola\"). In the small skipper, the undersides of the tips of the antennae are yellow orange, whereas they are black in the Essex skipper. The black area on the lower edge of the upper wings also differs. Like the other orange grass skippers the male has a distinctive black stripe made up of scent scales.\n\nThis butterfly's range includes much of Europe (east to the Urals, including Ireland, Britain and Scandinavia), north Africa and the Middle East. It is typically occurring where grass has grown tall.\n\nEggs are laid loosely inside grass sheaths of the caterpillars food plants from July to August. The newly hatched caterpillars eat their own eggshell before entering hibernation individually in a protective cocoon of a grass sheath sealed with silk. In the spring the caterpillar begins feeding. The favoured food plant is Yorkshire fog (\"Holcus lanatus\"), although other recorded food plants include timothy (\"Phleum pratense\"), creeping soft grass (\"Holcus mollis\"), false brome (\"Brachypodium sylvaticum\"), meadow foxtail (\"Alopecurus pratensis\") and cock's foot (\"Dactylis glomerata\"). The caterpillars pupate near the base of the food plant in June with the first adults on the wing at the end of June, a week or two before the first Essex skippers. They are strongly attracted to purple flowers such as thistles and knapweeds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113942", "title": "Aryeh Krishek", "text": "Aryeh Krishek\n\nAryeh Krishek (, born 29 September 1952 ) is an Israeli novelist and biographer also active in film and journalism. He is the author of \"Burial in Jerusalem\", \"In a Straight Line\" and \"No Casualties to our Forces\".\nAryeh Krishek was born in Holon. He lives in Katzrin in the Golan Heights. He\nwas sentenced to five months of public service due to his role in the Nimrodi affair in 1994–2004 involving the rivalry between two Israeli newspapers \"Yedioth Ahronoth\" and \"Maariv\"\n\nKrishek was the co-founder and director, with composer Alexander Kagan, of the Israeli Chamber Opera. In 1975, he wrote the script for the political film \"The Honey Connection\".\n\nKrishek translated Nathanael West's classic novel \"The Day of the Locust\" and Irwin Shaw's \"Nightwork\" into Hebrew.\n\nIn 2009, he published \"The Neverending Horse\". His biography \"The Wonderful World of Gabby Eshkar\"was published in 2010. In early 2012, he published \"Take a Burning Match\", a novel on the possibility of a civil revolt in Israel. In 2014, his play \"Falling live\" was performed by Alex Ansky. In 2017 he published \"Follow the Wind.\" in spring 2018 krishek bought a house in katzrin and moved to live in the golan heights. at 2020 he married his companion zipi lavi'a member of kibbutz bet-zerra.\n"}
{"id": "2113962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113962", "title": "The Vault of Horror (comics)", "text": "The Vault of Horror (comics)\n\nThe Vault of Horror was an American bi-monthly horror comic anthology series published by EC Comics in the early 1950s. Along with \"Tales from the Crypt\" and \"The Haunt of Fear\", it formed a trifecta of popular EC horror anthologies. \"The Vault of Horror\" hit newsstands with its April/May 1950 issue and ceased publication with its December/January 1955 issue, producing a total of 29 issues.\n\nHorror comics emerged as a distinct comic book genre after World War II when young adult males lost interest in caped crimebusters and returning GIs wanted more potent themes in their reading. One-shot \"Eerie\" (1947) is generally considered the first true horror comic with its cover depicting a dagger-wielding, red-eyed ghoul threatening a rope-bound, scantily clad, voluptuous young woman beneath a full moon. In 1948, \"Adventures Into the Unknown\" became the first regularly published horror title, enjoying a nearly two decade lifespan. \nIn 1950, William Gaines and his editor Al Feldstein discovered they shared similar tastes in horror and began experimenting with such stories in EC's crime comic \"War Against Crime\" and its companion title, \"Crime Patrol\". With issue #12 the \"War Against Crime\" title was replaced with \"The Vault of Horror\". The Vault-Keeper became the title's sardonic host and commentator, occasionally sharing duties with the Old Witch and the Crypt-Keeper. Due to an attempt to save money on second-class postage permits, characteristic of comics publishing of the era, the numbering did not change with the title; the first issue of \"The Vault of Horror\" was thus labelled \"No. 12\". There is, however, evidence of an intention to reset the series' numbering with the fourth issue (#15), as was done with \"The Haunt of Fear\" (the numbering of which was reset, yet also \"continued\" by \"Two-Fisted Tales\": a few copies survive of the first issue of \"Crime SuspenStories\" with a different indicia on the inside front cover. As the Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide explains: \"\"#15 (formerly \"The Vault of Horror\")\" printed and blackened out on inside front cover with \"Vol.1, No.1\" printed over it. Evidently, several of No.15 were printed before a decision was made not to drop the \"Vault of Horror\" and \"Haunt of Fear\" series. The print run was stopped on No.15 and continued on No.1. All of the No.15 issues were changed as described above.\"\"\n\nLike its horror companion titles, \"Tales from the Crypt\" and \"The Haunt of Fear\", \"The Vault of Horror\" had its own distinctive qualities and atmosphere—in this case, created by its main artist, Johnny Craig. Craig illustrated all the covers for the entire run and was responsible for the lead story of all but issues #13 and #33. He also wrote all his own stories (save two) in \"Vault\", something rarely done at EC, and became editor with issue #35 (February, 1954). Gaines and Feldstein wrote almost every other story until late 1953/early 1954 when outside writers Carl Wessler and Jack Oleck were brought in. Other contributing artists to \"The Vault of Horror\" were Feldstein, George Evans, Jack Kamen, Wally Wood, Graham Ingels, Harvey Kurtzman, Jack Davis, Sid Check, Al Williamson, Joe Orlando, Reed Crandall, Bernard Krigstein, Harry Harrison and Howard Larsen.\n\nAs with the other EC comics edited by Feldstein, the stories in this comic were primarily based on Gaines reading a large number of horror stories and using them to develop \"springboards\" from which he and Feldstein could launch new stories. Specific story influences that have been identified include the following:\n\n\nAfter their unauthorized adaptation of one of Ray Bradbury's stories in another magazine, Bradbury contacted EC about their plagiarism of his work. They reached an agreement for EC to do authorized versions of Bradbury's short fiction. These official adaptations include:\n\n\nAlthough EC's horror stable consisted of three separate magazines, there was little beyond their titles to distinguish them. Each magazine had its titular host, but the hosting duties for any one issue were typically shared with the hosts of the other two. Thus, a single issue of \"The Vault of Horror\" would contain two stories told by the Vault-Keeper, one by the Crypt-Keeper (of \"Tales from the Crypt\") and one by the Old Witch (of \"The Haunt of Fear\"). The professional rivalry between these three GhoulLunatics was often played for comic effect.\n\nThe Vault-Keeper was the primary host of \"The Vault of Horror\". He was introduced to the public in \"War against Crime\" #10, and he continued in that magazine through its change in title and format. He was a frightening presence in those early issues, an ancient inquisitor, hooded and robed, presiding over the empty dungeon of his bloody past. But he soon evolved into a more comedic horror host, delivering an irreverent and pun-filled commentary to lighten the horrific tone of the stories he introduced.\n\nAlthough The Vault-Keeper was originally designed by Feldstein, Craig is the artist most associated with the character, having drawn all his lead stories in \"The Vault of Horror\" with the exception of two. Craig also drew the Vault-Keeper in his guest appearances in the other comics, although another artist frequently drew the rest of the story. For the final four issues of \"The Vault of Horror\", The Vault-Keeper was joined by Drusilla, a beautiful but silent co-host in the Vampira mode.\n\nIn 1954, Gaines and Feldstein intended to add a fourth book to their horror publications by reactivating an earlier title, \"The Crypt of Terror\". They were stopped dead in their tracks, however. American horror and other violent comics had come under scrutiny by moralizing parents, schoolteachers, clergymen, psychologists, and others who viewed the material as dangerous to the well-being of children and a significant contributor to the juvenile delinquency crisis in America (although the formulaic nature of the books usually resulted in truly immoral characters receiving a well-deserved, if gruesome, comeupance.) Matters came to a head in April and June 1954 with a highly publicized Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency. Hearings targeted violent comic books—which fared poorly in the proceedings. While the committee stopped short of blaming the comics industry for juvenile delinquency, they did suggest it tone down the product. Publishers were left reeling.\n\nThe industry avoided outside censorship by creating the self-regulatory Comics Magazine Association of America (CMAA) and a Comics Code Authority (CCA) that placed severe restrictions on violent comic book genres. Publishers were forbidden from using the words \"terror\" and \"horror\" in titles, for example, and forbidden from depicting zombies, werewolves and other gruesome characters and outré horror fiction trappings. Gaines was fed up; he believed his titles were being specifically targeted and realized they were doomed to future failure. He cancelled \"The Vault of Horror\" and its companion titles in September 1954. The last issue of \"Vault\" was its 29th (cover label #40, December/January 1955). Since an issue of \"The Crypt of Terror\" had already been produced, it was published as the 27th and final issue of \"Tales from the Crypt\" (#46, February/March, 1955).\n\n\"The Vault of Horror\" has been reprinted on numerous occasions. Ballantine Books reprinted selected \"Vault\" stories in a series of paperback EC anthologies in 1964–66. Other \"Vault\" stories were reprinted in \"Horror Comics of the 1950s\" by Nostalgia Press (1971), edited by Bhob Stewart and Ron Barlow. Publisher Russ Cochran released six issues of his \"EC Portfolio\" (1971–77). East Coast Comix reprinted issue #26 in the early 1970s. The magazine was fully collected in a series of five black-and-white hardbacks by Cochran as part of \"The Complete EC Library\" in the early 1980s. Cochran also reprinted the title in a standard comic book format (out of sequence) during the early 1990s in association with Gladstone Publishing. Cochran eventually reprinted the run in proper sequence during the later 1990s with Gemstone Publishing. This complete run was later rebound, with covers included, in a series of six softcover \"EC Annuals\". In 2007, Cochran and Gemstone began to publish hardcover, re-colored volumes of \"The Vault of Horror\" as part of the \"EC Archives\" series. One volume (of a projected five) was published by Gemstone before their financial troubles left the project in limbo. A second volume was published by GC Press LLC, a boutique imprint established by Russ Cochran and Grant Geissman, in January 2012. But the project may soon be revived under a new publisher, since Dark Horse Comics has announced plans to resume it with the release of \"The Vault of Horror Volume 3\" in January 2014.\n\n\"The Vault of Horror\" stories were adapted to motion pictures in Freddie Francis' \"Tales from the Crypt\" (1972) and Roy Ward Baker's \"The Vault of Horror\" (1973).\n\n\"Vault\" stories were also adapted for the \"Tales from the Crypt\" television series that aired on HBO (1989). The following stories were used in the television series: \"Horror in the Night\" (Issue #12), \"Doctor of Horror\" (#13), \"Report from the Grave\" (#15), \"Fitting Punishment\" (#16), \"Werewolf Concerto\" (#16), \"Revenge Is the Nuts\" (#20), \"The Reluctant Vampire\" (#20), \"Dead Wait\" (#23), \"Staired in Horror\" (#23), \"99 & 44/100% Pure Horror\" (#23), \"Collection Completed\" (#25), \"Seance\" (#25), \"Half-Way Horrible\" (#26), \"People Who Live in Brass Hearses\" (#27), \" 'Til Death\" (#28), \"Split Personality\" (#30), \"Easel Kill Ya\" (#31), \"Whirlpool\" (#32), \"Strung Along\" (#33), \"Let The Punishment Fit The Crime\" (#33), \"A Slight Case of Murder\" (#33), \"Smoke Wrings\" (#34), \"And All Through the House\" (#35), \"Beauty Rest\" (#35), \"Surprise Party\" (#37), \"Top Billing\" (#39) and \"The Pit\" (#40).\n\nThe Vault-Keeper appeared as a character in the 1993 animated series \"Tales from the Cryptkeeper\" and was voiced by David Hemblen.\n\nIn 2019, American audio production company Pocket Universe Productions, of which the AudioComics Company (producers of the \"Locke & Key\" and \"The X-Files\" audio dramas for Audible Studios) is a division, released the first season of \"EC Comics Presents \"The Vault of Horror\"\", a full-cast audio drama adapting the first 24 stories from the first six issues of the original comics (issues 12 - 17). Featuring a cast of more than 60 actors, including Philip Proctor, co-founder of the Firesign Theatre and Denise Poirier, best known for playing the character of Æon Flux in the MTV animated series, the role of the Vault-Keeper was voiced by actor, screenwriter, and comic book writer Kevin Grevioux, creator of the \"Underworld\" film series.\n\nThe complete 8+ hour audio drama was released in audiobook format on October 25, 2019, and will be re-released as a podcast in 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113969", "title": "Cellular homology", "text": "Cellular homology\n\nIn mathematics, cellular homology in algebraic topology is a homology theory for the category of CW-complexes. It agrees with singular homology, and can provide an effective means of computing homology modules.\n\nIf formula_1 is a CW-complex with n-skeleton formula_2, the cellular-homology modules are defined as the homology groups of the cellular chain complex\n\nwhere formula_4 is taken to be the empty set.\n\nThe group\n\nis free abelian, with generators that can be identified with the formula_6-cells of formula_1. Let formula_8 be an formula_6-cell of formula_1, and let formula_11 be the attaching map. Then consider the composition\n\nwhere the first map identifies formula_13 with formula_14 via the characteristic map formula_15 of formula_8, the object formula_17 is an formula_18-cell of \"X\", the third map formula_19 is the quotient map that collapses formula_20 to a point (thus wrapping formula_17 into a sphere formula_13), and the last map identifies formula_23 with formula_13 via the characteristic map formula_25 of formula_17.\n\nThe boundary map\n\nis then given by the formula\n\nwhere formula_29 is the degree of formula_30 and the sum is taken over all formula_18-cells of formula_1, considered as generators of formula_33.\n\nThe n-dimensional sphere \"S\" admits a CW structure with two cells, one 0-cell and one n-cell. Here the n-cell is attached by the constant mapping from formula_34 to 0-cell. Since the generators of the cellular homology groups formula_35 can be identified with the k-cells of \"S\", we have that formula_36 for formula_37 and is otherwise trivial.\n\nHence for formula_38, the resulting chain complex is\n\nbut then as all the boundary maps are either to or from trivial groups, they must all be zero, meaning that the cellular homology groups are equal to\nWhen formula_41, it is not very difficult to verify that the boundary map formula_42 is zero, meaning the above formula holds for all positive formula_43.\n\nAs this example shows, computations done with cellular homology are often more efficient than those calculated by using singular homology alone.\n\nOne sees from the cellular-chain complex that the formula_6-skeleton determines all lower-dimensional homology modules:\n\nfor formula_46.\n\nAn important consequence of this cellular perspective is that if a CW-complex has no cells in consecutive dimensions, then all of its homology modules are free. For example, the complex projective space formula_47 has a cell structure with one cell in each even dimension; it follows that for formula_48,\n\nand\n\nThe Atiyah-Hirzebruch spectral sequence is the analogous method of computing the (co)homology of a CW-complex, for an arbitrary extraordinary (co)homology theory.\n\nFor a cellular complex formula_1, let formula_52 be its formula_53-th skeleton, and formula_54 be the number of formula_53-cells, i.e., the rank of the free module formula_56. The Euler characteristic of formula_1 is then defined by\n\nThe Euler characteristic is a homotopy invariant. In fact, in terms of the Betti numbers of formula_1,\n\nThis can be justified as follows. Consider the long exact sequence of relative homology for the triple formula_61:\n\nChasing exactness through the sequence gives\n\nThe same calculation applies to the triples formula_64, formula_65, etc. By induction,\n\n"}
{"id": "2113973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113973", "title": "Nicole Vaidišová", "text": "Nicole Vaidišová\n\nNicole Vaidišová (; born 23 April 1989) is a former professional tennis player from the Czech Republic.\n\nVaidišová is an Australian Open and French Open semifinalist as well as a two-time quarterfinalist at Wimbledon. She started playing tennis when she was six years old, enrolling to train at Nick Bollettieri's tennis academy in Bradenton, Florida. Her serve was considered her biggest weapon. Her powerful groundstrokes, with her serve, collaborated well together to produce an aggressive, all-round game. On 9 August 2006, at the age of 17 years, she became the 12th-youngest player in WTA Tour history to be ranked in the top 10. She achieved a career-high ranking of world No. 7 on 14 May 2007. Her form dipped shortly after, and at the time her retirement was announced in 2010, she was ranked at No. 177.\n\nHer stepfather announced that she had retired in March 2010, citing \"lack of interest in tennis\" as the primary reason, but she returned to the sport in September 2014. However, in July 2016, she retired once more due to injuries.\n\nVaidišová debuted in 2003 by reaching three consecutive finals and winning the $10K ITF tournament in Plzeň, Czech Republic.\n\nIn 2004, her first full year as a professional, Vaidišová finished the year as a top 100 player. As a qualifier at only her third WTA Tour main draw at inaugural Vancouver, she became the sixth-youngest singles champion in tour history at an age of 15 years, three months, and 23 days. She also became the lowest-ranked player (No. 180) and second qualifier (of three) to win a title in 2004. During the summer, she played World TeamTennis for the Sacramento Capitals and was named the league's Female MVP and Female Rookie of the Year. Vaidišová won her second title of the year at the Tashkent Open, defeating Virginie Razzano in the final. On 18 October, she made her top 100 debut at No. 74, becoming the youngest player in the top 100 at the time.\n\nLater in the year, Vaidišová reached the quarterfinals at the Japan Open Tennis Championships in Tokyo. She made her Grand Slam debut at the US Open, losing to defending champion and No. 1 Justine Henin in the first round.\n\nVaidišová finished the year with two WTA titles and a win-loss record of 31–8.\n\nIn early January, Vaidišová reached her first quarterfinal of the season in Hobart. She picked up her first Grand Slam singles victory in her Australian Open debut, by reaching the third round before falling to top seed Lindsay Davenport.\n\nIn April, she made her top 50 debut at No. 47 and reached her first career Tier I quarterfinal at the Family Circle Cup. She posted her first top 10 victory over defending French Open champion Anastasia Myskina, before eventually losing to Patty Schnyder in the quarterfinals, and making her top 40 debut as a result at No. 34 on 18 April. In May, Vaidišová reached her first Tier III final in Istanbul, losing to top seed Venus Williams in the championship match. She made her debut at the French Open where she fell to 22nd-seeded Francesca Schiavone in the second round.\n\nIn August, Vaidišová reached the quarterfinals at Toronto, losing to Justine Henin. At the US Open, she reached the fourth round for the first time at a Grand Slam event before losing to Nadia Petrova.\n\nVaidišová's captured her first title of 2005 (and third of her career) in Seoul, defeating top seed Jelena Janković in the final without dropping a set during the week. She followed by winning her second straight tour singles title in Tokyo, winning when Tatiana Golovin retired in the final. On 10 October, Vaidišová made her top 20 debut at No. 18 and extended her winning streak to 15 matches, by winning her third consecutive tour singles title and fifth of her career; she defeated Nadia Petrova for the first time in the final of the Bangkok. With her three consecutive titles, Vaidišová became the first player since Lindsay Davenport in 2004 to win three titles in three weeks, and also became the sixth woman to win five Tour singles titles before her 17th birthday (after Tracy Austin, Andrea Jaeger, Monica Seles, Jennifer Capriati and Martina Hingis).\n\nVaidišová captured her sixth WTA title at the Tier III event in Strasbourg in May 2006. In June, she made a semifinal run at the French Open, her best Grand Slam performance to date. She defeated world No. 1 and home favourite Amélie Mauresmo in the fourth round and Venus Williams in the quarterfinal. However, she lost to Svetlana Kuznetsova in the next round, despite being only two points away from victory several times. At the Wimbledon Championships, she got to the fourth round before losing to Li Na. Vaidišová's fourth round appearance meant that she has advanced to the round of 16 or better in each of the four Grand Slam tournaments.\n\nIn July, Vaidišová went 2–0 during the Czech Republic's 3–2 Fed Cup World Group Play-offs loss to France. She reached the semifinal on her debut in Stanford, losing to Kim Clijsters. Vaidišová reached her career-first Tier I semifinal in San Diego, losing to Clijsters again. After her success in San Diego, Vaidišová moved from No. 12 to No. 9, her first career top 10 debut, becoming the 12th-youngest player in tour history to crack the top 10, at an age of 17 years, three months and two weeks.\n\nAt the US Open, she made it to the third round, but lost to Jelena Janković, who later made it to the semifinal. Vaidišová defeated Mauresmo for the second time at the Kremlin Cup, after rallying from 1–6, 2–5 down and three match points in their quarterfinal match. However, she lost to Nadia Petrova for a third time in their four meetings in the semifinal afterwards. She managed to finish 2006 at No. 10, making it her most successful season.\n\nBeginning 2007, Vaidišová reached the semifinals of the Medibank International, beating Ana Ivanovic for the first time before falling to Jelena Janković. She went on to reach her second Grand Slam semifinal at the Australian Open, losing to eventual champion Serena Williams.\nShe skipped a large majority of the clay season with a right wrist injury. However, she reached the quarterfinals of the French Open, where she was defeated by Jelena Janković.\n\nIn her first grass tournament of the season, International Women's Open, Vaidišová lost in the quarterfinals to Justine Henin. At Wimbledon, she lost to Ana Ivanovic in the quarterfinals after failing to convert three match points. She earlier had defeated defending champion Amélie Mauresmo in the fourth round and Victoria Azarenka in the third round.\n\nVaidišová was out for two months after Wimbledon due to glandular fever. She returned at the US Open, where she lost to Shahar Pe'er in the third round. Moving into the indoor season, she played the Kremlin Cup, losing to Serena Williams in the quarterfinals. The next week in Zürich, Vaidišová reached the semifinals, achieving a notable victory over Jelena Janković. In the semifinals, she lost to Justine Henin in three sets. She finished the year by making another semifinal in Linz.\n\nVaidišová played three hard-court tournaments in Australia to start the year. She reached the semifinals of the Medibank International, defeating Jelena Janković in the quarterfinals before losing to Svetlana Kuznetsova in the semifinals.\n\nThe week after the Australian Open, Vaidišová won both of her Fed Cup singles matches in the tie against Slovakia. Following that, she lost six consecutive matches.\n\nAs the 18th seed at Wimbledon, she had an unexpected run to the quarterfinals, losing to Zheng Jie.\n\nShe finished the year with another pair of consecutive losses, and had tumbled to No. 41 in the world over the course of the season.\n\nIn 2009, Vaidišová's ranking fell out of the top 100. She often was spotted watching numerous matches of her boyfriend Radek Štěpánek. At the end of the year, Vaidišová was ranked No. 187.\n\nVaidišová started 2010 by playing ITF Women's Circuit events. Later in March, her stepfather and former coach Ales Kodat announced her decision to retire from her professional career at the age of 20 due to a lack of interest in tennis. \"Her agent told me last week... she's fed up with tennis and that's understandable. She started very young\", Kodat said. Kodat said she had turned down a wildcard to play in Miami starting on 23 March.\n\nVaidišová received a wildcard to compete in the Coleman Vision Tennis Championships, a $75,000 event, starting on 15 September. This marked her return to professional tennis in over four years. She won her first match in straight sets against Sesil Karatantcheva, before losing in the second round to Johanna Konta 6–1, 1–6, 4–6.\n\nAt the Monterrey Open in March, she qualified for her first WTA main draw since 2010 but she drew top seed and defending champion Ana Ivanovic in the first round. Vaidišová lost 1–6, 6–7; she had qualified for the main draw only seven hours before her match against Ivanovic.\n\nShe played at Miami Open as wildcard. She won her first-round match against Tímea Babos at straight sets, and lost in second round to No. 3 seed Simona Halep in three sets.\n\nIn July, Vaidišová announced her second and permanent retirement from professional tennis.\n\nVaidišová was introduced to tennis by her mother Riana. She has two younger brothers, Oliver and Toby. She speaks Czech, English, and German.\n\nVaidišová became engaged to fellow Czech tennis player Radek Štěpánek, who is 11 years older, in late 2007. It has been suggested that the relationship was the cause of Vaidišová's decline in tennis. The two married on 17 July 2010 at Prague Castle. In June 2013, Vaidišová and Štěpánek announced that they had filed for divorce. In 2018, they remarried and became parents of a daughter, Stella.\n\nVaidišová was the face of Reebok and has been featured in their \"I Am What I Am\" and \"Run Easy\" campaigns. She also endorsed Citizen Watches and its Eco-Drive design. She is represented by Olivier van Lindonk of IMG. During her career, she used Yonex racquets.\n\nIn 2007, Vaidišová was featured in \"Virtua Tennis 3\", a videogame developed by Sega and released for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows and PlayStation Portable.\n\n\n\"Only main-draw results in WTA Tour, Grand Slam tournaments and Olympic Games are included in Win–Loss records.\"\n\nVaidišová's win-loss record against certain players who have been ranked World No. 10 or higher is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113976", "title": "The Haunt of Fear", "text": "The Haunt of Fear\n\nThe Haunt of Fear was an American bi-monthly horror comic anthology series published by EC Comics, starting in 1950. Along with \"Tales from the Crypt\" and \"The Vault of Horror\", it formed a trifecta of popular EC horror anthologies. \"The Haunt of Fear\" was sold at newsstands beginning with its May/June 1950 issue. It ceased publication with its November/December 1954 issue, compiling a total of 28 issues.\n\nAmerican horror comics emerged as a distinct comic book genre after World War II. At this time, US young adult males lost interest in caped crime fighters. Also, returning GIs demanded titillating sex and violence in their reading. One-shot \"Eerie\" (1947) is generally considered the first true American horror comic. Its cover depicted a dagger-wielding, red eyed ghoul who threatened a rope-bound, scantily clad, voluptuous young woman, beneath a full moon. In 1948, \"Adventures Into the Unknown\" became the first regularly published horror title. It enjoyed a nearly two decade life-span. Fiction House had a regular horror series with Werewolf Hunter starting in 1943 that appeared in its comic Rangers Comics.\n\nIn 1950, publisher Gaines and his editor, Al Feldstein, discovered they shared similar tastes in horror. They first began experimenting with horror tales as features in their existing titles, such as \"Crime Patrol\", which was briefly retitled \"The Crypt of Terror\" and finally \"Tales from the Crypt\", by which point the horror genre had become predominant. (In the early 1950s, comic book publishers, seeking to save money on second-class postage permits, frequently changed the titles of their comics, rather than start new ones at \"#1\"). An EC Western comic book series called \"Gunfighter\" (which itself had originated with #5, having adopted the numbering from \"Fat & Slat\") was similarly rechristened \"The Haunt of Fear\" with issue #15. The \"Haunt\" numbering was reset after #17 (3), as explained in the letter column of issue #4: \"After publishing issues 15, 16 and 17, the United States Post Office requested that the fourth issue actually be numbered No. 4 rather than No. 18... Well, 'ya can't fight City Hall!'\" (The EC war comic \"Two-Fisted Tales\" took over the old \"Haunt\" numbering, starting with issue #18, and itself never ended up resetting). For this reason, even within the same original 1950s series, there are actually two separate issues each of \"The Haunt of Fear\" #15, 16, and 17.\n\nArtist Graham Ingels took over the art duties of \"The Haunt of Fear\" starting with issue #4. He became the Old Witch's primary artist for the remainder of the comic's run, though his art had been appearing since the second issue. Ingels would take over the cover duty with issue #11, in February 1952. Other artists who contributed to the title were Feldstein, Johnny Craig, Wally Wood, Harvey Kurtzman, Jack Davis, George Roussos, Harry Harrison, Joe Orlando, Sid Check, George Evans, Reed Crandall, Jack Kamen and Bernard Krigstein. Ingels' artwork on the eight page lead stories, and his splash pages, particularly on issues #14 and 17, set a new standard for horror illustration.\n\n\"Poetic Justice\", in the twelfth issue, was adapted for the 1972 anthology film \"Tales From the Crypt\" from Amicus Studios, in England. The story starred Peter Cushing as a kindly old junk collector. Ingels drew \"Wish You Were Here\" from issue #22, which was also adapted for film. \"Horror We? How's Bayou?\" in issue #17 is considered to be one of E.C.'s best drawn horror stories, with the homicidal maniac's creepy visage taken from an old movie still of the silent film \" Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\", which starred John Barrymore. The story artwork won an award as best E.C. horror art at the 1972 E.C. Fan-Addict Convention.\n\nGaines and Feldstein were responsible for writing all of the stories until the end of 1953. An unauthorized adaptation of Ray Bradbury in another one of EC's comics eventually led to a series of authorized Bradbury adaptations. Features included \"Grim Fairy Tales\", horror based parodies of well-known fairy tales such as \"Sleeping Beauty\" and \"Hansel and Gretel\". The parodies began appearing in issue #15, in 1952.\n\nThe title's most controversial story was \"Foul Play\" (#19, 1953). It was written by Feldstein and drawn by Davis. It featured a crooked baseball player being dismembered, with his body parts used to play baseball by his murderers. The story was singled out by Robert Warshow in his 1954 essay \"Paul, the Horror Comics, and Dr. Wertham\". He described it as \"the outer limits of ... 'good taste'.\" It was also one of many examples used by Fredric Wertham in his book \"Seduction of the Innocent\". Author Grant Geissman used the title of the story for his book on EC artists, \"Foul Play\" (2005).\n\nAs with the other EC comics edited by Feldstein, the stories in this comic were primarily based on Gaines reading a large number of horror stories and using them to develop \"springboards\" from which he and Feldstein could launch new stories. Specific story influences that have been identified include the following:\n\n\nAfter their unauthorized adaptation of one of Ray Bradbury's stories in another magazine, Bradbury contacted EC about their plagiarism of his work. They reached an agreement for EC to do authorized versions of Bradbury's short fiction. These official adaptations include:\n\n\nAlthough EC's horror stable consisted of three separate magazines, there was little beyond their titles to distinguish them. Each magazine had its titular host, but the hosting duties for any one issue were typically shared with the hosts of the other two. Thus, a single issue of \"The Haunt of Fear\" would contain two stories told by the Old Witch, one by the Crypt-Keeper (of \"Tales from the Crypt\") and one by the Vault-Keeper (of \"The Vault of Horror\"). The professional rivalry between these three GhoulLunatics was often played for comic effect.\n\nThe Old Witch was the last to make her appearance. The first issue of \"The Haunt of Fear\" had no host. The second issue debuted \"The Witch's Cauldron\", a feature with the Old Witch introducing herself in a story drawn by artist Jack Kamen. The third issue featured a Craig cover depicting three GhoulLunatics stepping out of doorways and launched a letter column, \"The Old Witch's Niche.\" Thereafter, the Old Witch presided over the magazine as its comedic horror host, delivering an irreverent and pun-filled commentary to lighten the horrific tone of the stories she introduced. In spite of her slow start, the Old Witch would prove to be the most visible of the GhoulLunatics in their initial run. Not only did she appear in virtually every issue of \"The Haunt of Fear\", \"Tales From The Crypt\" and \"The Vault of Horror\", she also appeared in the final story of \"Crime SuspenStories\" in every issue from #3 through #16.\n\nThe character of the Old Witch was inspired by Old Nancy, the witch of Salem, host of Alonzo Deen Cole's radio series, \"The Witch's Tale\", which aired from 1931 to 1938 on WOR and Mutual, and in syndication. The Old Witch's own account of her origin may be found in \"The Haunt of Fear\" #14's \"A Little Stranger!\" which details the circumstances surrounding her birth.\n\nIn 1954, Gaines and Feldstein intended to add a fourth book to their horror publications by reactivating an earlier title, \"The Crypt of Terror\". They were stopped dead in their tracks, however. Horror and other violent comics had come under scrutiny by parents, schoolteachers, clergymen, psychologists and others, who viewed the material as dangerous to the well-being of children. They believed comic books were a significant contributor to the juvenile delinquency crisis in America. Matters came to a head in April and June 1954 with a highly publicized Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency. Hearings targeted violent comic books, which fared poorly in the proceedings. While the committee stopped short of blaming the comics industry for juvenile delinquency, they did suggest it tone down the product. Publishers were left reeling.\n\nThe industry deftly avoided outside censorship by creating the self-regulatory Comics Magazine Association of America (CMAA) and a Comics Code Authority (CCA) that placed severe restrictions on violent comic book genres. Publishers were forbidden from using the words \"terror\" and \"horror\" in titles. They were forbidden from depicting zombies, werewolves, gruesome characters and outrè horror fiction trappings. Gaines was fed up; he believed his titles were being specifically targeted and realized they were doomed to future failure. He cancelled \"The Haunt of Fear\" and its companion titles in September 1954. The last issue of \"Haunt\" was #28, November/December 1954. Since an issue of \"The Crypt of Terror\" had already been produced, it was published as the final issue of \"Tales from the Crypt\", February/March 1955.\n\n\"The Haunt of Fear\" has been reprinted on numerous occasions. Ballantine Books reprinted selected \"Haunt\" stories in a series of paperback EC anthologies in 1964-66. The magazine was fully collected in a series of five black-and-white hardbacks by publisher Russ Cochran as part of \"The Complete EC Library\" in 1985. In 1990/91, Cochran (in association with Gladstone Publishing and solo) reprinted a handful of color issues. Between November 1992 and August 1998, Cochran and Gemstone Publishing reprinted the full 28 individual issues. This complete run was later rebound, with covers included, in a series of six softcover \"EC Annuals\". Cochran Publishing and Gemstone Publishing planned to publish hardcover, re-colored volumes of \"The Haunt of Fear\" as part of the \"EC Archives\" series, until Gemstone's financial troubles left this project in limbo. But the series has since been revived by GC Press LLC, a boutique imprint established by Russ Cochran and Grant Geissman, and \"The Haunt of Fear\" Volume 1 was released in January 2012.\n\nStories from \"The Haunt of Fear\" were adapted for the movie version of \"Tales From the Crypt\" as well as the TV series.\n\nStories which were adapted for the television series include: \"House of Horror\" (#15(1)), \"Television Terror\" (issue #17(3)), \"Ear Today...Gone Tomorrow\" (#11), \"On a Dead Man's Chest\" (#12), \"Till Death Do We Part\" (#12), \"What's Cookin\" (#12), \"Death of Some Salesmen\" (#15), \"Lover Come Hack To Me\" (#19), \"Dig That Cat...He's Real Gone\" (#21), \"Creep Course\" (#23), \"Only Sin Deep\" (#24), \"The Secret\" (#24), \"The New Arrival\" (#25), \"Spoiled\" (#26), \"Comes The Dawn\" (#26) and \"About Face\" (#27).\n\nBill Gaines owned one of sculptor Steve Fiorilla's latex masks of the Old Witch. In the second season of HBO's \"Tales from the Crypt\" anthology television series, a photo of this Old Witch mask was a prop. This was in the June 26, 1990, \"Korman's Kalamity\" episode, adapted from the EC story \"Kamen's Kalamity.\" Illustrated by Jack Kamen, the original self-satirical story is set in EC's offices, where the EC editors have a meeting with Kamen about his artwork.\n\nThe Old Witch appeared in animated form on \"Tales from the Cryptkeeper\", and was voiced by Elizabeth Hanna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113984", "title": "Frontline Combat", "text": "Frontline Combat\n\nFrontline Combat is an anthology war comic book written and edited by Harvey Kurtzman and published bi-monthly by EC Comics. The first issue was cover dated July/August, 1951. It ran for 15 issues over three years, and ended with the January, 1954 issue. Publication was discontinued following a decline in sales attributed to the end of the Korean War. The title was a companion to Kurtzman's comic book \"Two-Fisted Tales\". Both titles depicted the horrors of war realistically and in great detail, exposing what Kurtzman saw as the truth about war without glamorizing or idealizing it.\n\nArtists who contributed included Kurtzman and EC regulars such as John Severin, Jack Davis, Wally Wood, George Evans and Will Elder. Non-EC regulars who contributed included Alex Toth, Ric Estrada, Joe Kubert and Russ Heath.\n\nKurtzman wrote the majority of the comic's stories with Jerry DeFuccio contributing one-page text stories and an occasional regular story. The issues included writing contributions from artists Davis, Wood and Evans.\n\nIn addition to contemporary stories about the Korean War and World War II, \"Two-Fisted Tales\" and \"Frontline Combat\" contained a number of stories taking place in historical settings, including the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and ancient Rome.\n\nA series of special issues dedicated to the Civil War included issues 31 and 35 of \"Two-Fisted Tales\" and issue 9 of \"Frontline Combat\". Although originally planned to be seven issues in total, the series was never completed. Other special issues of \"Frontline Combat\" included an issue dedicated to Iwo Jima (issue 7) and an issue dedicated to the Air Force (issue 12).\n\nKurtzman's editing approach to \"Two Fisted Tales\" and \"Frontline Combat\" was a stark contrast to EC editor Al Feldstein's style. Whereas Feldstein allowed his artists to draw the story in any manner they desired, Kurtzman developed detailed layouts for each story and required his artists to follow them exactly. Kurtzman's writing tended to have a lot less text in them than Feldstein's, which enabled the two war titles to be hand-lettered rather than machine-lettered like the remainder of EC's titles. Kurtzman was also dedicated to making the stories as historically accurate as possible and, along with assistant DeFuccio, put a lot of research into each story. As a result, where Feldstein took generally about a week to complete each issue he edited, Kurtzman took approximately a month.\n\n\"Frontline Combat\" has been reprinted several times in the years since its demise. It was fully reprinted in a series of three black-and-white hardbacks by publisher Russ Cochran as part of \"The Complete EC Library\" in 1982. Between August 1995 and February 1999, Cochran (in association with Gemstone Publishing) reprinted the full 15 individual issues. This complete run was later rebound, with covers included, in a series of three softcover \"EC Annuals\". In 2008, Cochran and Gemstone began to publish hardcover, re-colored volumes of \"Frontline Combat\" as part of the \"EC Archives\" series. One volume (of a projected three) was published before Gemstone's financial troubles left the project in limbo. GC Press LLC, a boutique imprint established by Russ Cochran and Grant Geissman, announced in a press release dated September 1, 2011 that it is continuing the EC Archives series, with the first new releases scheduled for November 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113985", "title": "Castle Air Force Base", "text": "Castle Air Force Base\n\nCastle Air Force Base (1941–1995) is a former United States Air Force Strategic Air Command base in California, located northeast of Atwater, northwest of Merced, and about south of Sacramento.\n\nThe Central Valley base in unincorporated Merced County was closed in 1995, pursuant to a Base Realignment and Closure Commission decision following the end of the Cold War and the disestablishment of Strategic Air Command (SAC). It is now known as the Castle Airport Aviation and Development Center.\n\nThe airfield was opened on 20 September 1941 as the Army Air Corps Basic Flying School, one of the fields utilized to meet the needs of the 30,000 Pilot Training Program. It provided basic air training for beginning pilots and crewmen. Many pilots and crews were trained here during the war including a number of Women's Air Service Pilots (WASPs).\n\nAuxiliary air fields used by Merced Army Air Field during the war were:\n\nWith the end of the war 444th Bombardment Group (Very Heavy) arrived on 15 November 1945 from West Field, Tinian with four squadrons (344th, 676th, 677th, and 678th) of wartime B-29s. The 444th operated from Merced for about six months with the 678th BS being re-designated as the 10th Recon Squadron and its aircraft being converted to the RB-29 configuration.\n\nThe three B-29 squadrons inactivated at Merced on 6 May 1946 with the 10th Reconnaissance Squadron relocating to Davis-Monthan Field, Arizona where it turned in its RB-29 aircraft. The 444th was inactivated on 16 November 1947.\n\nDuring the summer of 1945, when most other air fields were winding down, Merced was expanded to accommodate the large air tankers then programmed to come into service. After the war ended, Merced was home to several air tanker squadrons and remained a training center for pilots and air crews.\n\nMerced Army Air Field became Castle Field on 17 January 1946, named for Brigadier General Frederick Castle. On Christmas Eve 1944, Castle remained at the controls of his burning B-17 Flying Fortress over Europe while his crew bailed out, then was killed when the aircraft exploded; he was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor.\n\nThe 93d Bombardment Group (Very Heavy) was activated at Merced on 21 June 1946, starting a nearly 50-year relationship with the airfield. The 93rd was a former Eighth Air Force B-24 Liberator group which was assigned to Merced for Boeing B-29 Superfortress training. The 93rd was one of SAC's first ten bomb groups. There were three initial operational squadrons (328th, 329th, and 330th) which absorbed the equipment and aircraft of the inactivated 444th BG.\n\nOn 1 October 1946, the base was put on \"minimal operations on caretaker status,\" with control of the facility under the Colorado Springs AAF. The 93rd Bomb Group, however remained active. It, along with the 509th Composite Group at Roswell Army Air Field, New Mexico, was all there was of Strategic Air Command at that time. The base remained in this status until 1 May 1947 when it was reactivated.\n\nOn 1 May 1947, Castle Field was reactivated under Strategic Air Command. On 28 July 1947, the 93r Bombardment Wing, (Very Heavy) was established and took over responsibility from the group. During 1947–1948, it flew Boeing B-29 Superfortresses, but soon received the upgraded version of the B-29, the Boeing B-50 Superfortress. In 1948, the entire wing deployed to Kadena AB, Okinawa, becoming the first Strategic Air Command bomb group to deploy in full strength to the Far East.\n\nCastle Field was renamed Castle Air Force Base on 13 January 1948, this following the establishment of the USAF as a separate military service in September 1947.\n\nOn 27 June 1949, the Air Force Reserve's 447th Bombardment Group was activated at Castle and equipped with the B-29s formerly of the 93d Bomb Wing. The 447th remained active until 16 June 1951 when the group was activated and the aircraft and personnel sent to Far East Air Forces as replacements for combat losses during the Korean War. With the unit's departure, the 447th was inactivated.\n\nThe Convair B-36 Peacemaker entered SAC's inventory in 1948. The huge plane dwarfed earlier bombers and the 93rd, along with all other B-29 and B-50 bomb groups, was redesignated as \"Medium.\" Only the B-36 groups were \"Heavy.\"\n\nThe wing began aerial refueling operations in October 1950, providing aerial refueling and navigational assistance for the July 1952 movement of the 31st Fighter-Escort Wing from the United States to Japan, the first jet fighter crossing of the Pacific Ocean, during the Korean War. From 1953 to 1955, the wing flew Boeing KC-97 Stratofreighters. All-jet Boeing KC-135 tankers came on line in 1957.\n\nThe 93d Bombardment Wing (Medium) received its first Boeing B-47s in May 1954, but its involvement with the new Stratojet was curtailed on 29 June 1955 when the wing received the first production line Boeing B-52B Stratofortress, making it the first SAC bomb wing to receive the new aircraft. The wing became SAC's primary B-52 aircrew training organization, incorporating KC-135 aircrew training for the air refueling mission in mid-1956. For this purpose, it set up the 4017th Combat Crew Training Squadron which was supposed to handle all B-52 crew training for the next few years. When the mission of B-52 training became too great a task for just one squadron, the Wing's other three squadrons took over the flight training role and the 4017th assumed responsibility for ground instruction in 1956. The 93d was SAC's primary B-52 training organization and retained some of its B-47s until 1956 for crew training purposes. It was one of the few wings in SAC to concurrently operate both the B-47 and B-52.\n\nIn November 1956, the wing made non-stop B-52 flights of some around North America and to the North Pole. \nAlthough most of the wing's components were used for B-52 and KC-135 aircrew training between 1956 and 1995, one or more of its units sometimes participated in tactical operations, including tactical bombardment and aerial refueling.\n\nFrom April 1968 to April 1974, the 93rd operated a special B-52 replacement training unit to support SAC's B-52 operation in Southeast Asia. Also, the 328th and 329th Bomb Squadrons deployed to U-Tapao Royal Thai Navy Airfield, Thailand where they flew combat missions over Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe wing won the SAC Bombing and Navigation Competition and the Fairchild Trophy in 1949, 1952, and 1970, and the Omaha Trophy as the outstanding SAC wing in 1970.\n\nIn August 1990, the wing operated an aerial port of embarkation (APOE) for personnel and equipment deploying to Southwest Asia during Desert Shield.\n\nIn addition to aerial refueling, Castle-based KC-135 tankers ferried personnel and equipment, while B-52s deployed to strategic locations worldwide, including Saudi Arabia. B-52s bombed the Iraqi Republican Guard and targeted Iraqi chemical weapons, nuclear, and industrial plants during Desert Storm, January–February 1991.\n\nOn 1 September 1991, the 93rd Bombardment lost its operational KC-135 unit, the 924th Air Refueling Squadron, and its KC-135 aircrew formal training unit, the 329th Combat Crew Training Squadron. It also implemented the objective wing organization and was redesignated as the 93rd Wing (93 WG).\n\nOn 1 June 1992, pursuant to the inactivation of Strategic Air Command and the establishment of the new Air Combat Command (ACC), the 93rd Wing was transferred from SAC, reassigned to ACC, and renamed the 93rd Bomb Wing (93 BW).\n\nShortly afterwards, nationwide base closures under the BRAC process targeted numerous USAF installations, especially former SAC installations, to include Castle AFB. With BRAC closure of Castle AFB confirmed, the 322d Bomb Squadron was inactivated on 3 May 1994 and the wing was placed on non-operational status. However, the 93rd Bomb Wing continued to supervise the closure of Castle AFB. The 93rd Bomb Wing was inactivated on 30 September 1995 with the closure of Castle AFB, but was subsequently redesignated as the 93d Air Control Wing (93 ACW) and reactivated at Robins AFB, Georgia on 29 January 1996.\n\n\nThe end of the Cold War brought many changes to the Air Force, and Castle AFB was selected for closure under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 during Round II Base Closure Commission deliberations (BRAC 91).\n\nOn 1 June 1992 the 93d was relieved from assignment to SAC and was reassigned to the newly formed Air Combat Command (ACC). It was then redesignated as the 93d Bomb Wing, its B-52G aircraft given the ACC tail code of \"CA\" and the marking of blue tail stripes. The 328d Bomb Squadron was inactivated 3 May 1994 and the wing was placed on non-operational status.\n\nHowever, the 93rd continued to supervise the closure of Castle AFB. The 93d Bomb Wing was inactivated on 30 September 1995 with the closure of Castle AFB. The Castle Air Museum remains at the site.\n\nAs of 2008, local government plans to convert the dormant facility to civilian commercial use has become an active political issue. It has been identified as the preferred location for the central maintenance facility of the proposed California High-Speed Rail system.\n\nThe University of California, Merced maintains a research site on the former base, which was its first facility before construction of the main campus in Merced.\n\nUnited States Penitentiary, Atwater stands on a portion of the grounds of the former Air Force Base.\n\nIn 2011, Google leased 60 acres (24 ha) in order to test the development of their new project, the self-driving car, which has become Waymo. Google is also leasing a hangar at the former Air Force base in order to continue testing a new project, Project Loon. Project Loon is a program that creates an aerial Wi-Fi network, using balloons to loft relay equipment to high altitude. The former Base is expecting Google to pay approximately $456,000 in rental fees for both of these projects over the course of one year.\n\nIn 1994 Igor Pasternak leased a hangar from the former Castle Air Force Base to build his Aeros 50, a seventy-eight-foot long blimp for use in advertising. Pasternak subsequently moved his blimp building operation to Montebello, California.\n\n\n\nNote: Base directed to revert to \"minimum operations on caretaker status;' 1 Oct 1946; base under administrative control of Colorado Springs Army Air Base, Colorado, 1 Nov 1946-1 luI 1947. Reactivated from caretaker status, 1 May 1947\n\n\nRay Allen, a military child, was born at the base on 20 July 1975.\n\nOur Gang (A.k.a. The Little Rascals) member, Bobby \"Weezer\" Hutchins was killed in a mid-air collision on 17 May 1945, while attending flight school during WWII.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113986", "title": "Two-Fisted Tales", "text": "Two-Fisted Tales\n\nTwo-Fisted Tales is an anthology war comic published bi-monthly by EC Comics in the early 1950s. The title originated in 1950 when Harvey Kurtzman suggested to William Gaines that they publish an adventure comic. Kurtzman became the editor of \"Two-Fisted Tales\", and with the dawn of the Korean War, he soon narrowed the focus to war stories. The title was a companion comic to \"Frontline Combat\", and stories Kurtzman wrote for both books often displayed an anti-war attitude. It returned to adventure-themed stories in issues #36 through #39, co-edited by John Severin and Colin Dawkins, with a cover-title change to \"The New Two-Fisted Tales\".\n\nThe bimonthly title ran 24 issues, numbered 18–41, from 1950 to 1955. In 1952, EC published \"Two-Fisted Annual\" which had no new stories but instead bound together past issues of \"Two-Fisted Tales\" with a new cover by Kurtzman. The same procedure was repeated in 1953 for an annual with a new Jack Davis cover.\n\nYears after its demise, \"Two-Fisted Tales\" was reprinted in its entirety and was adapted to television.\n\nAs with many EC comics published at the time, \"Two-Fisted Tales\" did not start with issue number one; a renaming of \"The Haunt of Fear\", \"Two-Fisted Tales\" began with issue #18 (cover-dated Dec. 1950) and ran 24 issues through #41 (March 1955). Wholesaler problems had caused Gaines to consider canceling \"The Haunt of Fear\", but he changed his mind without skipping an issue. \"Two-Fisted Tales\" took over the numbering, and \"The Haunt of Fear\" then reverted to the correct numbering for the remainder of its run.\n\nKurtzman's editing approach to \"Two-Fisted Tales\" and \"Frontline Combat\" was a stark contrast to fellow EC editor Al Feldstein's style. Whereas Feldstein allowed his artists to draw the story however they chose, Kurtzman prepared detailed layouts for each story and required his artists to follow them exactly. Kurtzman's writing tended to use less text than Feldstein's, which enabled the two war titles to be hand-lettered rather than machine-lettered like the remainder of EC's titles. Kurtzman was dedicated to making the stories as historically accurate as possible and along with assistant Jerry DeFuccio put a lot of research into each story. As a result, where Feldstein took generally about a week to complete each issue he edited, Kurtzman took approximately a month.\n\n\"Two-Fisted Tales\" was published with a companion title, \"Frontline Combat\", for most of its run. Towards the end of 1953, a decrease in interest due to the end of the Korean War, as well as Kurtzman becoming overwhelmed with his work on \"Mad\" required changes to be made. \"Frontline Combat\" was dropped entirely while \"Two-Fisted Tales\" was changed from bi-monthly to quarterly publication. As sales continued to drop, Gaines was forced to fold the title. Over its four-year span, the comic ran for 24 issues, ending with issue 41, in February 1955.\n\n\"Two-Fisted Tales\" has been reprinted several times. It was fully reprinted in a series of four black-and-white hardcover books by publisher Russ Cochran as part of \"The Complete EC Library\" in 1980. Between October 1992 and July 1998, Cochran, in association with Gemstone Publishing, reprinted all 24 issues. This complete run was later rebound, with covers included, in a series of five softcover \"EC Annuals\". In 2007, Cochran and Gemstone began to publish hardcover, digitally colored volumes of \"Two-Fisted Tales\" as part of the \"EC Archives\" series. Two volumes of a projected four were published before the project fell into limbo. GC Press LLC, a boutique imprint established by Russ Cochran and Grant Geissman, announced in a September 1, 2011 press release that it is continuing the EC Archives series, and the first new releases shipped in January 2012.\n\nIn 1993, Dark Horse Comics published two issues of \"Harvey Kurtzman's The New Two-Fisted Tales\", featuring war stories by contemporary creators. The first was published April 1, 1993 and the last August 1, 1993. They contained four stories in both issues.\n\nArtists who contributed included Kurtzman and other EC regulars such as John Severin, Jack Davis, Wally Wood, George Evans, Will Elder, Reed Crandall and Bernard Krigstein. Non-EC regulars that contributed to the comic included Alex Toth, Ric Estrada, Gene Colan, Joe Kubert and Dave Berg.\n\nKurtzman wrote the majority of the book's stories from 1950 through 1953, with Jerry DeFuccio contributing one-page text stories and the occasional regular story as well. Colin Dawkins provided the writing for the majority of the stories for 1954 and 1955, with contributions from Davis, Evans and Severin. John Putnam, who scripted \"Dien Bien Phu!\" (#40), later became the art director of EC's \"Mad\".\n\nThe stories Kurtzman wrote for this title often displayed an anti-war attitude. Canadian journalist Mitchell Brown wrote about the impact and influence of Kurtzman's approach: \"Unlike other magazines of the day, no one could accuse \"Two-Fisted Tales\" of being wartime propaganda. On the contrary, the magazine was a brutally honest look at battles and wars throughout history. Kurtzman, who had been drafted in 1942, knew warfare firsthand, and he was outraged by the gung-ho war comics that made war look like a glorious thing. In his stories, there were no heroes—just soldiers trapped in situations beyond their control. Often, his stories weren't about soldiers at all, focusing instead on the lives of innocent people scarred by war.\"\n\nKurtzman discussed his approach to \"Two-Fisted Tales\" in a 1980 interview:\nIn addition to contemporary stories about the Korean War and World War II, \"Two-Fisted Tales\" and \"Frontline Combat\" contained a number of stories taking place in historical settings, including the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and ancient Rome.\n\nA series of special issues dedicated to the Civil War included issues 31 and 35 of \"Two-Fisted Tales\" and issue 9 of \"Frontline Combat\". Although originally planned to be seven issues in total, the series was never completed.\n\nIn 1991, the comic book was adapted for a TV film by producers Joel Silver, Richard Donner, Robert Zemeckis and others. Apart from an opening montage of covers from the comic book and use of comic's logo, the movie had little connection with Kurtzman's creation. In imitation of EC's horror books, the anthology drama featured ghostly gunfighter Mr. Rush (Bill Sadler) as a host and a device to connect the segments, although Kurtzman's war-adventure stories had never been introduced by a host. Two of the stories, \"Showdown\" and \"King of the Road\", were original scripts and not adaptations from EC (although \"Showdown\" did share a title with a story from issue 37). The third story, \"Yellow\", was adapted from a story written by Al Feldstein and illustrated by Jack Davis for the first issue of EC's \"Shock SuspenStories\". The film had a single telecast in the USA on January 18, 1992, generating little interest, and \"Showdown\" and \"King of the Road\" were later extracted to become individual episodes of HBO's \"Tales From The Crypt\" television series (\"Yellow\" was exhibited as an episode in the year before).\n\nWelsh drum and bass and electronic music producer and DJ Lincoln Barrett adopted the name Two Fisted Tales as a pseudonym under which to produce primarily house music tracks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2113987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113987", "title": "Members of the Australian Senate, 1985–1987", "text": "Members of the Australian Senate, 1985–1987\n\nThis is a list of members of the Australian Senate from 1985 to 1987. The number of senators was increased from ten to twelve senators for each of the six States of Australia. The representation of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory remained at two senators each. 30 Senators were elected at the 1983 double dissolution election and had terms due to finish on 30 June 1988. 46 Senators were elected at the 1984 election, rather than the normal case of only half of the state senators being elected.\n\nWith the increase in numbers, the first two non-sitting senators were chosen for a term from the first sitting date 21 February 1985 until 30 June 1991. The last senator was elected for a term from 1 July 1985 until 30 June 1988. However, in fact, the Senate was dissolved on 5 June 1987 for another double dissolution election on 11 July 1987. The four territory senators were elected in December 1984 and their terms ended at the dissolution of the House of Representatives in June 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "2113994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113994", "title": "William S. Sadler", "text": "William S. Sadler\n\nWilliam Samuel Sadler (June 24, 1875 – April 26, 1969) was an American surgeon, self-trained psychiatrist, and author who helped publish \"The Urantia Book\". The book is said to have resulted from Sadler's relationship with a man through whom he believed celestial beings spoke at night. It drew a following of people who studied its teachings.\n\nA native of Indiana, Sadler moved to Michigan as a teenager to work at the Battle Creek Sanitarium. There he met the physician and health-food promoter John Harvey Kellogg, co-inventor of corn flakes breakfast cereal, who became his mentor. Sadler married Kellogg's niece, Lena Celestia Kellogg, in 1897. He worked for several Christian organizations and attended medical school, graduating in 1906. Sadler practiced medicine in Chicago with his wife, who was also a physician. He joined several medical associations and taught at the McCormick Theological Seminary. Although he was a committed member of the Seventh-day Adventist Church for almost twenty years, he left the denomination after it disfellowshipped his wife's uncle in 1907. Sadler and his wife became speakers on the Chautauqua adult education circuit in 1907, and he became a highly paid, popular orator. He eventually wrote over 40 books on a variety of medical and spiritual topics advocating a holistic approach to health. Sadler extolled the value of prayer and religion but was skeptical of mediums, assisting debunker Howard Thurston, and embraced the scientific consensus on evolution.\n\nIn 1910, Sadler went to Europe and studied psychiatry for a year under Sigmund Freud. Sometime between 1906 and 1911, Sadler attempted to treat a patient with an unusual sleep condition. While the patient was sleeping he spoke to Sadler and claimed to be an extraterrestrial. Sadler spent years observing the sleeping man in an effort to explain the phenomenon, and eventually decided the man had no mental illness and that his words were genuine. The man's identity was never publicized, but speculation has focused on Sadler's brother-in-law, Wilfred Kellogg. Over the course of several years, Sadler and his assistants visited the man while he slept, conversing with him about spirituality, history, and cosmology, and asking him questions. A larger number of interested people met at Sadler's home to discuss the man's responses and to suggest additional questions. The man's words were eventually published in \"The Urantia Book\", and the Urantia Foundation was created to assist Sadler in spreading the book's message. It is not known who wrote and edited the book, but several commentators have speculated that Sadler played a guiding role in its publication. Although it never became the basis of an organized religion, the book attracted followers who devoted themselves to its study, and the movement continued after Sadler's death.\n\nSadler was born June 24, 1875, in Spencer, Indiana, to Samuel Cavins Sadler (1853-1900) and Sarah Isabelle Wilson (1856-1946) . Of English and Irish descent, he was raised in Wabash, Indiana. Samuel did not enroll his son in public schools. Despite his lack of formal education, Sadler read many books about history as a child and became a skilled public speaker at a young age. Samuel was a convert to the Seventh-day Adventist Church, and William was baptized into the denomination in 1888 and became devoutly religious.\n\nIn 1889, William Sadler moved to Battle Creek, Michigan, to work at the Battle Creek Sanitarium, where he served as a bellhop and helped in the kitchen. He also attended Battle Creek College for one year when he was 16. Both institutions had strong ties to his church and Sadler was mentored by local Adventist businessman John Harvey Kellogg, who heavily influenced Sadler's views. Sadler's early writings about health are similar to ideas advanced by John Kellogg, including the concept of autointoxication, and the idea that caffeine has negative health effects. He similarly condemned the consumption of tobacco, meat, and alcohol. Although Sadler did drink later in his life.\n\nSadler graduated from Battle Creek College in 1894 and subsequently worked for John Kellogg's brother, William K. Kellogg as a health-food salesman. Sadler, a skilled salesman, persuaded William Kellogg to market his products through demonstrations in retail stores. In 1894, he oversaw the establishment of Life Boat Mission, a mission that Kellogg founded on State Street in Chicago. Sadler operated the mission and published \"Life Boat Magazine\"; its sales were intended to provide funds for Kellogg's Chicago Medical Mission. Sadler also contributed articles to other Adventist publications, including the \"Review and Herald\". Around 1895, Sadler attended Moody Bible Institute in Chicago, Illinois, where he trained to be an evangelist, ultimately becoming an ordained minister in 1901.\n\nIn 1897, Sadler married John Kellogg's niece, Lena Celestia Kellogg, a nurse whom he had met four years previously. Their first child, William, called Willis, born in 1899, died a ten months later. Their second child, William S. Sadler Jr., was born in 1907. The couple had been interested in medicine for several years, but the loss of their child inspired them to pursue medical careers. In 1901, they moved to San Francisco to attend medical school at Cooper Medical College. In San Francisco, he served as the \"superintendent of young people's work\" for the church's California conference and the president of a local Medical Missionary society. The couple also operated a home for Christian medical students. In 1904, they returned to the Midwest, where they attended medical school, each earning a Doctor of Medicine degree two years later. Sadler was an early adopter of Freudian psychoanalysis, and believed that experiences individuals have as infants play a key role in their minds as adults, although he did not accept many of Freud's ideas about sexuality or religion.\n\nAlthough Sadler was a committed Adventist for much of his early life, he stayed less involved after John Kellogg was excommunicated in 1907 in the wake of a conflict with Ellen G. White, the church's founder. The Sadlers became disenchanted with the church and subsequently criticized it. Sadler rejected some Adventist teachings, such as White's status as a prophetess and the importance of Saturday as Sabbath. He retained a positive view of White and rejected allegations that she was a charlatan.\nBy 1912, Sadler and his wife, both doctors by then, operated a joint practice in Chicago that catered to children's and women's health issues. Sadler initially focused on surgery, performing surgeries with his wife, but widened his practice to include psychiatric counseling in 1930 and became a consulting psychiatrist at Columbus Hospital. As a psychiatrist, Sadler advocated an eclectic mix of techniques, applying the theories of Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, Alfred Adler, and Adolf Meyer. Sadler believed that religious faith was beneficial to mental health, and specifically promoted prayer, which he believed to be most effective in the context of Christian faith. However, he thought that religious beliefs were deleterious to mental health if based on fear.\n\nSadler and his wife moved into an Art Nouveau-style house—the first steel-frame residence in Chicago—on Diversey Parkway in 1912. The couple operated their medical practice in the building. He was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of medical associations including the American Medical Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the American Pathological Society, and the American College of Surgeons. Sadler was also a member of the faculty of McCormick Theological Seminary, and taught pastoral psychology. He argued that pastors should be educated in basic psychiatry so they could recognize symptoms of mental illness in congregants. His students later recalled him as an engaging and humorous public speaker.\n\nSadler wrote about many topics. In 1909, he published his first book, an evangelical work, titled \"Self-Winning Texts, or Bible Helps for Personal Work\". In the 1910s, he regularly worked all night on his writing projects. In addition to 42 books, most of which were about personal health issues, he wrote magazine articles. Many of Sadler's books focused on popular self-help topics; historian Jonathan Spiro deems Sadler's \"The Elements of Pep\" a \"quintessential book of the 1920s\". In 1936, Sadler published \"Theory and Practice of Psychiatry\", a 1,200-page work in which he attempted to provide a comprehensive outline of psychiatry.\n\nSadler also wrote about race: he had an interest in eugenics, likely owing to Kellogg's interest in the concept, and Madison Grant's book \"The Passing of the Great Race\". Sadler wrote several works about eugenics, endorsing and heavily borrowing from Grant's views, which posited that the \"Nordic race\" was superior to others. In his writings, Sadler contended that some races were at a lower stage of evolution—closer to Neanderthals than were other races—and were consequently less civilized and more aggressive. Sadler argued that alcoholism and \"feeblemindedness, insanity, and delinquency\" were hereditary traits and that those who possessed them were breeding at a much faster rate than \"superior human beings\". He feared that this issue could threaten the \"civilization we bequeath our descendants\". He also believed that the majority of criminals were mentally ill.\n\nIn 1907, Sadler began giving lectures on the Chautauqua adult-education circuit, which featured itinerant speakers discussing self-help and morality. Sadler often spoke about attaining physical and mental health without drugs. He also promoted hydrotherapy and discussed moral issues that related to men. Sadler, his wife, her sister, and a friend, formed a four-member lecture company that gave two- or three-day engagements, sometimes accompanied by an orchestra. Newspapers published favorable reviews of the productions. The lectures proved to be a lucrative endeavor: it was rumored that he became one of the best-paid Chautauqua speakers.\n\nSadler believed that mediums were a source of false comfort and, after World War I ended, fought against the increased popularity of communication with the dead. In the 1910s and 1920s, attempting to expose purported clairvoyants became one of Sadler's favorite pastimes and he regularly worked with a Northwestern University psychologist and Howard Thurston, then a prominent magician, while investigating psychics. Sadler may have met the magician Harry Houdini (who was also a skeptic) around this time.\n\nAccording to the origin story of \"The Urantia Book\", sometime between 1906 and 1911, a woman consulted Sadler about her husband's deep sleeping, prompting Sadler to observe him while he slept. He noticed that the sleeping man made unusual movements; the man then purportedly spoke to Sadler in an unusual voice and claimed to be a \"visitor ... from another planet\". Observers related that the man later claimed to carry messages from several celestial beings. Sadler suspected that the man's words were drawn from his mind and sought a scientific explanation for the phenomenon. Although he examined the man for psychiatric problems, he was unable to make a satisfactory diagnosis. Sadler and five others subsequently visited the man on a regular basis, speaking with him as he slept. In 1925, a large handwritten document was discovered in the patient's house; papers were said to appear in the house for years afterwards. Sadler brought the papers to his house and did not allow anyone to take them away, although some were allowed to read them on site. Sadler presumed that the documents were the product of automatic handwriting from the man's subconscious, but changed his mind after further analysis. He made no public statements about their authenticity for years.\n\nIn 1924, Sadler began hosting Sunday tea gatherings at his home, which could accommodate fifty guests. Many attendees worked in the medical establishment, and typically adhered to a progressive ideology. The group often held a forum to discuss the patient with the sleep issue and devise questions for him. The observers withheld the man's name from the group, but relayed some of his statements. In 1925, the forum, which then had thirty members, closed their meetings to visitors and began to require a pledge of secrecy. Sadler instructed forum members not to publicize what they learned, telling them that they had an incomplete picture of what was occurring. He also feared that the patient would face criticism if his identity were known. His identity has never been confirmed; Joscelyn Godwin, of Colgate University, and skeptic Martin Gardner posit that the sleeping man was Wilfred Kellogg, the husband of Lena's sister Anna.\n\nIn 1935, Sadler concluded that the papers found in the sleeping patient's house were not a hoax, citing their \"genuineness and insight\", and arguing that the sleeping man was not a medium for the dead, but was used by living beings to communicate. Papers ceased appearing in the sleeping man's house in the 1930s; Sadler then took a clear role as leader of the discussion group. The forum discontinued their discussion meetings in 1942, and \"The Urantia Book\" was published in 1955; it purportedly contained information from the celestial beings who had spoken through the sleeping man. \"The Urantia Book\" presents itself as the fifth \"epochal\" revelation God has given to humanity, and states that its purpose is to help humanity evolve to a higher form of life. It has four sections. The first section covers the nature of God and the universe, the second describes the portions of the universe nearest to Earth and Lucifer's rebellion, the third details the history of Earth and human religions, and the fourth provides an account of Jesus's life and accompanying doctrines. Sadler maintained that the teachings of the book were \"essentially Christian\" and \"entirely harmonious with ... known scientific facts\". Although Sadler had left the Adventist church by the time \"The Urantia Book\" was published, its teachings are broadly consistent with some aspects of Adventist theology, such as soul sleep and annihilationism. Journalist Brook Wilensky-Lanford argues in her 2011 profile of the Urantia movement that Sadler's departure from the Adventist church gave him the desire to build a new religious movement, citing the emphasis that Sadler placed on the discussion of the Garden of Eden in \"The Urantia Book\" as evidence of his desire to start anew. Sadler hoped that the content of the revelation would convince people of its worth, and did not attempt to win supporters by emphasizing its author. Wilensky-Lanford argues that Sadler attempted to avoid placing an individual at the center of his beliefs owing to his disappointment in Ellen White; however, Gardner believes that Sadler placed his faith in Wilfred Kellogg as he had in White.\n\nUntil her death in 1939, Sadler's wife Lena was a regular forum participant. One member subsequently objected to Sadler's leadership, alleging that he became hungry for power after his wife's death. In the early 1950s, the Urantia Foundation was established to publish \"The Urantia Book\". Hubert Wilkins, a friend of Sadler who had a keen interest in the book, contributed the initial funding for publication costs. Rather than create an organized religion, the foundation's leadership opted for what they called \"slow growth\"; early adherents sought to educate people about the book's teachings rather than found a church-like organization. Sadler also disavowed proselytizing and publicity, although he wrote several works about the content of \"The Urantia Book\". In 1958, Sadler published a defense of the book, citing his experience exposing frauds and maintaining that the book was free of contradictions. Since his death, several reading groups, seminars, and churches have been established to study the book and to spread its message.\n\nThe authorship of the Urantia papers is disputed. Journalist Brad Gooch argues in his 2002 profile of the Urantia movement that Sadler was the author of \"The Urantia Book\", citing similarities between some of its passages and contents of Sadler's earlier writings. Gardner believes that Sadler wrote part of the papers, but heavily edited and revised most of them. He also contends that Sadler refused to include some material provided to him for inclusion in the book, and that he plagiarized from other works. Ken Glasziou, a supporter of the Urantia Foundation, contends that statistical evidence of the text and Sadler's other works indicates that he did not write, or extensively edit, \"The Urantia Book\".\n\nIn 1952, Sadler's final book, \"Courtship and Love\", was published by Macmillan Publishers. He wrote another title, \"A Doctor Talks With His Patient\", but after it was rejected by a publisher, he decided to stop writing. In March 1957, Sadler was appointed as the superintendent of Barboursville State Hospital in Barboursville, West Virginia, where he stayed until July 1958.\n\nAs he grew older, Sadler generally remained in good health, with the exception of a condition that led to the removal of an eye. He died on April 26, 1969, at 93 years of age. Christensen recalls that Sadler was visited by friends and family while on his deathbed; he spoke to them of his confidence in a joyful life after death. He received a full-column obituary in the \"Chicago Tribune\", which discussed his success as a doctor but not his association with \"The Urantia Book\".. He was cremated, Ashes scattered, Specifically: Chapel at Graceland Cemetery in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nBy the time of his death, Sadler was acclaimed for his accurate prediction of the advent of organ transplantation decades before the practice became commonplace. Members of the Urantia movement have also held high opinions of Sadler, sometimes idolizing him. In her 2003 profile of the Urantia movement, Lewis states that descriptions of Sadler by members of the movement could suggest that he possessed charismatic authority and is revered as \"the chosen\". Gooch deems Sadler the \"Moses of the Urantia movement\" and casts him as \"one of America's homegrown religious leaders, an original along the lines of Joseph Smith\". He also applauds Sadler's writings about mediums, describing Sadler's book \"The Truth About Spiritualism\" as \"one of the strongest attacks ever written on fraudulent mediums and their methods\".\n\nGooch believes there is a contradiction between Sadler's advocacy of science and reason and his support of the avant-garde theological, \"inter-planetary\" contents of \"The Urantia Book\". Gardner describes Sadler's life story as \"riveting\" and summarizes him as an \"intelligent, gifted\" person who proved to be \"gullible\" about alleged supernatural revelations. He contends that Sadler eventually developed megalomania that was unrecognized by those around him and argues that Sadler succumbed to hubris and began to believe that he was a prophet, divinely chosen as the founder and leader of a new religion. Lewis disputes this characterization, maintaining that Sadler and those around him sought only to clarify and explain the teachings of the Bible.\n\n\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\nNewspapers\n\n"}
{"id": "2113996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2113996", "title": "Nikolaus Poda von Neuhaus", "text": "Nikolaus Poda von Neuhaus\n\nNikolaus Poda von Neuhaus (4 October 1723 – 29 April 1798) was an Austrian entomologist. He was born and died in Vienna.\n\nVon Neuhaus was the author of \"Insecta Musei Graecensis\" (1761), the first purely entomological work to follow the binomial nomenclature of Carl Linnaeus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114022", "title": "Belinda Clark", "text": "Belinda Clark\n\nBelinda Jane Clark (born 10 September 1970) is an Australian former international cricketer, who played international cricket for Australian women's national team from 1991 to 2005. She was the first ever batsman to score a double century in a women's One Day International when she scored 229* against Denmark women's team in 1997 World Cup, until recently as the record was broken on 13 June 2018 by Amelia Kerr of New Zealand who scored 232* against Ireland. She was inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nClark captained the Australian women's cricket team from 1994 to her retirement in 2005. In 1998 Clark was named \"Wisden Australia\" Cricketer of the Year., and has captained the Australian women's Test side since 1994. She was also chief executive of Women's Cricket Australia. Clark played one Women's Twenty20 International and 89 Women's National Cricket League matches.\n\nOn 16 September 2005, Clark announced her retirement after playing in 118 one-day internationals and 15 Tests. She holds Australia's record for Test and ODI runs and also for ODI appearances.\n\nAfter her retirement, Clark took on a new role as manager of the Australian Cricket Academy in Brisbane.\n\nShe was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia in the Australia Day honours list in January 2000, \"for service to cricket, particularly through the Australian Women's Cricket Team, and to the promotion and development of the game for women and girls.\" In 2018 Clark was made an Officer of the Order of Australia for \"distinguished service to cricket as a player, captain and administrator, through support for national and international professional councils, and as a role model for young sportswomen\".\n\nClark was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nClark became the first female player inducted into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame during the 2014 Allan Border Medal ceremony.\n\nClark was manager of the National Cricket Centre in Brisbane. There she oversaw not only the development of the Southern Stars but an increasing level of interaction, communication and shared training among male and female cricketers at the top level. As of 2018, Clark is now the Executive General Manager of Game and Market Development at Cricket Australia.\n\nIn 2018, Clark was named an Officer of the Order of Australia for \"distinguished service to cricket as a player, captain and administrator, through support for national and international professional councils, and as a role model for young sportswomen\". In October 2019 she was named winner of the Arts, Culture and Sport category in \"The Australian Financial Review's\" 100 Women of Influence awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114027", "title": "History of psychiatry", "text": "History of psychiatry\n\nSpecialty in psychiatry can be traced in Ancient India. The oldest texts on psychiatry include the ayurvedic text, Charaka Samhita. Some of the first hospitals for curing mental illness were established during the 3rd century BCE.\n\nDuring the 5th century BCE, mental disorders, especially those with psychotic traits, were considered supernatural in origin, a view which existed throughout ancient Greece and Rome. The beginning of psychiatry as a medical specialty is dated to the middle of the nineteenth century, although one may trace its germination to the late eighteenth century.\n\nSome of the early manuals about mental disorders were created by the Greeks. In the 4th century BCE, Hippocrates theorized that physiological abnormalities may be the root of mental disorders. In 4th- to 5th-century BCE Greece, Hippocrates wrote that he visited Democritus and found him in his garden cutting open animals. Democritus explained that he was attempting to discover the cause of madness and melancholy. Hippocrates praised his work. Democritus had with him a book on madness and melancholy.\n\nReligious leaders often turned to versions of exorcism to treat mental disorders, often utilizing methods that many consider to be cruel and/or barbaric.\n\nA number of hospitals known as \"bimaristans\" were built throughout Arab countries beginning around the early 9th century, with the first in Baghdad. They sometimes contained wards for mentally ill patients, typically those who exhibited violence or suffered from debilitating chronic illness. \n\nPhysicians who wrote on mental disorders and their treatment in the Medieval Islamic period included Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi (Rhazes), the Arab physician Najab ud-din Muhammad, and Abu Ali al-Hussain ibn Abdallah ibn Sina, known in the West as Avicenna.\n\nSpecialist hospitals were built in medieval Europe from the 13th century to treat mental disorders but were utilized only as custodial institutions and did not provide any type of treatment.\n\nFounded in the 13th century, Bethlem Royal Hospital in London was one of the oldest lunatic asylums. In the late 17th century, privately run asylums for the insane began to proliferate and expand in size. Already in 1632 it was recorded that Bethlem Royal Hospital, London had \"below stairs a parlor, a kitchen, two larders, a long entry throughout the house, and 21 rooms wherein the poor distracted people lie, and above the stairs eight rooms more for servants and the poor to lie in\". Inmates who were deemed dangerous or disturbing were chained, but Bethlem was an otherwise open building for its inhabitants to roam around its confines and possibly throughout the general neighborhood in which the hospital was situated. In 1676, Bethlem expanded into newly built premises at Moorfields with a capacity for 100 inmates.\n\nIn 1713 the Bethel Hospital Norwich was opened, the first purpose-built asylum in England, founded by Mary Chapman.\n\nIn 1621, Oxford University mathematician, astrologer, and scholar Robert Burton published one of the earliest treatises on mental illness, \"The Anatomy of Melancholy, What it is: With all the Kinds, Causes, Symptomes, Prognostickes, and Several Cures of it. In Three Maine Partitions with their several Sections, Members, and Subsections. Philosophically, Medicinally, Historically, Opened and Cut Up\". Burton thought that there was \"no greater cause of melancholy than idleness, no better cure than business.\" Unlike English philosopher of science Francis Bacon, Burton argued that knowledge of the mind, not natural science, is humankind's greatest need.\n\nIn 1656, Louis XIV of France created a public system of hospitals for those suffering from mental disorders, but as in England, no real treatment was applied.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment attitudes towards the mentally ill began to change. It came to be viewed as a disorder that required compassionate treatment that would aid in the rehabilitation of the victim. In 1758 English physician William Battie wrote his \"Treatise on Madness\" on the management of mental disorder. It was a critique aimed particularly at the Bethlem Hospital, where a conservative regime continued to use barbaric custodial treatment. Battie argued for a tailored management of patients entailing cleanliness, good food, fresh air, and distraction from friends and family. He argued that mental disorder originated from dysfunction of the material brain and body rather than the internal workings of the mind. Exorcisms and other methods such as trephining weren't common \n\nThirty years later, then ruling monarch in England George III was known to be suffering from a mental disorder. Following the King's remission in 1789, mental illness came to be seen as something which could be treated and cured. The introduction of moral treatment was initiated independently by the French doctor Philippe Pinel and the English Quaker William Tuke.\n\nIn 1792 Pinel became the chief physician at the Bicêtre Hospital. In 1797, Jean-Baptiste Pussin first freed patients of their chains and banned physical punishment, although straitjackets could be used instead.\n\nPatients were allowed to move freely about the hospital grounds, and eventually dark dungeons were replaced with sunny, well-ventilated rooms. Pussin and Pinel's approach was seen as remarkably successful and they later brought similar reforms to a mental hospital in Paris for female patients, La Salpetrière. Pinel's student and successor, Jean Esquirol (1772–1840), went on to help establish 10 new mental hospitals that operated on the same principles. There was an emphasis on the selection and supervision of attendants in order to establish a suitable setting to facilitate psychological work, and particularly on the employment of ex-patients as they were thought most likely to refrain from inhumane treatment while being able to stand up to pleading, menaces, or complaining.\nWilliam Tuke led the development of a radical new type of institution in northern England, following the death of a fellow Quaker in a local asylum in 1790. In 1796, with the help of fellow Quakers and others, he founded the York Retreat, where eventually about 30 patients lived as part of a small community in a quiet country house and engaged in a combination of rest, talk, and manual work. Rejecting medical theories and techniques, the efforts of the York Retreat centered around minimizing restraints and cultivating rationality and moral strength. The entire Tuke family became known as founders of moral treatment.\n\nWilliam Tuke's grandson, Samuel Tuke, published an influential work in the early 19th century on the methods of the retreat; Pinel's \"Treatise On Insanity\" had by then been published, and Samuel Tuke translated his term as \"moral treatment\". Tuke's Retreat became a model throughout the world for humane and moral treatment of patients suffering from mental disorders. The York Retreat inspired similar institutions in the United States, most notably the Brattleboro Retreat and the Hartford Retreat (now The Institute of Living).\n\nAlthough Tuke, Pinel and others had tried to do away with physical restraint, it remained widespread into the 19th century. At the Lincoln Asylum in England, Robert Gardiner Hill, with the support of Edward Parker Charlesworth, pioneered a mode of treatment that suited \"all types\" of patients, so that mechanical restraints and coercion could be dispensed with — a situation he finally achieved in 1838. In 1839 Sergeant John Adams and Dr. John Conolly were impressed by the work of Hill, and introduced the method into their Hanwell Asylum, by then the largest in the country. Hill's system was adapted, since Conolly was unable to supervise each attendant as closely as Hill had done. By September 1839, mechanical restraint was no longer required for any patient.\n\nScotland's Edinburgh medical school of the eighteenth century developed an interest in mental illness, with influential teachers including William Cullen (1710–1790) and Robert Whytt (1714–1766) emphasising the clinical importance of psychiatric disorders. In 1816, the phrenologist Johann Spurzheim (1776–1832) visited Edinburgh and lectured on his craniological and phrenological concepts; the central concepts of the system were that the brain is the organ of the mind and that human behaviour can be usefully understood in neurological rather than philosophical or religious terms. Phrenologists also laid stress on the modularity of mind.\n\nSome of the medical students, including William A. F. Browne (1805–1885), responded very positively to this materialist conception of the nervous system and, by implication, of mental disorder. George Combe (1788–1858), an Edinburgh solicitor, became an unrivaled exponent of phrenological thinking, and his brother, Andrew Combe (1797–1847), who was later appointed a physician to Queen Victoria, wrote a phrenological treatise entitled \"Observations on Mental Derangement\" (1831). They also founded the Edinburgh Phrenological Society in 1820.\n\nThe modern era of providing care for the mentally ill began in the early 19th century with a large state-led effort. Public mental asylums were established in Britain after the passing of the 1808 County Asylums Act. This empowered magistrates to build rate-supported asylums in every county to house the many 'pauper lunatics'. Nine counties first applied, and the first public asylum opened in 1812 in Nottinghamshire. Parliamentary Committees were established to investigate abuses at private madhouses like Bethlem Hospital - its officers were eventually dismissed and national attention was focused on the routine use of bars, chains and handcuffs and the filthy conditions the inmates lived in. However, it was not until 1828 that the newly appointed Commissioners in Lunacy were empowered to license and supervise private asylums.\nThe Lunacy Act 1845 was an important landmark in the treatment of the mentally ill, as it explicitly changed the status of mentally ill people to patients who required treatment. The Act created the Lunacy Commission, headed by Lord Shaftesbury, to focus on lunacy legislation reform. The Commission was made up of eleven Metropolitan Commissioners who were required to carry out the provisions of the Act; the compulsory construction of asylums in every county, with regular inspections on behalf of the Home Secretary. All asylums were required to have written regulations and to have a resident qualified physician. A national body for asylum superintendents - the \"Medico-Psychological Association\" - was established in 1866 under the Presidency of William A. F. Browne, although the body appeared in an earlier form in 1841.\n\nIn 1838, France enacted a law to regulate both the admissions into asylums and asylum services across the country. Édouard Séguin developed a systematic approach for training individuals with mental deficiencies, and, in 1839, he opened the first school for the severely retarded. His method of treatment was based on the assumption that the mentally deficient did not suffer from disease.\n\nIn the United States, the erection of state asylums began with the first law for the creation of one in New York, passed in 1842. The Utica State Hospital was opened approximately in 1850. The creation of this hospital, as of many others, was largely the work of Dorothea Lynde Dix, whose philanthropic efforts extended over many states, and in Europe as far as Constantinople. Many state hospitals in the United States were built in the 1850s and 1860s on the Kirkbride Plan, an architectural style meant to have curative effect.\n\nAt the turn of the century, England and France combined had only a few hundred individuals in asylums. By the late 1890s and early 1900s, this number had risen to the hundreds of thousands. However, the idea that mental illness could be ameliorated through institutionalization was soon disappointed. Psychiatrists were pressured by an ever-increasing patient population. The average number of patients in asylums kept on growing. Asylums were quickly becoming almost indistinguishable from custodial institutions, and the reputation of psychiatry in the medical world had hit an extreme low.\n\nIn the early 1800s, psychiatry made advances in the diagnosis of mental illness by broadening the category of mental disease to include mood disorders, in addition to disease level delusion or irrationality. IThe term psychiatry (Greek \"ψυχιατρική\", \"psychiatrikē\") which comes from the Greek \"ψυχή\" (\"psychē\": \"soul or mind\") and \"ιατρός\" (\"iatros\": \"healer\") was coined by Johann Christian Reil in 1808. Jean-Étienne Dominique Esquirol, a student of Pinel, defined lypemania as an 'affective monomania' (excessive attention to a single thing). This was an early diagnosis of depression. \n\nIn 1870 Louis Mayer, a gynecologist in Germany, cured a woman's \"melancholia\" using a pessary: \"It relieved her physical problems and many severe disorders of mood ... application of a Mayer Ring improved her quite considerably.\" According to \"The American Journal of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children\" Mayer reportedly decried the \"neglect of the investigation of the relations between mental and sexual diseases of women in German insane hospitals\".\n\nThe 20th century introduced a new psychiatry into the world. Different perspectives of looking at mental disorders began to be introduced. The career of Emil Kraepelin reflects the convergence of different disciplines in psychiatry. Kraepelin initially was very attracted to psychology and ignored the ideas of anatomical psychiatry. Following his appointment to a professorship of psychiatry and his work in a university psychiatric clinic, Kraepelin's interest in pure psychology began to fade and he introduced a plan for a more comprehensive psychiatry. Kraepelin began to study and promote the ideas of disease classification for mental disorders, an idea introduced by Karl Ludwig Kahlbaum. The initial ideas behind biological psychiatry, stating that the different mental disorders were all biological in nature, evolved into a new concept of \"nerves\" and psychiatry became a rough approximation of neurology and neuropsychiatry. However, Kraepelin was criticized for considering schizophrenia as a biological illness in the absence of any detectable histologic or anatomic abnormalities. While Kraepelin tried to find organic causes of mental illness, he adopted many theses of positivist medicine, but he favoured the precision of nosological classification over the indefiniteness of etiological causation as his basic mode of psychiatric explanation.\n\nFollowing Sigmund Freud's pioneering work, ideas stemming from psychoanalytic theory also began to take root in psychiatry. The psychoanalytic theory became popular among psychiatrists because it allowed the patients to be treated in private practices instead of warehoused in asylums. Freud resisted subjecting his theories to scientific testing and verification, as did his followers. As evidence-based investigations in cognitive psychology led to treatments like cognitive behavioral therapy, many of Freud's ideas appeared to be unsupported or contradicted by evidence. By the 1970s, the psychoanalytic school of thought had become marginalized within the field.\nBiological psychiatry reemerged during this time. Psychopharmacology became an integral part of psychiatry starting with Otto Loewi's discovery of the neuromodulatory properties of acetylcholine; thus identifying it as the first-known neurotransmitter. Neuroimaging was first utilized as a tool for psychiatry in the 1980s. The discovery of chlorpromazine's effectiveness in treating schizophrenia in 1952 revolutionized treatment of the disorder, as did lithium carbonate's ability to stabilize mood highs and lows in bipolar disorder in 1948. Psychotherapy was still utilized, but as a treatment for psychosocial issues. In the 1920s and 1930s, most asylum and academic psychiatrists in Europe believed that manic depressive disorder and schizophrenia were inherited, but in the decades after World War II, the conflation of genetics with Nazi racist ideology thoroughly discredited genetics.\n\nNow genetics are once again thought by some prominent researchers to play a large role in mental illness. The genetic and heritable proportion of the cause of five major psychiatric disorders found in family and twin studies is 81% for schizophrenia, 80% for autism spectrum disorder, 75% for bipolar disorder, 75% for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and 37% for major depressive disorder. Geneticist is quoted as saying \"Genes are not destiny, they may give an individual a pre-disposition toward a disorder, for example, but that only means they are more likely than others to have it. It (mental illness) is not a certainty.” Molecular biology opened the door for specific genes contributing to mental disorders to be identified.\n\n\"\" (1961), written by sociologist Erving Goffman, examined the social situation of mental patients in the hospital. Based on his participant observation field work, the book developed the theory of the \"total institution\" and the process by which it takes efforts to maintain predictable and regular behavior on the part of both \"guard\" and \"captor\". The book suggested that many of the features of such institutions serve the ritual function of ensuring that both classes of people know their function and social role, in other words of \"institutionalizing\" them. \"Asylums\" was a key text in the development of deinstitutionalisation. At the same time, academic psychiatrist and psychoanalyst Thomas Szasz began publishing articles and books that were highly critical of psychiatry and involuntary treatment, including his best-known work The Myth of Mental Illness in 1961.\n\nIn 1963, US president John F. Kennedy introduced legislation delegating the National Institute of Mental Health to administer Community Mental Health Centers for those being discharged from state psychiatric hospitals. Later, though, the Community Mental Health Centers focus shifted to providing psychotherapy for those suffering from acute but less serious mental disorders. Ultimately there were no arrangements made for actively following and treating severely mentally ill patients who were being discharged from hospitals. Some of those suffering from mental disorders drifted into homelessness or ended up in prisons and jails. Studies found that 33% of the homeless population and 14% of inmates in prisons and jails were already diagnosed with a mental illness.\n\nIn 1973, psychologist David Rosenhan published the Rosenhan experiment, a study with results that led to questions about the validity of psychiatric diagnoses. Critics such as Robert Spitzer placed doubt on the validity and credibility of the study, but did concede that the consistency of psychiatric diagnoses needed improvement.\n\nPsychiatry, like most medical specialties, has a continuing, significant need for research into its diseases, classifications and treatments. Psychiatry adopts biology's fundamental belief that disease and health are different elements of an individual's adaptation to an environment. But psychiatry also recognizes that the environment of the human species is complex and includes physical, cultural, and interpersonal elements. In addition to external factors, the human brain must contain and organize an individual's hopes, fears, desires, fantasies and feelings. Psychiatry's difficult task is to bridge the understanding of these factors so that they can be studied both clinically and physiologically.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114035", "title": "Sanmenxia", "text": "Sanmenxia\n\nSanmenxia (; postal: Sanmenhsia) is a prefecture-level city in the west of Henan Province, China. The westernmost prefecture-level city in Henan, Sanmenxia borders Luoyang to the east, Nanyang to the southeast, Shaanxi Province to the west and Shanxi Province to the north. The city lies on the south side of the Yellow River at the point where the river cuts through the Loess Plateau on its way to the North China Plain.\n\nIt was home to 2,234,018 inhabitants at the 2010 census whom 583,869 lived in the built-up area made of Hubin urban district and Pinglu County in neighboring Shanxi, now within the agglomeration.\n\nThe city's name in Chinese () means \"The Gorge of Three Gateways\" and is derived from two islands that split the Yellow River into three parts.\n\nAccording to Chinese mythology, Yu the Great used a divine axe to cut the mountain ridge three times, creating the Sanmenxia gorges to prevent massive flooding. The three \"\"men\"\" or gates were then named \"The Gateway of Man\" (), \"The Gateway of Gods\" () and \"The Gateway of Devils\" ().\n\nWith the construction of the Sanmenxia Dam in the late 1950s, the ancient passes were flooded.\n\nDuring the Western Zhou Dynasty, Sanmenxia was part of the territory of the State of Western Guo, ruled by relatives of the ruling Ji family of Zhou. Guo moved its capital from modern day Baoji to Shangyang (), next to Sanmenxia. Later, this territory was annexed the State of Jin.\n\nArchaeological finds near Sanmenxia between 1956 and 1991 revealed mass chariot graves and bronzeware of Western Guo State rulers. Furthermore, the archaeological site “Shihao Section of Xiaohan Ancient Road”, an excavated pathway that is recognized by UNESCO as part of the world heritage site “”, is also located in Sanmenxia.\n\nSanmenxia is located in western Henan on the southern (right) bank of the Yellow River, and is surrounded on three sides by mountains, with elevations generally increasing from northeast to southwest. Most of the prefecture is at an altitude of , although the highest peak in the province, at , is located in Lingbao. The prefecture is at the intersection of Henan, Shanxi, and Shaanxi provinces, bordering Luoyang to the east, Nanyang to the south, Weinan (Shaanxi) to the west, and Yuncheng (Shanxi) to the north across the Yellow River.\n\nSanmenxia has a mostly dry, monsoon-influenced continental climate with four seasons. Winters are moderately cold and very dry, while summers are hot and humid. Monthly daily average temperatures range from in January to in July, and the annual mean is . More than half of the annual precipitation falls from July to September. There are between 184 and 218 frost-free days per annum. In the Köppen system, the city is in the transition zone between a humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cwa\") and humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dwa\"), and receives barely enough precipitation to avoid being semi-arid (Köppen \"BSk\").\n\nThe prefecture-level city of Sanmenxia administers two districts, two county-level cities and two counties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114042", "title": "List of television stations in Indiana", "text": "List of television stations in Indiana\n\nThis is a list of broadcast television stations serving cities in the U.S. state of Indiana.\n\nVC refers to the station's PSIP virtual channel. RF refers to the station's physical RF channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114044", "title": "Rupert Wildt", "text": "Rupert Wildt\n\nRupert Wildt (; June 25, 1905 – January 9, 1976) was a German-American astronomer.\n\nHe was born in Munich, Germany, and grew up in that country during World War I and its aftermath. In 1927 he was awarded a Ph.D. from the University of Berlin. He joined the University of Göttingen, specializing in the properties of atmospheres.\n\nIn 1932 he studied the spectra of Jupiter, and other outer planets, and identified certain absorption bands as belonging to the hydrogen-rich compounds of methane and ammonia. The composition appeared consistent with a composition similar to the sun and other stars.\n\nAssuming that the atmosphere was composed of these gases, during the 1940s and 1950s he constructed a model of the structure of these planets. He believed the core of the planets is solid and composed of a mixture of rock and metal, covered by a thick outer shell of ice, overlaid by a dense atmosphere. His model is still widely accepted.\n\nIn 1934 he emigrated to the United States, and became a research assistant at Princeton University from 1937 until 1942. He then became an assistant professor at the University of Virginia until 1947, before joining the faculty of the Yale University.\n\nIn 1937 he proposed that the atmosphere of Venus was composed of a mist of formaldehyde. His observations of the atmosphere did not find any water at the time, but later balloon-based measurements did show water in the atmosphere and so his proposal was abandoned. In 1940, however, he also hypothesized that the carbon dioxide in the Venusian atmosphere trapped heat , a phenomenon later called the greenhouse effect.\n\nIn 1939 he demonstrated that the major source of optical opacity in the Sun's atmosphere is the H ion, and thus the main source of visible light for the Sun and stars.\n\nFrom 1965 until 1968 he was president of the \"Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy\". In the period 1966-1968 he also held the post of the chairman of the department of astronomy at Yale, and from 1973 until his death he was professor emeritus. He died in Orleans, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114054", "title": "Alfred B. Meacham", "text": "Alfred B. Meacham\n\nAlfred Benjamin Meacham (1826–1882) was an American Methodist minister, reformer, author and historian, who served as the U.S. Superintendent of Indian Affairs for Oregon (1869–1872). He became a proponent of American Indian interests in the Northwest, including Northern California. Appointed in 1873 as chairman of the Modoc Peace Commission, he was severely wounded during a surprise attack on April 11 by warriors, but saved from death by Toby Riddle (\"Winema\"), a Modoc interpreter.\n\nMeacham continued to work for justice for American Indians. He wrote a lecture-play about the Modoc War, and made a national tour with Modoc and Klamath representatives in 1874–1875. He helped represent American Indian tribes to Washington officials, and testified about relocation issues to Congress. In 1880 he served on the Ute Commission. Meacham published two books about the war. The reformer Wendell Phillips wrote the introduction to the first book, and Meacham dedicated the second and named it for Winema Riddle.\n\nMeacham was born on April 29, 1826 in Orange County, Indiana, where his parents Anderson Meacham and Lucinda Wasson had moved from North Carolina because of their objection to slavery. When he was still a child, the family moved further west to Iowa, where he came to know people of the Sauk and Fox tribes. In Indiana and Iowa he was educated in the common schools.\n\nIn 1844, he worked with others hired to assist with the Sauk and Fox removal 100 miles to the west across the Mississippi River, and saw their grief. He realized they would never voluntarily have left \"the graves of their fathers.\"\n\nMeacham married Orpha Caroline Ferree (1827–1888) in Brighton, Iowa, on October 28, 1852. She had also been born in Indiana. He had returned from working in California to marry her. They traveled together back to the West Coast by way of New Orleans and the Isthmus of Panama. They had three children together: Clara B., b. 1855, who married Dr. J. N. Prather of Iowa; George F., b. 1856, who married Lucia M. Mills of Seattle, Washington, where he moved as an adult; and Nellie Francis, b. 1859, who married Charley Troup (died of tuberculosis) and later Colonel J. W. Redington of Walla Walla, Washington.\n\nAs a young man, Meacham went to California in 1850 trying to find gold during the gold rush. After his marriage in Iowa, he returned with his wife Orpha to California, where they lived in Solano County for a time.\n\nIn 1863 they went to Washington Territory, east of the Cascade Mountains in eastern Washington, near Walla Walla in the Blue Mountains. He worked at mining and farming. This area was in present-day northeast Oregon. The future Umatilla Indian Reservation was established near present-day Meacham.\n\nMeacham became a prominent figure in Oregon politics; its delegation supported him for Superintendent of Indian Affairs in Oregon in 1866. At the time, Andrew Johnson was president, and his administration learned that Meacham did not support him. His nomination to office was not supported.\n\nHe supported Ulysses S. Grant in the presidential election of 1868. Under Grant's Peace Policy (also called the Quaker Policy) to appoint clergy rather than military to administer U.S. Indian affairs, Meacham was appointed in 1869 as U.S. Superintendent of Indian Affairs for Oregon. He was instrumental in trying to bring peace to the Klamath Reservation, where the Modoc had been relocated. They complained of harassment by their traditional enemies, the Klamath.\n\nA Modoc band left the reservation to return to Northern California and their traditional territory. Meacham recognized their problems with the Klamath and recommended to the Commission of Indian Affairs (CIA) that a sub-agency be set up for them at the southern border at Yainax. The Department of Interior never acted on his recommendation, and the problems increased.\n\nMany settlers continued to complain about the Modoc, who did more raiding during the winter because the U.S. government did not provide them with adequate supplies. In early 1872, during the crisis, T.B. Odeneal was appointed as U.S. Superintendent of Indian Affairs in Oregon, replacing Meacham. He \"knew almost nothing of the background of the situation and had never met Jack or the Modocs\" but was charged with \"getting the Modocs to leave Lost River.\" In turn, Odeneal appointed a new U.S. Indian agent, who was also unfamiliar with the parties and conditions. They turned to military solutions, trying to force the Modoc back to Oregon, and the Modoc War started in 1872.\n\nIn the spring of 1873, Meacham was drawn back into the conflict when he was appointed as chairman of the Modoc Peace Commission to try to end the Modoc War. The government believed his knowledge of Captain Jack would be useful, but Meacham refused to participate unless assured that Odeneal would not be on the commission. He was distressed that the issues with the Modoc had resulted in war. Although severely injured in 1873 when Modoc warriors attacked the peace commissioners, Meacham was saved from being killed by \"Winema\" (Toby) Riddle, a bilingual Modoc woman who served as a U.S. interpreter. She yelled that soldiers were coming and interrupted the warriors, who fled. Meacham recovered and continued to work to improve conditions for the Modoc and other American Indians.,\n\nMeacham wrote a lecture-play, \"The Tragedy of the Lava Beds,\" about the war. He arranged a national speaking tour for Winema and her husband Frank Riddle (who took their son Charka with them), as well as other Modoc and Klamath tribal representatives. He wanted to inform Americans about the issues related to the Modoc War and Indian relocation in general. In 1874, Meacham and the delegation spoke before a group organized by the social activist and reformer Wendell Phillips. In 1875, the delegation addressed Alfred Henry Love's Universal Peace Union in Philadelphia and a meeting of Peter Cooper's U.S. Indian Commission in New York City.\n\nIn 1879, Meacham brought Chief Joseph and other Nez Perce to Washington, D.C., to speak to government officials. During the administration of Rutherford B. Hayes, Meacham served on the 1880 Ute Commission with George W. Manypenny, a former Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and the railroad executive Otto Mears to plan and oversee the relocation of the Colorado Ute tribe, led by Chief \"Ouray\", to a new reservation in Utah.\n\nIn addition to public lectures, Meacham reported on Native American issues by publishing a journal called \"The Council Fire and Arbitrator,\" with Dr. Thomas Bland in 1878. He also wrote two books dealing with the Modoc War: \"Wigwam and Warpath; or, The Royal Chief in Chains,\" a history of the War, was published in 1875 with an introduction by Wendell Phillips. The former abolitionist wrote, \nTo show the folly of our method, examine the south of the Great Lakes, and you will find in every 30 miles from Plymouth to Omaha the scene of an Indian massacre. And since 1789 we have spent about one thousand million of dollars in dealing with the Indian. Meanwhile, under British rule, on the north side of these same lakes, there has been no Indian outbreak, worth naming for a hundred years, and hardly one hundred thousand dollars have been spent directly on the Indians of Canada. What is the solution to this astounding riddle? This, and none other. England gathers her Indian tribes as ordinary citizens, within the girth of her usual laws... With us martial law, or no law at all, is their portion; no civil rights, no right to property that a white man is bound to respect...\n\nMeacham published \"Wi-ne-ma (The Woman-Chief) and Her People\" in 1876 and dedicated it to Toby Riddle, who had saved his life.\nThis book is written with the avowed purpose of doing honor to the heroic Wi-ne-ma who at the peril of her life sought to save the ill fated peace commission to the Modoc Indians in 1873. The woman to whom the writer is indebted, under God, for saving his life. \nMeacham petitioned Congress for years to award a military pension to Winema Riddle for her heroism; in 1891 Congress finally approved the pension, one of the few enacted for a woman and a Native American.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114068", "title": "Gary Johnson (footballer, born 1955)", "text": "Gary Johnson (footballer, born 1955)\n\nGary Stephen Johnson (born 28 September 1955) is a former football player and is currently manager at Torquay United.\n\nJohnson was formerly with Cambridge United, Kettering Town, Watford (as director of their youth academy), the Latvian national team, Yeovil Town in two spells, Bristol City, Peterborough United, Northampton Town and Cheltenham Town.\n\nHis son Lee is the manager of Bristol City.\n\nJohnson signed for Watford as an apprentice at sixteen and turned professional at the age of eighteen. He then left Vicarage Road and moved to play football in Sweden for Malmö FF. After building up a successful football holiday business, Johnson then returned to England and played part-time football for Soham Town Rangers, Newmarket Town and Cambridge United.\n\nAfter his playing career ended, Johnson spent the next six years training to earn his coaching badges and took his first managerial job at Newmarket Town in 1986.\n\nJohnson was the manager at Newmarket Town, when he was persuaded to join Cambridge United as reserve team manager in 1988. Appointed as assistant manager in 1990, Johnson helped John Beck organise the U's remarkable rise in the early 1990s, in which they came within two matches of becoming the first club to rise from the old Fourth Division to the top flight in successive seasons (Northampton Town having spent two seasons in both the third and second divisions before promotion to the first division in 1966). Johnson was briefly caretaker manager in late 1992 and then took charge from 1993 until 1995. Under Johnson's stewardship, the U's were contenders for a play-off place in Division Two in 1993–94, before eventually finishing tenth. The following season, many players were sold to balance the books and Johnson moved to take over at Kettering Town.\n\nAfter leaving Cambridge, Johnson took over as manager of Kettering Town as the club introduced full-time football for the first time in the club's history. However, once the decision was made to revert to being a part-time club, Johnson moved to Watford as director of their youth academy by request of former England manager Graham Taylor.\n\nHe was approached by the Latvian football authorities for help, and became coach of their national team for two years from 1999 to 2001.\n\nWhilst coaching Latvia, he spotted the potential of Marians Pahars and recommended him to Southampton's manager Dave Jones, who invited Pahars for a trial before signing him in March 1999. He also recommended Igors Stepanovs to Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger. \n\nJohnson left the job after Latvia drew 1–1 with San Marino. He then returned to England and eventually took over as manager of non-league side Yeovil Town.\n\nIn his first year in charge at Huish Park, the Glovers won the FA Trophy by beating Stevenage 2–0 in the final at Villa Park as well as finishing third in the Football Conference; the following year they won the greater prize of the Conference championship by a record margin of seventeen points and topping the hundred goals mark too, winning promotion to the Football League. Yeovil were immediately contenders in the League and after their debut season ended by missing out on the playoffs by goal difference, they were Division Three champions at the second attempt, scoring ninety goals in the process.\n\nDuring a League Cup game against Plymouth Argyle, Johnson's son (Lee Johnson) accidentally scored a goal after attempting to play the ball back to Argyle's keeper (who had kicked the ball out because of an injury to a Plymouth player). In a show of good sportsmanship Gary Johnson told his players to allow Argyle to walk the ball into the net to level the score at 1–1, avoiding controversy. Yeovil went on to win the game 3–2, with Lee Johnson scoring a hat-trick.\n\nDespite turning down an approach from Derby County in the summer of 2005, Johnson became Bristol City's target when their manager Brian Tinnion resigned that September. Yeovil agreed compensation terms and he became City's manager on 26 September 2005. Despite their lowly position of 22nd in the table, City's fortunes turned around under Johnson and a great run of form in the second half of the season saw them in play-off contention, eventually finishing ninth after a run of 55 points from 36 games.\n\nJohnson won the League One Manager of the Month award for April 2006. After an impressive 2006–07 season (including an 18 match unbeaten run), Johnson won the award again in March 2007 after successfully guiding his side to 16 points from seven games the previous month. This had set Bristol City in a good spot to contend for automatic promotion, which they sealed on 5 May 2007 with a 3–1 home win over Rotherham on the last day of the season.\n\nOn 6 September 2007, Gary Johnson and assistant Keith Millen both signed -year contract extensions keeping them at the club until 2010.\n\nIn the 2007–08 season, he kept Bristol City in the top six of the Championship for almost the entire season and in the top two for a long time; the team were the surprise package of the season. Bristol City eventually lost the play-off final to Hull City at Wembley and were not promoted to the Premiership. Johnson made his players stay on the pitch after the match and watch the Hull City players celebrate as a motivational experience for the next campaign.\n\nIn the summer before the 2008–09 season, he broke the club record for a transfer fee in signing 21-year-old Nicky Maynard from Crewe Alexandra for £2.25 million.\n\nBristol City's once-famous chant of 'Johnson says bounce around the ground' was inspired by Gary Johnson who was quoted to saying in an interview before a league game that he wanted the fans bouncing around.\n\nIn September 2008, Johnson signed a new five-year contract with Bristol City, to keep him at the club until 2013. The club ended the season with another top ten finish and on 18 March 2010, with the club comfortably in mid table, the club issued a statement that Johnson had \"left his post as manager of Bristol City by mutual consent\".\n\nHe was appointed manager of Peterborough United on a two-year contract on 6 April 2010.\nWith the club lying outside the playoff positions, Johnson left Peterborough on 10 January 2011. The reasons are that the manager and the chairman could not agree future policy.\n\nOn 4 March 2011, Johnson was announced as the new manager of Northampton Town signing on a -year deal. His first season in charge almost saw the club relegated from the Football League. At the time of Johnson's appointment Northampton had only lost one of their previous seven games, but a disastrous run, in which the club went eleven games without a win, saw them slip down the table. Under Johnson they had only managed to pick up six points, and it was only by beating Stevenage in the penultimate game of the season that they secured their survival. Northampton Town and Johnson parted company by mutual consent on 14 November, the team having secured just four wins in the new campaign.\n\nOn 9 January 2012, Johnson returned to former club Yeovil Town, replacing Terry Skiverton who became Johnson's assistant. The Glovers, with Johnson at the helm, produced an impressive run of form with thirty points in nineteen games to reach safety with two games still left to play.\n\nThe 2012–13 season started well for Johnson at Yeovil where in early September, his side remained unbeaten in League One after four games and were top of the table as well as progressing in the Football League Trophy and narrowly losing 4–2 to West Bromwich Albion in the Football League Cup in the second round. There then followed six successive league defeats before the manager turned things round.\n\nOn 29 December 2012, Yeovil Town beat Portsmouth 2–1 at Fratton Park which was the start of a run of eight consecutive League One wins, a club Football League record. Johnson was nominated for the January Manager of the Month award but missed out with Dean Smith of Walsall the eventual winner.\n\nOn 6 May 2013, Yeovil defeated Sheffield United 2–1 on aggregate to reach the League One play-off final. On 19 May 2013, Johnson led Yeovil to a 2–1 victory over Brentford in the League One play-off final at Wembley Stadium which resulted in them being promoted to the Football League Championship for the first time in the club's history.\n\nOn 4 February 2015, with Yeovil bottom of the League One table Johnson was relieved of his duties.\n\nOn 30 March 2015, Johnson was appointed as manager of League Two side Cheltenham Town, with the club bottom of the table two points from a position of safety. Despite Cheltenham's failure to avoid relegation, Johnson's contract was extended until the end of the 2016–17 season. The next season was a great success as the Robins won the National League championship title and an instant return to the Football League, the first time a relegated team had won the National League title since 1989, and Johnson became only the second manager to win multiple National League titles.\n\nOn 21 August 2018, Cheltenham Town announced they had 'parted company' with Johnson four games into the new season.\n\nOn 13 September 2018, Johnson was appointed as manager of Torquay United He went on to guide them to the National League South title with three games remaining.\n\nOn 4 July 2019, Johnson signed a new contract at Torquay United.\n"}
{"id": "2114069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114069", "title": "Hunte", "text": "Hunte\n\nHunte is a long river in north-western Germany (Lower Saxony), a left tributary of the Weser.\n\nThe Hunter rises in the Wiehen Hills. In the North German Plain it flows through lake Dümmer. It flows generally northwards through the towns Bad Essen, Diepholz, Wildeshausen and Oldenburg. It flows into the Weser in Elsfleth. The part between Oldenburg and the Weser is navigable for coastal cargo ships. The Küsten Canal, suitable for inland navigation only, links the Hunte in Oldenburg to river Ems near Papenburg.\n\nThe catchment of the Hunte is relatively narrow (its maximum width is about ) and it extends from south to north mainly within the state of Lower Saxony but also to a small extent in North Rhine-Westphalia (counties of Minden-Lübbecke and Herford) for a length of about . The highest point of the catchment area is the Nonnenstein in the Wiehen Hills (), the lowest regions of the catchment lie within the marshes on the lower Hunte (partly below sea level). \nBy far the largest part of the catchment lies on the North German Plain, so that the Hunte flows mainly through bogs, geest and marshland. A small portion lies within the Central Uplands.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114072", "title": "Glossary of dance moves", "text": "Glossary of dance moves\n\nShifting your weight from the ball of your foot to the other and back. We mostly use this in jazz and jive.\n\n\"Same as Basic movement\"\n\nBasic movement is the very basic step that defines the character of a dance. Often it is called just thus: \"basic movement\" or \"basic step\". For some dances it is sufficient to know the basic step performed in different handholds and dance positions to enjoy it socially.\n\n\"Same as Basic movement.\"\n\nBox step is a dance figure named so because the steps rest in the four corners of a square. It is used, e.g., in American Style ballroom dances: Rumba bronze-level Foxtrot. The leader begins with the left foot and proceeds as follows.\nEvery step is with full weight transfer. during the second and fourth step it is advised the foot to travel along two sides of the box, rather than along its diagonal.\n\nRhythm varies, e.g., it is \"1-2-3,4-5-6\" in Waltz and \"slow quick quick, slow quick quick\" in Rumba.\n\nSee Glossary of ballet terms#Chaînés.\n\nFrench for \"chain\", a series of quick turns starting from second position going to first position alternating on either flat feet or on relevé with progression along a straight line or circle.\n\nChassé (French, \"to chase\") is a dance step with a triple step pattern used in many forms of dance. It is a gliding, flowing step with the feet essentially following a step together step pattern. Timing and length of steps vary from dance to dance.\n\nClosed change is a basic step in the waltz. The man steps forward on either foot whilst the lady steps backward on the opposing foot (e.g.: the man steps forward on his right foot whilst the lady steps back on her left). They will then step to the side on the other foot, and conclude the figure by closing the first foot beside the second (hence the name \"closed\" of the step). Each step takes up a full beat of the music.\n\nCross-body lead is a common and useful move in Latin dances such as salsa, mambo, rumba and cha-cha-cha. Basically, the man on counts 2 and 3 of his basic step (assuming dancing on 1) does a quarter-left turn (90° counter-clockwise) while still holding on to the woman. On counts 4 and 5, he leads the woman forward across him, i.e., firmly leads her with his right hand on her back, so that she travels across and turns around and faces the opposite direction she was facing. At the same time, the man does another quarter-left turn as necessary in order to follow the woman and face her. At the end of the move, the dancers have their positions exchanged.\n\nThe cross-body lead can be done with single-hand or double hand hold, with or without a woman's underarm turn, or leading the woman to do a free spin.\n\nThis is the direction a dancer or dance couple moves in relation to the room or in relation to their body positions.\n\nDosado is a circular movement where two people, who are initially facing each other, walk around each other without or almost without turning, i.e., facing in the same direction (same wall) all the time.\n\nThe double reverse spin is a full left (counter-clockwise) turn in one measure of music. It is danced in waltz, quickstep and tango.\n\nThis is a dance movement common in salsa, where the two dance partners facing each other change positions. The dance partners keep contact with one or two hands while stepping to rotate concentrically over 180 degrees around the same point in opposite directions.\n\nThe feather is a basic figure in International Style foxtrot, in which the man makes three or four steps basically forward, with the third one (right foot) done outside the lady.\n\nIn lead and follow dance, a dance turn performed without partner contact.\n\n\"Gancho\" means \"hook\" in Spanish and describes certain \"hooking actions\" in some dances of Latin American heritage, in Argentine tango (leg action) and salsa (arm action and foot action) in particular.\n\nStep on leg, working leg goes behind, stepping to the side then join.\n\nA ballroom dance move, which is the turn on the heel of the support foot while the other foot is held close and parallel to the support one. At the end of the turn the weight is transferred from one foot to another.\n\nA variant of the #Heel turn, in which the feet are kept apart.\n\nA step taken forward into the space occupied by the partner, while the partner steps backwards. During this step feet tracks of both partners overlap. See also #Outside partner step.\n\nThe term is applied to an individual turn of a partner in the couple. Basically, it denotes a turn where the arm of the partner doing the turn begins by moving towards the \"inside\" of the couple (the line running from the center of one partner to the center of the other). The meaning is intuitively clear, but it may be performed in numerous ways and in different handholds, so that even accomplished dancers are confused. In dances such as swing and salsa, inside and outside turns most commonly refer to underarm turns done by the follower. Since in these dances the follower's right arm is normally used to lead a turn (most commonly by the leader's left arm, but sometimes by the leader's right arm when a cross-hand or \"handshake\" position is used), an inside turn is normally a left (counter-clockwise) turn, while an outside turn is a right (clockwise) turn. However, if the follower's left arm is used to initiate the turn, the intended direction of turning may be opposite. (Alternatively, the non-ambiguous terms \"left turn\" and \"right turn\" may be used.)\n\nSee Direction of movement for more detail.\n\nA Lock step is an alternative variation of a chassé action which occurs when the moving foot swings to a stop across the track of the standing foot rather than closing next to it. In the Latin dances the combination of the crossed position and the turnout of the feet means that the rear toe will be pointed at the heel of the other foot, while in the Standard dances the lack of turnout means the feet will be parallel. In Standard the basic locking action is usually preceded and followed by a left side lead. The Latin lock step is often featured when cha-cha is danced in open position with a one-hand hold.\n\nThe moonwalk is a dance technique that presents the illusion of the dancer being pulled backwards while attempting to walk forward.\n\nNatural turns and some other figures are those in which the dance couple rotates to the right (clockwise).\n\nA ballroom dance figure in which during the last step the moving foot passes the support foot, rather than closes to it.\n\nA step taken with the partner beside the moving foot (e.g., to the left of the left moving foot). During this step feet tracks of both partners do not overlap. See also #Inside partner step.\n\n\"Cf. Inside turn.\"\n\nThe term is applied to an individual turn of a partner in the couple. Basically, it denotes the lead/follow connection directed \"outside\" of the center of the spinning individual. Inside and outside terminology can not be determined by relativity to partnership as such position alternates every 180 degrees of rotation. Connection points and application of active side are consistent only with regard to the axis of rotation and direction of spin.\n\nSee Direction of movement for more detail.\n\nThis term usually refers to turning or spinning on one foot while touching the standing leg with the opposite leg in a bent position.\n\nReverse turns and some other figures are those in which the dance couple rotates to the left (counter-clockwise).\n\n\"See Ballet glossary#Rond de jambe\".\nA toe of the straight leg draws a semicircle on the floor. In ballroom dances the direction is usually from the front to back.\n\nThe thunder clap is a form of dance that incorporates clapping in the air with a sliding motion. To perform this dance one must raise one hand and then with the second hand meet the first one half way making a clapping sound; that hand must then fully extend. This motion is repeated to the beat of the music.\n\n\nThe walk is probably the most basic dance move. It exists in almost every dance. Walks approximately correspond normal walking steps, taking into the account the basic technique of the dance in question. (For example, in Latin dance walks the toe hits the floor first, rather than the heel.)\n\nIn dance descriptions the term \"walk\" is usually applied when two or more steps are taken in the same direction. A single step, e.g., forward, is called just thus: \"step forward\".\n\nWalks can be done in various dance positions: in closed position, promenade position, shadow position, sweetheart position, etc.\n\nCurved walks are done along a curve, rather than along a straight line.\n"}
{"id": "2114077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114077", "title": "The Colony (video game)", "text": "The Colony (video game)\n\nThe Colony is a first-person shooter developed by David Alan Smith. It was published by Mindscape.\n\nThe 1988 Macintosh release came in two versions, one in color and one with black-and-white graphics. The MS-DOS version, released the same year, was available in black-and-white only. The 1990 Amiga version was in color.\n\nPrevious first-person perspective games of the era used precomputed views, such as \"The Sentinel\", or fixed-perspective graphics, such as \"Phantom Slayer\". \"The Colony\" was one of the first games of its kind to let the player move freely while rendering graphics in real time. It was also one of the first 3D games to let the player drive a vehicle.\n\nThe player takes the role of a marshal responding to a distress call from a research colony. After crash-landing on the planet, the marshal must repair their damaged ship, investigate the colony, and eventually discover and stop an alien race plotting to take over the universe.\n\nInstead of a 360-degree circle, The Colony used 256 \"pseudo-degrees\" which allowed the game engine to rotate the player's perspective using only one byte of data. Bit-map graphics were drawn using MacPaint, while 2D images such as doors, letters, and the Apple logo were crafted using the game engine.\n\nAt the time of the game's development, the standard method of programming for the Macintosh was to use an Apple Lisa. Development tools for the Macintosh did not exist when the Macintosh was initially released. David Alan Smith completed the first scenes of \"The Colony\" with a C compiler ported to the Macintosh by Softworks. Those first scenes were developed on a Macintosh with only 128KB of RAM and a single floppy disk drive. Eventually, development tools were made available on the Macintosh, allowing Mr. Smith to complete his work using the Megamax C and Lightspeed C compilers—on a Macintosh upgraded to 512KB of RAM and a 20MB hard drive.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" commented favorably on the combination of both action and adventure elements, but noted the immense difficulty of the game. \"Amiga Format\" echoed this feeling by giving it a 51% score and complaining that \"the graphics are sketchy and unrealistic and the gameplay is repetitive and frustrating\". \"Macworld\" named it Best Adventure Game of the Year in 1988, however, and in 2000 listed it as one of The Top Ten Mac Gaming Thingies of the Last 1,000 Years. Orson Scott Card, who disliked \"The Colony\", wrote in \"Compute!\" \"How did this game ever become a \"game of the year\"? Only because it originally appeared on the game-poor Mac\", with excellent graphics that accompanied \"a very limited puzzle game that became so annoying and confining\" that he and his son gave up. Card stated that the game arbitrarily punished players for exploring, giving as example immediately dying from picking up cigarettes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114109", "title": "Nader Shah's Sword", "text": "Nader Shah's Sword\n\nAlthough the inscription on the blade attributes it to Fathali Shah, legend and fact has it as \"Nader Shah's sword\" or his All Conquering Sword.\n\nThe sword is not visible in any of the portraits of Fathali Shah. There is, however, a mural in the Marble Room of the Golestan Palace which shows Mohammad Shah Qajar, the successor to Fathali Shah, wearing the sword while on horseback.\n\nBoth sides of Nadir Shah's sword handle and hilt are covered in diamonds.\n\nThe reverse side of the sword and scabbard shows a picture of the Shah on the hilt along with a few lines of verse, and the pictures of two of his sons.\n"}
{"id": "2114114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114114", "title": "Tod Williams", "text": "Tod Williams\n\nTod Williams may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114115", "title": "Callippus", "text": "Callippus\n\nCallippus (; ; c. 370 BC – c. 300 BC) was a Greek astronomer and mathematician.\n\nCallippus was born at Cyzicus, and studied under Eudoxus of Cnidus at the Academy of Plato. He also worked with Aristotle at the Lyceum, which means that he was active in Athens prior to Aristotle's death in 322. He observed the movements of the planets and attempted to use Eudoxus' scheme of connected spheres to account for their movements. However he found that 27 spheres was insufficient to account for the planetary movements, and so he added seven more for a total of 34. According to the description in Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\" (XII.8), he added two spheres for the Sun, two for the Moon, and one each for Mercury, Venus, and Mars.\n\nCallippus made careful measurements of the lengths of the seasons, finding them (starting with the spring equinox) to be 94 days, 92 days, 89 days, and 90 days. This variation in the seasons implies a variation in the speed of the Sun, called the solar anomaly. He also followed up on the work done by Meton of Athens to measure the length of the year and construct an accurate lunisolar calendar. The Metonic cycle has 19 tropical years and 235 synodic months in 6940 days. The Callippic cycle synchronizes days per orbit and rotations per orbit within the Metonic cycle, noting the difference of one after 4 Metonic cycles, a duration of 76 years. Distinguishing rotations and days infers knowledge of the precession cycle.\n\nCallippus started his observation cycle on the summer solstice, 330 BC, (28 June in the proleptic Julian calendar). The cycle's begin position, the stellar position and sidereal hour timing the eclipse, are used by later astronomers for calibrating their observations in relation to subsequent eclipses. The Callippic cycle of 76 years appears to be used in the Antikythera mechanism, an ancient astronomical mechanical clock and observational aide of the 2nd century BC (discovered in Mediterranean waters off Greece). The mechanism has a dial for the Callippic cycle and the 76 years are mentioned in the Greek text of the manual of this old device. The crater Calippus on the Moon is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114124", "title": "Merle Evans", "text": "Merle Evans\n\nMerle Slease Evans (December 26, 1891December 31, 1987) was a cornet player and circus band conductor who conducted the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus for fifty years. He was known as the \"Toscanini of the Big Top.\" Evans was inducted into the American Bandmasters Association in 1947 and the International Circus Hall of Fame in 1975.\n\nMerle Evans was born in Columbus, Kansas in 1891. His father was a foreman in a coal mine. He had six siblings. Evans had an early job selling newspapers on corners. He used his cornet to call attention to the headlines. He is featured in Tom Rhoads' farcical history of Columbus. After holding several other jobs, Evans left home and joined the S.W. Brundage us Carnival Company as a cornet player. Evans held several other jobs, including as a band director for the Miller Brothers 101 Ranch Wild West Show featuring Buffalo Bill,\n\nEvans was hired as the band director for the newly merged Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus in 1919. Evans held this job for fifty years, until his retirement in 1969. He only missed performances due to a musicians union strike in 1942 and the death of his first wife. He wrote eight circus marches, including \"Symphonia\" and \"Fredella\".\n\nOn July 6, 1944, a fire broke out during a Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey Circus performance. The fire killed around 168 people. The quick reaction of Merle Evans and his band is credited with saving thousands of lives. When Evans saw the fire, he signaled that the band should play John Philip Sousa’s “Stars and Stripes Forever,” used in the circus as the “disaster march,” indicating an emergency. The performers heard the music and immediately began the evacuation. Accounts state that Evans and his band played until it was no longer safe to do so, and then evacuated and reformed outside, where their playing helped to pace the evacuation and steady the crowd.\n\nAfter his retirement, Evans continued to live an active life. He served as a director of the Columbus State Bank in his hometown of Columbus, Kansas. He gave workshops and guest-led bands around the country. His second wife was Nena, who served as secretary to the owners and executives of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey circus. Evans died in Sarasota, Florida on December 31, 1987.\n\nA scholarship at the Indiana University Bloomington Jacobs School of Music is named after Evans. The scholarship supports students with aspirations towards concert bands. The Midwest Clinic awarded Evans its Medal of Honor in 1966. Windjammers Unlimited credits Evans with its early success as an organization, and he is honored in their Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114128", "title": "White propaganda", "text": "White propaganda\n\nWhite propaganda is propaganda that does not hide its origin or nature. It is the most common type of propaganda and is distinguished from black propaganda which disguises its origin to discredit an opposing cause.\n\nIt typically uses standard public relations techniques and one-sided presentation of an argument. In some languages the word \"propaganda\" does not have a negative connotation. For example, the Russian word, \"propaganda\" (пропаганда) has a neutral connotation, similar to the English word \"promotion\" (of an opinion or argument). Jacques Ellul, in one of the major books on the subject of propaganda, \"\", mentions white propaganda as an acknowledgment of the awareness of the public of attempts being made to influence it. In some states there is a Ministry of Propaganda, for instance; in such a case, one admits that propaganda is being made, its source is known, and its aims and intentions are identified. Throughout the course of a propaganda campaign, however, white propaganda may serve as a cover for black propaganda when the propagandist seeks to mask the latter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114129", "title": "8/6", "text": "8/6\n\n8/6 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2114146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114146", "title": "List of television stations in Colorado", "text": "List of television stations in Colorado\n\nThis is a list of broadcast television stations serving cities in the U.S. state of Colorado.\n\nVC refers to the station's PSIP virtual channel. RF refers to the station's physical RF channel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114151", "title": "The St. Valentine's Day Massacre (film)", "text": "The St. Valentine's Day Massacre (film)\n\nThe St. Valentine's Day Massacre is a 1967 American gangster film based on the 1929 mass murder of seven members of the Northside Gang (led by George \"Bugs\" Moran) on orders from Al Capone. It was directed by Roger Corman and written by Howard Browne. Corman called it \"the most accurate, authentic gangster film ever\".\n\nThe film stars Jason Robards as Al Capone, George Segal as Peter Gusenberg, David Canary as Frank Gusenberg and Ralph Meeker as George \"Bugs\" Moran.\n\nOrson Welles originally was supposed to play Capone, but Twentieth Century Fox vetoed the deal, fearing that Welles was \"undirectable.\" The film's narration has a style similar to that of Welles but was narrated by renowned Hollywood voice actor Paul Frees.\n\nA young Bruce Dern plays one of the victims of the massacre, and Jack Nicholson has a bit part as a gangster. Also featured are Jan Merlin as one of Moran's lieutenants and veteran Corman actor Dick Miller as one of the phony policemen involved in the massacre.\n\nAn organized crime war breaks out between two rival gangs in Chicago during the Roaring Twenties. The leader of the Southside Mob is the notorious Al Capone, who resents his nemesis George \"Bugs\" Moran's activity in the city. Moran, too, wants control of the town's bootlegging and gambling operations. His lieutenants Peter and Frank Gusenberg use threats and intimidation to make tavern owners do business with them in exchange for \"protection.\" Peter Gusenberg also argues and fights with his moll, particularly over her extravagant spending of his money.\n\nMoran gives the order to have a crony of Capone's eliminated as the Chicago body count escalates. Inclusive are flashbacks to a lunchtime attack on Capone at the Hawthorne restaurant outside of Chicago by Hymie Weiss and Moran in September 1926 and the murders of Dean O'Banion in November 1924 and Weiss in October 1926 by Capone's gang.\n\nIn a bid to get rid of Moran once and for all, Capone goes to his winter home in Miami, Florida to establish an alibi while his henchmen, some dressed as police officers, ambush and execute seven members of Moran's gang, including Peter Gusenberg, in a northside garage on February 14, 1929. Also at the garage - and caught in the attack - were Johnny May (Bruce Dern), a mechanic, and Reinhardt Schwimmer, an optician who enjoyed being around gangsters. Of the victims, only Frank Gusenberg, Peter's brother survives and is taken to a hospital. Despite knowing that he will soon die, Frank refuses to tell the police anything. Moran, the apparent focus of the attack, was not in the garage, left for a diner, and escaped certain death.\n\nEach character is given a verbal voiceover biography as they are introduced, and in some video releases, the biographies of Rheinhard Schwimmer and Adam Heyer, two of the massacre victims, are removed from the soundtrack, possibly due to protest from surviving family members.\n\nIn the aftermath, Al Capone is shown dispatching two of those responsible for carrying out the attack as he learns of their plans to kill him. Moran dies in prison, dropping a verbal clue to the crime: \"Only Capone kills like that.\" No one is ever charged for the murders of St. Valentine's Day of 1929 as they either disappear going into hiding or are violently killed.\n\n\nRoger Corman said he wanted to do something about \"gangsterism\" which \"played a significant role in the development of American culture\" but \"I wanted to do it honestly, and not in the usual romanticized man-against-the-system.\"\n\nMore specifically, Corman was drawn to the idea of making a film about the St Valentine's Day massacre, which had never been the subject of a whole movie (though it had been frequently referenced in other films). Corman said the massacre was the day that \"changed the whole public face of gangsterism - public outcry broke Capone's stranglehold on society.\"\n\nThe massacre had been the focus of a \"Playhouse 90\" episode; \"Seven Against the Wall\", broadcast in December 1958, was written by Harold Browne. Corman hired Browne to write the script for the film. Browne had researched the period and the event extensively. He felt the gangsters were \"complex human beings, shrewd, cunning men whose qualities of leadership, had it been directed into honest channels, might have contributed to this country's history, rather than leaving a scar.\"\n\nCorman had recently endured an unhappy experience working for Columbia, but still wanted to try working at a major studio. In February 1966 he signed to make the film from Brown's script with Richard Zanuck at 20th Century Fox. (Corman later said Fox invited him in to pitch ideas and he told them about \"Massacre\" and a biopic about the Red Baron; Fox had just made \"The Blue Max\" so went with the gangster film.\n\nCorman made the film following the huge success of \"The Wild Angels\". While \"Angels\" had a budget of $350,000, \"Massacre\" was budgeted at $2.5 million. It was the most expensive movie he had ever made. (Corman later claimed the film cost $1 million and the rest was studio overhead.)\n\nCorman said, \"There comes a time when the public conscience needs jolting and in \"St Valentine's Day Massacre\" this is our intention. It is also certain that the movie will make money - crime is always box office.\" \n\nCorman wanted classical actors to play gangsters and offered the part of Capone to Orson Welles and Bugs Moran to Jason Robards. However, Fox did not want Welles, advising Corman that he would try to take over directing; they suggested that Robards play Capone. Corman felt Robards was not physically large enough for the role of Capone and was better suited to play Moran, but did not want to cause trouble after his experience with Columbia and went along with the suggestion.\n\nCorman wanted to cast Jack Nicholson in a key supporting role but Fox insisted the director use an actor they had under contract. However Corman did manage to cast Nicholson and Bruce Dern in small roles that were used for the entire length of the shoot, ensuring them a decent payday.\n\nCorman originally wanted to shoot the film on location in Chicago but eventually did it on the Fox backlot.\n\nHe filmed the Massacre scene in one of the Desilu lots which got converted to look like the garage where the crime was committed. (The real garage was torn down by the time the movie started production). Another matter was the recreation of the Massacre itself: before filming, Corman found photos of the mass murders. Then he had the actors for the scene study the stills, followed by rehearsals and the shoot. After one take, the massacre came in the way it looked in the old photos and the collapse of each actor followed the positions the murder victims fell in the real massacre.\nThe film was one of the few that Roger Corman directed from a major Hollywood studio with a generous budget and an open-ended schedule. While most directors would love such an assignment, Corman was disgusted with the incredible waste of time and money involved with \"typical\" movie production techniques. He was given a $2.5 million budget and made it for $400,000 less. Corman, an independent director, was most comfortable in his own style: shoestring budgets, and shooting schedules measured in days, rather than weeks. Nonetheless, it generally is considered one of his best films as a director.\n\nTowards the end of the film shoot, Corman felt that the movie was too \"male heavy\" and added a character who was played by Dee Gardner, who resembled Jean Harlow.\n\nThe shoot took just over seven weeks, the longest ever schedule for one of Corman's film. \"By the end of the movie I was very weary,\" he said.\n\nCorman later wrote that \"physically, it is one of the best films I ever directed because I was able to walk around the lot and pick those fantastic sets.\"\n\nAccording to Fox records, the film needed to earn $4,550,000 in rentals to break even and made $4,165,000, meaning it made a loss. \n\n\n\"The St. Valentine's Day Massacre\" was released to DVD by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment on May 23, 2006 as a Region 1 widescreen DVD. It was issued as a Limited Edition Region Free Blu-Ray by \"Twilight Time\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114155", "title": "Duoprism", "text": "Duoprism\n\nIn geometry of 4 dimensions or higher, a duoprism is a polytope resulting from the Cartesian product of two polytopes, each of two dimensions or higher. The Cartesian product of an \"n\"-polytope and an \"m\"-polytope is an (\"n\"+\"m\")-polytope, where \"n\" and \"m\" are 2 (polygon) or higher.\n\nThe lowest-dimensional duoprisms exist in 4-dimensional space as 4-polytopes being the Cartesian product of two polygons in 2-dimensional Euclidean space. More precisely, it is the set of points:\n\nwhere \"P\" and \"P\" are the sets of the points contained in the respective polygons. Such a duoprism is convex if both bases are convex, and is bounded by prismatic cells.\n\nFour-dimensional duoprisms are considered to be prismatic 4-polytopes. A duoprism constructed from two regular polygons of the same edge length is a uniform duoprism.\n\nA duoprism made of \"n\"-polygons and \"m\"-polygons is named by prefixing 'duoprism' with the names of the base polygons, for example: a \"triangular-pentagonal duoprism\" is the Cartesian product of a triangle and a pentagon.\n\nAn alternative, more concise way of specifying a particular duoprism is by prefixing with numbers denoting the base polygons, for example: 3,5-duoprism for the triangular-pentagonal duoprism.\n\nOther alternative names:\n\nThe term \"duoprism\" is coined by George Olshevsky, shortened from \"double prism\". John Horton Conway proposed a similar name proprism for \"product prism\", a Cartesian product of two or more polytopes of dimension at least two. The duoprisms are proprisms formed from exactly two polytopes.\n\nA 4-dimensional uniform duoprism is created by the product of a regular \"n\"-sided polygon and a regular \"m\"-sided polygon with the same edge length. It is bounded by \"n\" \"m\"-gonal prisms and \"m\" \"n\"-gonal prisms. For example, the Cartesian product of a triangle and a hexagon is a duoprism bounded by 6 triangular prisms and 3 hexagonal prisms.\n\n\nThe \"m\"-gonal prisms are attached to each other via their \"m\"-gonal faces, and form a closed loop. Similarly, the \"n\"-gonal prisms are attached to each other via their \"n\"-gonal faces, and form a second loop perpendicular to the first. These two loops are attached to each other via their square faces, and are mutually perpendicular.\n\nAs \"m\" and \"n\" approach infinity, the corresponding duoprisms approach the duocylinder. As such, duoprisms are useful as non-quadric approximations of the duocylinder.\n\nA cell-centered perspective projection makes a duoprism look like a torus, with two sets of orthogonal cells, p-gonal and q-gonal prisms.\nThe p-q duoprisms are identical to the q-p duoprisms, but look different in these projections because they are projected in the center of different cells.\n\nVertex-centered orthogonal projections of p-p duoprisms project into [2n] symmetry for odd degrees, and [n] for even degrees. There are n vertices projected into the center. For 4,4, it represents the A Coxeter plane of the tesseract. The 5,5 projection is identical to the 3D rhombic triacontahedron. \nThe regular skew polyhedron, {4,4|n}, exists in 4-space as the n square faces of a \"n-n duoprism\", using all 2n edges and n vertices. The 2\"n\" \"n\"-gonal faces can be seen as removed. (skew polyhedra can be seen in the same way by a n-m duoprism, but these are not \"regular\".)\n\nLike the antiprisms as alternated prisms, there is a set of 4-dimensional duoantiprisms: 4-polytopes that can be created by an alternation operation applied to a duoprism. The alternated vertices create nonregular tetrahedral cells, except for the special case, the \"4-4 duoprism\" (tesseract) which creates the uniform (and regular) 16-cell. The 16-cell is the only convex uniform duoantiprism.\n\nThe duoprisms , t{p,2,q}, can be alternated into , ht{p,2,q}, the \"duoantiprisms\", which cannot be made uniform in general. The only convex uniform solution is the trivial case of p=q=2, which is a lower symmetry construction of the tesseract , t{2,2,2}, with its alternation as the 16-cell, , s{2}s{2}.\n\nThe only nonconvex uniform solution is p=5, q=5/3, ht{5,2,5/3}, , constructed from 10 pentagonal antiprisms, 10 pentagrammic crossed-antiprisms, and 50 tetrahedra, known as the great duoantiprism (gudap).\n\nAlso related are the ditetragoltriates or octagoltriates, formed by taking the octagon (considered to be a ditetragon or a truncated square) to a p-gon. The \"octagon\" of a p-gon can be clearly defined if one assumes that the octagon is the convex hull of two perpendicular rectangles; then the p-gonal ditetragoltriate is the convex hull of two p-p duoprisms (where the p-gons are similar but not congruent, having different sizes) in perpendicular orientations. The resulting polychoron is isogonal and has 2p p-gonal prisms and p rectangular trapezoprisms (a cube with \"D\" symmetry) but cannot be made uniform. The vertex figure is a triangular bipyramid.\n\nLike the duoantiprisms as alternated duoprisms, there is a set of p-gonal double antiprismoids created by alternating the 2p-gonal ditetragoltriates, creating p-gonal antiprisms and tetrahedra while reinterpreting the non-corealmic triangular bipyramidal spaces as two tetrahedra. The resulting figure is generally not uniform except for two cases: the grand antiprism and its conjugate, the pentagrammic double antiprismoid (with p = 5 and 5/3 respectively), represented as the alternation of a decagonal or decagrammic ditetragoltriate. The vertex figure is a variant of the dissected regular icosahedron.\n\nThe 3-3 duoprism, -1, is first in a dimensional series of uniform polytopes, expressed by Coxeter as k series. The 3-3 duoprism is the vertex figure for the second, the birectified 5-simplex. The fourth figure is a Euclidean honeycomb, 2, and the final is a paracompact hyperbolic honeycomb, 3, with Coxeter group [3], formula_2. Each progressive uniform polytope is constructed from the previous as its vertex figure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114156", "title": "SNAPI", "text": "SNAPI\n\nSNAPI is a system that allows a user to record their preferences onto a smart card or other security token.\n\nWhen a card, mobile phone, key fob token or similar portable object containing SNAPI data is put into public or share IT equipment, or moved into the field of the equipment’s sensor, it informs the terminal about the user’s preferred user interface. The terminal could be a shared personal computer, a public kiosk, a ticket machine, a turnstile or an automated teller machine (ATM). This can enable various accessibility modes such as a high-contrast display or increased typeface size, audible prompts, increased time for responses for the duration of the transaction. When the transaction is complete, the terminal returns to its default settings. The coding is specified in the European standard EN 1332-4. It has been supported by Lasseo to include SNAPI coding is included in various UK local authority smart card schemes\n"}
{"id": "2114159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114159", "title": "Ball change", "text": "Ball change\n\nBall change is a dance move that consists of two steps: a partial weight transfer on the ball of a foot (placed e.g., behind), followed by a step on the other foot.\n\nKick ball change is a dance move that consists of a kick followed by the ball change. Normally it uses a split-beat count: 1&2 or 1a2 and has a syncopated feeling, i.e., the accent of the motion is on \"two\".\n\nThe move consists of three distinct actions and can be started with any foot.\n\nDetails of each of the three actions vary depending on dance and styling preferences.\n\nHeel ball change is a dance move popular in line dances. On count \"1\" the heel touches the floor forward. On count \"&2\" the ball change is done starting with the same foot. The whole move is done in place.\n"}
{"id": "2114161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114161", "title": "Snappy (compression)", "text": "Snappy (compression)\n\nSnappy (previously known as Zippy) is a fast data compression and decompression library written in C++ by Google based on ideas from LZ77 and open-sourced in 2011. It does not aim for maximum compression, or compatibility with any other compression library; instead, it aims for very high speeds and reasonable compression. Compression speed is 250 MB/s and decompression speed is 500 MB/s using a single core of a circa 2011 \"Westmere\" 2.26 GHz Core i7 processor running in 64-bit mode. The compression ratio is 20–100% lower than gzip.\n\nSnappy is widely used in Google projects like Bigtable, MapReduce and in compressing data for Google's internal RPC systems. It can be used in open-source projects like MariaDB ColumnStore, Cassandra, Couchbase, Hadoop, LevelDB, MongoDB, RocksDB, Lucene, Spark, and InfluxDB. Decompression is tested to detect any errors in the compressed stream. Snappy does not use inline assembler (except some optimizations) and is portable.\n\nSnappy encoding is not bit-oriented, but byte-oriented (only whole bytes are emitted or consumed from a stream). The format uses no entropy encoder, like Huffman tree or arithmetic encoder.\n\nThe first bytes of the stream are the length of uncompressed data, stored as a little-endian varint, which allows for variable-length encoding. The lower seven bits of each byte are used for data and the high bit is a flag to indicate the end of the length field.\n\nThe remaining bytes in the stream are encoded using one of four element types. The element type is encoded in the lower two bits of the first byte (\"tag byte\") of the element:\n\n\nThe copy refers to the dictionary (just-decompressed data). The offset is the shift from the current position back to the already decompressed stream. The length is the number of bytes to copy from the dictionary. The size of the dictionary was limited by the 1.0 Snappy compressor to 32,768 bytes, and updated to 65,536 in version 1.1.\n\nThe text\n\nmay be compressed to this, shown as hex data with explanations:\n\nThe first 2 bytes, \"ca02\" are the length, as a little-endian varint (see Protocol Buffers for the varint specification). Thus the most-significant byte is '02' . 0x02ca(varint) = 0x014a = 330 bytes.\nThe next two bytes, 0xf042, indicate that a literal of 66+1 bytes follows\n0x09 is tag-byte of type 01 with length - 4 = 010 = 2 and offset = 0x03f = 63 or \"pedia \";<br>\n0xf081 is a literal with length of 129+1 bytes\n\nIn this example, all common substrings with four or more characters were eliminated by the compression process. More common compressors can compress this better. Unlike compression methods such as gzip and bzip2, there is no entropy encoding used to pack alphabet into the bit stream.\n\nSnappy distributions include C++ and C bindings. Third party-provided bindings and ports include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114163", "title": "Crescent (solitaire)", "text": "Crescent (solitaire)\n\nCrescent is a solitaire card game played with two decks of playing cards mixed together. The game is so called because when the cards are dealt properly, the resulting piles should form a large arc or a crescent.\n\nFirst, one king and one ace of each suit are removed to form the bases for the foundations. The kings are placed on a row, while the aces are placed below the kings. The ninety-six remaining cards are dealt into 16 piles of six cards each, faced down. If the player chooses, the piles should form a large arc, as mentioned above. After the cards are dealt, the top card of each pile is turned face up.\n\nThe object is to move all the cards from the semicircle tableau to the foundations. The kings are built down by suit up to aces and the aces are built up, also by suit, to kings.\n\nThe top card of each pile in the semicircle are available to play on the foundations or around the tableau. Only one card can be moved at a time and building on the tableau is either up or down by suit and can go round-the-corner (placing a king over an ace and vice versa). Once a face-down card becomes exposed, it is turned face up. Spaces are not filled.\n\nWhen the king and ace foundations are in sequence, one can transfer the cards from one foundation to the other except the base cards.\n\nWhen all possible moves have been made—or the player has made all moves he wanted to make—a special redeal move is made. The bottom card of each pile on the semicircle is placed on the top without disturbing the order of the other cards in the pile. This can only be done three times in the entire game.\n\nThe game is won when all 104 cards end up in the foundations.\n\nAs a suggestion, the player can also just deal the 16 piles in any arrangement as a semicircle can possibly be a space waster, especially when the game is played with regular-sized playing cards. Either way, the game stays the same.\n"}
{"id": "2114164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114164", "title": "List of bridges in Poland", "text": "List of bridges in Poland\n\nThis is a list of bridges in Poland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is a list of notable bridges in Poland. This list sorted by length of the main span.\n\n(*) – Planned bridge <br>^^ – Under construction bridge\n\n"}
{"id": "2114169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114169", "title": "Hoffmaster State Park", "text": "Hoffmaster State Park\n\nP.J. Hoffmaster State Park is a public recreation area on the shores of Lake Michigan located five miles north of Grand Haven at the southwest corner of Norton Shores, in Muskegon County, and the northwest corner of Spring Lake Township, in Ottawa County, in the U.S. state of Michigan. It is operated by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources. The state park includes of land including of sand beach on the lake.\n\nEstablished in 1963, the park is named after Percy James Hoffmaster, sometimes considered the founder of the Michigan state parks system, who served as the Superintendent of State Parks and longest-acting Director of the Department of Conservation. The park's nature center is named for Emma Genevieve Gillette, who scouted locations for new state parks under Hoffmaster.\n\nThe Gillette Sand Dune Visitor Center features interactive exhibits related to the sand dune ecosystem within the park. The center also has live animals and an auditorium and offers many nature programs for the public. There are ten miles (16 km) of hiking trails, including the Dune Climb Stairway on the tallest dune. Three miles (5 km) of trail are groomed in the winter for cross-country skiing. There are two campgrounds and a beach. Bird watchers come to view migrating songbirds (wood thrushes and orioles plus warblers and sparrows of various species) and migrating raptors (sharp-shinned and broad-winged hawks and even the occasional eagle or falcon).\n\nThe park made international headlines on July 8, 2009, when a man fell asleep in his truck and backed over his family tent, injuring his wife and two young children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114186", "title": "Tintin: Destination Adventure", "text": "Tintin: Destination Adventure\n\nTintin: Destination Adventure is a video game loosely based on the series \"The Adventures of Tintin\", the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé. It was released for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation in Europe in late 2001.\n\nThe gameplay is similar to the previous two Tintin games (\"Prisoners of the Sun\" and \"Tintin in Tibet\"), with the exception in some parts where the player can operate vehicles. Aside from this the only other enhancement is the use of full 3D for the game.\n\n\"Tintin: Destination Adventure\" was released for PlayStation in September, 2001 and for Windows in November, 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114188", "title": "Muskegon State Park", "text": "Muskegon State Park\n\nMuskegon State Park is a public recreation area located west of North Muskegon in Muskegon County, Michigan. The park's encompass two miles of sand beach on Lake Michigan and one mile of beach on Muskegon Lake.\n\nThe park was established in 1923 when the state purchased some 840 acres at the former site of the Ryerson Hill & Company lumber mill in Snug Harbor. The Civilian Conservation Corps was active in the park in 1933 and 1934, building roads, planting trees and clearing campsites. Most notably, the corps built a square blockhouse with scenic views from the highest point in Muskegon County. A replica stands at the site of the CCC's original blockhouse which burned down in the 1960s. The Works Progress Administration made further improvements from 1937 to 1941, developing the beach area and extending the scenic drive along Lake Michigan.\n\nThe park offers swimming, picnicking, two fishing piers, twelve miles of hiking trails, boat launch, and two campgrounds. Winter offerings in the park include five miles of cross-country skiing trails, ice skating, and ice fishing. The park features a luge track, where U.S. Olympic team member Mark Grimmette started training.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114191", "title": "Joystick (comics)", "text": "Joystick (comics)\n\nJoystick (Janice Olivia Yanizeski) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nJoystick first appeared in \"The Amazing Scarlet Spider\" #2 and was created by Tom DeFalco and Mark Bagley.\n\nVirtually nothing is known of the past of Janice before she first appeared as Joystick, including the origin and nature of her apparent superhuman powers. When she was much younger, her father, a gambler, taught her his philosophy to 'always have a card to play'. She then used this philosophy to great advantage when she helped a mobster rob her father to save her own life. Later, she was a student at the University of Arizona, living a life she later considered to be a bore. After her sophomore year, something happened to change her, apparently resulting in her death; in her \"new life\", she became determined to live life on the edge, and began taking extreme risks. She then disappeared for three years before reappearing as Joystick.\n\nHer occupations include former director of marketing at Chi-Huan Associates and mercenary. She is a mutated human/technology user and has been a member of the Crimson Cowl's Masters of Evil. Joystick was a member of the Thunderbolts which at the time also included Atlas, Blizzard, MACH-IV, Photon, Radioactive Man, Songbird, and Speed Demon.\n\nDuring her stint on the Thunderbolts team, her powers have grown. She is now fast enough to match the Speed Demon in hand-to-hand, and is described as being 'the living embodiment of action'. After turning on her teammates, she was subdued and was last seen in prison.\n\nJoystick is known to be promiscuous, and also thought to be a bisexual. During \"Civil War\", The Thunderbolts took on a group of college kids that had stolen M.A.C.H. IV's old suits of armor. After hearing Radioactive Man reference that one of them was a woman, Joystick tries to open up the armor stating \"Buddha said it's a chick in here... Just wanted to see if she was cute...\"\n\nJoystick apparently possesses superhuman strength (sufficient to press roughly ten tons), speed, agility, dexterity, reflexes & reactions, coordination, balance, and endurance roughly equivalent to that of Spider-Man. The source of these powers remains unknown. She also wears metal devices on her wrists, each of which generates a \"baton\" of coherent energy, powered by strontium chips. These batons can be swung or hurled with great concussive force, sufficient to damage concrete. In addition, by striking the batons against one another, Joystick can project a powerful concussive force beam at a target, and possesses wires to hack into computers within her gauntlets. Her costume formerly contained an explosive device which would be activated with a 2-minute countdown by the controllers of the Great Game. The mechanism of the devices is unknown, as is their exact composition.\n\nJoystick is a mutate like the Folding Circle and Speed Demon. Her powers come from the Universal Wellspring.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114210", "title": "Mónica Naranjo", "text": "Mónica Naranjo\n\nMónica Naranjo Carrasco (born 23 May 1974) is a Spanish singer widely popular in Spain and Latin America and recognised as one of the most powerful voices of the Spanish and Latin American music scenes. She has performed with singers such as Luciano Pavarotti, Rocío Jurado and Mina Mazzini amongst others.\n\nMónica Naranjo was born in Figueres. Her parents, Francisco, a construction worker and Patricia a housewife, migrated from southern Spain to the north in the 1960s. Mónica, who is the oldest daughter of the family has two younger brothers Raquel and Enrique. Despite her troubled childhood, when she was only 4, she realised that music was her favourite activity.\n\nAt the age of 14, the young Mónica enrolled a music school to learn singing and she also was given a voice recorder as a present so that she could start composing and recording her own songs.\n\nShe started singing at a very young age. Cristóbal Sánsano became her first producer. At 18, she emigrated to Mexico.\n\nIn 1994, she recorded her debut album, the self-titled \"Mónica Naranjo\", after signing with Sony Music. The album resulted in the hit singles \"Sola\", \"Solo se vive una vez\", \"El amor coloca\", \"Supernatural\", \"¡Óyeme!\" and \"Fuego de pasión\". She was nominated for Eres Awards. Although the album went almost unnoticed in Spain, it had a great reception in Mexico, where it sold more than 900,000 copies.\n\nIn 1997, taking advantage of her popularity in Latin America, she released her second album, \"Palabra de Mujer\". This time, the album was a hit not only in Mexico, but also in Spain, her home country. managing to sell more than 2,000,000 copies. This success in Spain enabled the singer to return to her home country, and to perform in numerous TV programmes. The album was also successful in the United States, Latin America, thanks to singles such as \"Entender el amor\", \"Desátame\", \"Pantera en libertad\" and \"Las campanas del amor\". Due to the success of this album, she was awarded with the Amigo Award for the best Spanish female solo artist.\n\nIn 2000 she released her third album, \"Minage\", a tribute to the Italian singer Mina. In an interview that year, she mentioned that the album was like nothing her producers expected:\"They were expecting another \"Palabra de Mujer\" album, but more than just a hit, I wanted something to let the world know that I am also a fanatic, and that there are many great artists/singers out there who deserve more recognition. An example of such an artist is Mina Mazzini.\"Minage was known for the song Sobreviviré, a hit song that would turn into one of the most remembered and representative hits of the singer. This song, which is a cover of Mina Mazzini's \"Fiume azurro\" is not only considered a fight song, but also an LGTB anthem and a hymn against domestic violence. She performed that song during the \"Pavaroti and Friends\" gala, where she also performed \"Agnus dei\" in a duet with the Italian tenor.\n\nIn 2001, she released \"Chicas Malas\", an album with several collaborations, among them Diane Warren, Gregg Alexander, John Reid, Cliff Masterson, Sam Watters, and many more. Having such worldwide-known influences, the commercial dance album sales were disappointing, having sold only 120,000 copies in its first year, making it the lowest-selling studio album in her Spanish-singing career.\n\nIn 2002, she decided to make a big leap into the English language public by recording the English version of \"Chicas Malas\" named \"Bad Girls\". The international push met very little support, although the song \"I Ain't Gonna Cry\" did get Mónica some recognition in continental Europe.\n\nAfter feeling overwhelmed by the music industry in general, and after thinking about her own personal life and career, the performer took the decision of moving away from the stages.\n\nIn 2005, after a long musical rest, Mónica briefly returned with a greatest hits album, \"Colección Privada\", a big success that also included one new release \"Enamorada de ti\". With this album, Mónica closed a stage in her life and career. In December 2005, she sang \"Punto de partida\" as a duet with Rocío Jurado in a TV homage titled \"Rocío... Siempre\".\n\nOn 29 February 2008, her new single \"Europa\" was officially launched on her official site climbing to No. 1 in the Spanish Single Charts. The Album \"Tarántula\" was made available in stores on 22 April 2008. This album, which marked her return to music after almost seven years reached number 1 in Spain, and was certified Platinum. Later, she released a limited special edition of the album, with a DVD and a photographic book of pictures of the \"Tarántula\" era.\n\nFollowing the success of her latest album \"Tarántula\", Mónica Naranjo embarked on the tour Adagio Tour in which she offered a new vision of her songs and symphonic CD + DVD is a reflection of this journey. The concert included in this album was recorded on 16 October 2009 at the Teatro de la Ciudad de México, with the Philharmonic Orchestra of Mexico City, one of the most prestigious in America, directed by Pepe Herrero, who also signed the new orchestral arrangements. The 16-track CD was mixed and mastered by John M. Vinader. It was released in Mexico and the U.S.\n\nThanks to the success of \"Tarántula\", in 2010 the singer partnered with Studio Kawaii, (A Madrid-based studio specialised in manga style comics) and released simultaneously two comics, the semiautobiographical \"Amor y lujo\" and the fictional and futuristic \"Todo mentira\". Some years she started new projects and also released a recipe book.\n\nIn 2011, she sang the theme song for Mexican telenovela \"Emperatriz\" and in 2012, she released \"A Opera-Rock\", accompanying a novel in Spanish with a few strokes in other languages. It was co-produced by Mónica and by Óscar Tarruella, and arrangements were by Pepe Herrero and Chris Gordon. The release originally due in 2010 was postponed for release to February 2016 which finally had the title of \"Lubna\", based on a same name novel.\n\nIn 2014 Mónica was part of the jury of the programme \"Tu cara me suena\" (Your face sounds familiar to me) which was broadcast by Antena 3. That same year, she was also a juror in the Spanish selection for the Eurovision Song Contest, which was won by Ruth Lorenzo, with whom she would perform in future concerts.\n\nIn 2017 she was also a juror in Operación Triunfo 2018, whose participation was controversial due to her sincere but also severe critics to the participating performers.\n\nIn 2019, Mónica debuted her new television show called \"Mónica y el Sexo\" (Sex and Mónica) on which the performer talks openly about the problems brought by her recent divorce from Óscar Tarruella who had been her husband for 16 years. Her song \"Tú y yo y el loco amor\" (You and me and that crazy love) was released as the principal song of the OST of the same name film. After that, she started working in a new project called \"Mes Excentricités\", a project that will be split in three EP's, of which the first one, entitled \"Le psiquiatrique\" will be released in middle 2019. The first single entitled \"Doble Corazón\" will be released during the Gay Pride parade in Madrid\n\n(—) means the singles were not eligible to chart, as they were sent only as a promo to radios.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114220", "title": "SEAT Málaga", "text": "SEAT Málaga\n\nThe SEAT Málaga (codenamed \"023A\") is a four-door saloon produced by the Spanish automaker SEAT from 1985 to 1991, named after the city of Málaga in Andalucía, southern Spain.\n\nIt can be considered a saloon variant of the SEAT Ibiza, although the underpinnings of the Málaga and the Ibiza Mark 1, were both based upon those of the SEAT Ronda, a restyled version of the SEAT Ritmo, which in its turn was a rebadged version of the Fiat Ritmo. \n\nIn this sense, the Málaga most closely resembled the Fiat Regata, Fiat's own saloon version of the hatchback Fiat Ritmo. However, the SEAT Málaga and the Fiat Regata were developed separately, as the two manufacturers had already ended their partnership by the time of the launch of their two saloon models.\n\nProduction ended in May 1991, well after the Volkswagen Group took over SEAT, to be replaced by SEAT Toledo, which was the first Volkswagen developed car from SEAT. The saloon based on the Ibiza, the SEAT Cordoba, was launched in end of 1993. \n\nThe Málaga sold relatively well in Spain, but was less popular in export markets, despite sharing the same \"System Porsche\" powertrain with the SEAT Ibiza. The Málaga was marketed in Greece as the SEAT Gredos, after the Spanish mountain range Sierra de Gredos, because the word \"Málaga\" was considered too similar to \"malakas\", a ubiquitous Greek swear word. \n\nThe total production per year of SEAT Málaga cars is shown in the following table:\n\n"}
{"id": "2114223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114223", "title": "University of North Texas Health Science Center", "text": "University of North Texas Health Science Center\n\nThe University of North Texas Health Science Center (UNTHSC) is a public medical school in Fort Worth, Texas. It is a graduate-level institution of the University of North Texas System. Established in 1970, UNT Health Science Center consists of five colleges with a total enrollment of 2,243 graduate students (2014–15). The institution offers degrees in both osteopathic and allopathic medicine, public health, pharmacy, physical therapy, physician assistant studies, and biomedical sciences.\n\nUNT Health Science Center serves as home to several NIH-funded research programs and currently leads all Texas medical and health science centers in research growth. The Health Science Center also houses laboratories for TECH Fort Worth, a non-profit biochemistry incubator.\n\nCommunity and school outreach programs include Fort Worth’s annual Hispanic Wellness Fair and the annual Cowtown Marathon. The UNTHSC Pediatric Mobile Clinic provides healthcare to children in underserved areas of Fort Worth at no cost. The institution also participates in several state and federally funded programs that bring students and teachers onto campus each summer.\n\nThe University of North Texas Health Science Center was initially founded in 1970 as the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine (TCOM). The college opened as a private, non-profit school for osteopathic medicine, located on the campus of the Fort Worth Osteopathic Hospital. It was the first osteopathic medical school in Texas and remained the only one in the state until 2015, when the University of the Incarnate Word School of Osteopathic Medicine was established. The inaugural class of 18 students graduated in 1974, earning the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree. In 1975, the college became a part of North Texas State University, after the Texas Legislature overwhelmingly passed Senate Bill 216, making TCOM a state medical school. TCOM was the second public university-affiliated osteopathic medical school to be established.\n\nIn 1990, TCOM opened the DNA Identity Laboratory, with the responsibility of assisting the state of Texas in evaluating paternity cases. In 1993, the Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences opened, and TCOM was renamed the University of North Texas Health Science Center. In 1997, the UNT School of Health Professions opened a physician assistant program. In 1999, the School of Public Health opened. In 2008, UNTHSC opened the TECH Fort Worth Acceleration Lab. In 2009, the UNTHSC opened a Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) and PhD in Public Health Studies degree program’s.\n\nIn 2011, the Texas Legislature authorized the establishment of a college of pharmacy at UNTHSC. As the first pharmacy school in North Texas, the college matriculated its inaugural class of Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD) students in 2013. In 2013, UNTHSC began developing an interprofessional education (IPE) program, in participation with Texas Christian University (TCU). In 2014, Texas Woman's University joined the IPE partnership. In 2015, UNTHSC and TCU announced the creation of a joint MD school, which will accept its first class of students in 2018. In 2015, the physician assistant program was ranked as the number 33 graduate-level physician assistant program by \"U.S. News and World Report\".\n\nThrough its five schools and colleges, UNTHSC offers several academic programs. Each program is graduate, and focuses on health professions and biomedical sciences. Several Doctor degrees, Master's degrees, and online programs are offered. An interprofessional education (IPE) integrates each of the colleges and schools, with the goal of promoting teamwork and improved communication. UNTHSC is regionally accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nDoctoral degrees include: the Doctor of Medicine (MD), Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO), Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Doctor of Public Health (DrPH), Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT), and Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD). Several master's degrees are offered, including: Master of Science, Master of Health Administration, and Master of Physician Assistant Studies.\n\nTexas College of Osteopathic Medicine (TCOM) is a public medical school located at the University of North Texas Health Science Center in Fort Worth, Texas. As a primary care-oriented school, TCOM trains and graduates the eighth largest number of medical students entering general practice fields in the United States. The school was continuously ranked in the top 50 for primary care from 2002 through 2014 culminating at #26 in 2012. As of 2020, the school ranks #74 for primary care and #94-122 for research by \"U.S. News and World Report\".\n\nTCOM also offers the following dual degree programs: D.O./M.P.H., D.O./M.S., and D.O./Ph.D. Through the Primary Care Pathways Program, motivated students may also complete a three-year, undergraduate degree at Midland College and University of North Texas before completing their undergraduate medical training at the medical school.\n\nUNT Health is a division of the university where faculty members provide health care services. UNT Health consists of 230 physicians, who practice in 40 medical and surgical specialties and subspecialties, including allergy/immunology, family practice, cardiology, neurology, obstetrics & gynecology, oncology, orthopedics, psychiatry, sports medicine, and neurosurgery. In all, UNT Health serves 560,000 patient visits annually. In June 2014, the UNT System Board of Regents and the Tarrant County Hospital District approved creation of a partnership where physicians from UNT Health and the JPS Health Network will be combined under a newly formed medical group.\n\nUNTHSC is located on a 33-acre campus in the Cultural District of Fort Worth, Texas. The Gibson D. Lewis Health Science Library's collections, including more than 20,000 journal titles and 67,000 books, provide UNTHSC students and faculty with access to the latest basic science and clinical research. The Lewis Library provides access to virtually 100 percent of the world's current medical information, including a wide variety of research databases. UNTHSC also houses the Atrium Gallery, a non-profit public art exhibition space, which holds 8 to 10 arts shows each year. The Atrium Gallery is a member of the Fort Worth Art Dealers Association.\n\nA total of 2,243 students were in attendance at UNTHSC for the 2014–15 academic year. 57% of students were female; 43 percent were male. About 46% of students are White, 21% Asian, 12% Hispanic, 8% black or African American, 1% American Indian or Alaskan Native, 2% identify as two or more ethnicities, and the remaining students were non-resident aliens (8%) or of unknown ethnicity (1%). Because of state law regarding enrollment of Texas residents in public medical schools, each entering class is composed of at least 90% state residents. Many out-of-state residents receive competitive scholarships that make up the difference. Applications for admission are processed through the Texas Medical & Dental Schools Application Service (TMDSAS).\n\nResearch centers and institutes at UNTHSC include;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114224", "title": "Johnny Peirson", "text": "Johnny Peirson\n\nJohn Frederick Peirson (born July 21, 1925) is a retired National Hockey League player who played right wing for the Boston Bruins.\n\nPeirson finished his NHL career with 153 goals and 173 assists for 326 points in 545 games. He played in the NHL All-Star Game in both 1950 and 1951. Following his retirement, Peirson became a prominent broadcaster and color analyst for the Bruins. He first worked on WBZ radio with Fred Cusick—with whom as a player he had done a TV demonstration during one of CBS-TV's short-lived weekly NHL telecasts—-and then on WSBK television. He was initially paired with Don Earle and then for many years with Cusick, who had moved from radio to TV. During World War II, Peirson served in the Canadian Army.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114226", "title": "Songbird (comics)", "text": "Songbird (comics)\n\nSongbird (Melissa Gold), formerly known as Screaming Mimi, is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Originally a supervillain, she possesses supersonic sound abilities that can cause a variety of effects.\n\nThe character first appeared as Screaming Mimi in \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #54 (August, 1979), and was created by Mark Gruenwald, Ralph Macchio, and John Byrne.\n\nShe made numerous appearances as a supervillain before taking on a new role as a superhero in the \"Thunderbolts\" series.\n\nAfter some time away from the team, she returned as a regular character in \"Thunderbolts\" beginning with issue #144, and appeared as a supporting character when the title transitioned into \"Dark Avengers\" beginning with issue #175.\n\nIn June 2015, Songbird was announced as a team member in the relaunched \"New Avengers\", part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\" branding.\n\nMelissa Gold was a troubled runaway from an alcoholic father and incarcerated mother. In order to survive on the streets, Melissa developed a hard edge to her personality, referring to herself as \"Mimi\". She was eventually imprisoned, where she met Poundcakes, a female wrestler who invited her to join the Grapplers under the name Screaming Mimi, alongside Titania and Letha. The Grapplers became renowned for their colorful personalities and ringside antics, but the wrestling federation denied them the opportunity to make the amount of money their male counterparts made. Instead, the group agreed to earn supplementary income by performing a covert operation for the Roxxon Oil Company. Roxxon gave the Grapplers special paraphernalia to assist them in their mission; Mimi received an apparatus that converted her voice to high-frequency sonics for various effects. The Grapplers tested these powers by fighting Thundra in a wrestling ring. On their mission, Thundra led them into Project Pegasus to smuggle in the Nth Projector for Roxxon. The mission failed when they were defeated by the heroes Quasar and Giant-Man. The Grapplers were tried and jailed for their misdeeds. Alongside the Grapplers, she victimized Dazzler while she was in Ryker's Island prison with them. When the Grapplers were finally paroled, they discovered that the women's wrestling movement had lost its momentum without them, so they continued to perform crimes to support themselves and working as professional criminals. Alongside the Grapplers, Mimi attempted to attack the Thing while he was in the hospital, and battled Captain America. Later, the Grapplers set their sights on a women's division of the superpowered Unlimited Class Wrestling Federation. Their manager, Auntie Freeze, arranged for the women to augment their natural abilities with artificial powers created by the agency Power Broker, Inc. While the other Grapplers received superhuman strength, Mimi instead had her vocal enhancements internalized as a throat implant. (It was believed that Mimi had also gained superhuman strength, however by her own account to Mach-1 it was only the other Grapplers that were augmented.) The all-new Grapplers made a legitimate professional comeback that proved short-lived. When Titania was murdered by the vigilante Scourge, Mimi was among the female wrestlers of the Unlimited Class Wrestling Federation who participated in a mass attack upon the Thing, blaming him for Titania's death. After Letha was later also killed by Scourge, the Grapplers broke up.\n\nMimi was later contacted by the criminal Baron Helmut Zemo to join his version of the Masters of Evil. Her first assignment was to help bust the female Yellowjacket out of prison, but Mimi was captured in the subsequent battle with the Wasp, Black Knight, and Paladin. She was bound and gagged and arrested. Later, she formed a romantic and criminal partnership with the similarly-empowered Angar the Screamer, at one point battling the Avengers Hawkeye and Mockingbird. The pair impersonated Hawkeye and Mockingbird, but battled them and were defeated. Mimi was also seen among the various female superhumans aboard Superia's cruiseship, where she battled Captain America and Paladin. Angar was eventually mortally wounded by a gunshot during a robbery attempt that went sour, and died in Mimi's arms after they escaped. Mad with grief, Mimi screamed, burning out her power. Immediately afterward, she was contacted by Baron Zemo once more, and she accepted his offer to join a formative Masters of Evil. Zemo allowed Mimi to be nursed back to health, and his accomplice, the Fixer, gave her new powers via a voice-augmenting harness and high-tech implants in her neck based on technology from the villain Klaw. With her newly transformed powers, she resumed the use of her given name Melissa, and adopted the identity of Songbird as a member of the Thunderbolts, a new Masters of Evil group posing as superheroes to win the world's trust while secretly plotting world conquest under Zemo's direction. However, Melissa and most of the other Thunderbolts grew to like their heroic roles. In particular, Melissa began to truly grow into her own and even began a romance with her teammate Abner Jenkins, alias MACH-1, formerly the Beetle. Ultimately, the Thunderbolts turned against Zemo, foiling his attempt at world domination and rescuing the Avengers in the process. Melissa continued to serve with the team, who operated as a team of outlaw superheroes.\n\nMelissa stayed with the Thunderbolts through different incarnations after this, and rose to second-in-command under Hawkeye and eventually ran the team herself. Her sonic equipment was replaced several times, both by criminal organizations and by S.H.I.E.L.D.\n\nDuring the superhero \"Civil War\" event the Thunderbolts, including Melissa, were approached by the government to catch supervillains and rehabilitate them. \n\nHaving turned up alive after his apparent death, Lemuel Dorcas developed an obsession for Songbird where he kidnapped her and repaired her vocal cords as he intends to make Songbird his slave. However, Songbird was able to escape from Doctor Dorcas's clutches, as with the surgery restoring her persuasive powers as well, she turned Doctor Dorcas's henchmen against him.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Invasion\" event, Songbird was attacked by a Skrull who not only had her powers, but also had the powers of Atlas and the rest of the original Thunderbolts. The Thunderbolts save her by causing this Skrull to merge into a nearby building, killing him.\n\nDuring the \"Dark Reign\" event, Norman Osborn orders Melissa killed by other members of the Thunderbolts team, forcing her to go into hiding for a time. She gathers allies to resist Osborn.\n\nAfter the \"Siege\" event and Osborn's subsequent downfall, Songbird has taken a position at \"the Raft\", as the prison's female warden. Songbird has joined the new Thunderbolts team, led by Luke Cage in large part to keep a close eye over Moonstone (whom Cage has offered a chance for freedom in exchange for her serving on the team). When Songbird objects to Moonstone's inclusion on the team due to her history of manipulation and deceit, Cage counters that Songbird herself used to be regarded the same way and that she should give Moonstone the same chances she was given by others.\n\nAs Screaming Mimi, Gold's enhanced vocal cords were bionically altered and enhanced by technicians in the employ of Roxxon. As such, she had the ability to generate a high-pitched, earsplitting, earth-shattering supersonic scream of great volume and for a variety of effects. She was capable of emitting a sound equivalent in decibels to the noise of a jet engine passing 5 feet from one's ear. She has perfect pitch, the ability to hear in her mind the correct frequency for every musical note on the scale. Every note on the scale she screams induces a different effect upon those who hear it. Low C causes low-level anxiety and shortness of breath, D causes high-level anxiety and panic attacks, E causes dizziness and vertigo, F causes nausea and stomach cramping, G causes severe headaches and fatigue, A causes blindness, B causes euphoria and eventual stupor, and high C causes the listener to visually hallucinate. By rapid oscillation between two notes, she can combine effects. In addition, she could produce certain vocal effects in harmony with Angar the Screamer, such as specific sustained illusions. Her nervous system is immune to her own vocal powers. At the upper limit of her scream's power, it could actually damage physical objects. Faced with the death of her lover, Angar the Screamer, she screamed for 43 minutes in a fit of hysteria, creating a large blast crater and literally liquefying nearby plant life. This outburst nearly destroyed her vocal cords, and depowered her briefly until she used new technology to assume the Songbird alias. During a later encounter with the Hand, Songbird unintentionally reactivated her incredibly strong supersonic scream ability.\n\nAs Songbird, Melissa uses a derivation of technology created by the criminal Ulysses Klaw that converts sound into a malleable form of energy that has physical form and mass, termed \"solid sound\". She could initially create simple 3-dimensional sound/mass constructions, though as she has gained experience in her new supersonic sound abilities, she has learned to create more complex forms. She shapes and animates these by mental command and they only remain in existence for as long as she wills them to. She can \"fly\" by generating solid sound \"wings\" attached to her body; initially, these were created as glider-style wings, stretching from wrists to feet, though more recently they are shown attached to her back. Presumably, she animates the wings to flap or somehow generates a propulsive force with her powers, since her airborne speed and maneuverability to date extend well beyond simple gliding.\n\nSongbird has also occasionally exhibited an ability to influence others through sub-vocal (below the level of conscious human hearing) sonics; this is more of a subtle \"nudge\" or subconscious suggestion rather than outright mind control. This is apparently an effect generated by the remnants of her original sonic enhancements.\n\nAs a former wrestler, she is extensively skilled in hand-to-hand combat using wrestling techniques and was well trained by Titania.\n\nSongbird, referred to as Screaming Mimi, is among the mind-controlled villains who attack the heroes as they assault Krona's Stronghold. She uses her scream on Hercules, but is defeated by Black Canary's Canary Cry.\n\nA Songbird from an alternate future is one of the featured characters in the limited series \"Avengers Forever\". In this alternate timeline, Songbird has become a member of the Avengers.\n\nSongbird appears alongside the Thunderbolts in the Dead Days one-shot of the Marvel Zombies miniseries attacking Thor and later Nova. She is quickly destroyed by the Invisible Woman when she tries to bite Nova.\n\nIn \"Old Man Hawkeye\", the prequel to \"Old Man Logan\", Songbird was part of the Thunderbolts when the team betrayed the Avengers resulting in all of their deaths with the exception of Hawkeye. Out of the members, she appeared to be the most remorseful for her actions. When Hawkeye goes on a quest to kill the former Thunderbolts for their betrayal, he finds an older Melissa at the Sanctuary of the Silent Sisterhood where she has become a nun that has taken an oath of silence. When the duo are attacked by Bullseye, she saves Clint and gives him a map to where Moonstone is before the villain stabs her with Elektra's Sai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114227", "title": "List of vaccine topics", "text": "List of vaccine topics\n\nThis is a list of vaccine-related topics.\n\nA vaccine is a biological preparation that improves immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing microorganism, and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe or its toxins. The agent stimulates the body's immune system to recognize the agent as foreign, destroy it, and \"remember\" it, so that the immune system can more easily recognize and destroy any of these microorganisms that it later encounters.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114234", "title": "List of karateka", "text": "List of karateka\n\nList of karateka includes notable practitioners of karate, listed in alphabetical order by surname. Note that Japanese name order might not be consistent in this list, due to differing conventions. Individual entries list each person's name, years of birth and death (as appropriate), and main karate style(s).\n\n"}
{"id": "2114237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114237", "title": "Michigan's Adventure", "text": "Michigan's Adventure\n\nMichigan's Adventure is a amusement park in Muskegon County, Michigan, about halfway between Muskegon and Whitehall. It is the largest amusement park in the state and has been owned and operated by Cedar Fair since 2001. As of 2019, Michigan's Adventure has 52 rides, more than any other park in the state.\n\nThe park also includes an outdoor water park, WildWater Adventure. The park is headlined by seven roller coasters, including Shivering Timbers, a wooden coaster, and a suspended looping coaster, Thunderhawk. The typical operating season is from May through September.\n\nThe park was founded as Deer Park in 1956 by L.R. Beardsley, Dr. E.S. Gillam, Hardin Dey and Martin Kasichke. The park originally featured a petting zoo with deer, llamas, monkeys, chickens and ducks, as well as a children's area called Storybook Lane. The first ride was built in 1958, an Alan Herschell 16-gauge train called the Deer Park Special.\n\nIn 1968, Roger Jourden purchased the park from then-owner Benny Bensinger for $115,000. After purchasing attractions, the park was eventually renamed Deer Park Funland in 1972. That same year, he added the first three flat rides: Tilt-a-Whirl, Merry-Go-Round and Ferris Wheel. Every few years he would add a few more attractions, with the Scrambler opening in 1975. 1976, the park's 20th anniversary, introduced the Spider, a car ride named Mutley's Putt Putts, and two rides for children.\n\nThe park's first roller coaster opened in 1979, a standard model Corkscrew from Arrow Development. The park continued their relationship with Arrow when in 1983 they introduced Logger's Run, an Arrow Hydroflume. The Chance-manufactured Sea Dragon opened in 1987, along with a new C.P. Huntington Train circling the park. 1987 also marked the final year for the Spider, which was sold to Michael Jackson for his Neverland Ranch complex.\n\nThe 1988 season marked a huge transition for Deer Park Funland, most notably the introduction of a new General Manager, Roger's daughter Camille Jourden-Mark, as well as a new name, Michigan's Adventure. The largest change on the midway that year was the introduction of the Wolverine Wildcat wooden roller coaster, the first coaster manufactured by the Dinn & Summers partnership. The park also introduced a Chance Thunderbolt, two live shows and a new entrance.\n\nIn 1989, the Giant Gondola Wheel replaced the Ferris Wheel, and the Falling Star and Trabant made their debut past Logger's Run. The park introduced WildWater Adventure in 1990 in order to compete with a popular waterpark in Norton Shores called Pleasure Island (Pleasure Island closed in 1996). WildWater Adventure originally featured eight water slides, a wave pool, a children's play area and a lazy river.\n\nOver the next few years, the park introduced several popular flat rides, such as the replacement of the Merry-Go-Round by the Grand Carousel in 1991 and the Flying Trapeze in 1992. Mammoth River made its debut in the waterpark in 1993, and the park's third coaster, the junior wooden coaster Zach's Zoomer, opened in 1994, replacing the C.P. Huntington Train (though a new one would open up near Wolverine Wildcat and presently shuttles people to the north side of the park). Adventure Falls, a classic shoot-the-chutes water ride, opened in 1995 at the back of the park past Wild Water Adventure. 1996 saw the introduction of Chaos and a new Tilt-a-Whirl, both located behind Logger's Run.\n\nThe waterpark was expanded with a \"Phase Two\" in 1997, including two more wave pools, two children's play areas, a second large raft slide, and three more tube slides. The new additions doubled both the size and capacity of the waterpark. Also that year the park's miniature golf course, Rocky Point Mini Golf, opened on the lake.\n\nThe most notable change in 1997 was the start of construction on a third wooden roller coaster, Shivering Timbers. When the ride opened in 1998, it was quickly considered one of the world's best wooden roller coasters. Early into the 1998 season, however, the Late-May 1998 Tornado Outbreak and Derecho damaged the Mutley's Putt Putts ride as well as a small children's ride named Drummer Boy, uprooting a lot of the trees in the park.\n\nThe park began a five-year expansion program in 1999 with the introduction of a new entrance on the site formerly occupied by Mutley's Putt Putts, a new ticketing system, and three new rides. The first to open on July 10, 1999 was the Big Dipper, the park's fifth roller coaster. Shortly after that in August the park's sixth coaster, Mad Mouse as well as an S&S Frog Hopper opened on the site where the previous entrance once stood. The Scrambler attraction was also moved near Frog Hopper to make room for future additions. The first annual TimbersFest was also held in June 1999.\n\nIn 1999, Michigan's Adventure was planning to build a 210 foot steel roller coaster according to a height variance. This coaster was projected to cost around $7,000,000. There were other permits filled at that time, including a convenience store/gas station and a new parking lot. In addition to those proposed projects, the park was also working on plans for a campground and a 300-room hotel. However, these proposals never went through.\n\nFor the year 2000, the park planned on adding two new attractions. Speed Splashers, a children's boat ride, opened near the Big Dipper, with the second attraction being an electric car ride named Be-Bop Blvd. However, Be-Bop Blvd. did not open in 2000, due to a number of construction-related delays.\n\nIn 2001, Cedar Fair purchased Michigan's Adventure for $28,000,000. Larry MacKenzie replaced Camille Jourden-Mark as General Manager to help the park through the transition, but he would soon leave for Valleyfair at the end of the year, bringing Jourden-Mark back as General Manager. The season's only new attraction would be the short-lived Royal Hannerford Circus.\n\nIn 2002, the park introduced $5,000,000 worth of new rides, attractions and improvements. Eight new attractions were installed including the park's tallest ride, RipCord, as well as introducing the Peanuts characters and the state's largest Snoopy Boutique. 2004 introduced Swan Boats, moved from Cedar Point where they were removed for the pond turnaround on Maverick, and in 2005 the park introduced a new water slide named ProSlide Tornado, Funnel of Fear. In 2006, for the park's 50th anniversary, a new white water rafting ride called Grand Rapids opened in a previously un-developed area past Adventure Falls. The renovation also included a new 50's themed restaurant called Coasters, which is located at many Cedar Fair parks, as well as a new train station named Grand Rapids Junction.\n\nIn 2008, Michigan's Adventure opened the state's first suspended looping coaster, Thunderhawk, which was moved from sister park Geauga Lake after it closed. Thunderhawk was the first new roller coaster in Michigan's Adventure since 1999. In 2010, Bumper Boats were added just north of Logger's Run, after previously operating at Valleyfair. In 2011, Michigan's Adventure introduced an attraction in the water park, Beach Party, featuring the world's first giant geyser, blasting water into the air as well as 150 different interactive water-related features. For the 2012 season, the park is focusing on new offerings, including some new food choices, VIP Tours, and the Fast Lane system. Just prior to the 2012 season, the Falling Star ride was removed from the park due to declining ridership and so future growth could be made. After 2008, it became an open secret that after Thunderhawk was added, Michigan's Adventure not only set attendance records, but also has brought in one of the highest profit margins in the Cedar Fair chain. This explains Michigan's Adventure's lack of new rides since 2009.\n\nOn December 13, 2012, Michigan's Adventure announced that they would be making an announcement for a new attraction at the park for 2013 on December 17, 2012. Along with that announcement came a Haiku that read \"the four elements, only one will master, summer, please come soon.\" On December 17, 2012, Michigan's Adventure announced their intent to build a flying scooter ride at the park named Lakeside Gliders, which opened in May 2013. In addition, the park opened up the Lakeside Beer Garden immediately adjacent to the Lakeside Gliders ride on the lake for 2013. This marks the final park in the Cedar Fair chain to be able to serve alcohol.\n\nOn August 11, 2019, the Be-Bop Blvd car ride closed permanently. Four days later the park announced a Camp Snoopy kids area would be built for 2020, and will contain five new rides including a family coaster.\n\n\nWildWater Adventure, opened in 1990, is Michigan's Adventure's water park. After the addition of the WildWater Adventure, the slogan for the park became \"2 parks for the price of 1\" since the regular gate admission allows full day usage of both the amusement and the water park, rather than a separate fee for both.\n\nFast Lane is Michigan's Adventure's virtual queue system. For $35-$55, visitors get a wrist band that enables them to get to the front of the line without queuing on 15 of the most popular attractions.\n\n\n\nThe original Michigan's Adventure logo featured a cartoon lion. When Cedar Fair acquired the park in 2001, they replaced the lion with Snoopy from \"Peanuts\", who appears on the logos of other Cedar Fair parks. The logo was changed twice in 2007; once to reflect Michigan's Adventure's part in the Cedar Fair chain, and again to re-add Snoopy. After Cedar Fair's acquisition of the Paramount Parks, all of their parks were given new logos featuring the same font and style which has been popularized by Cedar Point (with the trademark flag-dotted-\"i\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114238", "title": "The Enemy of the World", "text": "The Enemy of the World\n\nThe Enemy of the World is the fourth serial of the fifth season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which originally aired in six weekly parts from 23 December 1967 to 27 January 1968.\n\nThe serial is set in Australia and Hungary in 2018. In the serial, the time traveller the Second Doctor (Patrick Troughton) and his travelling companions Jamie McCrimmon (Frazer Hines) and Victoria Waterfield (Deborah Watling) work with the spies Giles Kent (Bill Kerr) and Astrid Ferrier (Mary Peach) to expose the Doctor's Mexican doppelgänger Salamander (Troughton) as having created natural disasters on Earth.\n\nThe story is a break from the monsters and \"base under siege\" of season five, highlighted by a dual role for lead actor Patrick Troughton.\n\nFor over forty years, only Episode 3 of \"The Enemy of the World\" was known to have survived erasure. However, on 11 October 2013, it was announced by the BBC that the other five episodes had been found and were back in their archives.\n\nThe Second Doctor, Jamie and Victoria are enjoying themselves on a beach in Australia in 2018 when the Doctor is subject to an assassination attempt. The controller of the would-be assassins, an agent named Astrid Ferrier, rescues them by helicopter. She takes them to her boss Giles Kent (Bill Kerr). There, they learn that the Doctor is the physical double of Salamander, a ruthless megalomaniac who is dominating the United Zones Organisation. Salamander has ascended to power by concentrating and harnessing the sun's rays to generate more crops, but is set on increasing his power. Kent, who was once Deputy Security Leader for North Africa and Europe, reveals that he had crossed Salamander, who ruined him and removed his various allies. Kent's only remaining ally with any authority is Alexander Denes in Central Europe. When Kent's home is surrounded by troops led by Security Chief Donald Bruce, the Doctor is persuaded to impersonate Salamander to save his companions and to gather more information on his designs. \n\nBruce is a bully who intimidates those in his path, but the Doctor's impersonation is strong enough to persuade him that he is Salamander—even though the real Salamander is supposed to be at a conference in the Central European Zone. Bruce leaves, albeit with suspicion, while the Doctor turns on Kent, realising he called Bruce there himself to test the impersonation. The Doctor is not yet convinced Salamander is a villain, but Kent presses ahead with a plan. Jamie, Victoria, and Astrid are to infiltrate Salamander's retinue while he's still in the Central European zone, via Denes' support, and gather evidence on Salamander. Meanwhile, Kent and the Doctor will travel to Salamander's research station in Kanowa to gather intelligence there.\n\nThe real Salamander warns that a dormant volcano range in Hungary is about to explode. Denes does not believe this is possible and resists the calls to send pre-emptive relief. By now, Jamie, Victoria, and Astrid have reached the Central European Zone. Jamie tries to infiltrate Salamander's retinue, while Astrid contacts Denes for a meeting. Jamie manages to get himself promoted to Salamander's personal staff by preventing a bogus attempt on the Leader's life, and also ensures Victoria is given a position as assistant to Salamander's personal chef. When Astrid meets Denes, she tells him of the two spies who have entered the Leader's staff.\n\nSalamander works on Denes' deputy, Fedorin, to turn him against Denes. Fedorin is a weak man and gives in to Salamander's blackmail easily, but is scared when he hears the prediction that Denes will soon be killed and Salamander will be asked to take over the Zone following the imminent natural disaster. On cue, an earthquake begins as the promised volcanic eruption starts. Donald Bruce arrives but is unable to mention the Salamander in Australia issue before Denes returns to the palace too, blaming Salamander for somehow engineering the volcano. Salamander responds by saying Denes failed to heed his warnings on the volcanoes and is thus negligent and must be removed from office. Denes is arrested, and Salamander tells Fedorin to poison him before he can be brought to trial and repeat his allegations. When Fedorin fails to do so, Salamander uses the poison on him instead.\n\nMeanwhile, Donald Bruce has started to have serious suspicions about the situation. He evidently does not trust Salamander, and tries unsuccessfully to get Jamie to explain the Australia incident. Another man with suspicions is Theodore Benik, Salamander's unpleasant deputy, who has heard from Bruce that Salamander was supposed to be in two places at one time. He visits and intimidates Giles Kent, but the Doctor stays hidden while the unsolicited visitor is there destroying Kent's property.\n\nMeanwhile, Jamie and Victoria use their new roles in the palace to get close to Fariah, Salamander's food taster, hoping to gather information on the Leader's intentions. Jamie also causes a diversion to try to facilitate a rescue attempt on Denes by Astrid. However, things fall apart and Denes is shot dead. Though Astrid escapes, Jamie and Victoria are arrested. This prompts Bruce to ask Salamander in private about his relationship with Jamie and his presence with him and Kent in Australia—which prompts Salamander to decide to return to Kanowa immediately and unmask the impersonator.\n\nAstrid returns to Australia too and contacts the Doctor and Kent to tell them of the outcome of the botched rescue attempt. Fariah has followed Astrid and makes contact with her, Kent and the Doctor, telling them that Jamie and Victoria have been brought as prisoners to the Kanowa Research Centre. Fariah also hands over the file made by Salamander to blackmail Fedorin—which finally convinces the Doctor of Salamander's evil. However, before they can act, the building is raided by Benik and his troops and Fariah is killed and the file recovered. The others escape.\n\nSalamander, Benik and Bruce meet at the Centre and realise the severity of the situation. When he is alone, Salamander dons a radiation suit and enters a secret lift, which transports him to a secret bunker. In the bunker are a group of people who believe Salamander has just ventured to the surface of the allegedly irradiated planet to look for food. He claims to have found a safe new food stock to sustain them after their five years below ground. He also urges them to continue fighting the war against the surface by using technology to create natural disasters. Most of the people accept this, but one, Colin, urges Salamander to take him to the surface the next time, even though no one who has accompanied Salamander there has ever returned.\n\nWhen the Doctor and his friends return to Kent's caravan they are soon discovered by Donald Bruce, who has traced their car. Bruce affirms he is a servant of the world government, not Salamander, and shows he can be persuaded that the Leader is, in Astrid's words, a traitor, blackmailer and murderer. The Doctor and Bruce reach a deal: they will travel to the Research Centre, where the Doctor will impersonate Salamander to gain more evidence, while Kent and Astrid are kept under guard; but if no evidence is found they will all be arrested for conspiracy. Bruce and the Doctor leave, and shortly afterward, Kent and Astrid escape their captor by means of a ruse.\n\nIn the shelter, the promised new food has arrived and the people unpack it. However, one of them, Swann, finds a stray newspaper clipping and realises there is normal life on the surface rather than the continuing nuclear war they had all been told. He confronts Salamander, who agrees to take him to the surface to show him the world is now full of hideous, depraved mutants and their actions in causing natural disasters are helping to wipe them out. Swann is unmoved but agrees to go the surface without revealing his concerns. This incenses Colin, a young man whose request to go to the surface had been denied.\n\nBenik begins to interrogate Jamie and Victoria. Bruce and the Doctor, acting as Salamander, interrupt him and send him away. The Doctor, pretending to be Salamander, questions his companions and the result further convinces Bruce to trust the Doctor.\n\nIn the grounds of the research centre, Astrid finds Swann. He had been bludgeoned by Salamander. Before he dies, he tells Astrid about his friends in the bunker. She hurries to them, and is attacked by the frightened people, but Colin stops them. Astrid tells them there is no war, and convinces them of Salamander's treachery.\n\nMeanwhile, Benik, suspicious, discovers the guard at the records room has yet to see Salamander emerge. He returns to Bruce and the others, asks for \"Salamander's\" signature on some papers, and leaves. The papers show a discrepancy in how much food is needed for personnel and how much is coming in.\n\nBruce and the Doctor have Jamie and Victoria released from the centre, and the Doctor instructs them to head back to the TARDIS and wait for him there. He heads off alone and accesses the Records Room, where he impersonates Salamander. A visitor soon arrives—Giles Kent—who has a key to the secret room. In the ensuing conversation with \"Salamander\", he reveals his true nature.\n\nThe arrival of Astrid, Colin and Mary further incriminate Kent, for it was he who took the people down to the bunker in the first place for an \"endurance test\". Kent and Salamander were allies all along, and the Doctor reveals he had been slow to support Kent because he feared he was being used to topple Salamander for Kent to take over. Kent flees into the cave system beyond the Records Room after they learn the tunnel is planted with explosives. Donald Bruce tries to break into the records room to help the Doctor, but Benik causes trouble, and Bruce has him arrested.\n\nKent encounters Salamander in the tunnels and they argue. Salamander fatally shoots his one-time ally. As he dies, Kent throws a switch, blowing up the cave system, damaging the station above. Fortunately, the people in the bunker survive, and Astrid leaves to rescue them.\n\nSalamander, shaken and bleeding from the explosion, approaches the TARDIS where Jamie and Victoria wait. They mistake him for the Doctor. Pretending to be shaken, Salamander asks Jamie to use the controls for him. Jamie's suspicions are proven correct when the real Doctor arrives. There is a struggle, and Salamander uses the controls of the TARDIS, sending it spinning out of control, the door still wide open. Salamander is blown out of the TARDIS and into the vortex. The Doctor, Jamie and Victoria then hang on for dear life as they try to prevent the same fate from happening to them.\n\nThis was the last story to be produced under the aegis of \"Doctor Who\" creator Sydney Newman, who left his position as Head of Drama at the BBC upon the expiration of his contract at the end of 1967. The four key production roles for this story were all taken by men heavily involved in the development of Doctor Who. Author David Whitaker had been the show's first script editor; Barry Letts, directing the show for the first time, later became the show's producer (for the majority of the Jon Pertwee era), executive producer, and occasional script writer; script editor Peter Bryant became the show's producer from the next story; Innes Lloyd was the show's current producer, but left after this story.\n\nMuch like the First Doctor serial \"The Massacre of St Bartholomew's Eve\" (1966), this serial was influenced by the lead actor's desire to play roles other than the Doctor. Initially, it was planned that Troughton's two characters would meet more than once, but due to the technical complexity, there was eventually only the one confrontation scene, at the story's climax (utilising editing and a split-screen technique). Barry Letts planned six split-screen shots. He called for a matte box to mask half of the camera lens, having read about the technique used for old Hollywood films. The film was rewound after the first take and Troughton was then filmed in his other costume. However, after the first such shot, the camera jammed, and no more split-screen takes were filmed. Later, Letts mentioned this to Derek Martinus, director of the preceding story, who brought Letts up to date with the contemporary technology of filming normally then using an optical printer to combine the material.\n\nDue to British television's shift from 405-line technology to 625-line, in preparation for colour transmissions, going into effect for all BBC shows from 1 January 1968, it was long believed that the switch-over for \"Doctor Who\" from 405 lines to 625 came as of Episode 3 of this serial; however, upon the recovery of the other five episodes of the serial, it was discovered that Episodes 1 and 2 were in fact made at 625 lines prior to the official switchover. The now-disproved notion of the switch-over occurring at Episode 3 was most likely due to an error in documentation.\n\nOriginally, Episode 3 was the only episode of this story to survive in the BBC archives. On 11 October 2013, the BBC announced that the remaining five episodes had been recovered from a television relay station storage room in Nigeria following search efforts by Television International Enterprises Archive and Philip Morris, making the serial complete in the BBC television archives for the first time since the mass junkings of \"Doctor Who\" episodes between 1972 and 1978. It was subsequently released on iTunes. It is also the second Season 5 serial to be found in its entirety.\n\nFrazer Hines and Deborah Watling did not appear in episode 4, as they were on holiday. Milton Johns would reappear in the Season 13 serial The Android Invasion. Colin Douglas would later take a memorable turn as Reuben the lightkeeper (as well as voicing the Rutan scout) in the 15th-season serial The Horror of Fang Rock.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Ian Marter, was published by Target Books in March 1981, entitled \"Doctor Who and the Enemy of the World\". David Whitaker had been working on his own version of the novelisation at the time of his death.\n\nEpisode 3 was released on VHS in \"The Troughton Years\". A restored and VidFIREd version was released on DVD in 2004, as part of the \"Lost in Time\" boxset. In 2002, a remastered CD version of the audio was released with linking narration by Frazer Hines.\n\nFollowing the recovery of the remaining episodes, the complete serial was released on iTunes on 11 October 2013. Following its release it shared the top two spots on the iTunes download chart for TV serials with following and also newly recovered serial \"The Web of Fear\", above \"Homeland\" and \"Breaking Bad\".\n\nA DVD was released in the UK on 25 November 2013. A US release arrived on 20 May 2014.\n\nA special-edition DVD with audio commentary, interviews, a tribute to the late Deborah Watling, and further remastering of all six episodes was released in the UK on 26 March 2018, in the same year the episode was set.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114239", "title": "Jiaozuo", "text": "Jiaozuo\n\nJiaozuo ( ; postal: Tsiaotso) is a prefecture-level city in the northwest of Henan province, China. Sitting on the northern bank of the Yellow River, it borders the provincial capital of Zhengzhou to the south, Xinxiang to the east, Jiyuan to the west, Luoyang to the southwest, and the province of Shanxi to the north. Jiaozuo is one of the core cities of the Central Plains urban agglomeration and a regional central city along the Shanxi–Henan border area.\n\nIts population was 3,700,000 at a 2016 estimate whom 1,301,732 live in the built-up area made of 4 urban districts (Jiefang, Shanyang, Zhongzhan and Macun) and Bo'ai County being urbanized.\n\nThe prefecture-level city of Jiaozuo administers 4 districts, 2 county-level cities and 4 counties.\n\n\nThe city was founded on an industrial site left by the British after the First and Second Opium Wars (18391860). Jiaozuo was established as a city in 1953. Mao Zedong has written praise about the hard work of people from Jiaozuo in the coal industry.\n\nJiaozuo has a temperate semi-arid climate (Köppen \"BWk\") with four distinct seasons; owing to the shielding influence of the Taihang Mountains, temperatures in the urban core of Jiaozuo are warmer than in Xinxiang and Zhengzhou. Winters are cool and relatively dry while summers are hot and often rainy. The normal monthly mean temperature ranges from in January to in July, with the annual mean temperature at . Precipitation averages annually.\n\nJiaozuo is noted for its blast furnaces and machine construction industries.\nThe total GDP of the city in 2017 was 234.28 billion yuan, an increase of 7.4% over the previous year. Among them, the added value of the primary industry was 13.733 billion yuan, up 4.6%; the added value of the secondary industry was 13.841 billion yuan, up 6.7%; the added value of the tertiary industry was 81.143 billion yuan, up 9.1%. The per capita GDP reached 65,936 yuan. The three industrial structures changed from 6.4:59.3:34.3 of 2016 to 5.9:59.5:34.6.\n\nJiaozuo is the northern terminus of the Jiaozuo-Liuzhou Railway and the southern terminus of the Taiyuan-Jiaozuo Railway. The city is linked via rail to nearby cities Luoyang, Xinxiang and Nanyang in Henan and Jincheng in Shanxi.\n\nHenan Polytechnic University (HPU), with a history of nearly 100 years, is the first mining university in Chinese history. Its former is Jiaozuo Coal Mining School which was established by the British Syndicate Co. Ltd., in 1909. It has changed its names several times in the course of development, namely, FuZhong Coal Mining University, Jiaozuo Private Institute of Technology, North-west Institute of Technology, Jiaozuo National Institute of Technology, Jiaozuo Mining Institute and Jiaozuo Institute of Technology. The University resumed its name of Henan Polytechnic University in 2004.\n\nJiaozuo is located adjacent to the Yellow River and is just south of the Taihang Mountain.\n\nYuntai Mountain, Qing Tian River, Qing Long Cape, Shen Nong Mountain.\n\nYuntai Mountain is said to have the waterfall with main cascade of 314 meters in height, together with numerous smaller cascades.\n\nOn February 13, 2004, Yuntai Mountain as the fifth in the world, the third in the country China, was named the world's first World Geopark by UNESCO and caused attention at home and abroad. Meanwhile, Yuntaishan is also a national scenic spot, National Civilized Scenic Area, the first national AAAAA-level scenic spot, national natural heritage, national forest parks, national macaque nature reserve. Yuntain Mountain also has Asia's highest head drop waterfall.\n\nAmongst Jiaozuo's best sights are: \n\n"}
{"id": "2114241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114241", "title": "Alpine marmot", "text": "Alpine marmot\n\nThe alpine marmot (\"Marmota marmota\") is a large ground-dwelling squirrel, from the genus of marmots. It is found in high numbers in mountainous areas of central and southern Europe, at heights between in the Alps, Carpathians, Tatras and Northern Apennines. In 1948 they were reintroduced with success in the Pyrenees, where the alpine marmot had disappeared at end of the Pleistocene epoch.\n\nThe alpine marmot originates as an animal of Pleistocene cold steppe, exquisitely adapted to this ice-age climate. As such, alpine marmots are excellent diggers, able to penetrate soil that even a pickaxe would have difficulty with, and spend up to nine months per year in hibernation.\n\nSince the disappearance of the Pleistocene cold steppe, the alpine marmot persists in the high altitude alpine meadow. During the colonisation of Alpine habitat, the alpine marmot has lost most of its genetic diversity through a bottleneck effect. It could not rebuild its genetic diversity ever since, as its lifestyle adapted to the Ice Age climate slowed its rate of genomic evolution. The alpine marmot is indeed one of the least genetically diverse wild-living animals\n\nAn adult alpine marmot is between in head-and-body length and the tail measures from . The body mass ranges from , with the animals being significantly lighter in the spring (just after hibernation) than in the autumn (just before hibernation). The alpine marmot is sometimes considered the heaviest squirrel species, although some other marmot species have a similar weight range, making it unclear exactly which is the largest. Its coat is a mixture of blonde, reddish and dark gray fur. While most of the alpine marmot's fingers have claws, its thumbs have nails.\n\nAs its name suggests, the alpine marmot ranges throughout the European Alps, ranging through alpine areas of France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Slovenia and Austria. They have also been introduced elsewhere with sub-populations in the Pyrenees, France's Massif Central, Jura, Vosges, Black Forest, Apennine Mountains, and the Romanian Carpathians. The Tatra marmot (\"Marmota marmota latirostris\" Kratochvíl, 1961) represents an endemic subspecies of Alpine marmot that originated during the Quaternary period. Tatra marmots inhabit Tatry Mountains and Nízke Tatry Mountains.\nMarmots are abundant in their core population; in the Romanian Carpathians, for example, the population is estimated at 1,500 individuals. Alpine marmots prefer alpine meadows and high-altitude pastures, where colonies live in deep burrow systems situated in alluvial soil or rocky areas.\n\nMarmots may be seen \"sun bathing\", but actually this is often on a flat rock and it is believed they are actually cooling and possibly this is a strategy to deal with parasites. Marmots are temperature sensitive and an increase in temperature can cause habitat loss for the species as a whole.\n\nAlpine marmots eat plants such as grasses and herbs, as well as grain, insects, spiders and worms. They prefer young and tender plants over any other kind, and hold food in their forepaws while eating. They mainly emerge from their burrows to engage in feeding during the morning and afternoon, as they are not well suited to heat, which may result in them not feeding at all on very warm days. When the weather is suitable, they will consume large amounts of food in order to create a layer of fat on their body, enabling them to survive their long hibernation period.\n\nWhen creating a burrow, they use both their forepaws and hind feet to assist in the work—the forepaws scrape away the soil, which is then pushed out of the way by the hind feet. If there are any stones in the way, the alpine marmot will remove them with its teeth provided that the stones aren't too large. \"Living areas\" are created at the end of a burrow, and are often lined with dried hay, grass and plant stems. Any other burrow tunnels that go nowhere are used as toilet areas. Once burrows have been completed, they only host one family, but are often enlarged by the next generation, sometimes creating very complex burrows over time. Each alpine marmot will live in a group that consists of several burrows, and which has a dominant breeding pair. Alpine marmots are very defensive against intruders, and will warn them off using intimidating behavior, such as beating of the tail and chattering of the teeth, and by marking their territory with their scent. One can often see an alpine marmot \"standing\" while they keep a look-out for potential predators or other dangers. Warnings are given, by emitting a series of loud whistles, after which members of the colony may be seen running for cover.\n\nThe mating season for alpine marmots occurs in the spring, right after their hibernation period comes to a close, which gives their offspring the highest possible chance of storing enough fat to survive the coming winter. Alpine marmots are able to breed once they reach an age of two years. Dominant females tend to suppress reproduction of subordinates by being antagonistic towards them while they are pregnant which causes stress and kills the young. Once the female is pregnant, she will take bedding materials (such as grass) into the burrow for when she gives birth after a gestation period of 33–34 days. Each litter consists of between one and seven babies, though this number is usually three. The babies are born blind and will grow dark fur within several days. The weaning period takes a further forty days, during which time the mother will leave the young in the burrow while she searches for food. After this period, the offspring will come out of the burrow and search for solid food themselves. Their fur becomes the same colour as adult alpine marmots by the end of the summer, and after two years they will have reached their full size. If kept in captivity, alpine marmots can live up to 15–18 years.\n\nAs the summer begins to end, alpine marmots will gather old stems in their burrows in order to serve as bedding for their impending hibernation, which can start as early as October. They seal the burrow with a combination of earth and their own faeces. Once winter arrives, alpine marmots will huddle next to each other and begin hibernation, a process which lowers their heart rate to five beats per minute and breathing to 1–3 breaths per minute. During hibernation their stored fat supplies are used slowly, which usually allows them to survive the winter. Their body temperature will drop to almost the same as the air around them, although their heart and breathing rates will speed up if the environment approaches freezing point. Some alpine marmots will starve to death due to their layers of fat running out; this is most likely to happen in younger individuals.\n\nAlpine marmots were once widely hunted for food and because their fat is believed to ease rheumatism when rubbed on the skin. Hunting of the alpine marmot still occurs for sport as well as for its fat. Hunting is not a danger to the species as long as well regulated, as they reproduce relatively slowly.\nIn general the alpine marmot is currently not in danger of extinction, but certain sub-populations of marmot may be threatened such as those in the Jura and in Germany. A population in Rodna (Romania) is very small and threatened by poaching.\n\nThe use of trained alpine marmots by itinerants from Savoy was a not uncommon occurrence in the late 18th century. The marmot would be kept in a small box while in transit, and during a performance, the marmot would dance to the playing of an instrument, such as a hurdy-gurdy. Marmots became associated with the people of Savoy, and their style of dress, and the image of a traveling Savoyard with a marmot was captured in art, such as in François-Hubert Drouais' painting \"The Children of the Duke of Bouillon dressed as Montagnards\", and in Ludwig van Beethoven's composition, \"Marmotte\".\n"}
{"id": "2114250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114250", "title": "It Takes a Thief (2005 TV series)", "text": "It Takes a Thief (2005 TV series)\n\nIt Takes a Thief is an American reality television series that originally aired on the Discovery Channel from February 2, 2005 to April 13, 2007. The program stars and is hosted by Matt Johnston and Jon Douglas Rainey, two former thieves who use their unique expertise to teach people in an unusual way to protect their properties.\n\nWith the owners' permission, the hosts stage a full-fledged burglary as their victims watch on closed-circuit television (CCTV), either live during the break-in (for season 1) or in real time with pre-recorded video playback (for season 2). Rainey assumes the burglar role and plans and executes the break-ins while Johnston acts as mentor to the security-challenged owners. Immediately following the burglary, Johnston and Rainey meet with the residents to return their stolen goods and explain to them what they have been doing wrong. Johnston then organizes a complete security makeover and provides additional safety tips. Weeks later, Johnston and Rainey return and attempt another break-in to test whether the homeowners are using their new security system properly. Although most thefts on the show occur in suburban homes, some places such as businesses, college houses, and even a police station have also been burglarized.\n\nThe last episode of \"It Takes a Thief\" premiered on April 13, 2007. The Discovery Channel has not produced a third season.\n\nOn Discovery Science, reruns air on Saturdays and Sundays at 8 AM E/P, Mondays at 6 PM E/P, and Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 12 PM E/P.\n\nOn the Discovery Channel, reruns began to air on Tuesday, September 29, 2009, after the last rerun aired the year before (in September 2008). Until November 9, 2009, a marathon of six reruns aired on Mondays.\n\n\"It Takes a Thief\" airs in Canada on Investigation Discovery (Canada). Monday-Friday at 7am.\n\nAll episodes are available to watch on-demand on Discovery GO as of 2018.\n\nShown in the beginning of the program, the disclaimer states:\nIn the introduction, the title sequence states:\nAfter the title sequence in the introduction of the Season-1 episodes, host and narrator Matt Johnston explains:\nBefore the title sequence in the introduction of the Season-2 episodes, host and narrator Matt Johnston explains:\nThe format of each episode of the series consists of several parts, stages, or phases. The first and second seasons differ from each other in format.\n\n\n\n\nThe first season of \"It Takes a Thief\" consisted of 40 episodes and originally aired from February 2, 2005 to December 5, 2005.\n\nMatt Johnston and Jon Douglas Rainey survey a neighborhood for a suitable house to burglarize. Homes that appear to have security weaknesses or security-lax owners are targeted. Rainey, who does the actual break-ins, looks for unlocked doors and windows, (the lack of) alarm systems, and any available tools or ladders that can be used to gain entry). He also determines how visible the house is from the street or to the neighbors.\n\nAfter selecting a house, Rainey leaves to plan the burglary while Johnston meets with the owners to obtain their permission, offering a free security renovation following the break-in. Johnston tours the home to identify unsecured entry points, inventory valuables, and determine what (if any) security measures the homeowners use. None of this information is relayed to Rainey, and Johnston is unaware just how the actual break-in will be executed.\n\nCameras are installed throughout the house, and the family then locks up as normal when leaving. They then join Johnston in a nearby van to watch the live break-in on TV monitors. Johnston also provides commentary as the burglary is happening.\n\nRainey treats each break-in as a real heist, ransacking rooms while identifying the most valuable items as quickly as possible, and searching in what many consider secure hiding places. Cars are often taken as well, assuming Rainey can locate the keys. Occasionally, Rainey uses accomplices, and nearly every break-in employs a different strategy. The entire burglary usually take less than 15 minutes, resulting in property loss that can total thousands of dollars. Not all break-ins are successful; police have \"apprehended\" Rainey on several occasions, although he was immediately released. The producers notify local authorities about the show beforehand.\n\nOnce the burglary is over, Johnston takes the owners back into the house to survey the aftermath firsthand. They then meet Rainey—an often emotional encounter. The stolen goods are then returned, and Rainey explains why he chose the items and gives an estimated resale value. Many are stolen because they can quickly be fenced, but others, such as credit cards, passports, birth certificates, etc., can have a long-lasting financial impact on victims through identity theft. Treasured items, like heirlooms, antiques, or collectibles, are irreplaceable, while knives, handguns, and law enforcement uniforms are dangerous in a criminal's hands. The day ends with a cleaning crew putting the house back in order and a security guard posted outside overnight.\n\nThe next day, Johnston oversees a complete security makeover. Rainey is again absent during this period. Improvements may include surveillance equipment, new locks, alarm systems, new doors and windows (often with shatterproof laminates applied to the glass), safes, lock boxes, and thief-deterrent landscaping (such as thorny bushes), along with advice on improving security-conscious habits. Johnston warns the homeowners that he and Rainey will return to test how well they are maintaining their new security system.\n\nSeveral weeks later, Rainey and Johnston reappear when the house is vacant to check whether the new security measures and the homeowner's vigilance prevent Rainey from breaking in again. They then wait for the owners to return and give them an evaluation of how well they employed the new devices. Overall, there were only a handful of times where Rainey (and his associates) were \"caught\" during the heist.\n\nThe second season of \"It Takes a Thief\" also consisted of 40 episodes and originally aired from October 16, 2006 to April 13, 2007.\n\nThe second season's revamped format makes the show's break-ins seem more realistic, surprising, and suspenseful. The producers, rather than Johnston, now make the initial contact with the owners. They are warned that the burglary could happen unannounced at any time and are told to continue with their normal routines, as opposed to watching the burglary live on closed-circuit television (CCTV).\n\nRainey now monitors the residence, learns the homeowners' routines, and (usually) waits for the house to be vacant. When he feels it is time to strike, he calls Johnston and proceeds with the break-in. As Rainey burglarizes the residence (knowing that the homeowners could return at any time), Johnston alone watches the heist unfold live on the CCTV monitors while giving commentary. When the homeowners return, Johnston arrives at the scene of the crime, talks to the victims, and tours the residence with them to survey the aftermath. He then shows them the footage of how the break-in unfolded.\n\nFrom this point, the show continues as before, with Rainey returning the family's possessions, a team of experts installing security measures, and Johnston and Rainey returning in a few weeks to test those measures.\n\nMatthew T. Johnston was born on December 6, 1976 in Odessa, Texas. He currently resides in California, although he has lived in Austin, Texas, Weatherford, Oklahoma, and New York City. During his youth, Johnston burglarized homes, but after being arrested and sentenced to paying restitution, he turned his life around. Johnston has since worked as a teacher and is now an actor, writer, and filmmaker, founding his own production company, Trigger Entertainment, to develop independent film projects. Johnston stated, \"If I really had a criminal background, I wouldn't be able to work with children. I mean to even work on the Discovery Channel show, there were extensive background checks. To paraphrase Twain, the rumors of my thievery are greatly exaggerated.\" In addition to hosting \"It Takes a Thief\", he has TV and movie roles to his credit, including \"Cowboy Smoke\", which premiered at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival, and an appearance on \"Friday Night Lights\". Johnston also directed several \"It Takes A Thief\" episodes during the second season. He has been in pre-production for a movie titled \"Pain\" and was recently working on a documentary titled \"Roundball\", among other film projects.\n\nJon Douglas Rainey was born on January 27, 1970 in Camden, New Jersey. He currently resides in New Jersey, although he has lived in New York City and Tennessee. He currently works at Shapes to Come as the manager of daily gym operations. He is the father of one daughter. As a youth, he committed burglaries, including a police station. Rainey even stole Chevrolet Corvettes from a Miss America pageant. After several arrests and realizing his behavior was self-destructive, he joined the U.S. Coast Guard. He later worked as a private investigator, personal trainer, and manager of a rock band. Rainey is also an actor. Among his credits are guest appearances on \"Sex and the City\" and \"All My Children\", and a role in the Willie Nelson movie \"Shoot Out of Luck\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114260", "title": "Andrew Roachford", "text": "Andrew Roachford\n\nAndrew Roachford (born 22 January 1965) is a British singer-songwriter and the main force behind the band Roachford, who scored their first success in 1989 with the hits \"Cuddly Toy\" and \"Family Man\". He has also had a successful solo career.\n\nHe was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2019 Birthday Honours for services to music.\n\nAndrew Roachford was born in London, England. The band of the same name was formed in 1987, the line-up featuring Andrew Roachford (vocals, keyboards, percussion), Chris Taylor (drums), Hawi Gondwe (guitars) and Derrick Taylor (bass guitar). By 1988, the band were touring, supporting acts such as Terence Trent D'Arby and The Christians. Shortly afterward, a seven-album recording contract with Columbia was signed. They went on to have a string of success throughout the 1990s, becoming Columbia's biggest-selling UK act for ten years.\n\nRoachford released his first solo album, \"Heart of the Matter\", in 2003. His next album \"Word of Mouth\" was released in June 2005 under the band name Roachford. In 2010, Roachford joined Mike + The Mechanics along with Tim Howar. The following year the album \"The Road\" was released featuring Roachford and Howar as lead vocalists, as well as the 2017 album \"Let Me Fly\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114262", "title": "Rooms by the Hour", "text": "Rooms by the Hour\n\nRooms by the Hour is an album released in 1998 by Rustic Overtones. The band's third full length offering, it is credited with earning major label interest in the band and leading to their subsequent contract with the Warner Music Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114275", "title": "Sconce (light fixture)", "text": "Sconce (light fixture)\n\nA sconce is a type of light fixture that is fixed to a wall. The light is usually, but not always, directed upwards and outwards, rather than down. The sconce is a very old form of fixture, historically used with candles and oil lamps. Modern fittings are more often called wall lights or similar terms, especially if the light source is wholly covered by glass.\n\nThey can provide general room lighting, and are common in hallways and corridors, but they may be mostly decorative. A sconce may be a traditional torch, candle or gas light, or a modern electric light source affixed in the same way. \n\nSconces can be placed on both the interior and exterior walls of buildings. In pre-modern usage, these usually held candles and torches respectively. Historically, candle sconces were often made of silver or brass from the 17th century, with porcelain and ormolu coming into use during the 18th century. The light of the candle flame was often intensified by a reflecting backplate. Using brackets, the candle would be kept at safe distance from the wall.\n\nModern electric light fixture sconces are often used in hallways or corridors to provide both lighting and a point of interest in a long passage. Sconce height in a passageway is generally 3/4 of the distance up the wall as measured from the floor to the ceiling, and the distance between sconces on the wall is generally equal to the distance of the sconces from the floor, often alternating sides of the passageway. \n\nSconces are typically installed in pairs or other multiple units to provide balance. They can be used to frame doorways or line a hallway. Swing-arm sconces are often placed next to a bed to provide task lighting for reading. \n"}
{"id": "2114277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114277", "title": "William Claflin", "text": "William Claflin\n\nWilliam Claflin (March 6, 1818 – January 5, 1905) was an American politician, industrialist and philanthropist from Massachusetts. He served as the 27th Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts from 1869–1872 and as a member of the United States Congress from 1877–1881. He also served as chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1868–1872, serving as a moderating force between the Radical and moderate wings of the Republican Party. His name is given to Claflin University in South Carolina, a historically black college founded with funding from him and his father.\n\nClaflin was educated at Brown University, and worked in his father's shoe manufacturing business before becoming a partner in it. An opponent of slavery, he helped establish the state's Free Soil Party before dominating the state's Republican Party establishment in the 1860s. He supported a number of social reforms, including increased property and voting rights for women, and was the state's first governor to actively support full women's suffrage. He supported many charitable causes, and promoted the development of the village Newtonville, where his country estate was located.\n\nWilliam Claflin was born on March 6, 1818 in Milford, Massachusetts, to Lee and Sarah (Adams) Claflin. Lee Claflin was a self-made proprietor of a tannery and shoe factory in Milford, and a politically active abolitionist. William was educated first in the local schools and then at Milford Academy, before he enrolled in Brown University in 1833. His mother died in 1834 and his health was poor, so he left school and entered his father's business. After three years, with his health not improving, he traveled to St. Louis, Missouri, where from 1838 to 1844 he worked in the wholesale leather goods business. He then returned to Massachusetts after his health improved, where he rejoined the family business and settled in Hopkinton.\n\nClaflin's father had begun his shoe manufacturing in partnership with Nathan Parker Coburn, and William joined their partnership, forming a business that lasted into the 1890s. They expanded the business Lee Claflin founded, eventually building one of New England's largest boot factories in South Framingham in 1882. Claflin and Coburn would remain in active partnership until 1878, when Claflin withdrew from active participation, and their partnership was finally dissolved at the end of 1891 with Coburn's retirement. The company assets, including plants in Framingham, Hopkinton, and Milford, were then taken over by younger partners.\n\nClaflin followed his father in both politics and his methodist religion, opposing the expansion of slavery and promoting other social reforms. He was a member of the \"Bird Club\", a political organization formed by businessman Francis W. Bird, whose members dominated much of the politics of the state between the 1850s and 1870s. Its members were predominantly wealthy businessmen who favored abolition and engaged in philanthropic social reforms. In 1848 Claflin helped found the Free Soil Party in Massachusetts, under whose banner he won election to the Massachusetts House of Representatives that year. He served from 1849 to 1853, when the Know Nothings (who he refused to join) swept away the old parties. He became active in 1854 and 1855 in the founding of the state Republican Party, and served as its state chairman for a number of years. He was elected to the state senate in 1859 as a Republican, and became Senate President in 1861. He developed a close political association and friendship with fellow Free Soiler and Republican Henry Wilson, and was one of the dominant forces in the state Republican Party establishment in the 1860s.\n\nIn 1865 Claflin was elected Lieutenant Governor under Governor Alexander Hamilton Bullock, winning reelection on the same ticket two times. He was elected governor in 1868, and served three terms in that office, defeating John Quincy Adams II each time.\n\nClaflin was the first governor to actively support and promote full women's suffrage. He successfully extended to women greater rights under the law, especially in the areas of divorce and contract law. He advocated prison reform, creating a Board of Prison Commissioners, and established the state's first board of public health. In a bid to retain labor support threatened by the nascent Labor Reform Party, the Republican legislature created a bureau of labor statistics, the first such body in the nation.\n\nClaflin opposed state funding support for the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad, vetoing a loan for that railroad, while the state was otherwise lending financial support to the construction of the Hoosac Tunnel. The veto was a politically costly move, which, combined with the loss of labor votes to the Labor Reform Party, resulted in the lowest margin of victory for a Republican to date in governor's races in the 1870 election. As a result of this poor showing, Claflin was perceived as a weak candidate for reelection, and refused to stand in 1871; he also did not attend the state nominating convention. The Republican nomination went to the eventual election victor, William B. Washburn. Washburn's election signalled an end to the influence of the Bird Club as a unifying force in state Republican politics.\n\nDuring the 1860s, Claflin remained active at high levels of party politics, gaining appointment to the national executive committee of the Republican Party in 1864. In that role, he was a critical mediating force between radical and conservative factions of the party, promoting the moderate Schuyler Colfax for vice president under Ulysses S. Grant in the 1868 election. In 1868 he was elected chairman of the national party. He reluctantly promoted Grant for president in the 1872 election, unhappy that Grant had given patronage power in Massachusetts to the controversial ex-general Benjamin Butler. He stepped back from the chairmanship when Henry Wilson received the vice presidential nomination.\n\nAlong with his father, Claflin donated funds to purchase land for Claflin University, the historically black Methodist university in South Carolina. The university was founded in 1869, and was named in his father's honor. Claflin was also a significant supporter of higher education for women, signing charters for Wellesley College and Mount Holyoke College, both women's colleges, while governor. He sat on the boards of trustees at some point for many of these schools, as well as Wesleyan University (which his father also helped found) and Harvard University, both of which gave him honorary degrees.\n\nClaflin returned to business and supported philanthropic activities (many related to the Methodist Church, in which he was active) after leaving Congress. He died on January 5, 1905 at his home in Newton, and was buried in Newton Cemetery. He married twice. His first marriage was in 1839 to Nancy (Warren) Harding of Milford, with whom he had a daughter before she died in 1842. The second, in 1845, was to Mary Bucklin of Hopkinton, with whom he had five children, only two of whom survived him. His son Adams Claflin played a major role in the provision of streetcar service to Newton.\n\nClaflin was a major force in the development of the village of Newtonville in Newton, Massachusetts. In 1854 he purchased a farm that had once been owned by two governors: Simon Bradstreet (a 17th-century governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony), and William Hull, governor of the Michigan Territory. Claflin moved Hull's mansion to one side of the property and built a new one on the old foundation. He subdivided portions of the estate for development, and was responsible for the construction of the Claflin Block in Newtonville. After his death the local civic improvement association purchased the rest of Claflin's estate and gave it to the town. The site is now the location of the Newton North High School athletic fields. Newtonville's Claflin School is named in his honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114279", "title": "Fury from the Deep", "text": "Fury from the Deep\n\nFury from the Deep is the completely missing sixth serial of the fifth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which originally aired in six weekly parts from 16 March to 20 April 1968. This story is the last to feature Deborah Watling as Victoria Waterfield. It also marks the first appearance of the Doctor's gadget, the sonic screwdriver. Although audio recordings, still photographs, and clips of the story exist, no episodes of this serial are known to have survived. \n\nBBC Studios has scheduled an animated version of the serial using the surviving audio for release in 2020, animated by Big Finish Creative (previously known as Planet 55).\n\nWhen the TARDIS lands in the sea off the eastern coast of England, the Second Doctor, Jamie and Victoria investigate a nearby beach, which seems to have an improbably large amount of sea foam as well as a major gas pipe marked \"Euro Sea Gas\". When the Doctor examines the pipe using a sonic screwdriver, he thinks he hears a heartbeat from within. The trio are captured and put in a cell by Robson, a ruthless gas refiner who heads a pumping operation with a network of rigs spanning the North Sea. His second-in-command is Harris, a scientist. Robson is unnerved by the loss of contact with gas drilling Rig D at sea, plus an unexplained drop in the feed line from the rigs. The Doctor suggests that the supposed heartbeat could be a creature inside the pipe and suggests that the gas flow be suspended while he investigates, but Robson refuses to do so, and has Harris lock up the travellers.\n\nHarris believes Robson's pride is making him refuse to shut off the gas flow in order to properly investigate the feed lines, but his calculations are mysteriously gone from his briefcase. Thinking he left the file in his desk at home, he asks his wife to look for it and bring it to him. The file is on the desk, but when she opens it, Mrs. Harris is pricked by a sharp piece of seaweed. She falls ill, and Harris ends up asking the Doctor for assistance after Victoria has helped the travellers escape from their cell by picking the lock with her hairpin. Meanwhile, Mrs. Harris is visited by Mr. Oak and Mr. Quill, technicians from the command center who have already been infected by the seaweed, and have long green tendrils growing along their arms and backs of their hands. The men render Mrs. Harris unconscious by attacking her with noxious gas from their mouths, then leave. Arriving after, the Doctor can't determine what's wrong with Mrs. Harris, but his suspicions are aroused by the seaweed, and he, Jamie and Victoria return to the Tardis to study it. \n\nThe Doctor experiments on the seaweed, which when returned to water grows in size and strength, and seems to become malevolent before they successfully seal it in its aquarium. Meanwhile, Robson and Harris continue to antagonize one another, Robson becoming more and more strident and emotional. Exhausted, he retires to his room to rest, and is locked inside by Mr. Oak. As the heartbeat noise fills the cabin, sea foam gushes from the air vent, and Robson wakes to see a creature behind the vent trying to get through. The Doctor, already on his way to see Robson, is alarmed by Robson's screams and forces the door. Robson flees in terror and the Doctor and Harris get a glimpse of the creature before it goes back inside the vent.\n\nWith Robson disappeared and now aware of the real threat, Harris assumes control of the command center, calling in Megan Jones, Director of Euro Gas. The Doctor and his friends return to Harris's home, and find Mrs. Harris gone but the house filling up with sea foam, which they barely escape from through a skylight. They return to the center and find Mrs. Harris hasn't been seen there either; despite his duties, Harris feels he must search for his wife, and leaves the chief engineer in charge. Out on the beach Mrs. Harris and Robson are watching the waves, and she tells him there isn't much time and he knows what he must do. Robson agrees, and Mrs. Harris walks out into the waves. Harris appears and questions Robson, who calmly tells him he'll see his wife soon, and then walks away down the beach.\n\nAs Megan Jones is about to arrive, Harris returns to the center and informs her of the situation, but she doesn't believe him. He also prioritises the capture of Robson, who is found sedated in his room, and Megan Jones demands to see him. He has sunk into a depressed state but briefly rallies and begs his old friend to help him. They leave him and he rests. On awakening, the heartbeat sound returns to his head, and he heads off. Within minutes, he finds Victoria and takes her hostage. He forces her into a helicopter and flies it out to sea. Now terrified, Megan Jones tells the Doctor to do whatever he can. The seaweed has pumped itself up into the impeller pipe in the impeller room and is soon expanding and throbbing. It bursts the pipe and starts to fill the rooms. The Doctor commandeers a helicopter and travels with Jamie to the rig where Victoria has been taken, where they find Robson mostly transformed into a seaweed creature. He says humanity is doomed and tries to gas the Doctor with his breath. Jamie has meanwhile found Victoria. When she sees Robson's form she starts screaming, which appears to distress and disable Robson, and they all escape.\n\nBack at the command center, the Doctor realizes that the sea creatures are sensitive to high-pitched sounds, and he rigs up the center's equipment to loop and amplify a recording of Victoria's screams into the pipes which lead to the central rig. The creatures invading the command center through the impeller are also destroyed this way, utilizing hand-held speakers. Through the video link, it is clear the foam has dissipated and all of the humans have returned to normal, including Robson and Mrs. Harris.\n\nVictoria, mentally and emotionally exhausted, and frustrated that everywhere they go together is always dangerous and she's always afraid, decides to leave the TARDIS crew. The Harrises welcome her to their home and though the Doctor accepts this, Jamie is heartbroken. The Doctor and Jamie stay another day to check that she is sure about her decision, and then depart in the TARDIS after Victoria and Jamie say farewell to each other, leaving Victoria watching them from the beach.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Colony of Devils\". The footage of the TARDIS landing in the sea in episode 1 is later reused in episode 10 of \"The War Games\" in the next season.\n\nThis story marked the switch from 35 mm film to 16 mm film for its location filming. This film stock would be used until 1985's \"Revelation of the Daleks\", though 35mm would still be used for model and effects shots.\n\nEpisode 4 and 5 on the soundtrack starts with the original theme, instead of the version used for most stories since \"The Faceless Ones\" episode 2.\n\nNone of the six episodes of this serial is known to exist in full or known to have survived in the BBC Archives (see \"Doctor Who\" missing episodes). The master videotapes for the story were the final 1960s \"Doctor Who\" episodes to be erased; they were authorised for wiping in late 1974.\nThis is the latest chronological Doctor Who story of which all episodes are missing from the archives. A few seconds of the start of episode 1 (the TARDIS descending vertically to land on the sea) survives due to it being used a year later in episode 10 of \"The War Games\", as do the scenes where Oak and Quill launch their toxic gas attack in episode 2, the Weed attacking Van Lutyens in episode 4, and the Doctor and Jamie approaching the foam in episode 4, which survive because they were cut from Australian broadcasts by the censors, and were never returned to the BBC.\n\nRoy Spencer had previously played Manyak in \"The Ark\" (1966). Hubert Rees later played Captain Ransom in \"The War Games\" (1969) and John Stevenson in \"The Seeds of Doom\" (1976). June Murphy later played 3rd Officer Jane Blythe in \"The Sea Devils\" (1972). John Abineri later played General Carrington in \"The Ambassadors of Death\" (1970), Richard Railton in \"Death to the Daleks\" (1974), and Ranquin in \"The Power of Kroll\" (1979). Margaret John later played Grandma Connolly in \"The Idiot's Lantern\" (2006).\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by the series scriptwriter Victor Pemberton, was published by Target Books in May 1986. The cover advertised the volume as a special \"bumper\" edition, referring to its increased length in comparison to other Target novelisations and as explanation of the consequently higher retail price.\n\nThe visual material that has remained (short clips from episodes 1, 2, 4 and 5, behind-the-scenes 8mm colour film, and raw film trims from the recording of episode 6) was released on VHS as part of the \"Missing Years\" documentary. They also appeared on DVD as part of the \"Lost in Time\" boxset. A fan-made documentary entitled \"The Making of Fury from the Deep\" was released in 1999 as part of a telesnap reconstruction of the story. Edited by Richard Bignell, it lasts fifty minutes and includes interviews with key members of the production team.\n\nThe audio soundtracks have been released commercially. In 1993, an abridged audio cassette version was released featuring linking narration by Tom Baker in character as the Doctor. In 2004, a newly remastered CD version was released with linking narration by Frazer Hines. The unabridged novelisation reading by David Troughton was released by AUDIOGO on 7 July 2011. The reading, complete with new music and sound effects, is presented over six discs, and is available for digital download from AUDIOGO.\n\nOn 27 October 2019, BBC Studios announced that Fury from the Deep will be released on DVD and Blu-ray in 2020 with all 6 episodes animated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114281", "title": "Paolo Guerrero", "text": "Paolo Guerrero\n\nJosé Paolo Guerrero Gonzales (; born 1 January 1984) is a Peruvian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Brazilian club Internacional and the Peru national team.\n\nGuerrero spent his early career in Germany, formed at Bayern Munich, and later playing at Hamburger SV, amassing Bundesliga totals of 161 games and 47 goals across eight seasons. He later played in Brazil, scoring the goal which won the 2012 FIFA Club World Cup Final for Corinthians.\n\nSince his international debut in 2004, Guerrero has earned over 100 caps for Peru and is the nation's all-time top goalscorer with 38 goals, representing them at five Copa América tournaments. He helped them to third place in the 2011 and 2015 editions, and to runners-up in 2019, finishing as top scorer in all three of these tournaments. He is also the current all time top scorer in the history of the Copa América among active players. He was one of 59 nominees for the 2015 FIFA Ballon d'Or, the first Peruvian to receive that recognition.\n\nGuerrero was born in Lima, starting his football career in the lower categories of Alianza Lima. In 2003, he signed a contract with Bavarian giants Bayern Munich. During 2003–04, Guerrero played in the Regionalliga Süd where he scored 21 goals in 23 games. During the 2004–05 season, he joined fellow countryman Claudio Pizarro on the Bayern first team.\n\nIn June 2006, it was announced that Guerrero had transferred to Hamburger SV and signed a contract with the club through 2010. His first season was marred by an injury, which took away half his season, and his low productivity, being a sub most of the season. Near the end, he did score three goals, making his season total 5 goals in 20 games. One of these goals was against former club Bayern Munich in a 1–2 victory which left Bayern with no possibilities of making it to the UEFA Champions League. In the 2007–08 season, his second at Hamburg, Guerrero played 29 of 34 games in the Bundesliga, scoring nine goals and getting four assists, as well as becoming an undisputed starter and a vital part of the side; he was the third top scorer, behind Rafael van der Vaart (12 goals) and Ivica Olić (14 goals). In the UEFA Cup and qualification, he played nine games, scoring five goals and getting three assists. His first hat-trick in his professional career was against Karlsruher SC, in the last game of the Bundesliga, scoring the second, third, and fourth goals in a 7–0 victory. This victory secured them fourth place and a UEFA Cup spot for next season.\n\nBy the beginning of the 2008–09 season, Guerrero had become first choice striker for Hamburger SV. Coach Martin Jol even went as far as saying that Guerrero better not catch even a cold during the season. Guerrero was fined a club record (somewhere in the region of €50,000–100,000), in April 2010 for an incident at the end of a league game with Hannover 96, where after apparently having been abused by a Hamburg fan, Guerrero threw his drink bottle into the crowd, striking that fan in the face. The German Football Association (DFB) suspended Guerrero for five league games and fined him €20,000.\n\nGuerrero joined Brazilian club Corinthians on 13 July 2012, on a three-year deal for a fee of R$7.5 million. He scored both of their goals in the 2012 FIFA Club World Cup, once in the semi-finals against Al Ahly SC and the winning goal in the final against Chelsea.\n\nIn May 2013, Guerrero became the first Peruvian footballer to appear on the cover of \"Placar\", Brazil's biggest football magazine. The cover featured him as a warrior (\"\"guerrero\"\" is similar to the Portuguese word \"\"guerreiro\"\", both meaning \"warrior\") fresh out of battle, with blood on his legs, and carrying a Corinthians flag.\n\nIn July 2013, Corinthians won the 2013 Recopa Sudamericana, defeating city rivals São Paulo FC 3–1 on aggregate. Guerrero scored in the first leg, a 2–1 away win.\n\nIn 2015, Guerrero and Corinthians were not able to reach a deal on the renegotiation of his contract, due to end on 15 July. His last game for Corinthians was against Fluminense on 24 May. Corinthians confirmed his release three days later.\n\nIt was announced on 29 May 2015, that Guerrero would join Flamengo after playing for Peru in the Copa América in Chile.\n\nIn the 2017 Campeonato Carioca, Guerrero scored both of Flamengo's goals in a 2–1 semi-final win over Botafogo, and a further goal in the second leg of the final to win 3–1 on aggregate over Fluminense in the Maracanã.\n\nOn 12 August 2018, Guerrero signed with S.C. Internacional on a three-year contract, after leaving Flamengo on a free transfer. He was given the number 79, to commemorate the last time Inter won the Campeonato Brasileiro. However, days before he was to debut, on 24 August, his FIFA ban was upheld, preventing him from playing his first match until April 2019.\n\nIn 2019, Guerrero's number changed from 79 to 9, due to the departure of Leandro Damião. After his ban expired, Guerrero finally made his debut for Inter in the Campeonato Gaúcho against Caxias, on 6 April, scoring in the 2–0 semi-final win. His Copa Libertadores debut came against Palestino of Chile, a match where he scored twice.\n\nGuerrero's national career began at the 2001 Bolivarian Games where he won gold with the U-17 squad. His career with the senior team began in the unsuccessful 2006 FIFA World Cup qualification campaign, but he managed to score twice for the national side. His first goal was the winner against Chile in Lima's Estadio Nacional. It was followed by a first-minute goal in the next match against Ecuador at the same venue, though the Ecuadorians fought back to secure a 2–2 away draw. In the opening game of the 2007 Copa América in Mérida, Venezuela, Guerrero concluded a 3–0 win over Uruguay as Peru went on to reach the quarter-finals.\n\nGuerrero was ruled out of Peru's first two 2010 World Cup qualifying games because of injury. A further blow to Peru was laid down by FIFA when Guerrero was suspended six games for insulting the referee during the match against Uruguay in June 2008. Following Peru's disastrous qualifying campaign for the 2010 World Cup, José del Solar was replaced with Uruguayan manager Sergio Markarián and Guerrero was called up for the 2011 Copa América. In place of an injured Pizarro, Guerrero played as the team's starting striker in the competition and scored five times, making him the tournament's top scorer, one each against Uruguay and Mexico followed by a hat-trick against Venezuela in the third place play-off match which Peru won 4–1.\n\nAt the 2015 Copa América held in Chile, Guerrero scored a hat-trick in a 3–1 win against Bolivia in the quarter-final in Temuco. He scored the second goal in Peru's 2–0 win over Paraguay in the third place play-off, thus helping Peru to third place at the Copa América for a second consecutive time and finishing as joint top-goalscorer with Chile's Eduardo Vargas.\n\nGuerrero became the all-time leading goalscorer for Peru on 4 June 2016, after scoring against Haiti in a 1–0 win at the Copa América Centenario.\n\nGuerrero made 17 appearances and scored five goals in the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign, helping Peru clinch a berth in the play-offs. On 3 November 2017, it was announced that Guerrero had failed the doping control test after the match against Argentina in the previous month for what was initially reported as a \"social drug\". He received a preemptive 30-day suspension from FIFA, making him miss the World Cup play-off tie against New Zealand, eventually won by Peru.\n\nOn 8 December 2017, it was revealed that Guerrero had tested positive for benzoylecgonine, the primary metabolite of cocaine. As a result, he was banned by FIFA from all competitions for one year, meaning that he would not have been able to participate in the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The ban was reduced on appeal 12 days later. Guerrero's lawyers had argued that the failed test had occurred as a result of the consumption of a traditional coca tea, using forensic analysis of the Children of Llullaillaco as evidence.\n\nHowever, on 14 May 2018, the Court of Arbitration for Sport upheld the appeal filed by the World Anti-Doping Agency, extending the ban to 14 months and ruling him out of the tournament. It accepted that Guerrero did not intend to enhance performance but said he was at fault, even if not significantly.\n\nOn 31 May 2018, it was announced Guerrero would be allowed to play at the 2018 FIFA World Cup after the Swiss Federal Tribunal temporarily lifted the ban.\n\nOn 3 June 2018, Guerrero made his comeback after a seven-month absence from the national team scoring twice in the 3–0 friendly win against Saudi Arabia.\n\nA 2018 report of investigative journalists of German broadcasting station ARD revealed doping practices in Brazil, involving physician Mohamad Barakat who reportedly treated Guerrero and who had already posed with him many years ago.\n\nGuerrero made his World Cup debut on 16 June 2018, coming off the bench in the 1–0 loss to Denmark. On 26 June, he assisted André Carrillo's goal, which was Peru's first World Cup goal in 36 years, and scored the second goal in Peru's 2–0 win over Australia, in the team's final group match, as his side suffered a first-round exit from the competition.\n\nIn May 2019, Guerrero was included in Ricardo Gareca's final 23-man squad for the 2019 Copa América in Brazil. He scored the opening goal in Peru's second group game of the tournament on 18 June – a 3–1 victory over Bolivia. In the semi-finals against defending champions Chile on 3 July, Guerrero scored the final goal of a 3–0 win, which saw Peru advance to the final of the tournament for the first time since 1975.\n\nIn the 2019 Copa América Final against hosts Brazil on 7 July, at the Maracanã Stadium, Guerrero scored the temporary equaliser from the penalty spot in the first half; the match eventually ended in a 3–1 victory to Brazil. Guerrero finished the tournament as the top scorer with 3 goals, alongside Brazil's Everton Soares, who won the Golden Boot Award due to having played fewer minutes than the Peruvian throughout the tournament.\n\nOn 11 October 2019, Guerrero made his 100th international appearance for Peru against Uruguay.\n\nGuerrero has a fear of flying. Media reports claim his fear of flying is due to the death of his uncle José González Ganoza in the 1987 Alianza Lima air disaster.\n\nGuerrero's older brother, Julio Rivera, was also a footballer for the Peru national team who progressed through the Alianza Lima youth system. The brothers were both following in the path of their uncle who had represented Alianza Lima and the Peru national team before them.\n\nGuerrero is Roman Catholic.\n\nHis nephew, also named Julio Rivera, was found dead from a robbery in Lima. Guerrero held his death with sorrow and honor to his late nephew.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n• Copa América Top scorer: 2011, 2015, 2019\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114288", "title": "Leroy Thompson", "text": "Leroy Thompson\n\nLeroy Thompson (born January 23, 1971) is a former fullback/linebacker in the Arena Football League for 13 years. He has played for the Albany / Indiana Firebirds (1996–2004), the New Orleans VooDoo (2005) and the Columbus Destroyers (2006–2008). He played college football at Delaware State University where he was a first team Division I-AA All-American and holds all quarterback sack records. Played with the Philadelphia Eagles of the NFL in 1996 and also with the Toronto Argonauts of the CFL in 1994.\n\nThompson attended Delaware State University where he was a two-time All Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference selection. During his junior season, he recorded a school record 16 sacks, and five sacks in one game against North Carolina A&T which is also a school record. As a senior, Thompson earned First Team Division I-AA Kodak All-America honors as he led the team with 89 tackles and 11 sacks. Leroy's 30 career sacks rate third all-time for the Hornets.\n\nThompson played an astounding thirteen seasons in the AFL, and is considered one of the leagues all-time greatest linebacker/fullbacks. Previously playing for the Albany / Indiana Firebirds (1996-2004), New Orleans VooDoo (2005), and the Columbus Destroyers (2006–08). His best statistical season came in 2000 while playing for the Firebirds, rushing the ball 59 times for 191 yards and 14 touchdowns. Defensively, his best season came in 2002 tallying 16 tackles and five sacks including 37 rushes for 117 yards and 10 touchdowns. His efforts were rewarded that season by being named First Team All-Arena FB/LB, and the AFL's Ford Tough Man of the Year.\n\nThompson was a participant in the 2007 ArenaBowl as a member of the National Conference Champion, Columbus Destroyers, and also won an ArenaBowl Championship in 1999 with the Albany Firebirds. When he retired in 2008, he was only one of six AFL players who had rushed for over 1,000 career yards. He led his team in rushing six of his 13 seasons in the League, while being in the Top 10 overall in that same category five out of those 13 seasons.\n\nThompson was invited by the San Diego Chargers in the 2015 training camp to work as the assistant to defensive line coach Don Johnson through the Bill Walsh NFL Minority Coaches Internship Program. In 2012 and 2013, Thompson was also a member of Chuck Pagano's Indianapolis Colts coaching staff through the same program. Pagano states that Thompson is an up-and-coming defensive line coach on the NFL level. He was also a member of the Philadelphia Eagles coaching staff in the 2011 training camp where he served as assistant coach under former defensive line coach Jim Washburn. He also coached on the college level as an assistant coach at Wesley College and Lincoln University (Pa.). While at Lincoln, he helped the second-year program win two more games than the previous season, working with a defensive unit that shaved nearly two touchdowns per game off of its points allowed. In 2013, Thompson was named the defensive line coach for the Pittsburgh Power.\n\nIn 2018, Thompson became the defensive line coach for the Atlanta Legends of the newly-formed Alliance of American Football.\n\nThompson also played the role of Philadelphia Eagles defensive end Carl \"Big Daddy\" Hairston in the Vince Papale movie \"Invincible\".\n"}
{"id": "2114292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114292", "title": "Manuelito", "text": "Manuelito\n\nChief Manuelito (1818–1893) was one of the principal headmen of the Diné people before, during and after the Long Walk Period. His name means \"Little Manuel\" in Spanish. He was born to the \"Bit'ahnii\" or ″Folded Arms People Clan″, near the Bears Ears in southeastern Utah about 1818. As many Navajo, he was known by different names depending upon context. He was (Holy Boy), (Son-in-Law of Late Texan), \"Hastiin Ch'ilhaajinii\" (\"Man of the Black Plants Place\") and as (War Chief, \"Warrior Grabbed Enemy\") to other Diné, and non-Navajo nicknamed him \"Bullet Hole\".\n\nManuelito was a prominent Navajo leader who rallied his nation against the oppression of the United States military. For several years he led a group of warriors in resisting federal efforts to forcibly remove the Navajo people to Bosque Redondo, New Mexico via the Long Walk in 1864. After being relocated to Bosque Redondo, Manuelito was among the leaders who signed the 1868 treaty, ending a period of imprisonment in United States government internment camps and establishing a reservation for the Navajo. Manuelito was also an advocate for western education for Navajo children, with his infamous quote, “… My grandchildren, education is a ladder. Tell our people to take it.”\n\nManuelito was born into the Bit'ahnii Clan (Within his cover clan) near Bears Ears, Utah where he was born and raised.\n\nHe married Juanita a daughter of Narbona (1766 – August 30, 1849) after joining Narbona's Band, and went to live at their camp near the Chuska Mountains. \nNarbona's reputation as a wealthy and powerful headman impressed Manuelito. He especially admired Narbona's fearless attitude, although Narbona tried to teach him the value of peace as well as war.\nManuelito spent his days shooting arrows and competing with other young men in countless foot races and wrestling matches, always winning. He dressed in well-fitting buckskins and a finely woven blanket. He couldn't wait for his first battle.\nWhen word came in the winter of 1835 that 1000 Mexicans (from New Mexico) were coming to attack the Navajos, Manuelito fought his first in what would be many violent battles. There he earned the name (″Angry Warrior″).\n\nIn the years that followed, Manuelito led one raiding party after another, joining forces with other leaders such as Ganado Mucho and Barboncito to attack not only the hated Mexicans, but also the Hopis in Arizona, the Puebloan peoples of New Mexico, the Utes, the Comanches, and the Apaches. Food supplies, livestock, and women and children were all fair game, and eventually Manuelito married one of his many Mexican slaves, Juanita (1845-1910).\n\nJuanita's Navajo name was \"Asdzáá Tl'ógí\", (\"Weaver Woman\"); a dress and saddle blanket woven by Juanita survive to this day. Her biographer and great-great-great granddaughter Jennifer Nez Denetdale describes taking a trip to Los Angeles to view the dress. Cassandra Manuelito-Kerkvliet is his great-great granddaughter.\n\n\nManuelito, as he was known to the white settlers and government forces, was Ashkii Diyinii, Holy Boy, to his own people, later to earn the name , or Sir Black Reeds, named for 'the place among the black reeds'.\n\nUpon his return, he again lived east of Tohatchi. He became principal chief of the eastern Navajos.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114294", "title": "William L. Patterson", "text": "William L. Patterson\n\nWilliam Lorenzo Patterson (August 27, 1891 – March 5, 1980) was an African-American leader in the Communist Party USA and head of the International Labor Defense, a group that offered legal representation to communists, trade unionists, and African Americans in cases involving issues of political or racial persecution.\n\nWilliam Lorenzo Patterson was born August 27, 1891 in San Francisco, California. His father, James Edward Patterson, originally hailed from the island of St. Vincent in the British West Indies. His mother, Mary Galt Patterson, had been born a slave in the state of Virginia and was the daughter of the organizer of a volunteer regiment of black soldiers who fought with the Union army during the American Civil War.\n\nPatterson's father was a Seventh-day Adventist missionary to Tahiti and he spent extensive time there, with the rest of the family moving between the California cities of Oakland and Mill Valley, where William attended public schools.\n\nIn 1911 Patterson was the first African-American graduate of Tamalpais High School, in Mill Valley, California. In the yearbook, his stated ambition was \"to be a second Booker T. Washington.\" After graduation Patterson supported himself working as a laborer in railroad dining cars and on boats which worked the Pacific coast. He saved up enough money to enter the University of California, Berkeley but was expelled during the years of World War I due to his refusal to participate in compulsory military training.\n\nDeciding to set his sights on becoming a lawyer, Patterson entered the Hastings College of Law, from which he graduated in 1919. He failed the California State Bar Examination, however, and decided to pursue emigration to Liberia, taking a job as a cook on a mail ship to England as a means to this end. Patterson found his inquiries about Liberian emigration put off in England due to his lack of construction or practical craft skills, and he determined to return to the United States, landing in New York and gaining employment as a longshoreman.\nPatterson was able to put his college degree to use, finding employment as a clerk in a law office, helping to write briefs and studying to take the New York State Bar Examination, which he passed in 1924. During this time he married his first wife, the former Minnie Summer, and made numerous personal acquaintances associated with the booming Harlem Renaissance.\n\nAmong Patterson's New York friends was radical political activist Richard B. Moore, who persuaded Patterson to put his legal skills to work in the effort to prevent the execution of the Italian immigrant anarchist Sacco and Vanzetti, convicted of murder in a controversial and highly politicized Massachusetts trial.\n\nPatterson joined the Workers (Communist) Party and became head of the International Labor Defense, a communist legal advocacy organization.\n\nOn August 22, 1927, he was among the 156 persons arrested for protesting the execution of immigrants Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti, who were anarchists.\n\nPatterson was active in the Civil Rights Congress, which succeeded the ILD. In 1951 he presented the document, \"We Charge Genocide\", to the United Nations, charging the U.S. federal government with complicity in genocide for failing to pass legislation or prosecute persons responsible for lynching in the United States, of which most of the victims were black men.\n\nHe married Louise Thompson on September 3, 1940. A writer, she had a long association with the poet Langston Hughes, and they collaborated on a proposal for a documentary about Harlem culture.\n\nPatterson died in 1980 at Union Hospital in the Bronx following a prolonged illness. He was 88 years old at the time of his death.\n\nPatterson's papers are housed at Howard University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114298", "title": "Henry Roscoe", "text": "Henry Roscoe\n\nHenry Roscoe may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2114301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114301", "title": "Jacinto João", "text": "Jacinto João\n\nJacinto João, also known as J. J. (January 25, 1944, Luanda – October 29, 2004, Setúbal) was one of the greatest Portuguese football players of his time. He played as a left winger.\n\nPortugal had so many great attacking players at that time that Jacinto João won just 10 caps for the Portuguese national team, scoring two goals. His debut was on 27 October 1968, in a 3–0 win over Romania in a World Cup qualifying match, when he came on as substitute for António Simões, and scored a goal. He was not included in the team that played at the Independence Brazil Cup, in 1972. His last game for Portuguese national team, was on 3 April 1974, in a 0–0 draw with England in Lisbon, in a friendly match.\n\nHe played for 14 seasons for Vitória de Setúbal, scoring 66 goals in 268 games, helping them to 2nd place in the Portuguese league in 1971/72. He was one of the few great Portuguese football players of his generation who never played for Benfica, Sporting Lisbon or Porto. After retiring from activity he remained working for his club's Technical Staff until he died in 2004, of a fourth and fatal heart attack. Vitória de Setúbal erected a statue in his honour.\n\nJacinto João shared a birthday with his contemporary football legend Eusébio, January 25.\n"}
{"id": "2114308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114308", "title": "The Wheel in Space", "text": "The Wheel in Space\n\nThe Wheel in Space is the mostly missing seventh and final serial of the fifth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which originally aired in six weekly parts from 27 April to 1 June 1968. This serial is the first appearance of Wendy Padbury as companion Zoe Heriot. Only two of the six episodes are held in the BBC archives; four still remain missing.\n\nThe explosion of the mercury fluid link forces the Second Doctor and Jamie to evacuate the TARDIS to avoid mercury fumes, and until the mercury can be replaced, the spacecraft is marooned. They find themselves on a space vessel, deserted apart from a Servo-Robot. The robot detects the intruders and redirects the rocket from aimless wandering. The shock of a course change causes the Doctor to hit his head, concussing him. The robot also releases a group of egg-shaped white pods into space which direct themselves toward a nearby spaceship shaped like a giant wheel, attaching themselves to its exterior. When the robot becomes aggressive, Jamie destroys it, but the Doctor is very weak and collapses.\n\nThe Wheel is an Earth space station observing phenomena in deep space and is staffed with a small international crew. The crew are concerned by the sudden drops in pressure, which, unbeknown to them, coincide with the pods attaching themselves to the exterior of the Wheel. Controller Jarvis Bennett is also worried that the Silver Carrier, a missing supply vessel eighty million miles off course, has suddenly turned up nearby and is not responding to radio contact. He decides to destroy it with the Wheel’s x-ray laser.\n\nJarvis is prevented from doing so when they hear a deafening burst of noise from the vessel. Jamie alerts them to his presence aboard the Carrier and he and the unconscious Doctor are rescued and taken aboard the Wheel. While the resident medic, Dr. Gemma Corwyn, sees to the Doctor, Jamie is given a guided tour by the astrophysicist librarian, Zoe Heriot.\n\nGemma knows that Jamie is lying, so Bennett remains suspicious of the new arrivals, fearing they could be saboteurs opposed to the space program. He decides to use the x-ray laser on the Carrier now that the two refugees have been rescued, not realizing that the TARDIS is still on board, but Jamie sabotages the laser.\n\nMeanwhile, onboard the rocket, two pods similar to the ones which attached themselves to the Wheel draw energy from around it. A three-fingered silver hand punches out of the top of one of them.\n\nJamie's sabotage of the laser infuriates Bennett, especially as there is a potential meteor shower heading for the Wheel and they now have no way to repel it. Jarvis confines Jamie and the Doctor to the sickbay. When the Doctor recovers, he does not approve of Jamie's action. Zoe has calculated that the ship did not drift to their sector but was deliberately piloted there. The Wheel’s crew, however, are more concerned with the impending meteor shower.\n\nThe two large pods contain Cybermen, who discuss their plans with the Cyberplanner (an immobile unit in control of the Cybermen) over a video communicator. The small pods they sent to the Wheel contained Cybermats which were sent to begin consuming the bernalium rods in the Wheel’s stores. The bernalium is essential to power the x-ray laser. The Cybermen have engineered the star in Messier 13 to go nova, forcing the Wheel crew to look to their bernalium stores only to find them missing. The Cybermen expect the crewmen will come to the Silver Carrier for an alternate source of bernalium, which can then be transported into the Wheel – with a surprise inside.\n\nEngineer Bill Duggan has noticed the depleted stocks and the presence of the Cybermats. His delay in reacting allows another crewman, Kemel Rudkin, to fall victim to the Cybermats. Jarvis Bennett overreacts with panic to this state of affairs, stripping Duggan of his position and imposing tighter controls. The Doctor uses the x-ray machine to scan a floor plate which Rudkin had sprayed with quick-setting plastic, revealing a Cybermat. Jarvis sends two crewmen, Laleham and Vallance, to the Silver Carrier to look for bernalium. Once there, the Cybermen reveal themselves and take control of their minds. They then order the crewmen to take them to the Wheel.\n\nLaleham and Vallance are used to prepare the bernalium crates destined for the Wheel with two Cybermen hidden inside. This ruse works, and the crates are ready to board the Wheel. The Doctor and Jamie try to warn Dr. Corwyn and Bennett, but the controller does not accept the danger. Indeed, Dr. Corwyn, who has formed an alliance with the Doctor, fears for Bennett’s mental state.\n\nDuggan and Leo Ryan are glad to have access to a new power supply for the laser, which they are repairing. An engineer is killed by the emerging Cybermen when he is sent to fetch the new bernalium supply. Laleham and Vallance arrive at the laser with the bernalium for Duggan, who falls victim to the same mind control process used earlier. Duggan is sent to destroy communications with the Earth. He smashes the control panel and gets electrocuted to death afterwards.\n\nThe Doctor deduces that the fortuitous supply of bernalium has a deeper significance. Reasoning that Duggan was mind controlled, he instructs Dr. Corwyn to use a basic transistor system attached to each of the crews' necks to repel this technique. In the loading bay, the Doctor and Jamie discover the crate's false bottom, which confirms the presence of the Cybermen aboard the Wheel. Behind them, a Cyberman is coming down the steps.\n\nThe Cyberman leaves with some bernalium, not detecting the Doctor and Jamie. However, they are then ambushed by Cybermats. The crew use a sonic wave to disable the Cybermats. Gemma and Zoe show Jarvis a dead Cybermat, but he refuses to believe that they are under attack. Gemma relieves Jarvis of his command as he's unfit to be the station controller.\n\nThe death of Duggan is no obstacle to the Cybermen as another engineer, Flannigan, is found to replace him. Laleham is killed trying to subdue Flannigan when Vallance misses with a gun. A Cyberman takes control of Flannigan's mind. The Cybermen have invested time in repairing the x-ray laser. When the meteorites are due to hit, they can be deflected and obliterated. The Cybermen want the Wheel intact so they can use its radio beam for their fleet to home in on. They want to invade the Earth, desperate for the planet's mineral wealth.\n\nThe human crew repair the x-ray laser and use it to defend against the incoming meteorites. The Doctor decides that he needs the time vector generator, which he earlier removed from the TARDIS. Jamie and Zoe are chosen for a space-walk to the rocket. Gemma shows them to the airlock but hides in the oxygen room. She overhears Vallance and a Cyberman plotting to poison the air supply and warns the Doctor before she is killed by a Cyberman. Meanwhile, Jamie and Zoe are caught up in the meteor shower.\n\nLeo switches to sectional air supply, meaning that the Cybermen cannot poison their air. Shocked back to consciousness by Gemma's death, the insane Jarvis Bennett is killed when he seeks revenge. Leo assumes control as the Doctor warns there is a vast Cyberman spacecraft heading for the Wheel.\n\nThe Cyberplanner suspects that someone aboard knows of their methods. Vallance identifies everyone on board, and the Cyberplanner recognises the Doctor. The Cyberplanner decides that he must be killed. Jamie and Zoe tune into this conversation aboard the rocket and go back with the time vector generator to warn the Doctor.\n\nThe humans need to contact Earth, but Duggan's suicide mission made this impossible. They need spare parts. Flannigan pretends to be normal and says he will meet up with the Doctor in corridor 6 and give them to him. This is a plan by the Cybermen to ambush the Doctor. The Doctor suspects this and goes through the air tunnels to the power room to fetch them. When the Cybermen don't find him in corridor 6, they order Flannigan to go to the control room and destroy the forcefield.\n\nJamie and Zoe get back, and Flannigan takes them to the control room. He is overwhelmed by Leo and Enrico Casali, the communications officer, and his conditioning is broken. The Doctor is cornered in the powerhouse by the two Cybermen and they reveal their plans to him. When they try to destroy him, he electrocutes one. A large group of Cybermen start spacewalking towards the Wheel. Jamie and Flannigan go to the loading bay and free Vallance from cyber-control. Flannigan uses quick-setting plastic in a fire extinguisher to kill the last Cyberman and then turns on the deflector shield, which deflects the Cybermen into space. The Doctor uses the time vector generator to boost the power of the x-ray laser and destroys the advancing Cybership.\n\nWith the invasion repelled, the Doctor and Jamie return to the Silver Carrier with the mercury they need to repair the TARDIS. They are accompanied by Zoe, who stows away as they depart. She is determined to stay and so, to warn her of the dangers ahead, the Doctor uses a mental device to project images from his mind to the viewscreen, which tell her of his and Jamie's encounter with the Daleks in their search for the Dalek Factor.\n\nThe story's working title was \"The Space Wheel\". This serial was the first time the BBC Radiophonic Workshop were called upon to provide the backing score.\n\nA brief clip from this story was later re-used in episode 10 of \"The War Games\" at the close of the next season.\n\nThe spacesuits worn by Jamie and Zoe, previously seen in \"The Tenth Planet\", later were used as costumes in \"\" and \"The Empire Strikes Back\" (most famously worn by Bossk the Bounty Hunter). The suit is a High-Altitude Windak Pressure Suit used by the RAF in the 1960s.\n\nPatrick Troughton did not appear in episode 2 as he was on holiday. Thus, a body double was used to substitute for the unconscious Doctor. Deborah Watling's appearance in episode 1 was a recap from the end of the previous story \"Fury from the Deep\". Unusually, she received an on-screen credit for this appearance.\n\nMichael Goldie previously played Craddock in \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\" (1964). Kenneth Watson had played Craddock in the film version of the same story: \"\" (1966). Clare Jenkins had played Nanina in \"The Savages\" (1966) and would go on to briefly reprise her role as Tanya Lernov in the final episode of \"The War Games\" (1969). Donald Sumpter would go on to play Commander Ridgeway in \"The Sea Devils\" (1972) and the President in \"Hell Bent\" (2015). He played Erasmus Darkening in the \"Who\" spin-off \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story \"The Eternity Trap\" (2009).\n\nOnly Episodes 3 and 6 exist in the BBC Archives. Episode 6 was transmitted from a 35 mm film print and retained in the BBC Film Library (although Episode 5 was not, despite also being transmitted from a similar print). A private collector obtained a copy of Episode 3 and returned it in 1983. A few other clips have been discovered as well.\n\nOn 6 July 2017 Nerdist announced a sneak peek of a new reconstruction of \"The Wheel in Space\". The statement also said that it would be exclusive to Britbox, a streaming service formed by the BBC and ITV.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping wrote of the serial in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), \"Dull, lifeless and so derivative of other base-under-siege stories that it isn't really a story in its own right. Despite the detailed Wheel setting, the galloping lack of scientific credibility is annoying, and the Cybermen are so bland and ordinary they could have been any other monster.\" In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker felt that some moments, like the death of Gemma, were \"tense\" and strengthened by the \"very good\" guest cast, and the story was also \"enjoyable\" in some aspects and Zoe's debut was promising. However, they criticised the Cyberman's plan, which was \"logical and well worked out\" but \"so convoluted that it seriously strains the viewer's credulity\". In 2009, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" praised the introduction of Zoe, her dynamic with Jamie, and the supporting character of Gemma. However, he felt the story had a \"clunkingly tortuous plot\", which was too complicated, not threatening, and ended \"somewhat flatly\".\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in March 1988. Only 23,000 copies of the paperback edition were circulated (reportedly due to stocks being destroyed in a warehouse fire), leading to this book becoming a rare collectible.\n\nIn July 1992 Episodes 3 and 6 were released on VHS as part of the \"Cybermen: The Early Years\" collection. They were later released on DVD in November 2004 in the three-disc \"Lost in Time\" set. All six episodes' original audio tracks were released on CD with narration by Wendy Padbury in May 2004.\n\nBritbox released a reconstruction of the series, with the surviving episodes, available to its streaming customers in September 2017. An abridged animated version of Episode One utilising ten minutes of the surviving audio premiered at the BFI's \"Missing Believed Wiped\" event in December 2018. This animation was included as a special feature on the home video release of \"The Macra Terror\" in March 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114314", "title": "We Charge Genocide", "text": "We Charge Genocide\n\nWe Charge Genocide: The Crime of Government Against the Negro People is a paper accusing the United States government of genocide based on the UN Genocide Convention. This paper was written by the Civil Rights Congress (CRC) and presented to the United Nations at meetings in Paris in December 1951.\n\nThe document pointed out that the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide defined genocide as any acts committed with \"intent to destroy\" a group, \"in whole or in part\". To build its case for black genocide, the document cited many instances of lynching in the United States, as well as legal discrimination, disenfranchisement of blacks in the South, a series of incidents of police brutality dating to the present, and systematic inequalities in health and quality of life. The central argument: The U.S. government is both complicit with and responsible for a genocidal situation based on the UN's own definition of genocide.\n\nThe document received international media attention and became caught up in Cold War politics, as the CRC was supported by the American Communist Party. Its many examples of shocking conditions for African Americans shaped beliefs about the United States in countries across the world. The United States government and press accused the CRC of exaggerating racial inequality in order to advance the cause of Communism. The U.S. State Department forced CRC secretary William L. Patterson to surrender his passport after he presented the petition to a UN meeting in Paris.\n\nSoon after the United Nations was created in 1945, it began to receive requests for assistance from peoples across the world. These came from the indigenous peoples of European colonies in Africa and Asia, but also from African Americans. The first group to petition the UN regarding African Americans was the National Negro Congress (NNC), which in 1946 delivered a statement on racial discrimination to the Secretary General. The next appeal, from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1947, was more than 100 pages in length. W. E. B. Du Bois presented it to the UN on 23 October 1947, over the objections of Eleanor Roosevelt, the widow of the late president and an American delegate to the UN. Du Bois, frustrated with the State Department's opposition to the petitions, criticized president Walter White of the NAACP for accepting a position as consultant to the US delegation; White in turn pushed Du Bois out of the NAACP.\n\nThe petitions were praised by the international press and by Black press in the United States. America's mainstream media, however, were ambivalent or hostile. Some agreed that there was some truth to the petitions, but suggested that 'tattling' to the UN would aid the cause of Communism. The Soviet Union did cite these documents as evidence of poor conditions in the United States.\n\nThe Civil Rights Congress (CRC), the successor to the International Labor Defense group and affiliated with the communist party, had begun to gain momentum domestically by defending Blacks sentenced to execution, such as Rosa Lee Ingram and the Trenton Six. The National Negro Congress joined forces with the CRC in 1947.\n\nThe petition quotes the UN's definition of genocide as \"Any intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, racial, or religious group is genocide.\" It concludes that \"the oppressed Negro citizens of the United States, segregated, discriminated against, and long the target of violence, suffer from genocide as the result of the consistent, conscious, unified policies of every branch of government. If the General Assembly acts as the conscience of mankind and therefore acts favorably on our petition, it will have served the cause of peace.\" The CRC emphasized that attempting to destroy a group \"in part\" was part of the definition, and argued that treatment of African Americans qualified as genocide.\n\nAs evidence, the 237-page petition addresses the question of racism in the United States from different angles. It lists hundreds of wrongful executions and lynchings, refers to at least 10,000 undocumented cases, and also charges that Southern states in the U.S. had engaged in a conspiracy against African Americans' ability to vote through poll taxes and literacy tests. In addition to legal discrimination, the petition discusses systematic economic inequalities and differences in quality of life.\n\nUltimately, the petition holds the US government responsible for genocide, through endorsement of both racism and \"monopoly capitalism\"—without which \"the persistent, constant, widespread, institutionalized commission of the crime of genocide would be impossible\". Seeking to demonstrate the urgency of the problem, and to invite explicit comparisons between American genocide and Nazi genocide, the document focuses on incidents occurring after 1945. The CRC procured source material carefully, and critics of the document acknowledged that its facts were correct.\n\nThe CRC sought to demonstrate that systematic oppression of African Americans amounted to genocide because it reflected a violent white supremacy at the core of American culture.\n\nOn 17 December 1951, the petition was presented to the United Nations by two separate venues: Paul Robeson, concert singer and activist, together with people who signed the petition, handed the document to a UN official in New York City, while William L. Patterson, executive director of the Civil Rights Congress, delivered copies of the petition to a UN delegation in Paris. W. E. B. Du Bois, also slated to deliver the petition in Paris, had been classified by the US State Department as an \"unregistered foreign agent\" and was deterred from traveling. Du Bois had previously had an expensive legal battle against the Justice Department.\n\nThe 125 copies Patterson mailed to Paris did not arrive, allegedly intercepted by the US government. But Patterson distributed other copies, which he had shipped separately in small packages to individuals' homes.\n\nThe document was signed by many leading activists and family of blacks who had suffered in the system, including:\n\nPatterson said he was ignored by US ambassador Ralph Bunche and delegate Channing Tobias, but that Edith Sampson would talk to him.\n\nPatterson was ordered to surrender his passport at the United States embassy in France. When he refused, U.S. agents said they would seize it at his hotel room. Patterson fled to Budapest, where through the newspaper \"Szabad Nép,\" he accused the U.S. government of attempting to stifle the charges. The U.S. government ordered Patterson to be detained when he passed through Britain and seized his passport when he returned to the United States. As Paul Robeson had been unable to obtain a passport at all, the difficulty these two men faced in traveling led some to accuse the United States government of censorship.\n\n\"We Charge Genocide\" was ignored by much of the mainstream American press, but the \"Chicago Tribune\", which called it \"shameful lies\" (and evidence against the value of the Genocide Convention itself). I. F. Stone was the only white American journalist to write favorably of the document. The CRC had communist affiliations, and the document attracted international attention through the worldwide communist movement. Raphael Lemkin, who invented the term \"genocide\" and advocated for the Genocide Convention, disagreed with the petition because the African-American population was increasing in size. He accused its authors of wishing to distract attention from the alleged \"genocide\" in the Soviet Union, which had resulted in millions of deaths, because of their communist sympathies. Lemkin accused Patterson and Robeson of serving foreign powers. He published an op-ed in the \"New York Times\" arguing that Blacks did not experience the \"destruction, death, annihilation\" that would qualify their treatment as genocide.\n\nThe petition was particularly well received in Europe, where it received abundant press coverage. \"We Charge Genocide\" was popular almost everywhere in the world except in the United States. One American writer traveling India in 1952 found that many people had become familiar with the cases of the Martinsville Seven and Willie McGee through the document.\n\nThe American delegation heavily criticized the document. Eleanor Roosevelt called it \"ridiculous\". Black delegates Edith Sampson and Channing Tobias spoke to European audiences about how the situation of African Americans was improving.\n\nAt the request of the State Department, the NAACP drafted a press release repudiating \"We Charge Genocide\", calling it \"a gross and subversive conspiracy\". However, upon hearing initial press reports of the petition and the expected NAACP response, Walter White decided against issuing the release. He and the board decided that the petition did reflect many of the NAACP views; for instance, the organization had long been publishing the toll of blacks who had been lynched. \"How can we 'blast' a book that uses our records as source material?\", asked Roy Wilkins.\n\nThe CRC's power was already declining due to accusations of Communism during the Red Scare, and it disbanded in 1956.\n\nThe United Nations did not acknowledge receiving the petition. Given the strength of U.S. influence, it was not really expected to do so.\n\nThe document has been credited with popularizing the term \"genocide\" among Black people for their treatment in the US. After renewed interest generated by Malcolm X and the Black Panther Party, \"We Charge Genocide\" was republished in 1970 by International Publishers. Allegations of genocide were renewed in relation to the disproportionate effects of crack cocaine and HIV/AIDS in the black communities in the United States. The National Black United Front petitioned the United Nations in 1996–1997, directly citing \"We Charge Genocide\" and using the same slogan.\n\nTheir petition begins:\n\nThe high rate of incarceration of minorities is another American phenomenon sometimes connected to the word \"genocide.\" Disproportionate application of the death penalty to blacks convicted of the same crime as whites has also been cited, as it was in the 1946–1951 era by the CRC. The United Nations, anthropologists, and mass media have generally not applied the term after 1945 to the internal affairs of Western states.\n\nThe petition also represented one of the first high-profile uses of the modern concept of \"racism\", framed in relation to the eugenic ideology of the reviled Nazis.\n\n\"We Charge Genocide\" was used as an example of how the Genocide Convention could be used against the United States. The convention remained unpopular with the United States government and was not ratified until 1986.\n\nDuring the United Nations Convention against Torture Committee Review of the U.S. in November 2014, a group of eight young activists from Chicago, Illinois, (Breanna Champion, Page May, Monica Trinidad, Ethan Viets-VanLear, Asha Rosa, Ric Wilson, Todd St. Hill, and Malcolm London) submitted a shadow report using the name, \"We Charge Genocide.\" Their report addressed police brutality toward blacks in Chicago, the lack of police accountability, and the misuse of tasers by the Chicago Police Department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114317", "title": "Regional council (France)", "text": "Regional council (France)\n\nA regional council () is the elected assembly of a region of France.\n\nRegional councils were created by law on 5 July 1972. Originally they were simply consultative bodies consisting of the region's parliamentary representatives plus an equal number of members nominated by the departments and municipalities. \n\nThe decentralisation programme of 1982-1983 provided for direct election which began in 1986 and increased the powers of the councils.\n\nThe Assemblies elect their own Presidents who preside over the meetings and head the Regional Executive.\n\nBetween 1986 and 2004, regional councils were elected by closed list proportional representation. The Front National was frequently left with the balance of power as a result and this led to a change in the electoral law.\n\nSince 2004 three quarters of the seats continue to be elected by proportional representation with each list having an equal number of male and female candidates. The other quarter are given to the list that received the most votes. In order to gain these top up seats, a list must have gained an absolute majority of the votes in the first round. If this has not been achieved a second round is held with each party that gained at least ten percent of the votes competing. The party that wins a plurality in this round gains the bonus seats. It is common in this round for lower ranking parties to withdraw in favour of parties they have entered into an alliance with.\n\nThis can however potentially mean that a list that gained fewer votes in the first round and thus fewer proportional seats can end up the overall winner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114318", "title": "Adolf Wilbrandt", "text": "Adolf Wilbrandt\n\nAdolf von Wilbrandt (24 August 183710 June 1911) was a German novelist and dramatist.\n\nWilbrandt was born in Rostock. His father was a professor at the University of Rostock. He received early education in his native town, and then entered the university and engaged in the study of law. He soon abandoned law in favour of philology and history, and continued these studies in Berlin and Munich. After taking the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, he joined the staff of the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" in Munich.\n\nHe travelled abroad for a time and in 1871 he settled in Vienna, where, two years later, he married the actress, . In 1881, Wilbrandt was appointed director of the Hofburg theatre in succession to Franz von Dingelstedt, an office he held until 1887. In this year he returned to his native town, and remained actively engaged in literary production.\n\nWilbrandt is distinguished both as a dramatist and novelist. His merits were acknowledged by the award of the Franz Grillparzer Prize on two occasions—in 1895 for the tragedy \"Gracchus der Volkstribun\", and in 1890 for his dramatic poem \"Der Meister von Palmyra\", while in 1878 he received the Schiller Prize for his dramatic productions.\n\n\nTragedies\nComedies\nDrama\n\nHe also published translations of Sophocles and Euripides (1866), \"Gedichte\" (Poems, 1894, 1889 and 1907), and a volume of \"Erinnerungen\" (Memoirs, 1905).\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "2114319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114319", "title": "Wutach Valley Railway", "text": "Wutach Valley Railway\n\nThe Wutach Valley Railway or is one of the most unusual and impressive stretches of railway in Germany. It links the town of Waldshut-Tiengen, on the High Rhine Railway (\"Hochrheinbahn\") and the border of Baden-Württemberg and Switzerland, with Immendingen on the Black Forest Railway (\"Schwarzwaldbahn\"). Because of the twisting route of its central section, it is popularly known as the Sauschwänzlebahn (pigtail line).\n\nThe line was planned in the 1860s, though construction was not completed until the 1890s, and its purpose was at least partly strategic, to allow a means for moving military supplies around the south of the Black Forest; the German Empire having seized Alsace and Lorraine from the French in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-71, a revenge attack in this area from the French or a preemptive strike to prevent one were key issues in German military thinking at the time. The normal commercial route along the Rhine passed into Swiss territory so could not be used for military purposes.\n\nThe southern section of the line, following the valley of the Wutach river from Waldshut-Tiengen to Weizen (part of the town of Stühlingen), is relatively conventional. However, the middle section, from Weizen to Blumberg, involved an approximately 250 meter gain in height, and the military authorities specified that the line must not have a gradient of more than 1:100 since there was a need to move heavy military equipment. Accordingly, the line proceeds in a series of curves (including one complete circle), taking 26.5 km of track to travel a beeline distance of 9.5 km, with spectacular large viaducts, tunnels and bridges including the only spiral railway tunnel in Germany. The track is of standard gauge and is mainly single track; the bridges and tunnels were built on a scale to allow eventual doubling of the track, though this was never carried out. The final section, from Blumberg to meet the Black Forest Railway near Geisingen, is again relatively conventional. The unconventional configuration of the track resulted in increased fares, as ticket prices were calculated on the distance travelled along the track. \n\nThe line did indeed play a strategic role at various times in its history, and its most recent refurbishment (in the early 1960s) was carried out with NATO funds. However, in the period after the Second World War its commercial use declined, and, section by section, passenger service was withdrawn, though the southern section remained open for freight traffic until 2001. After the Deutsche Bundesbahn withdrew passenger services on the central section in 1974, a voluntary organization was set up in 1976 to re-open it as a museum line under steam traction, and it is now a popular tourist attraction. There have been a number of initiatives to re-open passenger services on the other sections of the line as part of a regional transport strategy, and since December 2004 the northern section has formed part of the 3rd Ring Railway (\"3er Ringzug\") network of local railway lines in the south-eastern part of the Black Forest, in the districts of Tuttlingen, Rottweil and Schwarzwald-Baar. The southern section remains out of regular use, though the line remains usable.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114332", "title": "The Rock 'n' Sock Connection", "text": "The Rock 'n' Sock Connection\n\nThe Rock 'n' Sock Connection was a professional wrestling tag team of The Rock and Mankind/Mick Foley that wrestled in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) between 1999 and 2000 and briefly in 2004. As a team, they held the WWF Tag Team Championship three times.\n\nEver since 1998's Survivor Series and the \"Deadly Game Tournament\", The Rock and Mankind had been bitter rivals, facing each other on numerous occasions, mostly fighting for the coveted WWF Championship. The Rock, the hand-picked Corporate Champion for Mr. McMahon's Corporation was the exact opposite of Mankind in almost every way. The Rock was athletic, charismatic, and well-dressed, while Mankind was a rugged, deranged, and unpredictable madman. Their feud ended after the Rock won his third WWF Championship against Mankind in a ladder match on the February 15, 1999 episode of \"Raw Is War\". However, Mankind became the special-guest referee in the title match at WrestleMania XV which involved The Rock and Stone Cold Steve Austin. The Rock went on to be fired from the Corporation in mid 1999, and would not cross paths with Mankind for quite a while. Even though their feud was over, animosity still reigned supreme for these two superstars.\n\nOn August 30, 1999, the Rock 'n' Sock Connection was formed when The Undertaker and Big Show attacked The Rock on \"Raw Is War\", leading The Rock to challenge both of them to a match. At the time, it was considered career \"suicide\" to face a team as deadly as The Undertaker and Big Show. With this in mind, Mankind (who used a smelly sock named \"Mr. Socko\" as part of his gimmick) asked his former enemy if he could help with his fight against The Undertaker and Big Show. The Rock reluctantly accepted, and later that night the two captured The Undertaker and Big Show's WWF Tag Team Championship when they pinned Big Show after a double People's Elbow.\n\nThey lost the belts on September 7, 1999 on \"SmackDown!\" in a Buried Alive match against The Undertaker and Big Show, when Triple H interfered. However, Triple H was really only helping out The Undertaker, as he hit Big Show with a sledgehammer.\n\nOn the September 20 episode of \"Raw Is War\", the Rock 'n' Sock Connection won the titles back in a \"Dark Side Rules\" match against Big Show, Mideon, and Viscera (The Undertaker did not feel like being in the match so they took his place, thus turning the match into a three-on-two). Three days later on \"SmackDown!\", The New Age Outlaws reunited and challenged Rock 'n' Sock Connection for the titles, which The Outlaws won.\n\nSeveral days later, Mick Foley and Dwayne Johnson helped \"Raw Is War\" achieve its highest rating ever with a segment featuring himself (as Mankind) and The Rock. The \"This is Your Life\" segment aired on September 27, 1999, and received an 8.4 rating. Two weeks later, The Rock told Mankind that he was tired of him, did not like the whole Rock 'n' Sock team, nor did he enjoy Mankind stealing his catchphrases during promos. Mankind begged The Rock to team up with him for one more night, but did not tell The Rock who they would be fighting.\n\nThey ended up challenging The New Age Outlaws for the championships on the October 14, 1999 episode of \"SmackDown!\". That night, the Rock 'n' Sock Connection won the tag team titles for the third and final time, meaning they would have to continue teaming together to defend the titles. Four days later on \"Raw is War\", before their title defense against The Holly Cousins, Mick Foley gave the Rock an autographed copy of his book, \"\", but later found it in the trash. Mick confronted The Rock and cursed him out for throwing away his life's work. Later that night, during their match, a crushed Mankind refused to participate as he sat despondently on the steel steps, facing away from the ring, as Hardcore and Crash Holly (with outside interference once again by Triple H) beat The Rock for the tag team titles.\n\nThe Rock and Mankind began another feud with each other, until Foley discovered that it was his close friend, Al Snow, who threw the book in the trash, since the book contained many Al Snow jokes. In real life, Foley and Snow are very good friends, and continually make good-natured fun of each other and their careers.\n\nThe Rock 'n' Sock Connection later reunited in November 1999, when Mankind helped The Rock defeat Prince Albert and Big Bossman. On the Thanksgiving episode of \"SmackDown!\", The Rock 'n' Sock Connection defeated the Hollys to become number one contenders to the WWF Tag Team Championship. They faced the New Age Outlaws for the titles in December at Armageddon but were unsuccessful in winning the titles after Al Snow interfered. After the match, The Rock got revenge by giving Snow a Rock Bottom and People's elbow.\n\nThe Rock 'n' Sock would later reunite in late 1999 to take on The McMahon-Helmsley Faction. Upon opposition, Triple H, then the WWF Champion, would place those two in a Pink-Slip-On-A-Pole match, where the loser will be fired from the WWF (kayfabe). Mankind lost the match, thus resulting in termination. However, a few days after Mankind's firing, The Rock was interviewed and finally announced that he acknowledged and respected Mankind's hard work with the company, mentioning that The Faction was abusing power. The Rock even went so far as to rally the entire WWF roster on the January 10, 2000 \"Raw Is War\" episode to demand Mankind's reinstatement, which Triple H complied and did. They teamed off-and-on until Foley's in-ring retirement in March 2000 and The Rock's blossoming movie career.\n\nDuring the December 8th 2003 episode of RAW, The Rock aided Mick Foley once again during his confrontation with La Resistance. La Resistance briefly over powered a distracted Mick and Rock, as The Rock berated Mick for referring to the team as \"The Sock 'n' Rock Connection\". The pair soon regain their composure taking down the French duo, with The Rock allowing Mick to deliver the final \"People's Elbow\", but soon berates him again as Mick attempts to use one of The Rocks catchphrases.\n\nIn 2004, The Rock 'n' Sock Connection reunited at WrestleMania XX when they took on then Evolution members Randy Orton, Ric Flair, and Batista in a 3-on-2 handicap match. However, the Rock 'n' Sock Connection lost the match when Orton pinned Foley after an RKO.\n\nFoley was confirmed to appear on the November 14, 2011 episode of \"Raw\" \"Rock Reunion\" for a possible reunion of Rock 'n' Sock Connection, before The Rock's in ring return at Survivor Series. They both appeared on that edition of \"Raw\" only for Rock to \"Rock Bottom\" Foley and leave. On \"Raw's 20th Anniversary\", Mick Foley was greeted by his friend The Rock. The two hugged each other before being interrupted by Vickie Guerrero. Foley was puzzled as to why The Rock didn't talk back, then The Rock said to trust him and watch The Rock Concert. The two then exchanged hugs once more, and The Rock congratulated Foley for his impending WWE Hall of Fame induction and wished him well.\n\nThe team of Sasha Banks and Bayley, two of the four members of The Four Horsewomen, has used the name The Boss 'n' Hug Connection, as a tribute to the Rock 'n' Sock Connection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114349", "title": "Isambard Brunel", "text": "Isambard Brunel\n\nIsambard Brunel may refer to individuals from three generations of the engineering dynasty:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114361", "title": "Wilhelm Friedrich Wieprecht", "text": "Wilhelm Friedrich Wieprecht\n\nWilhelm Friedrich Wieprecht (10 August 18024 August 1872) was a German musical conductor, composer and inventor.\n\nWieprecht was born at Aschersleben, where his father was a town musician.\nAccording to his autobiography, Wieprecht early learned from his father to play on nearly all wind instruments. It was in violin-playing, however, that his father particularly wished him to excel; and in 1819 he went to Dresden, where he studied composition and the violin to such good purpose that a year later he was given a position in the city orchestra of Leipzig, playing also in those of the opera and the famous Gewandhaus. At this time, besides playing the violin and clarinet in the orchestra, he also gave solo performances on the trombone.\n\nIn 1824 he went to Berlin, where he became a member of the royal orchestra, and was in the same year appointed chamber musician to the king. His residence at Berlin gave Wieprecht ample opportunity for the exercise of his genius for military music, on which his fame mainly rests. Several of his marches were early adopted by the regimental bands, and a more ambitious military composition attracted the attention of Gasparo Spontini, at whose house he became an intimate guest.\nIt was now that he began to study acoustics, in order to correct the deficiencies in military musical instruments. As the result, he improved the valves of the brass instruments, and succeeded, by constructing them on sounder acoustic principles, in greatly increasing the volume and purity of their tone. Together with the instrument builder Johann Gottfried Moritz, he also invented the bass tuba or bombardon in order to give greater richness and power to the bass parts. In recognition of these inventions he was, in 1835, honoured by the Royal Academy of Berlin.\n\nIn 1838 he was appointed by the Prussian government director-general of all the guards' bands, and in recognition of the magnificent performance by massed bands on the occasion of the emperor Nicholas I's visit the same year, was awarded a special uniform. In 1843 he became director-general of the bands of the 10th Confederate army corps, and from this time exercised a profound influence on the development of military music throughout Germany, and beyond.\n\nHe was the first to arrange the symphonies and overtures of the classical masters for military instruments, and to organize those outdoor performances of concert pieces by military bands which have done so much to popularize band music in Germany and elsewhere. The performance arranged by him of Beethoven's \"Battle of Vittoria\", in which the bugle calls were given by trumpeters stationed in various parts of the garden and the cannon shots were those of real guns, created immense sensation.\n\nBesides the great work he accomplished in Germany, Wieprecht, in 1847, reorganized the military music in Turkey and, in 1852, in Guatemala. He composed military songs as well as numerous marches, and contributed frequently on his favourite subject to the Berlin musical papers. Wieprecht was a man of genial, kindly and generous nature, and was associated with many charitable foundations established for the benefit of poor musicians.\nLudwig Bussler was one of his pupils. Of the hundreds of mounted military bands reformed by Wieprecht or influenced by his ideas only the Life Guards' Dragoon Music Corps in Stockholm remains.\nWieprecht died on 4 August 1872 in Berlin.\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "2114366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114366", "title": "St. Helena (solitaire)", "text": "St. Helena (solitaire)\n\nSt. Helena (also known as Napoleon's Favorite or Washington's Favorite) is a solitaire card game using two decks of playing cards mixed together. Despite its name, it has no connection to the island with the same name. Furthermore, because of its game rules, it should not be confused with the game Napoleon at St. Helena, a.k.a. Forty Thieves. \n\nExplained here is the prevalent version. First, one king and one ace of each suit are removed and place in the middle of the table in two rows as shown. They are called the bases for the foundations. The kings form the upper foundations, while the aces form the lower foundations. Then, the rest of the cards are dealt clockwise into twelve piles starting with the upper left king. The table should now look like this:\nThe object is to build the upper foundations down by suit to the aces, and the lower foundations up by suit.\n\nThe top card of each pile surrounding the foundations is available for play onto another pile or on the foundations. Building on the piles is either up or down by suit. However a king cannot be placed over an ace and an ace cannot be placed over a king. Only one card can be moved at a time.\n\nThere is no mention in \"The Complete Book of Solitaire and Patience Games\" of what to do with the spaces. This gives rise to at least two rule sets: one allows any card to be placed in a space; and another that does not allow a space to be filled.\n\nFor the first deal, there are restrictions as to which card goes to which foundation. Cards on piles 1 to 4 can only be played only to the upper foundations, cards on piles 7 to 10 can only be played to the lower foundations, and cards on piles 5, 6, 11, and 12 are available to either the upper or lower foundations.\n\nAfter all possible moves have been made, the piles are collected in reverse order. That is, Pile 12 is placed over the Pile 11, then both are placed over Pile 10, and so on until all piles are placed over Pile 1. Then, without reshuffling, they are redealt again, one by one, into twelve piles around the foundations. After the cards are dealt anew, the restrictions no longer apply, i.e. a card can be placed on any foundation. This goes for after the second redeal.\n\nThe game is won when all cards are built into the foundations.\n\nLouis is a solitaire variant of St. Helena. It is played exactly as St. Helena except for the following modifications:\n"}
{"id": "2114374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114374", "title": "USS Intrepid (1904)", "text": "USS Intrepid (1904)\n\nThe third USS \"Intrepid\" was a steel-hulled bark in the United States Navy.\n\n\"Intrepid\"s keel was laid down by the Mare Island Navy Yard at Vallejo, California. She was launched on 8 October 1904, sponsored by Miss Helen de Young, and commissioned on 16 August 1907 with Commander Edward E. Capehart in command.\n\n\"Intrepid\" was assigned to the Yerba Buena Training Station at San Francisco, California, for duty until 28 February 1912, when she became the receiving ship at the same station. The latter assignment lasted until 25 January 1914 when \"Intrepid\" became the receiving ship at Mare Island Navy Yard, where she was decommissioned 15 October 1914.\n\n\"Intrepid\" was recommissioned in ordinary at Mare Island Navy Yard on 11 November 1915 for use as a barracks for the men of the submarines , , , and of the United States Pacific Fleet. In 1920 she again became the receiving ship at Mare Island Navy Yard.\n\n\"Intrepid\" was decommissioned on 30 August 1921 and was sold on 20 December 1921 for conversion to a commercial barge for the Hawaiian Dredging Company.\n\nReacquired by the US Navy during World War II, she became Sludge Removal Barge YSR-42 at Pearl Harbor and as such was employed during the salvage of .\n\nReturned to commercial service after the war, she was wrecked on the north beach of the Columbia River on 23 February 1954 under the ownership of the Independent Iron Works of Oakland, CA, while being towed to Portland, OR, for sale. Her remains are still visible. \n\n"}
{"id": "2114375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114375", "title": "USS Intrepid (1874)", "text": "USS Intrepid (1874)\n\nThe second USS \"Intrepid\", was a steam-powered torpedo ram commissioned and built in 1874 that had the distinction of being the world's first U.S. Navy ship armed with self-propelled torpedoes. In concept and design she was roughly comparable to the Royal Navy's , although \"Intrepid\" was completed more than half a decade earlier. The \"Intrepid\" was commissioned by President Ulysses S. Grant's Secretary of Navy George M. Robeson.\n\n\"Intrepid\", like the other torpedo rams, was a product of the confusion that followed the invention of the self-propelled torpedo, which saw the world's navies struggle to find a way to effectively utilize the earliest torpedo designs. Her keel was laid down at the Boston Navy Yard and she was launched on 5 March 1874, sponsored by Miss H. Evelyn Frothingham Pooke. After construction completed, \"Intrepid\" was commissioned into the U.S. Navy on 31 July. Her commanding officer was Commander Augustus P. Cooke.\n\nAs with most of the earliest torpedo-armed warships, \"Intrepid\" was a largely experimental vessel of little true value as an actual fighting ship. After her commissioning ceremony, she departed Boston on 3 August for the naval base at Newport, Rhode Island. Since she was a new and untried design, \"Intrepid\" remained in coastal waters for the majority of the voyage, and arrived in Newport the next day. After a little less than a month at Newport she was transferred to New York. Leaving on 31 August, she arrived at the New York Navy Yard on 1 September. The following two months were devoted to torpedo trials along the North Atlantic Coast, which showed that \"Intrepid's\" design was generally unsatisfactory. Her final trial cruise ended when she returned to New York Navy Yard on 24 October, and she was decommissioned a week later on 30 October.\n\n\"Intrepid\" remained out of service at New York for the remainder of 1874 and the first half of 1875 before being recommissioned on 28 August. Even though she would remain in commission for the remainder of the decade, with the exception of brief visits to New England ports in 1875 and 1876, she remained at the Navy Yard.\n\nDespite her unsatisfactory and experimental nature, the financially starved Navy Department looked for ways to utilize her to some good purpose, since money and congressional support for new warships was almost non-existent during this period. The Navy eventually decided to convert \"Intrepid\" to a light-draft gunboat for service in Chinese waters. As a result, she was decommissioned on 22 August 1882 and moved to the shipyard at the New York Navy Yard for conversion. The work proceeded slowly and was suspended altogether in 1889. Years of inactivity had taken their toll on the ship, and a survey undertaken in early 1892 found that she had become unserviceable. Since the funding needed to restore \"Intrepid\" would be far more than could be possibly be justified by her future value as a gunboat, it was decided to dispose of her. \"Intrepid\" was stricken from the Navy List, and on 9 May 1892 she was sold to a certain Mathew Gill, Jr., of Philadelphia. She was probably broken up soon afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "2114377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114377", "title": "Outline of autism", "text": "Outline of autism\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to autism:\n\nAutism – disorder of neural development that affects social interaction and communication, and involves restricted and repetitive behavior.\n\nAutism can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nSigns of autism are highly variable. Different individuals will have a different mix of traits. Here are some of the more common signs:\n\n\n\n\n\nControversies in autism\n\n\n\n\n\nSocietal and cultural aspects of autism\n\n\n\nAutism therapies\n\n\nConditions comorbid to autism spectrum disorders\nThese are conditions that people on the autism spectrum may suffer from more often than is typical.\n"}
{"id": "2114404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114404", "title": "Franciscan Crown", "text": "Franciscan Crown\n\nThe Franciscan Crown (or Seraphic Rosary) is a rosary consisting of seven decades in commemoration of the Seven Joys of the Virgin, namely, the Annunciation, the Visitation, the Nativity of Jesus, the Adoration of the Magi, the Finding in the Temple, the Resurrection of Jesus, and finally, either or both the Assumption of Mary and the Coronation of the Virgin. Devotion to the seven joys of Mary is found in a variety of forms and communities. It is especially popular with the Franciscans, Cistercians, and the Annunciades of St. Joan of France. The devotion was granted many indulgences by different Popes, becoming the most heavily indulgenced devotion in the Church. Whereas other rosaries required blessed beads to be used in order for any associated indulgences to be received it was unnecessary for a Franciscan rosary to have been blessed or even to use beads at all in specific instances.\n\nThe Franciscan Crown has variously been called the Franciscan Rosary, the Seraphic Rosary or the Rosary of the Seven Joys of Our Lady. The \"Seven Joys\" is a devotion that recalls seven joyful episodes in the life of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The practice originated among the Franciscans in early 15th-century Italy. The themes resemble the 12th-century \"Gaudes\", Latin praises that ask Mary to rejoice because God has favored her in various ways.\n\nThe Franciscan historian, Father Luke Wadding (1588-1657) dates the origin of the Franciscan Crown to the year 1422. In 1422 an apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place in Assisi, to a Franciscan novice named James. As a child, he had the custom of offering daily the Virgin Mary a crown of roses. When he entered the Friars Minor, he became distressed that he would no longer be able to offer this gift. The Blessed Virgin appeared to him to give him comfort and showed him another daily offering that he might do: to pray every day seven decades of Hail Marys, meditating between each decade on one of the seven joys that she had experienced in her life.\n\nAmong the Friars Minor, the promotion of this devotion is attributed to St. Bonaventure, Bl. Cherubin of Spoleto, St. John Capistran, Pelbart of Temesvár, and St. Bernadine of Siena to mention a few. St. Bernadine is also said to have had a vision of the Virgin Mary when he was meditating on the seven joys of Mary.\n\nFollowing a brief period of meditation on each mystery, one Lord's Prayer and ten Hail Marys are prayed in order.\n\nIt is customary, after the seventh mystery, to pray two more Hail Marys to bring the total number to seventy-two in honor of the tradition that Mary lived for seventy-two years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114405", "title": "Temple Cup", "text": "Temple Cup\n\nThe Temple Cup was a cup awarded to the winner of a best-of-seven, post-season play-offs championship tournament for American professional baseball for the National League of Professional Baseball Clubs (known as the National League - established earlier in 1876) and awarded four times from 1894 to 1897. The 30-inch-high (76.2 centimeters high) silver cup cost $800, ($ in dollars) and was donated by coal, citrus, and lumber baron William Chase Temple (1862-1917), a part-owner of the Pittsburgh Pirates at the time. \n\nMuch like the long running Stanley Cup of ice hockey in the National Hockey League and the Temple Cup's predecessor to the professional baseball team champions, the Dauvray Cup (1887-1893), (awarded seven times in the name of the donor, famed stage actress of the day, Helen Dauvray (1859-1923)), there was only one actual Temple Cup passed along to each baseball season's winning team and city.\n\nSince there was only one major league at the time with the folding of the previous American Association 1882-1891, so the series was later played between the first and second-place teams of the surviving NL. The second-place team defeated the first-place team for the Cup in three of the four series that were played. The Temple Cup was also known as the World's Championship Series. If one team won three titles, that team would have permanent possession of the Cup, later given to the city of Baltimore.\n\nHaving moved over with several other AA strong franchises to join the senior National League after the 1891 folding of the American Association after ten seasons in the AA since 1882, the frequent champions and powerful scrappy teams of the Baltimore Orioles continued their winning ways from the old AA, capturing three NL pennants in a row (1894-1895-1896), and winning the Temple Cup also. Owner/manager Ned Hanlon (1857-1937), a Baltimorean and one of the most talented baseball men of the sport's early era ran the \"Birds\" with talented players like \"Wee Willie\" Keeler (1872-1923), Wilbert Robinson (1863-1934), and John McGraw (1873-1934). McGraw was later player/manager/owner with the early American League charter member team (and third to carry the Orioles name) of the new Baltimore Orioles of 1901-1902, one of the 8 original franchises in the new AL when reorganized in 1901, from the former Western League (on the minor level, 1885-1899) under activist first president Ban Johnson (1864-1931). \n\nAfter the 1903 \"peace pact\" between the two major leagues, ending the \"war\" between them, recognizing each other as equal in stature, accepting a joint policy on player contracts and beginning a \"best-of-seven\" tournament of champions between them resulting in the modern inter-league World Series for the next century whose championship trophy replaced the old Temple Cup and soon exceeded its esteem. Also each league was allowed a franchise in the nation's largest city, so McGraw was responsible for the new AL Orioles team to move that year of 1903, after only two seasons in Baltimore to New York City to represent the AL, becoming the New York Highlanders, renamed a decade later as the New York Yankees. McGraw went on and later returned to the NL as owner/manager of the famous opposing New York team in the borough of The Bronx with the legendary New York Giants competitive in the early 20th century.\n\nIn the 1880s, there had been postseason play between the winners of the National League and the American Association, but in 1892 the National League absorbed the Association, becoming a 12-team league, and played a split season. In 1893 the Pittsburgh Pirates finished second to the Boston Beaneaters. The Pirates' president, William Chase Temple, felt that his team should have the option of having a playoff series to claim the title. As a result, Temple had his $800 trophy minted and he donated it to the league. The revenue was to be split 65% to 35% between the winner and the loser, but the players of the first series (in 1894) agreed to split the money evenly. However, after the series the New York Giants cheated some Baltimore Orioles players out of their money, tainting the Cup and prompting Temple to sell the Pirates in disgust.\n\nLack of enthusiasm on the part of the players doomed the series; their apathy spread to the fans, few of whom attended Temple Cup games in later years. Interest in the series faded quickly, as it seemed artificial, with the second-place team winning three of the four series. The Baltimore Orioles appeared in every Temple Cup series, winning the last two and thus coming the closest to gaining permanent possession of the trophy. The last Temple Cup series was played in 1897. However, the concept was revived in 1900 with the \"Chronicle-Telegraph\" Cup. \n\nAfter the Temple Cup series ended, the National League returned the trophy to Temple, whose Pirates team never finished higher than sixth place in the standings during the Cup's existence. In 1939, \"The Sporting News\" tracked down the Cup, finding it in the possession of a Temple family member in Florida. The Cup was displayed at the 1939 New York World's Fair. The Temple family later sold the Cup for $750 to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, where it remains today.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114408", "title": "John Emerson (mayor)", "text": "John Emerson (mayor)\n\nJohn Emerson (June 4, 1859 – July 25, 1932) was the 15th mayor of Calgary, Alberta. He was the mayor at the time that Alberta became a province of Canada, which was on September 1, 1905.\n\nBorn in England, Emerson emigrated to Calgary in 1885 and began farming on a homestead just outside the city limits. Soon he left farming and established a successful grocery business on Stephen Avenue.\n\nAfter spending three years on Calgary City Council, Emerson spent two years as mayor from January 2, 1905 to January 14, 1907. During his tenure as mayor, Calgary hosted a number of prominent visitors. This included: The Prince of Wales (later George V), Prince Arthur of Connaught, and several Governors General. Emerson would lead the unsuccessful Calgary delegation to Ottawa on February 2, 1905 to lobby for Calgary to be named the capital of the new province of Alberta. Emerson would be joined by Major James Walker, William Henry Cushing, and W. M. Davidson.\n\nEmerson retired to Burgess Hill, Sussex, England. He died there in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "2114439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114439", "title": "Germán Ignacio Riesco", "text": "Germán Ignacio Riesco\n\nGermán Ignacio Riesco Errázuriz (1888 – November 11, 1958) was a Chilean political figure, who served several times as minister between 1919 and 1950. He was of Basque descent and a member of the influential Errázuriz family.\n\nHe was born in Santiago in 1888, the son of President Germán Riesco and of First Lady María Errázuriz Echaurren. He graduated as a lawyer from the Universidad de Chile on April 21, 1910. He was Minister of War and Navy of President Juan Luis Sanfuentes between 1919 and 1920; and Minister of Foreign Affairs between 1948 and 1950, under President Gabriel González Videla. He married Rosa Barceló Pinto but they had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114441", "title": "Denise Pearson", "text": "Denise Pearson\n\nDenise Lisa Maria Pearson (born 13 June 1968), sometimes credited as Deniece Pearson, is an English singer-songwriter. She was the lead vocalist with the British pop/R&B group Five Star, which comprised herself and her four siblings. The group was created and managed by their father, Buster Pearson, in 1983. The group officially disbanded in 2001, though partial reunions have occurred since.\n\nAs well as being lead singer, Pearson was also the most prolific composer of the group. Five Star tracks written by her include \"Stay Out of My Life\" (1986) (Five Star's only self-composed top-ten single), \"Hard Race\" (1987), \"There's a Brand New World\" (1988) and \"What About Me Baby\" (1990); ballads such as \"Live Giving Love\" (1987), \"Let Me Be Yours\" (1988), \"Feel Much Better\" (1990), \"Funktafied\" (2001), \"Don't Let Me Be the Lonely One\" (2001) and \"Tell Me What You Want\" (2001); and the uptempo \"I'm Still Waiting\" (1990), \"Tienes Mi Amour\" (1990), \"\"Going With the Moment\" (1994) and \"Show Me\" (1994).\n\nIn 1986, Five Star received a Grammy Award nomination in the \"Best Rhythm and Blues Instrumental Performance\" category for Pearson's composition, \"First Avenue\", which was the B-Side of Five Star's first hit single \"All Fall Down\".\n\nProjects outside of Five Star included a 1997 recording of \"This Pain\", a duet with former Bros singer Matt Goss. Pearson was featured singing backing vocals for Tamia in 2001 for the song \"Stranger in My House\" (as heard on the WB series \"For Your Love\").\n\nIn 2005, Pearson and singer-songwriter Ryan Tedder of the group OneRepublic wrote several songs together including \"Over You\" sung by Denise herself, and \"Strike\" which was performed by US teen sensation Nikki Flores. They also worked together on a new version of Five Star's 1986 hit single \"System Addict\".\n\nIn 2007, Pearson announced she was working on solo material. In May 2008, she recorded a promotional video for one of her tracks, alongside brother Stedman, and a team of trained backing singers and dancers, Denise played several dates as Five Star to celebrate the group's 25th anniversary.\n\nIn 2009, Pearson made her West End Theatre debut in the show \"Thriller – Live\", a musical based on the music of Michael Jackson. In 2009, City Life magazine described her as \"uncannily pitch perfect as a female answer to MJ [Michael Jackson]\".\n\nIn September 2011, Pearson appeared as one of the lead singers in the new West End show \"Respect La Diva\" which ran at the Garrick Theatre for a limited run.\n\nIn March 2012, Denise appeared on BBC talent show, The Voice UK, as a contestant. She joined the team of Tom Jones after singing Fighter by Christina Aguilera. She was, however, credited as Deniece Pearson. During the second round of the contest, her rival Ruth Brown was picked by coach Tom Jones over her for the live finals.\n\nIn December 2012 Pearson appeared in her first pantomime, starring as the Fairy Godmother in Cinderella at the Milton Keynes Theatre alongside Louie Spence. In the show she earned excellent reviews and sang three songs - \"Don't Leave Me This Way\", \"Let It Be\" and \"Once Upon A Time\" - of which the latter two can be found on a mini-album released at the same time, simply entitled 'Deniece Pearson'.\n\nWith a new management deal signed to Baronet Entertainment, Denise supported The Jacksons on the UK leg of their Unity tour in February/March 2013.\n\nIn September 2013, Pearson released an EP called \"Freak Dance\" and made a video of the same name which premiered on \"The Chart Show\". The EP also featured a song called \"Rafiki Yangu\" (Swahili for 'my friend') a tribute to and celebration of Nelson Mandela, and of Africa's fight for peace and posterity. All profits from the sales of the song were donated to the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund (UK).\n\nPearson's first ever solo album, \"Imprint\", was released in June 2014 and features input from US producer Wayne Gerard.\n\nPearson toured the UK throughout 2015 with her siblings Stedman, Doris and Delroy performing at 80's revival gigs.\n\nPearson appeared as a guest vocalist on the New Year's Day edition of \"Top of the Pops\" in 2016, performing to Sigala's number one hit \"Easy Love\".\n\nAfter moving to California in the United States with her family in the early 1990s, Pearson married a car mechanic, becoming Denise Saneinia. Despite divorcing in the late 1990s, she has kept this name for her subsequent songwriting credits, but still performs under the name Denise Pearson. In 1994 she gave birth to a son, Karan Saneinia Jr, followed by a daughter, Hassa Alexis Saneinia, a year later. Pearson moved back to the UK with her children in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114445", "title": "Duocylinder", "text": "Duocylinder\n\nThe duocylinder, or double cylinder, is a geometric object embedded in 4-dimensional Euclidean space, defined as the Cartesian product of two disks of respective radii \"r\" and \"r\":\n\nIt is analogous to a cylinder in 3-space, which is the Cartesian product of a disk with a line segment. But unlike the cylinder, both hypersurfaces (of a regular duocylinder) are congruent.\n\nIts dual is a duospindle, constructed from two circles, one at the XY plane and the other in the ZW plane.\n\nThe duocylinder is bounded by two mutually perpendicular 3-manifolds with torus-like surfaces, respectively described by the formulae:\n\nand\n\nThe duocylinder is so called because these two bounding 3-manifolds may be thought of as 3-dimensional cylinders 'bent around' in 4-dimensional space such that they form closed loops in the XY and ZW planes. The duocylinder has rotational symmetry in both of these planes.\n\nA regular duocylinder consists of two congruent cells, one square flat torus face (the ridge), zero edges, and zero vertices.\n\nThe \"ridge\" of the duocylinder is the 2-manifold that is the boundary between the two bounding (solid) torus cells. It is in the shape of a Clifford torus, which is the Cartesian product of two circles. Intuitively, it may be constructed as follows: Roll a 2-dimensional rectangle into a cylinder, so that its top and bottom edges meet. Then roll the cylinder in the plane perpendicular to the 3-dimensional hyperplane that the cylinder lies in, so that its two circular ends meet.\n\nThe resulting shape is topologically equivalent to a Euclidean 2-torus (a doughnut shape). However, unlike the latter, all parts of its surface are identically deformed. On the doughnut, the surface around the 'doughnut hole' is deformed with negative curvature while the surface outside is deformed with positive curvature.\n\nThe ridge of the duocylinder may be thought of as the actual global shape of the screens of video games such as Asteroids, where going off the edge of one side of the screen leads to the other side. It cannot be embedded without distortion in 3-dimensional space, because it requires two degrees of freedom in addition to its inherent 2-dimensional surface in order for both pairs of edges to be joined.\n\nThe duocylinder can be constructed from the 3-sphere by \"slicing\" off the bulge of the 3-sphere on either side of the ridge. The analog of this on the 2-sphere is to draw minor latitude circles at ±45 degrees and slicing off the bulge between them, leaving a cylindrical wall, and slicing off the tops, leaving flat tops. This operation is equivalent to removing select vertices/pyramids from polytopes, but since the 3-sphere is smooth/regular you have to generalize the operation.\n\nThe dihedral angle between the two 3-d hypersurfaces on either side of the ridge is 90 degrees.\n\nParallel projections of the duocylinder into 3-dimensional space and its cross-sections with 3-dimensional space both form cylinders. Perspective projections of the duocylinder form torus-like shapes with the 'doughnut hole' filled in.\n\nThe duocylinder is the limiting shape of duoprisms as the number of sides in the constituent polygonal prisms approach infinity. The duoprisms therefore serve as good polytopic approximations of the duocylinder.\n\nIn 3-space, a cylinder can be considered intermediate between a cube and a sphere. In 4-space there are three intermediate forms between the tesseract (1-ball × 1-ball × 1-ball × 1-ball) and the hypersphere (4-ball). They are the:\n\n\nThe duocylinder is the only one of the above three that is regular. These constructions correspond to the five partitions of 4, the number of dimensions.\n\n\n\n(Wayback Machine copy)\n"}
{"id": "2114450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114450", "title": "Bree Walker", "text": "Bree Walker\n\nBree Walker (born Patricia Lynn Nelson; February 26, 1953) is an American radio talk show host, actress, and disability-rights activist. She gained fame as the first on-air American television network news anchor with ectrodactyly. Walker worked as a news anchor and reporter in San Diego, New York City, and Los Angeles.\n\nWalker was born in Oakland, California and raised in Austin, Minnesota. She inherited ectrodactyly, a rare genetic condition, resulting in missing fingers and toes and syndactyly resulting in them being fused together.\n\nEstablished and well into her career at the ABC affiliate KGTV Channel 10 in San Diego, Walker decided to go public with her ectrodactyly after previously keeping her hands hidden inside a pair of glove-like prosthetic ones. With them now clearly visible, she continued her newscasting career at KGTV, then moving to the rock station KPRI FM. She started her television career in 1980 at KGTV as a consumer advocacy reporter.\n\nWalker has also dabbled in acting, appearing as herself in the end-of-the-world science-fiction thriller, \"Without Warning\" (credited as Bree Walker-Lampley but referred to on screen as Bree Walker), and as television reporter, Wendy Sorenson, in \"The Chase\". She also guest-starred on an episode of the PBS children's series, \"Reading Rainbow\", to talk about her disability.\n\nWhile watching the 2003 season of \"Carnivàle\", an HBO television series about a Depression-era carnival traveling through the Dust Bowl, Walker noticed that no cast member had ectrodactyly. She requested, created, auditioned and won the role of Sabina the Scorpion Lady. Her portrayal of Sabina appeared in three episodes during the 2005 season. She showcased her webbed hands as the series probed public attitudes toward persons with highly visible disabilities. She based Sabina on characters she knew existed in the 1920s and 1930s carnival sideshows with names like \"Lobster Girl\" or \"Lobster Boy.\" These were typically the best jobs people with ectrodactyly could have, with most others being hidden away.\n\nWalker furthered her acting career in 2006 by appearing as an inspirational woman with ectrodactyly on the fourth-season premiere of \"Nip/Tuck\".\n\nWalker shares the on-camera narrator duties with Jon Elliott for the feature-length documentary film, \"Save KLSD: Media Consolidation and Local Radio\", which was first screened in April 2012. It looks at the shrinking number of corporations that control the majority of what Americans watch and listen to on TV, radio, newspapers, and magazines. It was over four years in the making and was produced by Jon Monday and Jennifer Douglas, distributed by mondayMEDIA. She is also in the film as an expert, speaking at a media reform conference.\n\nIn June 2007, it was announced that Walker had purchased Cindy Sheehan's \"Camp Casey\" site in Crawford, Texas for $87,000, in response to Sheehan's May 26, 2007 announcement that she would be selling the property and ending her antiwar activities. Sheehan handed the deed to Walker during her June 9, 2007, broadcast of \"The Bree Walker show.\" Walker has preserved the property as a peace memorial and garden and keeps it open to antiwar protesters. It is featured prominently on Walker's website.\n\nWalker has been married and divorced three times. She has a daughter named Andrea Layne Walker (born August 12, 1988) with her second husband, independent film and video producer Robert Walker, and a son named Aaron James Lampley with her third husband, news anchor and sportscaster Jim Lampley. Her surname is taken from her second husband.\n\nShe and her children were featured on an episode of TLC's \"My Unique Family\"; she refuses to answer questions about rumors that she has silicone lip implants. Her son and daughter both have ectrodactyly; she reacted very strongly on her blog to Oprah Winfrey's implication that a \"normal\" child would have all their fingers and their toes.\n\nWalker was nominated and inducted into the San Diego Women's Hall of Fame in 2010 a collaboration between Women's Museum of California, Commission on the Status of Women, University of California, San Diego Women's Center, and San Diego State University Women's Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114453", "title": "Andreas Görlitz", "text": "Andreas Görlitz\n\nAndreas Görlitz (born 31 January 1982) is a former German footballer.\n\nBorn in Weilheim in Oberbayern, Bavaria, West Germany, Görlitz began his professional career (as a midfielder) with TSV 1860 München, by then in the Bundesliga; his first match came on 10 February 2002, in a 1–2 loss at 1. FC Nürnberg, but he could only amass a further four league games in his first two seasons combined.\n\nIn the 2003–04 season, Görlitz made the transition to defender, and appeared in 32 matches for TSV, scoring his first professional goal on 27 March 2004, at Eintracht Frankfurt, through a header (3–0 triumph), as his side was finally relegated, after ranking 17th.\n\nGörlitz signed with TSV neighbours FC Bayern Munich in the 2004 summer. He even started some matches in the new season but, following an injury in a UEFA Champions League contest against Juventus FC, on 3 November, spent almost two years in the sidelines.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, it was announced that Görlitz would join newly promoted Karlsruher SC, on loan for the 2007–08 season. The player only missed three league matches and his club finished 11th, well clear from relegation.\n\nOn 9 May 2008, the loan deal was extended for another season. Following his second year, in which he featured significantly less, also suffering another relegation, Görlitz returned to Bayern, to play through the final year in his contract. For the third consecutive season at the club, he was often demoted to the reserve squad.\n\nOn 4 March 2014, Görlitz signed a contract with the San Jose Earthquakes of Major League Soccer. After an injury limited his season to three league matches, Görlitz was released by San Jose at the end of their 2014 season.\n\nShortly after signing for Bayern, Görlitz made his debut for the Germany national team, appearing in the last five minutes of the 1–1 friendly with Brazil, on 8 September 2004; the following month, he assisted veteran Thomas Brdarić as the striker closed the score at 2–0, in another exhibition game, this time against Iran. These two caps within a month were his only appearances in the German elite squad until the end of his career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114457", "title": "List of television stations in North Carolina", "text": "List of television stations in North Carolina\n\nThis is a list of broadcast television stations serving cities in the U.S. state of North Carolina.\n\nVC refers to the station's PSIP virtual channel. RF refers to the station's physical RF channel.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114478", "title": "My Dirt", "text": "My Dirt\n\nMy Dirt is an EP released in 1996 by the Rustic Overtones.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114480", "title": "Shana Alexander", "text": "Shana Alexander\n\nShana Alexander (October 6, 1925 – June 23, 2005) was an American journalist. Although she became the first woman staff writer and columnist for \"Life\" magazine, she was best known for her participation in the \"Point-Counterpoint\" debate segments of \"60 Minutes\", in the late 1970s, with conservative James J. Kilpatrick.\n\nAlexander was born Shana Ager on October 6, 1925 in New York City, the daughter of columnist Cecelia Ager (née Rubenstein) and Tin Pan Alley composer Milton Ager, who composed the song \"Happy Days Are Here Again\". Her family was Jewish. Alexander graduated from Vassar College in 1945, majoring in anthropology. She fell into writing when she took a summer job as a copy clerk at the New York City newspaper \"PM\", where her mother worked. She worked as a freelance writer for \"Junior Bazaar\" and \"Mademoiselle\" magazines before becoming a researcher at \"Life\" for $65 a week in 1951. During the 1960s she wrote \"The Feminine Eye\" column for \"Life\".\n\nIn 1962 she wrote an article for \"Life Magazine\" entitled \"They Decide Who Lives, Who Dies: Medical miracle puts moral burden on small committee,\" which sparked a national debate on the allocation of scarce dialysis machine resources. Another Life magazine article, about a suicide-hotline worker's efforts to keep a caller from killing herself, was turned into the 1965 film, \"The Slender Thread\".\n\nIn 1969 she became the first female editor at \"McCall's\" since 1921, but quit in 1971, complaining that it was a token job in a sexist environment. She was writing a column for \"Newsweek\" in 1975 when she replaced Nicholas von Hoffman on \"60 Minutes\", and debated Kilpatrick for the next four years. She played down this part of her career, commenting in 1979 that prior to that she \"had been a writer, a columnist for \"Life\" magazine and for \"Newsweek\" -- that was about as high as you could get in column writing. I care about my writing. I'm not a quack-quack TV journalist.\"\n\nStill, the debates Alexander had with Kilpatrick were so prominent in American culture that they were famously satirized on \"Saturday Night Live\", with Jane Curtin taking Alexander's role on the \"Weekend Update\" segment opposite Dan Aykroyd's version of Kilpatrick, arguing two sides of a topic in the news. Aykroyd opened his vicious, self-righteous response to Curtin by barking, \"Jane, you ignorant slut.\"\n\nShe also wrote a number of non-fiction books, including \"Anyone's Daughter\", a biography of kidnapped heiress Patricia Hearst. Her book \"Nutcracker\", about Frances Schreuder, the convicted socialite who persuaded her son to kill her millionaire father, was made into a 1987 TV miniseries. Schreuder was played by actress Lee Remick.\n\nAlexander married and divorced twice. Her first marriage, at age 19, was over quickly. Her second, to Stephen Alexander, lasted 12 years, though Shana described it as \"unhappy.\". In February 1987, her only daughter, 25-year-old Katherine Alexander, committed suicide. She jumped 31 stories to her death from the Park Avenue high-rise where she lived with her mother in New York. As a child, after her parents divorced, Katherine had chosen to live with Stephen Alexander and his wife.\n\nShana Alexander died of cancer in an assisted living facility in Hermosa Beach, California, on June 23, 2005. She was 79 and had lived in Manhattan and Wainscott, New York, for many years. Alexander was survived by a sister, Laurel Bentley, and a niece.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114493", "title": "Baltimore and Delaware Bay Railroad", "text": "Baltimore and Delaware Bay Railroad\n\nThe Baltimore and Delaware Bay Railroad, originally part of the Central Railroad of New Jersey's route from New York City to Baltimore, Maryland via central Delaware, was later part of the Pennsylvania Railroad system.\n\nChapter 148 of the 1856 Session Laws of Maryland, passed March 8, 1856, chartered the Kent County Rail Road Company, charged with building a railroad from the Chesapeake Bay or connecting Chester River in Kent County east to a point on the north side of the Sassafras River in Cecil County or on the Queen Anne and Kent Railroad, as well as branches to any point in Kent County.\n\nConstruction began in March 1868, but a shortage of funds brought work to a halt in September 1868. Work began again in April 1869, with the intention of building from the Delaware Railroad and the Queen Anne and Kent Railroad at Massey to Rock Hall (where a ferry would connect with Baltimore), with a branch to Chestertown. The line was opened from Massey to Kennedyville in April 1870. The rest of the line from Kennedyville to Chestertown on the Chester River opened on February 20, 1872. A branch from just north of Chestertown west to Parsons (on the projected line to Rock Hall), via Vickers, opened on August 1, 1872. However, this created a nonsensical dogleg, and was abandoned and partly removed when the direct line from Parsons to Worton was completed in October 1873.\n\nThe Smyrna and Delaware Bay Railroad was chartered July 14, 1865. With the backing of Jay Gould, who gained control of the Kent County Railroad in June 1873, it began construction in April 1873 and opened in September 1873, from Woodland Beach, Delaware, on the Delaware Bay, west to the state line, where an extension of the Kent County Railroad was built to connect (using the clause in the charter allowing for branches). The objective of this line was to form a connecting line (with car ferries at both ends) between the Vineland Railway at Bayside and Baltimore. Gould now changed the proposed terminus from Rock Hall to Tolchester Beach and began dredging work there. Most of the line to Tolchester Beach was graded, but the Panic of 1873 led to the collapse of the project.\n\nOn February 15, 1877 the Kent County was sold at foreclosure and bought by the New Jersey Southern Railroad (later part of the Central Railroad of New Jersey (CNJ)), which merged the two companies as the Baltimore and Delaware Bay Railroad on May 12, 1883. The remainder of the Parsons-Chestertown line was now removed, and used to extend the main line from Parsons to Nicholson (Earl Nicholson Road). However, only the line from Clayton to Chestertown was regularly operated, the Nicholson Branch and the line to Woodland Beach being operated only seasonally. By 1888, the first mile of track west of Woodland Beach had been abandoned.\n\nIn May 1889 the CNJ stopped operating the line, although it was still heavily under CNJ influence. The line was upgraded, and new carfloats and floatbridges were built at Bayside and Woodland Beach during the summer. Car float service was opened on August 17, 1889, largely handling peach traffic. However, the Woodland Beach float bridge was destroyed by a hurricane on September 8–10 and was never rebuilt. The line east of Smyrna, Delaware was closed in 1895, as was the line from Worton to Nicholson. The Pennsylvania Railroad bought the whole line on June 25, 1902, assigned it to its Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, and promptly abandoned it east of Massey on July 1. On October 2, all the property was transferred to the Delaware Railroad, another PRR subsidiary. However, the Baltimore and Delaware Bay was not dissolved until December 8, 1920.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114494", "title": "Long Division (Rustic Overtones album)", "text": "Long Division (Rustic Overtones album)\n\nLong Division is the second album by the Rustic Overtones, originally released on November 17, 1995. At one hour and seven minutes, the album remains the band's longest release to date. \"Simple Song\", the second track from the album, received extensive airtime from Portland alternative station WCYY, and is largely responsible for the band's rise to prominence on the Portland music scene. The album remains a fan favorite, and was re-released in a special edition format with three bonus tracks in 2008.\n\nMuch of \"Long Division\" continued to have the ska and jam feeling of \"Shish Boom Bam\", with songs such as \"Fake Face\" and \"Colors of Discipline\" essentially being straight ska songs and many other songs having heavy ska influences. However, the album also expanded the horizons of the band's sound further into the realms of rock and soul. Songs such as \"Simple Song\" and \"Dig\" were essentially rock songs, and \"20 Years\" was arguably the heaviest alternative song that they had yet released, a style that they would eventually pursue on 2001's \"Viva Nueva!\". The straight jam feeling of many of the songs of \"Shish Boom Bam\" was infused into the songs of \"Long Division\" with more of a funk and soul feeling, largely due to the addition of keyboard player Spencer Albee. Albee's keyboards gave the band much more of a soul feeling that the band had lacked before \"Long Division\" that soon came to largely define the band's sound.\n\n\"Long Division\" remains a favorite among the Rustic Overtones' fan base, despite not being widely available for nearly a decade. Several songs from the album were put into WCYY's regular rotation, including \"Simple Song\", which topped the station's listener vote-based \"top 5 at five\" for months. \"Long Division\" is often seen as the band's \"breakthrough\" album that made them a big name in the Portland, Maine, local music scene, largely thanks to the large amount of airtime that \"Simple Song\" received. Prior to the breakup, many songs from the album were commonly found in their setlists. After the band reunited in 2007, songs from the album were less commonly played as the touring focused more around material from \"Rooms by the Hour\", \"Viva Nueva!\" and \"Light at the End\", although songs such as \"About a Kid\", \"Simple Song\", \"Long Division\" and \"Pop Trash\" are still occasionally played. Despite its important status as the band's breakthrough album and its popularity among the fans, until spring 2008 the band had not sold the album since the days of \"Rooms by the Hours\", making the album nearly impossible to find. Occasional copies were still found on websites such as eBay and Amazon.com, although they usually sold for high amounts of money. Copies could also rarely be found at second-hand music stores across the northeast United States, especially in Maine and Massachusetts, the states where the band toured most during their original run.\n\n\n\nOn November 15, 2007, the band announced in a teaser trailer on their MySpace that they were to re-release the album for the holiday season. The trailer, whose main purpose was to announce a Rustic Overtones documentary/live DVD to be released in spring 2008, featured the song \"About a Kid\" from the album. On November 24, 2007, the band announced to the crowd at a show at Portland club The Asylum, that the album was to be re-released on the band's new record deal, and that the re-issue would contain out-takes from the original album sessions. Due to delays, the album was not re-released until March 19, 2007, independently and not on the band's new record deal as previously announced. This new deluxe edition features old and new artwork by Patrick Corrigan on cardboard packaging that includes an essay by drummer Tony McNaboe as a fold-out insert. The new release's bonus tracks include \"Red Afternoon\", which was toured during the band's original run, \"Redemption Pays\" and \"Let Me Grabbitz\", which was originally known to fans as \"The Secret Song\". This 2008 re-release was mastered by Scott Elson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2114506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114506", "title": "Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences", "text": "Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences (MPI \nMiS) in Leipzig is a research institute of the Max Planck Society. Founded on March 1, 1996, the institute works on projects which apply mathematics in various areas of natural sciences, in particular physics, biology, chemistry and material science.\n\n\nThe institute has an extensive visitors programme which has made Leipzig a main place for research in applied mathematics.\n\nThe MPI MiS is a member of ERCOM (European Research Centres in Mathematics). \n"}
{"id": "2114517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114517", "title": "The Sasquatch Gang", "text": "The Sasquatch Gang\n\nThe Sasquatch Gang (also known as The Sasquatch Dumpling Gang) is a 2006 comedy film written and directed by Tim Skousen, the first assistant director on \"Napoleon Dynamite\".\n\nThe six-week shoot was completed in the summer of 2005. The film premiered in January 2006 at the Slamdance Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award. It was also shown at the HBO US Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, picking up 2 awards. One for Justin Long for Best Actor and Tim Skousen Best Director. It also showed at the Waterfront Film Festival, New Zealand Film Festival, Sidewalk Film Festival, and Vail Film Festival. The film opened in limited release in the United States on November 30, 2007. The film was released on DVD on March 25, 2008.\n\nYoung sci-fi/fantasy enthusiast Gavin Gore (Jeremy Sumpter) and his ragtag group of nerd friends, girlfriend Sophie Suchowski (Addie Land), swordsman Hobie Plumber (Hubbel Palmer), and young Maynard Keyes (Rob Pinkston) stumble upon some \"large tracks\" and a \"big ole sasquatch dumplin'\" whilst walking some trails in the nearby woods. Unbeknownst to the friends, two of Gavin's redneck neighbors, Zerk Wilder (Justin Long) and Shirts Joachim (Joey Kern) planted some fake evidence as a plan to gain profits and pay off Zerk's credit card bill. Soon the publicity stunt gains the attention of a local Sasquatch \"expert\" (Carl Weathers).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2114518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2114518", "title": "Bain family murders", "text": "Bain family murders\n\nThe Bain family murders were the deaths by gunshot of Robin and Margaret Bain and three of their four children – Arawa, Laniet and Stephen – in Dunedin, New Zealand, on 20 June 1994. The only suspects were David Cullen Bain, the oldest son and only survivor, and Robin Bain, the father. David Bain, aged 22, was charged with five counts of murder. In May 1995, he was convicted on each of the five counts and sentenced to mandatory life in prison with a minimum non-parole period of sixteen years.\n\nBain's case was taken up by businessman and former rugby player Joe Karam. In 2007, Bain's legal team, guided by Karam, successfully appealed to the Privy Council, which declared there had been a 'substantial miscarriage of justice'. David Bain was released on bail in May 2007. The retrial in June 2009 ended with his acquittal on all charges.\n\nSpeculation about the case continued long after Bain was acquitted, including whether or not he should receive compensation for the years he spent in prison. Ian Binnie, a retired justice of the Supreme Court of Canada, was appointed in November 2011 to review the circumstances and advise the government on whether compensation should be paid. Binnie concluded that the Dunedin police made 'egregious errors' and that the 'extraordinary circumstances' in the case justified the payment of compensation. This report was rejected by the Minister of Justice, on advice from High Court Judge Robert Fisher.\n\nIn March 2015, the government appointed Ian Callinan, a retired justice of the High Court of Australia, to conduct a second review of Bain's compensation claim. Callinan's report, in which he concluded that Bain was not innocent on the balance of probabilities, was delivered to the Minister of Justice on 26 January 2016. The Minister announced that no compensation would be paid, but that Bain would be given an \"ex gratia\" payment of $925,000 if he agreed to stop all further legal action.\n\nRobin Irving Bain and Margaret Arawa Cullen were married in 1969 in Dunedin, New Zealand. They had four children: David (born 1972), Arawa (born 1974), Laniet (born 1976) and Stephen (born 1980).\n\nIn 1974, they moved to Papua New Guinea, where Robin worked as a missionary teacher. The family returned to New Zealand in 1988. Three years after his return, Robin became the principal of Taieri Beach School, a two-teacher school about 50 kilometres down the coast from Dunedin.\n\nIn June 1994, the family lived at 65 Every Street, Andersons Bay, Dunedin. The house was old and 'semi-derelict'. At this time Robin and Margaret were estranged. Robin was initially sleeping in the back of his van at Taieri, but more recently in the schoolhouse three nights a week. He returned to the family home at weekends but slept in a caravan in the back garden.\n\nDavid was studying music and classics at Otago University and had a part-time job delivering morning newspapers. Arawa was attending a teachers' training college and Stephen was at high school. Laniet had a part-time job in Dunedin and lived away from home, but had returned to the family residence on the Sunday evening of 19 June to attend a family meeting.\n\nOn the morning of 20 June 1994, David Bain called the 111 emergency number at 7:09 am in a distressed state and told the operator: \"They're all dead, they're all dead.\"\n\nWhen the police arrived they found five members of the Bain family had been shot to death – Robin (58), his wife Margaret (50), their daughters Arawa (19) and Laniet (18), and their son Stephen (14). There was evidence of a violent struggle involving Stephen, who was partly strangled as well as shot. A message was found typed on a computer that said \"sorry, you are the only one who deserved to stay\". Four days later, David, aged 22, was charged with five counts of murder.\n\nBain's first trial lasted three weeks and took place at the Dunedin High Court in May 1995.\n\nThe Crown put forward that Bain shot to death his mother, two sisters and brother in undetermined order before going on his morning paper run. On his return he waited for his father to come in from the caravan and go into the lounge to pray and then shot him from behind the computer alcove curtain, typed the message on the computer, arranged the scene to make it look like a suicide, and called 111. The defence submitted that while David was out on his paper round, Robin killed the other family members, typed the message and shot himself.\n\nBain testified that after his morning paper run he entered the house without turning on the lights, and went downstairs to the bathroom where he washed his hands, which were covered with black newsprint, and put some clothes in the washing machine. Bain said that he noticed bullets and the trigger lock of his rifle on the floor of his bedroom when he went back upstairs and turned on the light. He found his mother dead in her room, heard Laniet gurgling and found his father dead in the lounge. At 7.09 a.m. he rang 111 in great distress.\n\nIn his closing address, Crown Prosecutor W J Wright said that Bain murdered his family to gain his inheritance, which the parents had put aside for the new house. In summing up, Justice Neil Williamson told the jury that the Crown had said \"... that these events were so bizarre and abnormal that it was impossible for the human mind to conceive of any logical or reasonable explanation\".\n\nLittle in the way of motive was presented for Robin. In a formal statement, Dean Cottle told police that Laniet had confided in him that her father had been having an incestuous relationship with her and that she was planning to \"blow the whistle\" the weekend before she and her family were killed. Cottle failed to show up at court when called, and when he did turn up, Justice Williamson found him unreliable as a witness and ruled against admission of his testimony. The defence instead submitted that, \"Robin was a proud school teacher who had been rejected by his family and had snapped after months of pressure.\"\n\nAt the conclusion of the trial, Bain was convicted by the jury on five counts of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment with a sixteen-year non-parole period.\n\nFormer All Black rugby player Joe Karam felt \"something was wrong\" with the case and spearheaded a lengthy campaign to have Bain's convictions overturned. He visited Bain in prison over 200 times and wrote four books about the case. Karam stated in his books that \"[David's] innocence is the only possible conclusion\" and that he was \"totally innocent\". Karam was subsequently described in some media as a 'freedom fighter' and his support helped bring about a retrial in 2009.\n\nThe first application was made to the New Zealand Court of Appeal in 1995, principally on whether the trial judge had erred in refusing to admit Cottle's testimony. The Court refused to hear the appeal on the grounds that the \"Crown case appeared very strong and the defence theory not at all plausible.\"\n\nIn June 1998, Bain petitioned the Governor-General for a pardon, which was then passed on to the Ministry of Justice. In 2000, Justice Minister Phil Goff said the investigation had shown that 'a number of errors' may have occurred in the Crown's case against Bain.\n\nThe case was then referred to the Court of Appeal for a full hearing in 2003. The court heard submissions over five days, but was not persuaded that there had been a miscarriage of justice and the appeal was dismissed on 15 December 2003.\n\nIn March 2007, Bain's legal team, including Karam, travelled to London to lay out nine arguments before the Privy Council as to why his convictions should be quashed. Two of the nine points concerned Robin's mental state and possible motive. The other seven points concerned questions about particular pieces of evidence. The Privy Council said there was considerable doubt that Bain would have been convicted if evidence discovered post-trial had been put to the jury.\n\nThe Privy Council concluded that: \"In the opinion of the board, the fresh evidence adduced in relation to the nine points ... taken together, compels the conclusion that a substantial miscarriage of justice has actually occurred in this case.\" The Privy Council quashed Bain's convictions and ordered a retrial, but noted that he should remain in custody in the meantime.\n\nOn 15 May 2007, Bain was granted bail by the High Court in Christchurch. Justice Fogarty said that under New Zealand law, there was no reason for continued detention and he was bailed to the home of his longtime supporter Karam. Altogether, he served almost thirteen years of a life sentence with a minimum sixteen-year non-parole period.\n\nThe retrial took place at the Christchurch High Court, with the jury sworn in on 6 March 2009, and Bain pleaded not guilty to the five murder charges. The defence argued that Robin committed the murders and then committed suicide. The trial lasted about three months and the jury took less than a day to find Bain not guilty on all five charges.\n\nOutside court, an emotional Bain thanked his supporters, particularly Karam. \"Without Joe and his solid strength ... I wouldn't have made it through this far\", Bain said. Karam said the trial would go down as the \"criminal trial of New Zealand’s history\". Some commentators questioned the behaviour of jurors who hugged Bain and attended a \"victory party\" after the verdict. Chris Gallavin, a senior law lecturer at Canterbury University, said, \"While this is unusual behaviour, the whole case is an unusual case.\"\n\nAfter the retrial, New Zealand's Chief Coroner consulted with the local coroner and others to decide whether to conduct inquests into the deaths, as the verdict implied the death certificates may not be accurate. However no inquests were held; a Law Society spokesman pointed out that even if the coroner's findings disagreed with the retrial verdict, this could not lead to any further legal action against Bain.\n\nIn March 2010, Bain lodged an application for compensation for wrongful imprisonment. His case fell outside Cabinet rules on compensation, meaning the government was not obliged to pay him anything, but may do so if he was able to establish his innocence on \"the balance of probabilities\" and was also considered to be the \"victim of exceptional circumstances\".\n\nBecause of the high-profile nature of the case, Justice Minister Simon Power chose an overseas judge – retired Canadian Supreme Court Justice Ian Binnie – to examine Bain's application for compensation. After a year-long investigation, Binnie concluded in September 2012 that \"on the balance of probabilities\" Bain was innocent of the murders in 1994 and should be paid compensation for wrongful conviction and imprisonment\". By the time Binnie's report was completed, Simon Power had retired from Parliament.\n\nJudith Collins, the new Justice Minister, disagreed with Binnie's conclusions and sought feedback from the police, the Solicitor-General and former High Court judge Robert Fisher. Fisher concluded that Binnie had made significant errors of principle and recommended that a new report be undertaken. He acknowledged that a new report could still reach the same conclusion as Binnie. Collins agreed and said another report into Bain's compensation claim would have to be commissioned. Binnie took exception to the criticisms of his report, arguing that he had weighed up the totality of the evidence both for and against Bain. He said the government was clearly \"shopping around\" for a report that would allow it to dodge paying compensation.\n\nIn January 2013, Bain filed a claim in the High Court seeking a review of Collins' actions, alleging Collins had breached natural justice and the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act. In August 2014, Collins resigned and Amy Adams was appointed as the new Justice Minister. The judicial review proceedings against Collins were discontinued in January 2015.\n\nAnother report was commissioned and retired Australian judge Ian Callinan was given the responsibility to draft it. On 2 August 2016, Adams formally announced that Callinan had found that Bain was not innocent \"on the balance of probabilities\", and as a result the government would not be making an apology or compensating Bain for wrongfully spending thirteen years in prison. Adams also said that Bain's legal team had indicated that they would have mounted a legal challenge against Callinan's report and that while the Crown was confident in the strength of its position no one benefited from the matter continuing to drag on. The Crown therefore agreed to make an ex gratia payment of $925,000 in recognition of the time and expenses incurred by Bain during the compensation process and the desirability of avoiding further litigation.\n\nThe majority of respondents to opinion polls conducted in 2012, 2013 and 2015 thought Bain should receive compensation for the time he spent in prison.\n\nThe total cost to the taxpayer of the Bain case was nearly $7 million. The 2009 retrial cost more than $4 million, making it the most expensive trial in New Zealand history.\n\nFollowing his acquittal, Bain undertook a three-month European holiday paid for by his supporters. Ten months later, he was struggling to find work and had no money. Auckland defence lawyer Peter Williams QC said Bain would be suffering from the stigma experienced by ex-prisoners re-entering the workplace.\n\nIn March 2012, Bain was working for an engineering firm in Auckland. In September 2012, he became engaged to his girlfriend, a Christchurch primary school teacher, and they were married on 10 January 2014. Bain was working for a Christchurch engineering firm at the time his wife gave birth to a baby boy on 3 December 2014.\n\nIn May 2017, he changed his name by deed poll to William Davies, taking the surname of his wife.\n\nIn June 2017, the Crown began disposing of exhibits used in the trials. Crown Law decided it had no legal grounds on which to retain items belonging to Bain, and his .22-caliber Winchester Model 490 semi-automatic rifle and items of clothing would be returned to him through Karam.\n\nThe jumpers worn by Bain during the original trial, knitted by Margaret Bain to David's own designs, became a symbol of the Bain case. During the retrial, T-shirts inspired by the jumpers were sold online.\n\nReflecting the high level of public interest in his case, in 2009, David Bain was found by the Internet search engine Google to be the most-searched-for New Zealander of the past year.\n\n\"The December Brother\", a 2010 play produced by Tim Spite for Wellington's Downstage Theatre, depicts re-enactments of the Bain family killings. It presents two scenarios – the first with David Bain murdering his family, and the second with his father, Robin Bain, carrying out the killings, then Robin's taking his own life. The play was based on the theories put forward by the legal teams for the defence and prosecution during the trials.\n\n\"Black Hands\", a 10-episode podcast covering the case, by Christchurch journalist Martin van Beynen, was launched on 20 July 2017. A one–episode sequel podcast, also written and narrated by van Beynen and in response to a radio interview of former judge Ian Binnie, was released on 17 September 2017.\n\n\n"}
