{"id": "2139549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139549", "title": "Warren Barton", "text": "Warren Barton\n\nWarren Dean Barton (born 19 March 1969) is an English former professional footballer who played as a defender. He is now a television pundit for Fox Sports as well as general manager and technical director for Los Angeles Blues in the American USL Pro league.\n\nBorn in Stoke Newington, London, Barton began his league career with Maidstone United, after joining from Dagenham who negotiated for three players and a manager, John Still to move the other way.\n\nDespite some defensive weaknesses, he gained attention from clubs playing in higher tiers of English football due to his ability to move forward at speed up the flank with the ball and place the ball in the box accurately.\n\nDuring this period, Barton had a 'day job' working in the mailroom at the London offices of accounting firm, Arthur Andersen.\n\nBarton was transferred to First Division side Wimbledon on 7 June 1990, his £300,000 transfer fee being the largest sum paid for a Fourth Division player at the time. However, Maidstone were sliding into a serious financial crisis at this time and his sale did little to improve matters, although it would be another two years before financial problems finally forced them out of business and cost them their place in the Football League.\n\nBarton walked straight into the Wimbledon first team, missing just one league game in the 1990–91 season as they finished seventh. His first game was in the 3–0 defeat at home to Arsenal on the opening day of the season.\n\nHe remained a regular fixture at right-back for the rest of his time there, despite playing under three different managers; Ray Harford (July 1990 – October 1991), Peter Withe (October 1991 – January 1992) and finally Joe Kinnear.\n\nDuring his time at Wimbledon he was instrumental in keeping them in the Premiership, and quickly became one of the most highly rated defenders in England. However, Barton had the most successful spell of his career with the Dons after they moved him into midfield, where his accurate passing set up many goals for the Crazy Gang's forwards.\n\nWimbledon were widely regarded as the smallest club in the top flight, traditionally having the lowest crowds and the smallest budget to spend on players, but they managed to avoid relegation year after year, more often than not by a comfortable margin, at a time when bigger clubs like Nottingham Forest went down. Barton helped them finish sixth in 1994 – the best finish in their history.\n\nOn 5 June 1995, Barton became the most expensive defender in English football when he moved to Newcastle United for £4 million, joining \"The Entertainers\" being assembled by Kevin Keegan. Everything looked rosy for Barton, and a few England caps followed, his classy, comfortable style on the ball earned him a reputation as a true footballing full-back. His attacking role under Keegan however meant he did not always suit the national team and he did not make too many more appearances for England.\n\nHe made his debut on 19 August 1995, when the Magpies beat Coventry City 3–0 at St James' Park. He played 31 times that season, and by Christmas it was looking certain that he would be collecting a league title medal as the Magpies had a 10-point lead over Manchester United at the top of the Premier League. However, when the Magpies lost 1–0 at home to the Old Trafford side on 4 March 1996, the lead had been cut to a single point and soon afterwards they were overhauled, having to settle for second place in the final table.\n\nOver the next two seasons, Barton's first team opportunities were more limited as manager Kevin Keegan and his successor Kenny Dalglish (who took over in January 1997) chose Steve Watson as a right back more frequently.\n\nHowever, Watson's move to Aston Villa in October 1998 saw Barton return to the right-back position on a more regular basis under new manager Ruud Gullit, and he was still the club's first choice player in this position in 2000–01, by which time the Magpies were being managed by the former England boss Bobby Robson.\n\nBarton finally lost his first team place in the 2001–02 season to Aaron Hughes and this time he was unable to win it back. He made just five league appearances before joining Derby County for a fee of £200,000 on 1 February 2002, ending nearly seven years on Tyneside.\n\nBarton was manager John Gregory's first signing for a Derby County side battling against relegation from the Premier League, and played in all of their final 14 league games. At first, things went smoothly enough at Pride Park, with two quick wins following by a point against title chasing Manchester United suggesting that the Rams were on their way to safety. But seven defeats from the final eight games cost them their top flight status after six seasons, and with financial problems putting the club under serious pressure, there was little prospect of a swift return.\n\nDerby finished 18th in the 2002–03 Division One campaign, well short of the playoffs even though they were never in any real danger of a second successive relegation. Barton remained the club's first choice right-back, but following Gregory's dismissal in favour of George Burley, Barton did not feature in the first team in the 2003–04 season, finally departing in October when he joined Division Two promotion chasers Queens Park Rangers on a free transfer.\n\nBarton played just five first team games during his four months at Loftus Road, before returning to Wimbledon on a free transfer on 27 February 2004. The Hoops went on to secure promotion to Division One.\n\nA lot had changed at Wimbledon Football Club since Barton had last played for them nine years earlier. They had survived in the Premier League for five seasons after his departure, finally going down in 1999–2000. The decision to relocate the club to Milton Keynes was approved in May 2002, after the Dons narrowly missed out on the Division One playoffs for the second season running. In spite of some of the lowest attendances in the league after the majority of the club's fans defected to newly formed AFC Wimbledon (at non-League level), the Dons had managed a respectable 10th-place finish in 2002–03, but then they went into administration and were forced to sell most of their key players. As a result, their fortunes on the pitch suffered and the move to Milton Keynes in September 2003 (initially in the National Hockey Stadium until a new permanent stadium was built) did little to solve matters. By the time Barton arrived at the end of February, the club was still in administration and relegation (if not complete closure) was almost certain. Barton appeared in just five games for the Dons as they went down in bottom place with a massive 33 defeats (one of the worst Football League records ever) and on 17 September 2004 he finally departed from the club, who for the 2004–05 had been re-formed as Milton Keynes Dons to reflect their new location. At the age of 35, Barton's senior career was over.\n\nOn leaving Milton Keynes Dons, Barton dropped into non-League football to play for Conference National club Dagenham & Redbridge. He was selected just twice for the \"Daggers\", before finally hanging up his boots on 31 May 2005.\n\nBarton made his debut for England in the February 1995 friendly away match against the Republic of Ireland which was abandoned after only 27 minutes because of rioting English fans. Known as the Lansdowne Road football riot, the trouble was caused by English neo-Nazi organisation Combat 18. Later that year, he earned his second and third against Sweden and Brazil respectively. In the latter, which proved to be his last international match, he was only a very late substitute coming on for John Scales.\n\nBarton ended his playing days where he began, with Dagenham & Redbridge in the 2004–05 season and then coached the side during the week. He also worked for Brighton & Hove Albion part-time on a consultancy basis.\n\nIn 2008, Barton was named as the U-18 coach for Los Angeles Galaxy of Major League Soccer. He remained in the position until 2010. On 13 January 2010, Barton joined on as a partner and technical adviser for the newly reestablished San Diego Flash soccer club in the National Premier Soccer League. He was later named president and head coach of the club on 19 March 2010.\n\nBarton was named general manager and technical director for Los Angeles Blues of the USL Pro league on 11 December 2012.\n\nRegarding coaching certifications, Barton holds the UEFA Pro License as well as the UEFA 'A' and 'B' Coaching Licenses. Barton currently works as a youth coach and the Technical Director at Del Mar Carmel Valley Sharks, a youth soccer club in San Diego, California.\n\nSince his retirement in 2005, Barton has worked for Fox Sports 1 as a television pundit. In 2006, Barton was part of ITV4's World Cup team of pundits. He presented his own comedy segment entitled 'Warren Barton Travel Agent' in which he provided a comical breakdown of each country taking part in the World Cup.\n\nBarton represented Newcastle United for Sky One's \"Premier League All Stars\". The match took place on 26 September 2007 and finished 3–3. In the resulting penalty shootout, Barton missed his penalty to knock Newcastle out of the tournament.\n\nBarton is featured in the \"Legends of the Tyne\" series of beers from Northumberland brewery, which depicts past Newcastle United players.\n"}
{"id": "2139592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139592", "title": "Koutiala", "text": "Koutiala\n\nKoutiala (Bambara: ߞߎߕߌߊߟߊ tr. Kutiala) is a city in Mali in the administrative region of Sikasso, and is located 140 km north of the city of Sikasso. Koutiala serves as the capital of its administrative Cercle, home to 575,253 people in 2009. As of the 2009 Census, Koutiala has 137,919 residents.\n\nSituated in Minianka country, Koutiala was founded in the 16th century by members of the Coulibaly family from the Bambara kingdom of Segou. It now contains an important hospital for women and children.\nKoutiala's sister city is Alençon, France.\n\nKoutiala is the heartland of cotton production in Mali and is sometimes called \"the white gold capital\" for its cotton. However, the industry has been affected by stagnation since the 1980s. Aside from cotton it is also noted for grain production, primarily pearl millet, sorghum and maize. Koutiala is the second most industrial city in Mali, hosting, among others, the \"Compagnie malienne pour le développement du textile\" (CMDT) and the \"Huilerie cotonnière du Mali\" (HUICOMA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139611", "title": "Ron Klain", "text": "Ron Klain\n\nRonald A. Klain (born August 8, 1961) is an American political consultant, civil servant, and lawyer. A member of the Democratic Party, he served as chief of staff to two U.S. vice presidents: Al Gore (1995–99) and Joe Biden (2009–11). He was appointed by Barack Obama to serve as the White House Ebola response coordinator in late 2014 into early 2015.\n\nKlain was born on August 8, 1961, in Indianapolis, Indiana, to Jewish parents. He graduated from North Central High School in 1979 and was on the school's \"Brain Game\" team, which finished as season runner-up. He received his B.A. degree \"summa cum laude\" from Georgetown University in 1983. In 1987, he received his J.D. degree \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard Law School.\n\nKlain was a law clerk for Supreme Court Justice Byron White during the 1987 and 1988 terms. From 1989 to 1992, he served as Chief Counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, overseeing the legal staff's work on matters of constitutional law, criminal law, antitrust law, and Supreme Court nominations, including the 1991 Clarence Thomas Supreme Court nomination. He served as Legislative Director for U.S. Representative Ed Markey (D-MA). In 1995, Senator Tom Daschle appointed him the Staff Director of the Senate Democratic Leadership Committee.\n\nKlain joined the Clinton-Gore campaign in 1992 and was involved in both of Bill Clinton's campaigns. He oversaw Clinton's judicial nominations. In the White House, Klain was Associate Counsel to the President, directing judicial selection efforts and leading the team that won confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. In 1994, he became Chief of Staff and Counselor to Attorney General Janet Reno and in 1995, Chief of Staff to Al Gore.\n\nDuring Klain's tenure as Gore's Chief of Staff, he was seen as too loyal to Clinton by some longtime Gore advisors, and in 1999, feuding broke out between Clinton and Gore loyalists. Klain was ousted by Gore campaign chairman Tony Coelho in August 1999. In October 1999, he joined the Washington, D.C. office of the law firm of O'Melveny & Myers. In 2000, Klain returned to the Gore campaign, which named him General Counsel of Gore's Recount Committee.\n\nKlain was signed up as a lobbyist for Fannie Mae until 2005.\n\nDuring the 2004 presidential campaign early primaries, Klain worked as an adviser to Wesley Clark. During the general election, Klain was heavily involved behind the scenes in John Kerry's campaign.\n\nKlain served as an informal adviser to Evan Bayh, who is from Klain's home state of Indiana. In 2005, Klain left his partnership at O'Melveny & Myers to become Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Revolution LLC, a technology venture capital firm launched by AOL co-founder Steve Case. At the time of his October 2014 appointment as Ebola response coordinator, he was General Counsel at Revolution LLC and President of Case Holdings.\n\nOn November 12, 2008, \"Roll Call\" announced that Klain had been chosen to serve as Chief of Staff to Vice President Joe Biden, the same role he served for Gore.\n\nKlain had worked with Biden, having served as counsel to the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary while Biden chaired that committee and assisted Biden's speechwriting team during the 1988 presidential campaign.\n\nKlain was mentioned as a possible replacement for White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel, but opted to leave the White House for a position in the private sector in January 2011.\n\nIn 2011, amid concerns about whether the now-defunct solar-panel company Solyndra was viable, Klain approved an Obama visit, stating, \"The reality is that if POTUS visited 10 such places over the next 10 months, probably a few will be belly-up by election day 2012.\"\nOn October 17, 2014, Klain was appointed the \"Ebola response coordinator\" or, less officially, Ebola \"czar.\" His appointment was criticized because Klain, according to Julie Hirschfeld Davis writing in \"The New York Times\", had \"no record or expertise in Ebola specifically or public health in general\". Klain's term as Ebola response coordinator ended in February 2015. \n\nSince leaving the Obama administration, Klain has worked as an external adviser to the Skoll Foundation Global Threats Fund and is Executive Vice President and General Counsel at the investment firm Revolution LLC.\n\nKlain and his wife, Monica Medina, a lawyer and environmental activist who served as Principal Deputy Undersecretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, and is currently at the Walton Family Foundation, have three children.\n\nKlain was portrayed by Kevin Spacey in the HBO film \"Recount\" depicting the tumult of the 2000 presidential election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139612", "title": "A Course of Modern Analysis", "text": "A Course of Modern Analysis\n\n\"A Course of Modern Analysis: an introduction to the general theory of infinite processes and of analytic functions; with an account of the principal transcendental functions\" (colloquially known as \"Whittaker and Watson\") is a landmark textbook on mathematical analysis written by E. T. Whittaker and G. N. Watson, first published by Cambridge University Press in 1902. The first edition was Whittaker's alone, but later editions were co-authored with Watson.\n\nIts first, second, third, and the fourth, last edition were published in 1902, 1915, 1920, and 1927, respectively. Since then, it has continuously been reprinted and still in print today.\n\nThe book is notable for being the standard reference and textbook for a generation of Cambridge mathematicians including Littlewood and G. H. Hardy. Mary Cartwright studied it as preparation for her final honours on the advice of fellow student V.C. Morton, later Professor of Mathematics at Aberystwyth University. But its reach was much further than just the Cambridge school; André Weil in his obituary of the French mathematician Jean Delsarte noted that Delsarte always had a copy on his desk.\n\nSome idiosyncratic but interesting problems from an older era of the Cambridge Mathematical Tripos are in the exercises.\n\nThe book was one of the earliest to use decimal numbering for its sections, an innovation the authors attribute to Giuseppe Peano.\n\nBelow are the contents of the fourth edition:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139617", "title": "Deanna Brooks", "text": "Deanna Brooks\n\nDeanna Brooks (born Deanna Wilson on April 30, 1974 in Boulder City, Nevada) is an American glamour model and actress who was \"Playboy\" magazine's Playmate of the Month in May, 1998. She was a 1992 graduate of Bellbrook (OH) High School and worked as a bank teller for Key Bank before her \"Playboy\" appearance.. She was previously married to Tony Brooks.\n\nShe was also photographed by celebrity photographer William Shatner for the Cyber Club in 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139618", "title": "Lee Chapman", "text": "Lee Chapman\n\nLee Roy Chapman (born 5 December 1959) is an English former professional footballer who played as a striker from 1978 until 1996, in which he scored almost 200 first-team goals.\n\nHe is best known for spells with Stoke City, Leeds United, Sheffield Wednesday, Nottingham Forest and West Ham United. He also played for Plymouth Argyle, Arsenal, Sunderland, Portsmouth, Southend United, Ipswich Town and Swansea City. As well as this he played in both France and Norway for Chamois Niortais and Strømsgodset IF, and was capped by both the England U21 and England B teams. He also won the Football League Cup with Nottingham Forest and the league title with Leeds United. He scored a total of more than 250 goals in all competitions during a club career which lasted for nearly 20 years.\n\nChapman was born in Lincoln and began his career at Stoke City. He made his league debut whilst on loan at Plymouth Argyle in 1978–79. He made his debut for Stoke in a League Cup match against Swindon Town with Chapman scoring Stoke's goal in a 2–1 defeat. He soon became a vital player for Stoke top-scoring in both 1980–81 and 1981–82 which prompted Arsenal to pay Stoke £500,000 for his services.\n\nHowever, the move was not a success – he made only 23 appearances for the club and scored four goals. Chapman moved to Sunderland in December 1983, but again failed to establish himself in the team, scoring just 3 goals in 15 appearances. Howard Wilkinson, then manager of Sheffield Wednesday, signed Chapman in August 1984, and at Wednesday he regained his goal scoring form; between 1984 and 1988 Chapman scored 63 goals in 149 appearances. However, Wilkinson moved on to manage Leeds United in 1988, and on his departure Chapman moved on briefly to French side Chamois Niortais.\n\nIn October 1988, Brian Clough signed Chapman for Nottingham Forest. Chapman was an integral part of the Forest team that won the League Cup and Full Members Cup in 1989, scoring two goals in the latter's final. Chapman had a positive season in the league as Forest finished third, though they never looked likely to catch the leading pair of Arsenal (champions on goals scored) and runners-up Liverpool. However, Forest's failure to clinch the title in 1988–89 was not ultimately the end of Chapman's quest to be part of a title winning side.\n\nIn his time at the City Ground, Chapman was one of the Forest players who had to cope with the horrors of the Hillsborough disaster during the opening minutes of their FA Cup semi-final against Liverpool. Chapman played in the rescheduled game at Old Trafford, which Liverpool won 3–1. In January 1990, Howard Wilkinson paid Nottingham Forest £400,000 to recruit Chapman to Leeds United. Chapman was part of the Leeds team that won the Second Division title and promotion to the First Division in 1990. Leeds finished 4th in 1991, and 21-goal Chapman was one of the highest scorers in the league. He scored a hat-trick in a remarkable league match at Elland Road against Liverpool on 13 April 1991, though Leeds lost the game 5–4. This was the first time in a decade that a Leeds player had scored a top flight hat-trick (Leeds had been out of the First Division from 1982 until 1990).\n\nIn the 1991–92 season, Chapman scored 16 goals as Leeds won the last-ever league title before the creation of the FA Premier League. His 16 goals in the club's title winning season included two league hat-tricks; the first in a 6–1 away win against his old club Sheffield Wednesday on 12 January 1992, the second on 14 March 1992 in a 5–1 home win over Wimbledon. Chapman scored the club's first two goals in the new league at the start of the 1992–93 season, scoring twice in a 2–1 home win over Wimbledon. Despite being the top scorer for Leeds in the 1992–93 season with 14 goals, Chapman was allowed to move to Portsmouth at the age of 33 for £250,000 on 11 August 1993.\n\nChapman made a Premier League comeback just four months after moving to Portsmouth when West Ham United signed him for £250,000 in September 1993. Making his West Ham debut along with other new signings Mike Marsh and David Burrows, Chapman scored in a 2–0 away win against Blackburn Rovers on 18 September 1993. He played 51 games in all competitions scoring 11 goals. He remained in the Premier League when he moved on to Ipswich for a fee of £70,000 in November 1994. He played one game on loan for Southend United in January 1995, scoring the consolation goal in the Shrimpers' 4–1 defeat at Grimsby Town.\n\nDuring early 1996 he was loaned back to Leeds United where he played only two games. In his first, against one of his former sides, West Ham United, he was sent-off for elbowing defender Marc Rieper. He finished his UK career with Swansea. During the summer of 1996 he had a brief spell in Norway with Strømsgodset scoring one goal.\n\nChapman was capped by both the England U21 and England B teams.\n\nHe is the son of former Lincoln City, Port Vale and Chester striker, Roy Chapman. Chapman is married to the actress Leslie Ash, with whom he owns restaurants; So:uk in London and Teatro Leeds, in which one of his former clubs, Leeds United, is a shareholder. He previously owned another restaurant, Teatro in Soho, London.\n\nIn 2011 Chapman and his wife, Leslie Ash, indicated that they were preparing to sue the \"News of the World\" for breach of privacy over suspicions that their voicemails, and those of their children, were illegally accessed by private investigator Glenn Mulcaire. After writing to the police over their suspicions, the police informed them that there were four pieces of paper referring to Ash in Mulcaire's notebooks, and five items relating to Chapman. There were further items relating to their children.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139623", "title": "Hanne Hiob", "text": "Hanne Hiob\n\nHanne Hiob (12 March 1923 – 23 June 2009) was a German actress.\n\nHiob was born as Hanne Marianne Brecht in Munich, the daughter of the writer Bertolt Brecht by his wife, opera singer and actress Marianne Zoff (1893-1984). In February 1928, Zoff had a daughter, Ursula Lingen, by German actor Theo Lingen. In September 1928, Brecht and Zoff divorced; Zoff married Lingen later that year. Hanne Brecht later married Joachim Hiob.\n\nHanne grew up with her mother and Theo Lingen, and Lingen was able to protect his wife, who was classified as a half-Jew under the Nazi-regime, and his daughter from persecution.\n\nHanne Brecht studied dance at the Vienna State Opera and worked as a dancer and an actress in Salzburg, Austria. Among other parts, she played the leading role in Brecht's \"Señora Carrar's Rifles\" and in 1959 in \"Saint Joan of the Stockyards\" under the direction of Gustaf Gründgens. She performed in Munich, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Vienna and Berlin.\n\nShe retired from the stage in 1976 but remained active reading Brecht works and participating in street theater projects such as the \"Anachronistic Train\". Hiob received the in 2005.\n\nHanne Hiob died in Munich, aged 86, from undisclosed causes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139624", "title": "Robert D. Ray", "text": "Robert D. Ray\n\nRobert Dolph Ray (September 26, 1928 – July 8, 2018) was an American lawyer and Republican politician. He served as the 38th Governor of Iowa from January 16, 1969 to January 14, 1983. \n\nDuring his tenure as governor, Ray served as chair of the National Governors Association from 1975 to 1976; led to the passage of the Iowa Burials Protection Act of 1976, which was the first legislative act in the United States that specifically protected American Indian remains; and accepted thousands of refugees into Iowa.\n\nIn his later years, Ray served as acting mayor of Des Moines from May 1997 to November 1997 and was interim president of Drake University in 1998.\n\nRay was born in Des Moines, Iowa, in 1928. Ray's father was Clark Ray, an accountant. Ray's mother was Mildred Ray. \nRay graduated from Roosevelt High School in 1946. After high school, Ray served in the United States Army.\n\nRay received a B.A. in business from Drake University in 1952 and a law degree in 1954.\n\nRay began his career as a trial lawyer. Following several years practicing law, Ray became chair of the Iowa Republican Party in 1963.\n\nIn 1969, Ray became the Governor of Iowa. During Ray's time in office, the Iowa Constitution was modified, increasing the governor's term of office from two years to four years. Ray served as chair of the National Governors Association from 1975 to 1976. He also served as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, the Midwestern Governors Association, the Education Commission of the States and was the president of the Council of State Governments. As Governor, Ray issued executive orders promoting civil rights, energy conservation, and paperwork reduction as well as establishing the Governor's Economy Committee, the Iowa Council for Children, the Task Force on Government Ethics, the Science Advisory Council, and the Iowa High Technology Commission. Ray signed legislation establishing the Iowa Commission on the Status of Women in 1974. In 1982, that commission named him the first recipient of the Cristine Wilson Medal for Equality and Justice. In 1976, Ray, along with his wife Billie Ray and three daughters, became the first Governor of Iowa to occupy Terrace Hill, the official Governor's mansion. \n\nRay served as a delegate to the United Nations Conference on Refugees in Geneva, Switzerland in 1979. Ray was an advocate of the nickel deposit on aluminum cans. \n\nRay's tenure in office was notable for his humanitarianism on behalf of Southeast Asian Tai Dam refugees. Ray agreed to bring the group to the United States by creating his own refugee resettlement program. Ray announced that the state of Iowa would accept 1,500 additional refugees in January 1979. Ray wrote letters to President Jimmy Carter and other governors asking them to support greater admissions of boat people. Opinion polls from the period demonstrated Ray's refugee resettlement and relief efforts were very controversial. Many feared competition for jobs, diversion of funds from needy native Iowans, and racial mixing.\n\nRay also enacted the first laws in the U.S. that protected American Indian graves. In the early 1970s, Maria Pearson was appalled that the skeletal remains of Native Americans were treated differently from those of caucasians. Pearson protested to Ray, finally gaining an audience with him after sitting outside his office in traditional attire. Ray cooperated with Pearson, and their work led to the passage of the Iowa Burials Protection Act of 1976, the first legislative act in the U.S. that specifically protected American Indian remains. This act was the predecessor of the federal Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.\n\nAfter leaving the governor's office in 1983, Ray became CEO of Life Investors Inc, an insurance company. \n\nRay served as interim mayor of Des Moines from May to November 1997.\nRay was the interim president of Drake University in 1998.\nIn 1997, he helped form the Institute for Character Development at Drake University.\n\nIn 2005, Ray became the only governor or former governor to have received Iowa's highest civilian honor, the Iowa Award, by the Iowa Centennial Memorial Commission. \n\nRay was co-chair (along with Bob Edgar) of the bipartisan National Coalition on Health Care.\n\nIn 1951, Ray married Billie Lee Hornberger, his high school sweet heart. Ray had 3 daughters. \n\nIn Ray's later years, he suffered from Parkinson's disease. \n\nOn July 8, 2018, Ray died at a nursing home in Des Moines, Iowa. He was 89. \n"}
{"id": "2139628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139628", "title": "Science and Consciousness Review", "text": "Science and Consciousness Review\n\nScience and Consciousness Review (SCR) is a website presenting publicly accessible summaries of scientific studies of consciousness and related issues. SCR is one of a number of web resources about the scientific study of consciousness, including the Association for the Scientific Study of Consciousness and the Center for Consciousness Studies of the University of Arizona, Tucson. Scientific journals focused on conscious cognition include the Elsevier journal Consciousness and Cognition. \n\nCurrent editors are Bernard J. Baars, Thomas Ramsoy, and Alice Kim. Technical support is provided by Virgil Griffith and Sidney d'Mello. A number of well-known scientists and scholars serve on the Editorial Board, including Ned Block, Stan Franklin, Patricia Churchland, Allan Combs, Walter Freeman, and Christof Koch. \n\n"}
{"id": "2139633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139633", "title": "Netrin", "text": "Netrin\n\nNetrins are a class of proteins involved in axon guidance. They are named after the Sanskrit word \"netr\", which means \"one who guides\". Netrins are genetically conserved across nematode worms, fruit flies, frogs, mice, and humans. Structurally, netrin resembles the extracellular matrix protein laminin.\n\nNetrins are chemotropic; a growing axon will either move towards or away from a higher concentration of netrin. Though the detailed mechanism of axon guidance is not fully understood, it is known that netrin attraction is mediated through UNC-40/DCC cell surface receptors and repulsion is mediated through UNC-5 receptors. Netrins also act as growth factors, encouraging cell growth activities in target cells. Mice deficient in netrin fail to form the hippocampal comissure or the corpus callosum.\n\nA proposed model for netrin activity in the spinal column of developing human embryos is that netrins are released by the floor plate and then are picked up by receptor proteins embedded in the growth cones of axons belonging to neurons in the developing spinal column. The bodies of these neurons remain stationary while the axons follow a path defined by netrins, eventually connecting to neurons inside the embryonic brain by developing synapses. Research supports that new axons tend to follow previously traced pathways, rather than being guided by netrins or related chemotropic factors.\n\nNetrin was first described in the nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" in 1990, and named UNC-6, according to standard \"C. elegans\" naming protocol. The first mammalian homologue of UNC-6 was discovered in 1994, where it was discovered to be a vital guidance cue for rodent commissural axons in the spinal cord. As of 2009, five mammalian Netrins have been identified. Netrins 1, 3, and 4 are secreted proteins, whereas G1 and G2 are membrane bound proteins tethered by Glycophosphatidylinositol tails. All netrins discovered in invertebrates thus far are secreted.\n\nThe netrin family is composed mostly of secreted proteins which serve as bifunctional signals: attracting some neurons while repelling others during the development of the brain. Expressed in the midline of all animals possessing bilateral symmetry, they can act as long or short range signals during neurogenesis. In order to carry out their functions, netrins interact with specific receptors: DCC or UNC-5, depending on whether they are trying to attract or repel neurons, respectively.\n\nThere is a high degree of conservation in the secondary structure of netrins, which has several domains which are homologous with laminin at the amino terminal end. The C-terminal domain is where most of the variation is found between species and contains different amino acids which allow interaction with specific proteins in extracellular matrix or on cell the surface. The differences in terms of structure and function have led to the identifications of several different types of netrins including netrin-1, netrin-3, and netrins-G.\n\nNetrin-1 is found in the floor plate and neuroepithelial cells of the ventral region of the spinal cord, as well as other locations in the nervous system including the somatic mesoderm, pancreas and cardiac muscle. Its main role is in axonal guidance, neuronal migration and morphogenesis of different branching structures. Mice with mutations in the netrin-1 gene were observed to be lacking in forebrain and spinal cord commissural axons.\n\nNetrin-3 is different from other netrins. While expressed during development of the peripheral nervous system in the motor, sensory and sympathetic neurons, it is very limited in the central nervous system. Studies with netrin-3 have noticed a reduced ability to bind with DCC when compared with netrin-1. This suggests that it mainly operates through other receptors.\n\nNetrins-G are secreted but remain bound to the extracellular surface of the cell membrane through Glycophosphatidylinositol (GPI). They are expressed predominantly in the central nervous system in places such as the thalamus and mitral cells of the olfactory bulb. They do not bind to DCC or UNC-5 and instead bind to ligand NGL-1, which results in an intracellular transduction cascade. The two versions, netrin-G1 and netrin-G2, are found only in vertebrates. It is believed that they evolved independently of other netrins in order to facilitate the construction of the brain.\n\nDCC and UNC-5 proteins mediate netrin-1 responses. The UNC-5 protein is mainly involved in signaling repulsion. DCC, which is implicated in attraction, can also serve as a co-factor in repulsion signaling when far away from the source of netrin-1. DCC is highly expressed in the central nervous system and associated with the basal lamina of epithelial cells. In the absence of netrin-1, these receptors are known to induce apoptosis.\n\nGrowth cones that are located at the end of developing axons during embryogenesis are responsible for the elongation of the axon during migration. Elongation occurs in response to both tropic and atropic factors present in the surrounding environment. Netrins are one such tropic factor secreted by axonal target cells that function as a crucial axonal guidance protein in both vertebrate and invertebrate organisms. Studies in multiple organisms including, mice, rats, chicks, the nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and the zebrafish \"Danio rerio\" have indicated that secreted netrins are bifunctional, meaning that they can act as either attractants or repellants in directing axonal extension. In addition, many studies have characterized netrins as both short and long range cues, acting in the immediate or distant vicinity of their source cell (the axonal target cell).\n\nStudies of central nervous system (CNS) development in chick and rodent models have identified the netrin-1 protein as a particularly important vertebrate axonal guidance cue. Most significantly, it was observed that the specialized cells of the floor plate located at the ventral midline of the embryonic brain secrete netrin-1, which resulted in a protein gradient. This gradient is most concentrated at the ventral midline and becomes increasingly diffuse as you move dorsally. Additional research in netrin deficient mice found that when netrin associates with the Deleted in Colorectal Cancer (DCC) receptor on the axonal growth cone an attractant response is initiated. This was further supported by an observed absence of ventral commissure (i.e. corpus callosum) development in mice lacking either netrin-1 or DCC. Similar results were observed in experiments with the netrin-1 homolog UNC-6 discovered in \"C. elegans\" The same early expression and formation of a protein concentration gradient emanating from the ventral midline is observed in epidermal cells of the developing worm. Evidence suggests that this gradient is essential for the long-range function of UNC-6 in guiding the initial circumferential migration of axons to the ventral midline and that the UNC-40 receptor mediates the attractive response. As additional axons reach the midline, the temporal and spatial expression of UNC-6 becomes increasing restricted, indicating that after a more general dorsal-ventral guidance of axons, UNC-6 is further involved in directing axons to more specific locations.\n\nRecently, scientists have characterized many of the cellular mechanisms by which netrin-1 binding to DCC motivates axonal attraction through at least three independent signaling pathways. In all three pathways netrin-1 is observed to cause the homodimerization of DCC that begins the chemoattraction cascade. In the first pathway, the focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is bound to DCC and both undergo tyrosine phosphorylation upon netrin-1 binding that induces the recruitment and phosphorylation of Src and Fyn, which is hypothesized to lead to an increase in second messengers Rac1 and Cdc42 thereby promoting growth cone extension. In a second possible pathway, phosphatidylinositol transfer protein α (PITP) binds to phosphorylated DCC which induces phospholipase C (PLC) to increase the ratio of cAMP to cGMP. This increase of cAMP relative to cGMP activates L-type Ca channels as well as transient receptor potential channels (TRPC's) causing an influx of extracellular Ca. Evidence suggests that this increased calcium is responsible for the activation of Rho GTPases, Cdc42 Rac1 and the nuclear transcription factor NFAT which can all initiate growth cone extension. Additional studies have also shown that netrin-induced signaling between DCC downstream targets NcK, and Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome protein WASP trigger Rac1 and Cdc42 and subsequently axonal growth.\n\nBoth DCC in vertebrates and UNC-40 in \"C. elegans\" have been shown to initiate a repulsive rather than attractive response when associated with the netrin receptor Unc5. In the same ventral midline gradient discussed above, netrin-1 acts as a chemorepellant for axons of the trochlear motor neurons, thus directing their growth dorsally (away from the ventral midline). Antibody inhibition of DCC in embryonic \"Xenopus\" spinal cord inhibited both attraction and repulsion in vitro. Likewise, multiple defects were observed in \"C. elegans\" unc-40 mutants; however, errors in migration patterns were more profoundly affected by mutations in the unc-5 gene, indicating that binding of the netrin-1 homologue UNC-6 to the UNC-5 receptor alone can repel axonal growth. In both vertebrate and invertebrate systems, short range chemorepulsion in which the concentration of netrins is high, seems to primarily occur via the UNC-5 receptor, while long range repulsive effects at more diffuse concentrations require coordination between DCC (UNC-40 in \"C.elegans\") and UNC-5.\n\nIt is currently hypothesized that long range chemorepulsion involves initiation of the Arachidonic acid pathway upon netrin-1 interaction with the DCC/UNC-5 complex. This pathway increases the intracellular levels of 12-HPETE (12-Hydroperoxy-5, 8, 10, 14-Eicosatetraenoic Acid), which induces cGMP signaling and subsequently causes a decrease in the cAMP/cGMP ratio. Reducing this ratio inhibits calcium conductance through the L-type calcium channels (LCC) and ultimately results in growth cone repulsion though a possible activation of Ras homolog gene family, member A (RhoA). A similar RhoA-mediated mechanism is proposed for short range chemorepulsion whereby netrin-1 binding to UNC-5 homodimers alone induces tyrosine phosphorylation requiring FAK and Src, which as a result activates RhoA. An additional mechanism proposes that binding of the tyrosine phosphatase Shp2 to the netrin-1/UNC-5 complex may also trigger chemorepulsion through RhoA.\n\nMany studies have shown that netrin-1, UNC-40, UNC-6, and UNC-5 are involved in the migration of glia during embryogenesis. During the migratory phase in \"Drosophila melanogaster\", embryonic peripheral glia (ePG) express UNC-5. In UNC-5 knockout organisms, ePG either stall while migrating or fail to migrate. UNC-6 signaling in \"C. elegans\", coupled with the UNC-40 receptor on neurons, promotes synaptogenesis and assembles the glial endfeet around the synapse.\n\nAlthough originally understood to be specifically involved in axonal guidance in the central nervous system, new research has linked netrin to cancer regulation, the development and formation of non-neural tissue, and the detection of cancer and other diseases.\n\nNetrin has been discovered to play a key role in the development and mature regulation of tissue outside the nervous system. Some of the non-neural tissues implicated include lung, placental, vasculature, pancreas, muscle and mammary gland tissue. Netrin contributes to tissue morphogenesis by controlling developing cell migration and cell adhesion in different organs.\n\nIn developing mammary glands, the growing tips of the ductal network consist of two layers made up of luminal epithelial cells and cap cells. The luminal cells secrete netrin 1, which binds to the receptor neogenin (a homologue of DCC) on the cap cells. This allows for adhesion between the two cell layers, which is necessary for the proper morphogenesis of the terminal end buds (TEBs) in the mammary glands. Loss of the gene coding for either netrin 1 or neogenin leads to the improper formation of the (TEBs), suggesting that rather than acting as a guidance molecule as in neuronal systems, netrin 1 serves as an adhesive in mammary tissue.\n\nDuring the morphogenesis of the embryonic lung, epithelial cells express netrin 1 and netrin 4. These netrins surround endoderm buds in the basement membrane, preventing distal tip cells from expressing DCC and UNC5B. This allows for normal development of the lung and halts potentially dangerous over-branching and budding from occurring.\n\nIn pancreatic development, netrin 1 is expressed in epithelial ductal cells and localizes to the basal membrane. Netrin 1 associates with several elements in the extracellular matrix, including collagen IV, fibronectin, and integral proteins α6β4 and α3β1. These elements in the extracellular matrix are responsible for epithelial cell adhesion and migration, suggesting that netrin 1 is associated with the guidance of epithelial cells in the embryonic pancreas.\n\nNetrin has been implicated as a vital molecule for the proliferation of vascular networks. Multiple studies have found different effects of netrin on these branching vessels. The endothelial tip cells in vascular tissue display similar properties to the growth cone found in neuronal tissue. Studies have discovered that these same endothelial tip cells also express UNC5B, which netrin 1 can bind to, inhibiting angiogenesis. In contrast, several studies show that netrin-1 actually promotes blood vessel branching. In conjunction with this research, it has been found that netrin 4 is responsible for growth in the lymphatic vascular system. Overall, these studies show that regulating effects of netrin is dependent on the type of vascular tissue. Recently, netrin has been implicated in angiogenesis in the placenta, making it vital to the survival of the fetus. This finding has implications in the future treatment of vascular disease in the placenta.\n\nIn adults, netrin has been implicated in the regulation of stem cell movement and inflammation. Netrin 1 has been found to inhibit leukocyte migration to inflamed areas in the body. This provides evidence that the up regulation of netrin protects injured tissue from excess inflammation. Also, the migration of adult neural progenitor cell and adult spinal cord progenitor cells to the spine is netrin 1 dependent. Little is known of the mechanism controlling the inhibition or attraction of these stem cells.\n\nIn various human cancers, it has been shown that netrin becomes over-expressed. It has also been shown that certain receptors become down-regulated in this process. The netrin receptors DCC and UNC5H are responsible for apoptotic regulation. The absence of netrin 1 is responsible for apoptosis, while the presence of netrin 1 leads to an inhibition of the apoptotic pathway. This pathway is unique and independent of the mitochondrial and death receptor pathways that lead to controlled cell death. This has been observed in the human colon epithelium, where higher levels of natural cell death at the upper portion of the villi correlated with a smaller gradient of netrin-1. This linked the role of netrin with tissue death and growth. Tumor suppressor p53 is responsible for the expression of netrin-1, implying that netrin may be the pathway through which p53 regulates the cell cycle. Because netrin is so influential in the regulation of cell death, the gene which codes for netrin (\"NTN1\") is considered to be an oncogene.\n\nBecause netrin-1 has been found to be upregulated in tumors, recent research has attempted to identify netrin-1 as a biomarker for the onset of cancer in the human body. It was found that netrin can be found at above-normal levels in the blood plasma of patients who are positive for renal, liver, prostate, meningioma of brain, pituitary adenoma, glioblastoma and breast cancer.\n\nThere are still many unanswered questions regarding the netrin family of molecules. It is still uncertain what role vertebrate homologues of UNC-5 play in chemorepulsion. Although much is known about the expression of netrin during development, little is yet known about its regulation in later development in the brain. Netrin knockout mice show that there is much to learn about the many roles of netrin in axonal guidance.\n\nAnother important line of current research targets netrin as a treatment for various diseases, including cancer, myocardial infarction, and Alzheimer's Disease. In avian and mouse model organisms suffering from neuroblastoma, interfering with the netrin-1 autocrine loop in malignant tumors leads to cell death. This could lead to possible alternative therapies resulting from future trials. Similar treatments regarding the down-regulation of netrin-1 are also being investigated for metastatic breast and colorectal cancers. Recent studies also suggest that netrin is involved in a cardioprotective role by releasing NO gas. In mice, netrin has also been associated with the regulation of (Aβ) peptide, which is responsible for amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139645", "title": "Standards Board for England", "text": "Standards Board for England\n\nThe Standards Board for England was a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Communities and Local Government. Established under the Local Government Act 2000, it was responsible for promoting high ethical standards in local government. It oversaw the nationally imposed Code of Conduct (also now abandoned), which covered elected and co-opted members across a range of local authorities. The board maintained an independent national overview of local investigations into allegations that members' conduct might have fallen short of the required standards. In certain cases the board itself investigated allegations. It could not impose sanctions on members, but if it considered that further action might be necessary, it referred cases to the Adjudication Panel for England or to the relevant authority's own standards committee for determination. Standards committees (no longer compulsory since 2012) could suspend members for up to six months. The Adjudication Panel could disqualify members for up to five years. The Standards Board for England also provided advice, and produced formal guidance, to members and officers on the Code of Conduct.\n\nAs part of the 2010 UK quango reforms, the board ceased to function on 31 January 2012 and was formally abolished on 31 March 2012.\n\nThe Standards Board for England investigated complaints against members of the following types of authority in England.\n\n\nIt also worked with police authorities in Wales.\n\nPrimary responsibility for ensuring ethical standards has rested with the local authorities themselves since before the board was created, and remains with them since it was abolished. The chief executive and legal officers of the authority have a duty to advise members on ethical matters.\n\nUnder the system abolished in 2012 each local authority subject to the Code of Conduct had to appoint a monitoring officer and a local standards committee. The standards committee (which had to be chaired by an independent member) was responsible for receiving allegations and deciding whether any action needed to be taken.\n\nStandards for England had the power to direct that a standards committee's assessment and review functions be suspended, and instead undertaken either by Standards for England or by another relevant authority. This generally happened only after a series of attempts to improve performance, either before or after notification from Standards for England, had failed.\n\nThe 2001 Model Code of Conduct was made compulsory for all relevant authorities. It was later revised, after an extensive consultation process, and a new Model Code came into force on 3 May 2007. Revisions included a relaxing of the definition of \"personal interest\" and an extension of the right of members of authorities to speak in relation to matters in which they had a prejudicial interest. Where members had a prejudicial interest in a matter, they were given the same rights as members of the public to speak at meetings where that matter was being discussed, but were not allowed to vote. A member was deemed to have a personal interest in a matter only if it affected them to a greater extent than it affected the majority of the inhabitants of the locality.\n\nBy the Localism Act 2011, and with effect from 2012, the statutory Model Code was abolished, although all local authorities in England were still required to adopt a code of conduct which was consistent with the seven Nolan Principles of public life; they were not prevented from adopting the former code, after its abolition, on a voluntary basis. Since 2012 authorities have not been required to appoint standards committees, but they retain the power to do so.\n\nThe Standards Board for England was the subject of repeated criticism by the magazine \"Private Eye\" for allegedly exceeding its powers, investigating preposterous cases and deterring whistleblowers. The Liberal Democrat peer Lord Tyler raised similar concerns in the House of Lords, saying:\n\nIn 2013, in the aftermath of the abolition of the Standards Board, both Bob Neill, the local government minister at the time, and Brandon Lewis, his successor, were critical of the former standards regime in a debate in Westminster Hall and explained the reasoning for abolishing it and seeking a \"light touch\" approach instead.\n\nThe last Chief Executive of the board was Glenys Stacey. Its chair was Dr Robert Chilton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139647", "title": "Herb Hake", "text": "Herb Hake\n\nHerb Hake (1903–80) was an American author, cartoonist, radio, and television personality; associated with the University of Northern Iowa. He was awarded an honorary doctoral degree.\n\nHerbert V. Hake, son of Henry and Louisa Hake, was born August 10, 1903, in Hoyleton, Illinois. His father was a painting contractor and a school board member who had some drawing skills. He nurtured Herb's strong interest in art. In the late 1920s, Herb studied at Central Wesleyan College in Warrenton, Missouri, earning a bachelor's degree in 1928. He worked at various occupations including layout work for World Color Printing in St. Louis, and writing movie reviews for the \"St. Louis Times\".\n\nAfter a year in St. Louis, he returned to his home county, took a teaching certification examination, and taught in a rural school for a year. He then did graduate work at Northwestern University in Illinois and joined the faculty at Central Wesleyan, where he taught 3 years. He then went to graduate school at the University of Missouri and later the University of Iowa, in Iowa City, Iowa where he earned his master's degree in scenic design in 1933. He then taught drama in the high school at Port Arthur, Texas. In the summer of 1936, he landed a job at the University of Missouri in Columbia with the theater department. From 1938 to 1942 he served as technical director, scenic designer and instructor of speech courses at the Iowa State Teachers College, in Cedar Falls, Iowa. He and one other teacher ran the drama department.\n\nDuring World War II, the number of students at the college fell drastically. In 1942, the drama department was cut back by one, and Hake was asked to take over the radio business at the college or lose his job altogether. With very little experience or equipment, and a technical manual in hand, he started his new career. By the late 1950s he was learning television. During Hake's 34 years at the school, now the University of Northern Iowa, the radio and television facilities grew to include an FM radio station, a student-operated campus radio station, open and closed-circuit television programs and thousands of dollars worth of equipment. He retired in 1972 and was inducted into the Iowa Broadcasters Hall of Fame. In his honor, the call letters of one of the university's radio stations was changed to KHKE.\n\nHake directed and hosted several radio and TV programs, \"Story Hour\", \"Ask the Scientist\", \"Landmarks in Iowa History\" and \"History with Herb Hake\". He was a 'chalk talker', telling the story while drawing on the chalk board. He wrote articles and books on stagecraft, and authored \"Iowa Inside Out\" (1968); \"Cartoon History of Iowa\" (1968); \"Bicentennial Outlines of Cedar Falls\" (1974), a coloring book; and \"101 Stories of Cedar Falls\" (1977), which is a collection of his \"Pioneers, Prophets and Professors\" column which appeared in the \"Record\", the Cedar Falls newspaper, in the early 1970s. Profits from this book aided the Cedar Falls Historical Society in its drive to turn the old ice house into a museum. Hake was president of the society from 1972 to 1974 and served on its board as well as that of the State Historical Society of Iowa.\n\nIn retirement Hake interviewed long-time residents of Cedar Falls and recorded their thoughts on tape, to be kept for reference at the society. He used print, chalk, electronic journalism and personal appearances to effectively educate the public to appreciate Iowa's heritage. His contributions to the Cedar Falls Historical Society remain treasured.\n\nHerbert V. Hake married his wife Monabelle on June 4, 1930, in Fayette, Missouri. They had two daughters, Patty and Priscilla. He died of cancer on March 10, 1980 at the age of 76. His papers are archived at Rod Library at the University of Northern Iowa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139648", "title": "Virgil Aldrich", "text": "Virgil Aldrich\n\nVirgil Charles Aldrich (13 September 1903 in Narsinghpur, India – 28 May 1998 in Salt Lake City, Utah), was an American philosopher of art, language, and religion.\n\nThe son of Floyd Clement Aldrich and his wife Ann Hanley, Virgil Aldrich earned his Bachelor of Arts degree at Ohio Wesleyan University in 1925. He studied at Oxford University in 1927 and then went on to earn a \"Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Philosophie\" at the Sorbonne in 1928 before completing his Ph.D. at the University of California Berkeley in 1931. He married Louise Hafliger on 3 September 1927 and they had one son, David Virgil Aldrich.\n\nAldrich's first academic appointment was his appointment as an instructor in philosophy at Rice University in 1931 and Sterling Fellow at Yale University in 1931-32. Promoted to assistant professor, he remained at Rice until 1942, when he was appointed visiting professor at Columbia University from 1942 to 1946. Appointed professor of philosophy at Kenyon College in 1946, he remained there until 1965, serving as visiting professor at Brown University in 1962-63. In 1965, he became professor of philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he remained until his retirement in 1972. On his retirement, he moved to Salt Lake City, Utah, where he became an adjunct professor at the University of Utah.\n\nAldrich served as Director of the Kyoto American Studies Institute in Japan and for short periods was visiting professor at Harvard University, the University of Michigan, and the University of Texas. He served as trustee and president of the American Society of Aesthetics and president of American Philosophical Association.\n\nIn his article \"Some Meanings of Vague\", Aldrich puts forth a series of definitions of vague objects and sensum, and then argues that any empiricist must account for vague sensum every bit as much as clear sensum, without skirting the issue. He takes there to be many kinds of vagueness—importantly, there is vagueness of symbols and vagueness of senses. Here symbols are anything which is used to refer, including verbal words, signs, pictures, and more. Vagueness regarding symbols can be the same as the vagueness which regards the senses. There can, additionally, be vagueness of the practices surrounding the use of the symbol to refer. These, he suggests, should be avoided.\n\n\nBooks:\n11 December 2010\n\nContributions:\n\nFestschrift\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139649", "title": "Moore space (algebraic topology)", "text": "Moore space (algebraic topology)\n\nIn algebraic topology, a branch of mathematics, Moore space is the name given to a particular type of topological space that is the homology analogue of the Eilenberg–Maclane spaces of homotopy theory, in the sense that it has only one nonzero homology (rather than homotopy) group.\n\nGiven an abelian group \"G\" and an integer \"n\" ≥ 1, let \"X\" be a CW complex such that\n\nand\n\nfor \"i\" ≠ \"n\", where formula_3 denotes the \"n\"-th singular homology group of \"X\" and formula_4 is the \"i\"th reduced homology group. Then \"X\" is said to be a Moore space. Also, \"X\" is by definition simply-connected if \"n\">1.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139657", "title": "Nights on Broadway", "text": "Nights on Broadway\n\n\"Nights on Broadway\" is a song by the Bee Gees from the \"Main Course\" album released in 1975. The second single released from the album, it immediately followed their number-one hit \"Jive Talkin'\". This track was credited to Barry, Robin and Maurice Gibb.\n\nRecording this track started on 20 January 1975 and continued on 30 January, when they started to record songs for the album: \"Jive Talkin'\" (finished 2 February), \"Songbird\", \"Fanny (Be Tender with My Love)\" (finished 19 February), \"All This Making Love\" and \"Edge of the Universe\".\n\nProducer Arif Mardin asked if one of the Bee Gees members could do some screaming during the main chorus to make the song more exciting. In response, Barry Gibb began singing higher and higher, eventually singing it in a falsetto that was unexpectedly powerful. He had never known he had such an ability and Barry's falsetto became a trademark of the Bee Gees, although Maurice had been harmonizing in falsetto for years. Barry recalled in a May 2001 interview with Mojo magazine \"Arif said to me, 'Can you scream?' I said, 'under certain circumstances'. He said, 'Can you scream in tune?' I said, 'well, I'll try' \".\n\nBarry Gibb talked about \"Nights on Broadway\" on \"The Larry King Show\" on 2 February 2002:\n\n\"It came to me in a dream, there was a request by Arif Mardin, who was like an uncle to us, he was a great record producer during the song 'Nights On Broadway,' for the \"Main Course\" album, which is previous to the 'Fever' syndrome. And he said, 'Can any of you scream, scream in falsetto.' So, you know, give us an ad lib or a scream at the end. So from screaming, it turned into things like blaming it all.\"\n\n\"Nights on Broadway\" reached number seven on the American \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart, giving the Bee Gees back-to-back top 10 hits for the first time in seven years since 1968.\n\n\"Nights on Broadway\" was edited for the radio, removing the slow section, and fades at 2:52. The version of this song on \"Tales from the Brothers Gibb\" was faster than the album, and fades at 4:25.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139659", "title": "Anett Pötzsch", "text": "Anett Pötzsch\n\nAnett Pötzsch (later Witt, now Rauschenbach, born 3 September 1960) is a German former figure skater. She is the 1980 Olympic champion, two-time World champion (1978, 1980), four-time European champion (1977–1980), and five-time East German champion (1976–1980).\n\nPötzsch represented the GDR (East Germany) in the ladies events at international championships. Her first coach was Brigitte Schellhorn. After Pötzsch was admitted into a sports academy, Gabriele Seyfert was assigned as her coach and later, Seyfert's mother, Jutta Müller, took over coaching duties. She was the Olympic Champion in 1980 and world champion in 1978 and 1980. She also won the European title four times, from 1977 to 1980; and the East German title five times, from 1976 to 1980. In 1981, she announced her retirement, saying in 2011, \"I had knee problems and I was not motivated because I had reached all my goals\" but she said she later regretted her decision.\n\nPötzsch was a judge at international skating events in the late 1980s but the ISU banned her after she appeared in \"Skates of Gold\" shows and Katarina Witt's film, Carmen. The ISU restored her eligibility in 1994, along with that of professional skaters. In the 1990s, Pötzsch worked at a bank but quit her job in 1999 in order to coach. She coaches in Chemnitz, Germany, and in 2004 became an ISU technical specialist. Her students include Daniel Dotzauer, the 2010 German Championships bronze medalist, and Sandy Hoffmann.\n\nPötzsch was born in Karl-Marx-Stadt, GDR (today renamed Chemnitz, Germany). She married Axel Witt, the brother of fellow German figure skater Katarina Witt, but the couple divorced in 1990. Their daughter, Claudia Rauschenbach, born in 1984, is the 2000 German pair skating champion with Robin Szolkowy. In 1993, Pötzsch married Axel Rauschenbach, who is the father of her second daughter, Cindy, and stepfather to Claudia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139673", "title": "Hobo nickel", "text": "Hobo nickel\n\nThe hobo nickel is a sculptural art form involving the creative modification of small-denomination coins, essentially resulting in miniature bas reliefs. The US nickel coin was favored because of its size, thickness and relative softness. However, the term \"hobo nickel\" is generic, as carvings have been made from many different denominations.\n\nDue to its low cost and portability, this medium was particularly popular among hobos, hence the name.\n\nThe altering of coins dates to the 18th century or earlier. Beginning in the 1850s, the most common form of coin alteration was the \"potty coin\", engraved on United States Seated Liberty coinage (half dime through trade dollar) and modifying Liberty into a figure sitting on a chamber pot. This time period was also the heyday of the love token, which was made by machine-smoothing a coin (usually silver) on one or both sides, then engraving it with initials, monograms, names, scenes, etc., often with an ornate border. Hundreds of thousands of coins were altered in this manner. They were often mounted on pins or incorporated into bracelets and necklaces. The love token fad faded out in the early 20th century; love tokens engraved on buffalo nickels are rare.\n\nDuring this time period, hobo-style coin alteration could be found outside the United States, primarily in Britain, France, and South Africa.\n\nanother \n\nWhen the Indian Head nickel, or Buffalo nickel, was introduced in 1913, it became popular among coin engravers. The big Native American head was a radical departure from previous designs and would not be seen on any subsequent coins. The large, thick profile gave the artists a larger template to work on and allowed for finer detail.\n\nOn earlier coins, the head was much smaller in relation to the size of the coin. For example, on a Lincoln cent, the head covers about one-sixth of the area. On the Buffalo nickel, the Native American's head occupies about five-sixths of the area. Moreover, the nickel is a larger coin. Large heads also adorn the Morgan dollar and the Columbian half dollar commemoratives of 1892-93, but these coins were rarely altered due to their high value.\n\nAnother factor contributing to the Buffalo nickel's popularity was the sex of the subject. Nearly all previous coins had depicted women (Liberty head nickels, Indian head cents, Barber and Morgan silver dollars). A male head has larger, coarser features (nose, chin, brow) that can be altered in many ways. Even the buffalo on the reverse could be changed into another animal or a man with a backpack.\n\nMany talented coin engravers, as well as newcomers, started creating hobo nickels in 1913, when the Buffalo nickel entered circulation. This accounts for the quality and variety of engraving styles found on carved 1913 nickels. More classic old hobo nickels were made from 1913-dated nickels than any other pre-1930s date.\n\nMany artists made hobo nickels in the 1910s and 1920s, with new artists joining in as the years went by. The 1930s saw many talented artists adopting the medium. Bertram Wiegand, known almost exclusively as Bert, began carving nickels in the teens, and his student George Washington Hughes, known as Bo, began carving in the late teens (and up to 1980 when he vanished in 1981). During this period, Buffalo nickels were the most common nickels in circulation.\n\nThe 1940s, 1950s, 1960s and 1970s were a transitional period for hobo coin engravers, during which the Buffalo nickel was gradually replaced by the Jefferson nickel. Some veteran nickel carvers such as Bo and Bert continued making hobo nickels in the classic old style. Bo, in fact, did his best work in the early 1950s, when he carved many spectacular cameo portrait hobo nickels.\n\nDuring this 40-year period, many new carvers appeared, and style and subject matter became decidedly modern. Subjects became more ethnically and socially diverse (e.g., a Chinese woman with triangular hat, hippies with long hair and glasses, men wearing floppy hats, etc.). Some of these new artists used new techniques such as power engravers, vibrating tools, and felt marker pens to add color to hair.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, most Buffalo nickels had disappeared from circulation, and the majority of engravings were performed on worn coins. Bo, for example, was forced to obtain Buffalo nickels from coin dealers, some of whom commissioned carvings.\n\nMany carvers who were active during the 1960s and 1970s continued carving Buffalo nickels into the 1980s. Their coins were altered using punches (dashes, dots, arcs, crescents, stars) and some carving of the profile. The area behind the head is usually rough from dressing with a power tool. They created standard design hobo nickels (derby and beard), as well as many modern subjects, such as occupational busts (fireman, railroad engineer, pizza chef), famous people (Uncle Sam, Albert Einstein), hippies, and others.\n\nA major event occurred in the early 1980s, demarcating the transition from \"old\" to \"modern\" hobo nickels. This was the publication of a series of articles by numismatist Del Romines on the subject of hobo nickels. He soon published the first book on the subject, \"Hobo Nickels\" (ASIN B0006R7SFW), in 1982. Both centered on Bo and his carvings.\n\nThis resulted in some new artists entering the field, most of whom simply copied Bo's nickel artwork from the illustrations in Romines's book. The two major Bo-style copycats were John Dorusa and Frank Brazzell. Together, they produced 20,000 or more modern carved nickels, most of which were copies of Bo's designs. Dorusa even copied Bo's \"GH\" signature (for \"George Hughes\") on many of this early creations. Pressure from prominent hobo nickel collectors such as Bill Fivaz convinced Dorusa to stop carving \"GH\" and put his own initials or name on his works. Dorusa and Brazzell also produced original works, featuring non-traditional subject matter (conquistadors, Dick Tracy, skulls, etc.). The large number of Bo copies led many collectors to label all modern carved nickels as \"Neo-Bo's\", a term no longer in use.\n\nOther carvers such as \"Cinco de Arturo\" (Arturo DelFavero) also appeared in the 1980s and 1990s, introducing more modern subject matter (cartoon characters, witches, and animals). Most nickel carvers of the 1980s to mid-1990s are regarded by collectors as mediocre at best, but circa 1995, Ron Landis, an engraver in Arkansas, began creating superior quality carvings.\nFor about four years, Landis was the only nickel carver creating superior carvings, at the rate of only one to two dozen per year (all signed, numbered, and dated). Many other professional engravers have since begun creating hobo nickels. Landis and \"Cinco de Arturo\" are two of four known living artist practicing this craft prior to the year 2000. The others are Sonny Carpenter, and Bill Jameson (Billzach), All four are considered superior carvers, and ground breakers that inspired the current renaissance.\n\nSome current prolific carvers are converting from quantity to quality, making fewer pieces of high artistic quality (as the market is flooded with lower quality quickly-made carvings). Modern carvings of superior quality sell for about the same prices as classic old original carvings of equal quality by unknown artists.\n\nFrom the early 1980s to the present, modern lesser-quality carvings could and still can be purchased for as little as $5 to $10 each. Many new collectors found it hard to obtain good-quality old original hobo nickels (as they are so scarce and costly), so they began collecting the readily obtainable and cheap modern works.\n\nAbout 100,000 (and possibly as many as 200,000) classic hobo nickels were created from 1913 to 1980. Modern artists have created (and continue to create) altered nickels in such large quantities that, within the next few years, the number of modern carvings is expected to surpass that of classic old hobo nickels. Most of the 100,000-plus classic old hobo nickels are not yet in the hands of collectors, whereas almost all modern carvings are. Among numismatists, the modern carvings already greatly outnumber the classic old hobo nickels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139677", "title": "Leland Sage", "text": "Leland Sage\n\nLeland Livingston Sage (April 23, 1899 – February 16, 1989) was an American professor emeritus of history at the University of Northern Iowa. He was deeply interested in Iowa history, and wrote two books on it, both of which won national recognition from the American Association for State and Local History. In 1983, Sage was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters.\n\nBorn in Magnolia, Arkansas, to Jesse A. and Mary C. (Livingston) Sage, Sage earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in history at Vanderbilt University in 1922, and was awarded the Master of Arts (1928) and Doctor of Philosophy degrees (1932), both at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\nHe taught for three years in high schools at Camden, Arkansas, and Taylorville, Illinois. From 1928 to 1930, he taught history at DePauw University. While on the faculty of DePauw, he met Margaret Pearson, who was teaching music there. They were married on December 30, 1929, in Bedford, Indiana, and had one daughter, Carolyn Sage Robinson. He was preceded in death by both his wife and daughter.\n\nSage taught various courses in European history at the University of Northern Iowa in 1932, but soon developed a strong interest in Iowa history. His first book, published in 1956, was \"William Boyd Allison: A Study in Practical Politics,\" which tracked the career of an influential Iowan in the U.S. Senate at the turn of the century. Well received and reviewed, it was followed by another book, \"A History of Iowa,\" which was published in 1974 by the Iowa State University Press. This effort also gained favorable response. Each book won national recognition in the form of the Award of Merit from the American Association for State and Local History. He also contributed a large number of reviews and articles in a wide variety of specialties within European and American history. In December 1987, he appeared on a program sponsored by the Illinois State Historical Society.\n\nSage took what was then mandatory retirement at age 68 in 1967. But the pace of his career never slackened. He continued to offer a course, usually in Iowa history, on campus during the many semesters until 1981, and directed students via correspondence study until 1986. He was honored by his colleagues in the autumn of 1982 for completing fifty years of continuous service. At the ceremony, he was praised for his ability to relate local and state history to the national and international settings. His colleagues and former students planted a maple tree with a plaque, honoring him in 1984. As far as can be determined, he holds the all-time record for continuous service at the University of Northern Iowa (1932–1986).\n\nAt the University of Northern Iowa Commencement of May 1983, Sage was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters, at which time, the citation lauded him as scholar, teacher, and humanist, who shared with his legion of grateful students all over the nation, an insatiable penchant for pursuing the understanding of history. He was respected and admired as a model teacher-scholar.\n\nIn the community, Sage and his wife were well known for their performances in vocal music, among other activities. He was also a President of the Cedar Falls Rotary Club and President of the Cedar Falls Historical Society. During 1977-1981, he served on the Iowa State Historical Board, including a term as its president. Sage was recognized in 1985 for his services and achievements with an award from Governor Terry Branstad.\n\nIn the spring of 1988, as he prepared for the move to Iowa City, colleagues and friends praised Sage as an urbane gentleman, who even then sought new academic challenges in the form of additional research and writing from the holdings of the State Historical Society. They added, too, that at state and national history meetings, numerous inquiries continued to be directed toward his writings and well being. Sage was engaged in the writing of several projects at the time of his death in 1989, at age 89.\n"}
{"id": "2139678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139678", "title": "Unlimited liability corporation", "text": "Unlimited liability corporation\n\nAn unlimited liability corporation (ULC) is a Canadian corporation designation, wherein shareholders are liable up to unlimited amounts for any liability, act or default of the corporation. By comparison, in most corporations, shareholders are not usually liable due to a limited liability model. ULCs can be used by American corporations for tax planning, as ULCs are treated as corporations for Canadian tax purposes but as flow-through entities for American tax purposes.\n\nUnlimited liability corporations have been abolished in Canadian corporate law in most Canadian jurisdictions, but they still exist in three provinces: Alberta, Nova Scotia, and British Columbia.\n\nULCs have commonly been used by US companies investing in Canada on a greenfield basis or through corporate acquisitions of Canadian entities or assets, especially if those Canadian assets or operations are expected to generate business losses. This became especially significant after the 1997 introduction of the entity classification rules in the US Internal Revenue Code which provided that:\n\nIn essence, the ULC can act as a “flow-through” or “disregarded” entity for US tax purposes as the US tax rules “look through” the ULC to its shareholder(s). In contrast, the ULC is treated as a corporation, and is subject to tax at the corporate level, for Canadian tax purposes.\n\nNova Scotia had been the last of the Canadian jurisdictions to allow the incorporation of such corporations at that time. Since then, Alberta allowed such formations in 2005, followed by British Columbia in 2007, to take advantage of this niche provided by US tax law.\n\nEffective January 1, 2010, the Canada-US tax treaty was amended by inserting a new Article IV(7):\n\nAs a ULC is generally considered for US tax purposes to be considered \"fiscally transparent\" under this provision, this will mean that payments (such as interest, royalties and dividends) from a Canadian ULC to its US parent will be subject to a 25% withholding tax under Part XIII of the \"Income Tax Act\" (Canada). However, technical guidance issued by the Canada Revenue Agency has indicated that certain strategies are available to mitigate the impact of such changes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139682", "title": "Offerton, Greater Manchester", "text": "Offerton, Greater Manchester\n\nOfferton is a suburb of Stockport, Greater Manchester, England. Historically in Cheshire, it includes Bosden Farm, Foggbrook and the Offerton Estate. Its high school, Offerton School, (formerly Goyt Bank) closed in August 2012 and is now home to Castle Hill High School. The ward population at the UK Census 2011 was 13,720.\n\nIn 1875 Offerton was one of eight civil parishes in Cheshire to be included in the Stockport Rural Sanitary District. The sanitary district became the Stockport Rural District in 1894. It became part of the Hazel Grove and Bramhall urban district in 1900. The district was abolished in 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972, and its former area was transferred to Greater Manchester to be combined with that of other districts to form the Metropolitan Borough of Stockport.\n"}
{"id": "2139684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139684", "title": "Casket", "text": "Casket\n\nA casket or jewelry box is a container that is usually smaller than a chest, and in the past were typically decorated.\n\nIn recent times they are mostly receptacles for trinkets and jewels, but in earlier periods, when other types of container were rarer, and the amount of documents held by the typical person far fewer, they were used for keeping important documents and many other purposes. It may take a very modest form, covered in leather and lined with satin, or it may reach the monumental proportions of the jewel cabinets which were made for Marie Antoinette, one of which is at Windsor, and another at Versailles. Both were the work of Schwerdfeger as cabinet maker, his assistants Michael Reyad, Mitchell Stevens, Christopher Visvis, Degault as miniature painter, and Thomire as chaser.\n\nCaskets are often made in precious materials, such as gold, silver or ivory. In ancient East Asia, caskets often made in wood, china, or covered with silk. Some of these caskets could be collected as decorative boxes.\n\nSome examples have remained unburied from the late Roman Empire. The 4th century Brescia Casket, 8th century Franks Casket and 10th-11th century Veroli Casket are all in elaborately carved ivory, a popular material for luxury boxes until recent times. Boxes that contain or contained relics are known as reliquaries, though not all were originally made for this purpose. The house-shaped chasse is a very common shape for reliquaries in the High Middle Ages, often in Limoges enamel, but some were also secular.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139688", "title": "Dobermann", "text": "Dobermann\n\nThe Dobermann, (; ) or Doberman Pinscher in the United States and Canada, is a medium-large breed of domestic dog that was originally developed around 1890 by Karl Friedrich Louis Dobermann, a tax collector from Germany. The Dobermann has a long muzzle. It stands on its pads and is not usually heavy-footed. Ideally, they have an even and graceful gait. Traditionally, the ears are cropped and posted and the tail is docked. However, in some countries, these are now illegal. Dobermanns have markings on the chest, paws/legs, muzzle, above the eyes, and underneath the tail.\n\nDobermanns are known to be intelligent, alert, and tenaciously loyal companions and guard dogs. Personality varies a great deal between each individual but, if taken care of and trained properly, they are generally considered to be loving and devoted companions. The Dobermann is driven, strong, and sometimes stubborn. With a consistent approach, they can be easy to train and will learn very quickly.\n\nWorld Breed standards are published by the Fédération Cynologique Internationale, or FCI (World Canine Organisation), on the advice of the IDC (International Dobermann Club), which is the Dobermann breed's governing council and has 36 countries in its member list. To become a world champion, dogs are judged to FCI standards. The AKC has its own standards, as do some other countries, although most still adhere to FCI standards. The breed standard describes the Dobermann as a dog of medium size that is also strong and muscularly built. In order to be eligible to meet these standards, the body of the Dobermann should appear to be almost square.\nIt should also appear elegant and noble.\n\nThe dog was originally intended as a guard dog, so males typically have a muscular and intimidating appearance. Females are usually thinner, but should not be spindly.\nThe American Kennel Club (AKC) breed standard differs from the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI) standards, with the latter being an often larger and heavier dog. This has led some to argue that Dobermanns and Doberman Pinschers should be considered and evaluated differently.\n\nAlthough the breed standards vary among kennel and breed clubs, most follow the standard set by the FCI, which describes the size of male dogs as at the withers; The Kennel Club in the UK quotes as being ideal. The size of female dogs, according to the same standards, is , with being ideal. The Dobermann has a square frame; its length should equal its height to the withers and the length of its head, neck, and legs should be in proportion to its body.\n\nThe standards for the weight of the Dobermann are also described by the FCI. The ideal dog must be of a sufficient size for an optimal combination of strength, endurance and agility. The ideal weight of male dogs is described as and the ideal weight of female dogs is described to be .\n\nTwo different color genes exist in the Dobermann: one for \"black\" (B) and one for \"color dilution\" (D). There are nine possible combinations of these alleles, which can result in four different color phenotypes: black, blue, red, and fawn (Isabella). The traditional and most common color occurs when both the color and dilution genes have at least one dominant allele (i.e., BBDD, BBDd, BbDD or BbDd) and is commonly referred to as \"black\", \"black and rust,\" or \"black and tan\". The \"red\", \"red rust,\" or \"brown\" coloration occurs when the black gene has two recessive alleles but the dilution gene has at least one dominant allele (i.e., bbDD, bbDd). The \"blue\" Dobermann has the color gene with at least one dominant allele and the dilution gene with both recessive alleles (i.e., BBdd or Bbdd). The \"fawn\" coloration is the least common, occurring only when both the color and dilution genes have two recessive alleles (i.e., bbdd). Thus, the blue color is a diluted black, and the fawn color is a diluted red.\n\nExpression of the color dilution gene is a disorder called Color Dilution Alopecia, a kind of canine follicular dysplasia. Although not life-threatening, these dogs can develop skin problems.\n\nIn 1976, a \"white\" Doberman Pinscher was whelped and was subsequently bred to her son, who was also bred to his litter sisters. This tight inbreeding continued for some time to allow the breeders to \"fix\" the mutation. White Dobermanns are a cream color with white markings and blue eyes. Although this is consistent with albinism, the proper characterization of the mutation is currently unknown. The animals are commonly known as tyrosinase-positive albinoids, lacking melanin in oculocutaneous structures. This condition is caused by a partial deletion in the SLC45A2 gene.\n\nThe Dobermann's natural tail is fairly long, but individual dogs often have a short tail as a result of docking, a procedure in which the majority of the tail is surgically removed shortly after birth.\nThe practice of docking has been around for centuries and is older than the Dobermann as a breed. The historical reason for docking is to ensure that the tail does not get in the way of the dog's work. Docking has always been controversial, however. Docking and cropping (see below) have been written out of the Breed Standard by FCI and IDC, and dogs born after 2016 will not be allowed to participate in FCI or IDC shows without a full tail and natural ears. This is mirrored in most EU and Commonwealth countries. In the UK, dogs with docked tails have been banned from show for a number of years and the practice is now illegal for native born dogs. Veterinary Certificates are required as proof to avoid prosecution on imported animals. It has also been made illegal in many other European countries, as well as Australia. The American Kennel Club standard for Doberman Pinschers includes a tail docked near the 2nd vertebra. Docking is a common practice in the United States, Russia, and Japan (as well as a number of other countries with Dobermann populations), where it remains legal.\n\nDobermanns often have their ears cropped, a procedure that is thought to be done for functionality for both the traditional guard duty and effective sound localization. According to the Doberman Pinscher Club of America, ears are \"normally cropped and carried erect\". Like tail docking, ear cropping is illegal in many countries and has never been legal in some Commonwealth countries.\n\nCanine intelligence is an umbrella term that encompasses the faculties involved in a wide range of mental tasks, such as learning, problem-solving, and communication. The Doberman Pinscher has been ranked amongst the most intelligent dog breeds in experimental studies and expert evaluations. Psychologist Stanley Coren ranks the Dobermann as the 5th most intelligent dog in the category of \"obedience command training,\" based on the selective surveys answered by experienced trainers (as documented in his book \"The Intelligence of Dogs\"). Additionally, in two studies, Hart and Hart (1985) ranked the Doberman Pinscher first in the same category, and Tortora (1980) gave the Dobermann the highest rank in general trainability. Although the methods of evaluation differ, these studies have consistently shown that the Doberman Pinscher, along with the Border Collie, Standard Poodle, German Shepherd, Golden Retriever, and Rottweiler, is one of the most trainable breeds of dog.\n\nAlthough they are considered to be working dogs, Dobermanns are often stereotyped as being ferocious and aggressive. As a personal protection dog, the Dobermann was originally bred for these traits: it had to be large and intimidating, fearless, and willing to defend its owner from attackers (especially other guard dogs), but sufficiently obedient and restrained to do so only on command. These traits served the dog well in its role as a personal defense dog, police dog, or war dog, but were not ideally adapted to a companionship role. The Dobermann's aggression has been toned down by modern breeders over the years, however. Today's Dobermanns are known to have a much more even and good-natured temperament, as well as extreme loyalty, high intelligence, and great trainability. The modern Dobermann is known to be energetic, watchful, fearless, and obedient.\n\nThey can easily learn to respect and protect their owners and are therefore considered by many to be excellent guard dogs. Given that they are properly socialized from a young age, they are generally sociable toward familiar humans and can also be sociable with other dogs. However, Dobermanns do rank among the more-likely breeds to show aggressive behaviour toward strangers and other dogs, though they are not among the \"most\" likely to do so. They are highly unlikely to show aggressive behaviour toward their owners.\n\nThere is some evidence that Doberman Pinschers in North America have a calmer and more even temperament than their European counterparts because of the breeding strategies employed by American breeders. Because of these differences in breeding strategies, different lines of Doberman Pinschers have developed different traits. Although many contemporary Doberman Pinschers in North America are gentle and friendly to strangers, some lines are bred more true to the original personality standard.\n\nThe personality of the Doberman Pinscher is known to be unique. There is a great deal of scientific evidence that Doberman Pinschers have a number of stable psychological traits, such as certain personality factors and intelligence. As early as 1965, studies have shown that there are several broad behavioral traits that significantly predict behavior and are genetically determined. Subsequently, there have been numerous scientific attempts to quantify canine personality or temperament by using statistical techniques for assessing personality traits in humans. These studies often vary in terms of the personality factors they focus on and in terms of ranking breeds differently along these dimensions. One such study found that Doberman Pinschers, compared to other breeds, rank high in playfulness, average in curiosity/fearlessness, low on aggressiveness, and low on sociability. Another such study ranked Doberman Pinschers low on reactivity/surgence and high on aggression/disagreeableness and openness/trainability.\n\nIn addition to the studies of canine personality, there has been some research to determine whether there are breed differences in aggression. In a study published in 2008, aggression was divided into four categories: aggression directed at strangers, owner, strange dogs, and rivalry with other household dogs. This study found that the Doberman Pinscher ranked relatively high on stranger-directed aggression, but extremely low on owner-directed aggression. The Doberman Pinscher ranked as average on dog-directed aggression and dog rivalry. Looking only at bites and attempted bites, Doberman Pinschers rank as far less aggressive towards humans and show less aggression than many breeds without a reputation (e.g., Cocker Spaniel, Dalmatian, and Great Dane). This study concluded that aggression has a genetic basis, that the Dobermann shows a distinctive pattern of aggression depending on the situation and that contemporary Doberman Pinschers are not an aggressive breed overall. In regards to Dobermanns attacking owners, it is rare and usually in the case of overdiscipline. Dobermanns accept physical punishment to an extent. However, when they consider it to no longer be punishment, but an attack on themselves, they will defend themselves.\n\nAccording to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, between 1979 and 1998, the Doberman Pinscher was involved in attacks on humans resulting in fatalities less frequently than several other dog breeds such as German Shepherd Dogs, Rottweilers, Husky-type dogs, wolf-dog hybrids and Alaskan Malamutes. According to this Center for Disease Control and Prevention study, one of the most important factors contributing to dog bites is the level of responsibility exercised by dog owners.\n\nThe Dobermann's lifespan is about 10–13 years on average. The breed is prone to a number of health concerns. Common serious health problems include dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM),\nDilated cardiomyopathy is a major cause of death in Dobermanns. This disease affects the breed more than any other. Nearly 40% of DCM diagnoses are for Dobermann Pinschers, followed by German Shepherds at 13%. More recent studies based on European dogs, however, has indicated that DCM affected rates are much higher for this population than their American relatives: around 58% of European Dobermanns will develop DCM within their lifetime. Research has shown that the breed is affected by an attenuated wavy fiber type of DCM that affects many other breeds, as well as an additional fatty infiltration-degenerative type that appears to be specific to Dobermann Pinscher and Boxer breeds.\nThis serious disease is likely to be fatal in most Dobermanns affected.\n\nRoughly a quarter of Dobermann Pinschers who develop cardiomyopathy die suddenly from seemingly unknown causes, and an additional fifty percent die of congestive heart failure. Among female Dobermanns, the sudden death manifestation of the disease is more common, whereas males tend to develop congestive heart failure. In addition to being more prevalent in Dobermanns, this disease is also more serious in the breed. Following a diagnosis, the average non-Dobermann has an expected survival time of 8 months; for Dobermann Pinschers, however, the expected survival time is less than two months. Although the causes for the disease are largely unknown, there is evidence that it is a familial disease inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. Investigation into the genetic causes of canine DCM may lead to therapeutic and breeding practices to limit its impact.\n\nThe history of the Dobermann breed is sometimes disputed by experts; however, it's generally thought that Dobermanns were first bred in the 1880s by Karl Friedrich Louis Dobermann in Apolda, Thuringia, Germany, a tax collector who ran the Apolda dog pound. With access to dogs of many breeds, he got the idea to create a breed that would be ideal for protecting him. He set out to breed a new type of dog that would exhibit impressive stamina, strength, and intelligence. Five years after Dobermann's death, Otto Goeller, one of the earliest breeders, created the National Doberman Pinscher Club and is considered to have perfected the breed, breeding and refining them in the 1890s.\nThe breed is believed to have been created from several different breeds of dogs that had the characteristics that Dobermann was looking for. The exact ratios of mixing, and even the exact breeds that were used, remain uncertain, although many experts believe that the Dobermann Pinscher is a combination of several breeds including the Beauceron, German Pinscher, Rottweiler and Weimaraner. The single exception is the documented crossing with the Greyhound and Manchester Terrier. It is also widely believed that the old German Shepherd was the single largest contributor to the Dobermann breed. Philip Greunig's \"The Dobermann Pinscher\" (1939) describes the breed's early development by Otto Goeller, who helped to establish the breed. The American Kennel Club believes the breeds utilized to develop the Dobermann Pinscher may have included the old shorthaired shepherd, Rottweiler, Black and Tan Terrier and the German Pinscher.\n\nAfter Dobermann's death in 1894, the Germans named the breed Dobermann-pinscher in his honor, but a half century later dropped the word 'pinscher' on the grounds that this German word for 'terrier' was no longer appropriate. The British did the same a few years later; now the US and Canada are the only countries who continue to use Pinscher and have dropped an \"n\" from Dobermann's surname.\n\nDuring World War II, the United States Marine Corps adopted the Doberman Pinscher as its official war dog, although the Corps did not exclusively use this breed in the role.\n\nIn the United States, the American Kennel Club ranked the Doberman Pinscher as the 12th most popular dog breed in 2012 and 2013.\n\nThe Dobermann became very popular over a short period of time. It is a relatively new breed, less than 150 years old. According to the latest ranking in 2017 by the American Kennel Club, Dobermanns are the 16th most popular dog breed. Dobermanns started to become popular when they were used in World War II as guard dogs. In the 1970s, Dobermanns had their fair share in movies. They starred in the 1972 American film \"The Doberman Gang\". Dobermanns also became popular after winning four Westminster Kennel Club Dog Shows in 1939, 1952, 1953 and 1989. The Dobermann was recognised (as the Doberman Pinscher) by the American Kennel Club in 1908 and since then they have been one of the most popular dog breeds due to their intelligence and agility. Even today, the numbers of Dobermann dog registrations are increasing. They are also featured in the music video \"Who Am I?\" in which they are one of the dog breeds Snoop Dogg and others turn into.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139690", "title": "Magne Hoseth", "text": "Magne Hoseth\n\nMagne Hoseth (born Magne Hoset on 13 October 1980) is a Norwegian football coach and former footballer who played for Averøykameratene, Molde (two times), Copenhagen, Viking, Aalesund, Stabæk, Notodden and Kristiansund. He is currently assistant coach in Eliteserien club Kristiansund BK. As a footballer, Hoseth won a total of 6 trophies, featuring 4 Tippeligaen titles, one Norwegian Cup title and one Royal League title. From his debut in 2001, he has played 22 matches for the Norway national football team. \n\nHoseth started his career in his local club IL Averøykameratene. In 1999 was he signed by Molde.\n\nIn his first season for the club from Romsdal he performed well both in the Tippeligaen and in the Champions League. His breakthrough came when he came in as a substitute and scored two goals against CSKA Moscow in the 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League 2nd qualifying round, second leg. He was also a regular in the Norwegian youth national team.\n\nIn the summer of 2004 Hoseth was transferred to the Danish team F.C. Copenhagen. He was very popular in Copenhagen, and was named 2004 player of the year at the club, despite playing only four months that calendar year. Because of his homesickness he wanted to go back to Norway and left the club in 2005.\n\nIn June 2005 he was signed by Vålerenga from Oslo. He won the 2005 Tippeligaen while at the club.\n\nIn July 2006 he returned to his old club Molde. Despite the team was relegated to 1. divisjon, Hoseth chose to stay in Molde. He became Tippeligaen champion in 2011, 2012 and 2014. With the club, Hoseth won the Norwegian Cup in 2013 after scoring defining goals both in the semifinal against Lillestrøm and later in the final against Molde's main rivals Rosenborg. Hoseth scored Molde's 3–2 goal in the final which ended 4–2. Hoseth made a total of 364 appearances for Molde, the third-highest number of appearances by any player for the club. With 84 top division goals, Hoseth is Molde's all-time top scorer in Eliteserien.\n\nOn 30 July 2014, Hoseth moved to Stabæk, signing a contract for the remainder of the 2014 season.\n\nAfter short stays with Viking and Aalesund through the 2015 season, Hoseth signed a 2-year contract with 2. divisjon side Notodden before 2016. On 16 August 2017 he signed a contract with Kristiansund BK. In the club's first ever season in the top flight, Hoseth helped them stay up and finish seventh on the Eliteserien table. On 10 January Hoseth announced his retirement on Twitter.\n\nHoseth made a total of 37 appearances and scored eleven goals for Norway at youth international level.\n\nHoseth made his senior debut for Norway on 25 April 2001, as a half-time substitute for Dan Eggen in a 2–1 home friendly win over Bulgaria. His only goal came on his 5th cap, on 24 January 2004, in a 3–1 win over Honduras in Hong Kong. His 22nd and last cap was on 25 September 2009, a 1–1 draw with Iceland in World Cup qualification.\n\n\"Source:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2139702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139702", "title": "Product term", "text": "Product term\n\nIn Boolean logic, a product term is a conjunction of literals, where each literal is\neither a variable or its negation.\n\nExamples of product terms include:\n\nThe terminology comes from the similarity of AND\nto multiplication as in the ring structure of Boolean rings.\n\nFor a boolean function of formula_4 variables formula_5, a product term in which each of the formula_4 variables appears once (in either its complemented or uncomplemented form) is called a \"minterm\". Thus, a \"minterm\" is a logical expression of \"n\" variables that employs only the \"complement\" operator and the \"conjunction\" operator.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139714", "title": "Billy Bryant", "text": "Billy Bryant\n\nWilliam Bryant (26 November 1913 – 25 December 1975) was an English footballer.\n\nBryant started his career with Wolverhampton Wanderers after joining from his local side Cockfield, based in County Durham. He made his league debut for Wolves on 3 December 1932 in a 5–2 win over Blackburn Rovers, the first of a run of four starts. After one further appearance the following season, he left to join Wrexham.\n\nHe left Wrexham for Manchester United, and scored on his debut for them in a Second Division match against Blackpool on 3 November 1934. He went on to make 157 appearances for United, scoring 42 goals.\n"}
{"id": "2139721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139721", "title": "Dahabeah", "text": "Dahabeah\n\nA dahabeah, also spelled dahabeeyah, dahabiah, dahabiya, dahabiyah and dhahabiyya, as well as dahabiyeh and dahabieh (Arabic ذهبية /ðahabīya/), is a passenger boat used on the river Nile in Egypt. The term is normally used to describe a shallow-bottomed, barge-like vessel with two or more sails. The vessels have been around in one form or another for thousands of years, with similar craft being depicted on the walls of the tombs of Egyptian Pharaohs. Indeed, the name derives from the Arabic word for \"gold\", owing to similar, gilded state barges used by the Muslim rulers of Egypt in the Middle Ages.\n\nUntil the 1870s the dahabiya was the standard for tourists to travel up and down the river Nile. According to Donald Reid, in 1858 \"a forty-day round trip from Cairo to Luxor cost about £110; a fifty-day trip to Aswan and back, about £150\". However, Thomas Cook Ltd introduced the steam boat on the river and brought with them the organisational know how to turn a three-month voyage into a 28-day sight-seeing tour. By 1900, as trains had started to compete with the steam boat, dahabiyas were reserved only for the most wealthy, leisured travelers.\n\nThis is also the time that saw great change in how dahabiyas were used and viewed. Sir John Gardner Wilkinson's 1847 book \"Hand-book for travelers in Egypt\" goes into great detail on how to hire a dahabiya. A traveler wishing to travel the Nile would not only have to hire the boat for the duration but provision it, de-bug and de-rat it, oversee the boatmen and even have it re-painted. However, by 1897 tour companies had made the journey much more civil. Thomas Cook promised, \"Dragomans and other necessary servants and food supplies are carefully selected and provided\".\n\nModern dahabiyas still lack a motor-driven propellor. They are towed by diesel-powered tugboats, and have an onboard diesel-powered generator to provide electricity.\n\n\"Dahabeya\" is also the name of a specific vessel.\n\nذهبية /ðahabīya/ is the feminine of ذهبي /ðahabī/ \"golden\", from ذهب /ðahab/ \"gold\". In Arabic the feminine suffix \"-a\" can indicate the singulative of inanimates, changing the meaning from \"golden\" to \"a single golden thing\". Thus the meaning of ذهبية is something like \"a golden one\".\n"}
{"id": "2139732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139732", "title": "Jimmy Hanson (footballer, born 1904)", "text": "Jimmy Hanson (footballer, born 1904)\n\nJames Hanson (6 November 1904 – ?) was an English football forward. Born in Manchester, he played for Bradford Parish Church in the Cheshire Amateur League early in his career. In December 1922, someone wrote in to the Manchester Football News, recommending Hanson to Manchester United. After trials in the 1923–24 season, he joined United in 1924. Hanson played his entire professional career with United. In a match against Birmingham on 25 December 1929, he suffered a broken fibula, and the injury forced him to retire in 1931. During his United career, he scored 52 goals in 147 appearances.\n\nHanson's long-awaited reappearance - and fourth appearance - finally came at Villa Park the following September and he did not disappoint, notching during a 2-2 draw against Aston Villa. His run of goals came to an end in the Manchester derby five days later, but he did make it five in six games by striking in a 6-1 thumping of Burnley.\n"}
{"id": "2139737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139737", "title": "Al-Mansur ibn Buluggin", "text": "Al-Mansur ibn Buluggin\n\nal-Mansûr ibn Buluggin (Arabic: المنصور بن بلوجن) (died 995) was the second ruler of the Zirids in Ifriqiya (984–995).\n\nAl-Mansur succeeded his father Buluggin ibn Ziri (972–984) in Ifriqiya. Despite further campaigns by the Zirids against the Berber tribes of Morocco, he was forced to abandon the attempt at a permanent conquest of Fez and Sijilmasa. Still, he was able to consolidate Zirid rule in the central Maghreb when he defeated the Kutama Berbers in 988, and when his brother Hammad ibn Buluggin, as governor of Algeria, drove the Zanata Berbers into Morocco. The vassal relationship to the Fatimids became increasingly loose under al-Mansur, not least because their focus of attention was on the overthrow of the Abbasids in Iraq. \n\nHe was succeeded by Badis ibn Mansur (995–1016)\n"}
{"id": "2139739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139739", "title": "SIPfoundry", "text": "SIPfoundry\n\nSIPfoundry is a not-for-profit organization, whose mission is to promote and advance open-source software projects based on the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). The community aims to support users, developers, and distributors of SIP-based products.\n\nFounded in March 2004, SIPfoundry established close ties with the SIP Forum as well as the IETF. SIPfoundry actively promotes the standardization of SIP and interoperability of SIP products and solution across the industry through the SIP Forum Test Framework (SFTF).\n\nSIPfoundry spawned the development of sipX, an open source SIP private branch exchange (PBX) for Linux. This project aims at commoditizing PBXs by offering a fully featured, standards-compliant, and easy-to-use SIP IP PBX for free as an open source solution. SIPfoundry would like SIP to become part of the Internet the same way HTTP, SMTP, and XML became ubiquitous and drove rapid adoption of new services across the Internet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139753", "title": "Cuisses", "text": "Cuisses\n\nCuisses are a form of medieval armour worn to protect the thigh. The word is the plural of the French word \"cuisse\" meaning 'thigh'. While the skirt of a maille shirt or tassets of a cuirass could protect the upper legs from above, a thrust from below could avoid these defenses. Thus, cuisses were worn on the thighs to protect from such blows. Padded cuisses made in a similar way to a gambeson were commonly worn by knights in the 12th and 13th centuries, usually over chausses, and may have had poleyns directly attached to them. Whilst continental armours typically had cuisses that did not protect the back of the thigh, English cuisses were typically entirely encapsulating, due to the English preference for foot combat over the mounted cavalry charges favoured by continental armies. \n\nCuisses could also be made of brigandine or splinted leather, but beginning around 1340 they were typically made from steel plate armour. From 1370 onward they were made from a single plate of iron or steel.\n"}
{"id": "2139758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139758", "title": "Alexander Smallens", "text": "Alexander Smallens\n\nAlexander Smallens (January 1, 1889 – November 24, 1972) was a Russian-born American conductor and music director.\n\nSmallens was born in Saint Petersburg, Russia, and emigrated to the United States as a child, becoming an American citizen in 1919. He studied at the New York Institute of Musical Art until 1909, when he traveled to France to study at the Conservatoire de Paris.\n\nReturning to the United States, Smallens was a conductor or music director at several American music organizations including the Boston Opera Company (1911–1914), the Anna Pavlova Ballet Company (1917–1919), the Chicago Opera Company (1919–1923), the Philadelphia Civic Opera Company (1924–1930), the Philadelphia Orchestra (1928–1934) and the Radio City Music Hall (1947–1950).\n\nIn addition, Smallens worked briefly on Broadway, conducting the premieres of Thomson's \"Four Saints in Three Acts\" in 1934 and Gershwin's \"Porgy and Bess\" the next year. (Both works were operas, not the musicals normally expected in Broadway theatres.) Smallens also conducted the \"Porgy and Bess\" revivals on Broadway in 1942 and 1953, as well as the famous 1952 world tour of the work, which culminated in that 1953 Broadway production.\n\nSmallens also conducted orchestras for music as part of several documentary films in the late 1930s and early 1940s. He retired from music in 1958 and moved to Sicily. In 1972, Smallens died in Tucson, Arizona and is buried there.\n\nIn 1924, Smallens was involved in an affair with composer Marc Blitzstein during a trip the two took in Europe; this was the latter's first relationship. Smallens had a son who worked in radio. Smallens' grandson, also named Alexander Smallens, played bass in the band Too Much Joy. Alexander or 'Sandy' also has a son who plays bass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139760", "title": "Jack Picken", "text": "Jack Picken\n\nJohn Barclay \"Jack\" Picken (1880 – 31 July 1952) was a Scottish footballer who played as an inside forward for several clubs in The Football League, including Bolton Wanderers, Manchester United, Burnley and Bristol City, as well as Plymouth Argyle in the Southern Football League. He scored a total of 128 league goals in more than 350 career appearances.\n\nBorn in Hurlford, Ayrshire, Picken started his career with Hurlford Thistle before moving to nearby Kilmarnock Shawbank. In 1899, he moved to England to sign for Bolton Wanderers, where he helped the Trotters to promotion in his first season. He spent four years at Bolton, scoring 22 goals in 101 league appearances before suffering a broken leg in November 1902. In May 1903, having not played for more than six months, he moved to Plymouth Argyle. He spent a hugely successful two years with the club, scoring 46 goals in all competitions from just 89 appearances, including two hat-tricks in three games in October 1904 against New Brompton and Tottenham Hotspur, as Plymouth won the Western League title in 1904–05.\n\nHis form in front of goal did not go unnoticed, and he joined Manchester United prior to the 1905–06 season. That year, he finished as top scorer, with 20 league goals and another five in the FA Cup, helping Manchester United earn promotion back to the First Division for the first time since 1894. He remained a first-team regular the following season, but found goals much harder to come by, scoring just four in 26 league appearances. For Manchester United's first league title-winning season in 1907–08, Picken lost his place as the starting inside left to fellow Hurlford native Sandy Turnbull and made just eight appearances all season, scoring once. Picken remained Turnbull's back-up for the remainder of his time at Manchester United, scoring another 14 goals in 46 appearances over three seasons. He picked up another league title in 1910–11, although he missed out on the 1909 FA Cup Final. During the 1910–11 season, Picken and Dick Holden shared a benefit, from which both players received a guaranteed £300.\n\nPicken was totally out of the picture at Manchester United by the start of the 1911–12 season, and in December 1911, he left the club after six-and-a-half years to join Burnley in the Second Division. Despite going unbeaten at home and scoring the most goals in the entire Football League, Burnley narrowly missed out on promotion, a feat Picken had managed in his first seasons at both Bolton and Manchester United. Burnley were again the league's top scorers in 1912–13, and this time it saw them promoted as runners-up behind Preston North End. Picken chose to remain in the Second Division, however, and joined Bristol City in October 1913, where he spent the final two seasons of his career.\n\nPicken returned to Plymouth after retiring from football. He died in Devonport, Plymouth on 31 July 1952.\n\n\n\nBibliography\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "2139778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139778", "title": "Ordination (statistics)", "text": "Ordination (statistics)\n\nOrdination or gradient analysis, in multivariate analysis, is a method complementary to data clustering, and used mainly in exploratory data analysis (rather than in hypothesis testing). Ordination orders objects that are characterized by values on multiple variables (multivariate objects) so that similar objects are near each other and dissimilar objects are farther from each other. Such relationships between the objects, on each of several axes (one for each variable), are then characterized numerically and/or graphically. Many ordination techniques exist, including principal components analysis (PCA), non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), correspondence analysis (CA) and its derivatives (detrended CA (DCA), canonical CA (CCA)), Bray–Curtis ordination, and redundancy analysis (RDA), among others.\n\nOrdination can be used on the analysis of any set of multivariate objects. It is frequently used in several environmental or ecological sciences, particularly plant community ecology. It is also used in genetics and systems biology for microarray data analysis and in psychometrics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139782", "title": "The Very Best of Testament", "text": "The Very Best of Testament\n\nThe Very Best of Testament is a compilation album by Testament, released in 2001. The CD is digitally remastered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139794", "title": "Paratrooper (ride)", "text": "Paratrooper (ride)\n\nThe Paratrooper, also known as the \"Parachute Ride\" or \"Umbrella Ride\", is a type of fairground ride based on the seats suspended below a wheel which rotates at an oblique angle. The seats are free to rock sideways and swing out under centrifugal force as the wheel rotates. Invariably, the seats on the Paratrooper ride have a round shaped umbrella or other shaped canopy above the seats. In contrast to modern thrill rides, the Paratrooper is a ride suitable for almost all ages, except for infants and very small children.\n\nOlder Paratrooper rides have a rotating wheel which is permanently raised, which has the disadvantage that riders can only load two at a time as each seat is brought to hang vertically at the lowest point of the wheel. Some models have a lower platform that's slightly raised on the ends that could permit the loading of up to three seats at a time. Most of these rides were made by either Bennett, Watkins or Hrubetz. The German manufacturer Heintz-Fahtze also made larger models under the name of Twister. Most of them require the rider to be at least 36 inches tall with an adult and over 48 to ride alone.\n\nMore modern Paratrooper rides use a hydraulic lifting piston to raise the wheel to their riding angle while spinning the seats. In its lowered position, all the seats hang vertically near the ground and can be loaded simultaneously. The above manufacturers also made these types and the height requirement to ride them remains pretty much the same.\n\nThe Force 10 is a ride made by Tivoli Enterprises that features some of the same motion of the Paratrooper. The Star Trooper is a variant created by Dartron Industries that features seats facing both ways. The Star Trooper's initial design eventually evolved into the Cliffhanger, also made by Dartron Industries.\n\nThe same seats for this ride are used in the Swift-O-Plane and the same height requirement is just like in the Enterprise.\n\nIn the 1980s, British amusement manufacturer David Ward developed the Super Trooper of which the wheel rose horizontally up a central column, once at the top the wheel slanted up to 45 degrees in either direction. He built two 12-seat versions and a 10-seat version. In 2018, PWS Rides Ltd. acquired the plans from Ward to build a new version with the first example due to be delivered in early 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139806", "title": "Ilfochrome", "text": "Ilfochrome\n\nIlfochrome (also commonly known as Cibachrome) is a dye destruction positive-to-positive photographic process used for the reproduction of film transparencies on photographic paper. The prints are made on a dimensionally stable polyester base as opposed to traditional paper base. Since it uses 13 layers of azo dyes sealed in a polyester base, the print will not fade, discolour, or deteriorate for an extended time. Accelerated aging tests conducted by Henry Wilhelm rated the process as producing prints which, framed under glass, would last for 29 years before color shifts could be detected. Characteristics of Ilfochrome prints are image clarity, color purity, and being an archival process able to produce critical accuracy to the original transparency.\n\nDr. Bela Gaspar created Gasparcolor, the dye bleach process upon which the Cibachrome process was originally based. It was considered vital to the war effort in the 1940s. Gaspar turned down many offers to sell the rights to his process and after he died, Paul Dreyfus, who was the chemist and technician for Gaspar, went to work for CIBA AG. When the patents ran out, he developed the process for Cibachrome. (Frozen Moments - Richard C. Miller) In the 1960s, the Cibachrome process was originally engineered by the Ciba Geigy Corporation of Switzerland. Ciba acquired Ilford in 1969, and sold it to International Paper in 1989; in 1992 the product was renamed to \"Ilfochrome\". Colloquially, however the process is still referred to as \"Cibachrome\".\n\nBefore 2004 Ilford Ltd had two main manufacturing sites: Mobberley in the UK, where most traditional products were made, and Fribourg (Freiburg) in Switzerland, where Ilfochrome and Ilfocolor papers were made, as well as the inkjet papers. The UK side was subject to a management buyout, and the Swiss operation (Ilford Imaging Switzerland GmbH) was sold to the Japanese Oji paper group in 2005 and to Paradigm Global Partners LLP in 2010. The Swiss plant retained the Ilford name, while the UK operation was inaugurated under the name HARMAN, taken from the name of the founder of the original Britannia Works. Ilford Photo HARMAN Technology Ltd can still use the Ilford brandname and logo under license on previously existing products, while new products will carry the Harman name.\n\nIn 2012, Ilford announced its final production run of Ilfochrome Classic in response to declining market demand attributed to the expanding popularity of digital image making.\n\nThe composition of the emulsion used in Ilfochrome prints is responsible for color purity, image clarity, and archival permanence. Azo dyes, which provide stable vivid colors, are embedded in the Ilfochrome emulsion and bleached out in processing. Since the dyes are in the emulsion rather than in the chemistry, the image is also much sharper and clearer because the dyes create an anti-light-scattering layer which keeps the image from being diffused when viewed. As the azo dyes are far more stable than chromogenic dyes, prints made by this process are of archival quality and galleries and art collectors report they do not fade in normal light.\n\nAn alternative use of Ilfochrome was for image capture directly inside a large format or ultra large format camera. This created a unique original positive photograph, in which the subject is reversed left-right unless a mirror or prism was used in front of the camera lens. A much longer exposure was required than with sheet films or plates designed for use in a camera. The procedure thus resembled the slow daguerreotype and ambrotype direct positive black-and-white processes used in the 1850s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139816", "title": "First Strike Still Deadly", "text": "First Strike Still Deadly\n\nFirst Strike Still Deadly is the ninth studio album by Testament, released in 2001. It consists of re-recorded songs released on \"The Legacy\" and \"The New Order\", as well as a re-recording of \"Reign of Terror\", which was originally on Legacy's \"Demo 1\" and appeared as a b-side from the \"Trial by Fire\" single; the latter version also appeared on the 1993 EP \"Return to the Apocalyptic City\". On some Japanese versions of this release, a different cover is present, and the disc is an Enhanced CD and includes a bonus QuickTime documentary with live clips of various incarnations of the band.\n\n\"First Strike Still Deadly\" saw a Testament reunion with three former or current members (guitarist Alex Skolnick, bassist Steve DiGiorgio and drummer John Tempesta) as well as their original singer Steve \"Zetro\" Souza. Souza, Skolnick and Tempesta did not officially rejoin Testament at the time of its recording, though Skolnick did in 2005 and is still a member of the band to this day. \"First Strike Still Deadly\" was also the last Testament album with bassist DiGiorgio before his return in 2014.\n\n\"First Strike Still Deadly\" has received mostly negative reviews. AllMusic writer Brian O'Neill awards the album one star out of five, and criticizes, \"Re-recording one's hits is worse than live albums because it tries to be something it never can be, and this disc is no exception. Get the originals, or even the two Testament hits compilations, for the real deal; check this out if karaoke is your idea of contemporary entertainment.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139818", "title": "Ardian Gashi", "text": "Ardian Gashi\n\nArdian Gashi (born 20 June 1981) is a Kosovar retired footballer who played as a midfielder for Norwegian club Ørn-Horten. Gashi has previously played for Molde, Vålerenga, Brann, Fredrikstad and Odd in the Norwegian top division, and Helsingborg in Allsvenskan.\n\nGashi is from Kosovo, but his family moved to Norway when he was eight years old. He became a Norwegian citizen, and has played for the Norwegian national team until 2014, when he started to play for Kosovo.\n\nGashi was born in Gjakova, SFR Yugoslavia but Gashi's family, who is of Albanian ethnicity, moved from Kosovo to Norway as refugees when he was eight years old. Gashi's family moved to Kyrksæterøra in Norway and he started to play football at the local club KIL/Hemne before he moved transferred to Molde in 1998. After a spell at Ørn Horten he went to Oslo to play for Vålerenga on loan in 2003, and later permanently.\n\nGashi was an important player in Vålerenga's good 2004 season, when the club finished as runners-up in the league.\n\nIn the 2005 season Gashi missed a number of games in August, due to having to serve a prison sentence for breaking the speed limits while driving. He was sentenced to 18 days in prison, but was released after 14, for good behavior, and thus managed to play in Vålerenga's 1–0 loss. He was later to play in the penalty shootout loss against Club Brugge in the last round of UEFA Champions League qualification.\n\nOn 30 August 2006, Gashi signed for Brann in a transfer worth about NOK 7.000.000. His stay in Bergen was of the short kind; On 25 July 2007 he signed with Fredrikstad FK. It was announced in December 2009 that he would join Swedish club Helsingborgs IF for the 2010 season.\n\nIn Helsingborg he became somewhat of and icon to the club and in the 2011 season he formed a very successful central midfield partnership with May Mahlangu which was a key to Helsingborg won both the cup and the league. [\"\"]\n\nOn 5 August 2014, he joined Odd, signing a contract until the summer of 2017.\n\nGashi played 18 matches for the Norwegian under-21 team between 2002 and 2003, scoring two goals. He was later capped seven times for the senior team between 2004 and 2005, his last cap was the 2006 World Cup qualifying match against Belarus on 12 October 2005. In October 2012, Gashi was again called up for the national team squad, following Håvard Nordtveit's suspension ahead of the 2014 World Cup qualifying match against Cyprus Gashi started the match on the bench, but came on as a substitute for Magnus Wolff Eikrem after 89 minutes.\n\nEven though Gashi has been capped for Norway, he has stated several times that his biggest dream is to represent Kosovo as a footballer. He has also stated that, although he is ethnically Albanian, he would like to score against Albania in the qualifiers for the FIFA World Cup 2014, if he will be selected for the upcoming 2013 matches and won't follow the example of Granit Xhaka, another ethnic Albanian, playing for Switzerland, who graced Albania in their match against the Swiss.\n\nAhead of the friendly match against South Africa in January 2013, Gashi persuaded Egil \"Drillo\" Olsen to play with him as the holding midfielder, and Drillo praised Gashi's performance after the match.\n\nGashi switched to the Kosovar FA, and made an appearance for them in their first ever game against Haiti national football team in a 1-1 tie.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139831", "title": "Ladislav Sutnar", "text": "Ladislav Sutnar\n\nLadislav Sutnar (9 November 1897 – 13 November 1976) was a graphic designer from Plzeň, Czechoslovakia (in western Bohemia) who was a pioneer of information design and information architecture. Although he is uncredited, his contributions to business organization benefited society, which included creating a user-friendly telephone directory by implementing parenthetical area codes. He received design commissions from a variety of employers, including McGraw-Hill, IBM, and the United Nations. He also worked as art director for Sweet's Catalog Service for almost twenty years. Sutnar held many one-man exhibitions, and his work is on permanent display in MoMA. He is best known for his books, including \"Controlled Visual Flow: Shape, Line and Color\", \"Package Design: The Force of Visual Selling\", and \"Visual Design in Action: Principles, Purposes\". Sutnar was a master of exhibition design, typography, advertising, posters, magazine and book design.\n\nSutnar studied painting at the School of Applied Arts in Prague, architecture at Charles University, and mathematics at the Czech Technical University. Post graduation, Sutnar worked on wooden toys, puppets, costumes, and stage design. Also, he contributed to exhibition design as well as teaching and the design of magazines, books, porcelain products and textiles. He taught at the State School of Graphic Arts, Prague, from 1923-36. In Europe, he gained recognition for typography and exhibition design.\n\nWhile still in Prague, Sutnar was an Artel Cooperative member. Other designers for Artel included Vlastislav Hofman and Rudolf Stockar. The Artel Cooperative consisted of designers from Czechoslovakia who crafted furniture and held workshops under the Wiener Werkstätte's principles of art accessibility. Medium included ceramics, textiles, carpets, furniture, and metal aiming to visually improve the experiences of daily life. The organization came to an end in 1924.\n\nIn 1927, Sutnar became the head of publication design for a large publisher in Prague. Then in 1928 he went to the \"Pressa\" international exhibition, taking responsibility for the Czech pavilion there. He was accompanied by Augustin Tschinkel. He was made director of the State School of Graphic Arts beginning in 1932. Sutnar continued his work in exhibition design and received a Gold Medal at the 1929 Barcelona Exhibition. Sutnar was also an art director of a book publisher and editor of an architectural magazine.\n\nSutnar was brought to the United States to design the exhibition for Czechoslovakia at the New York World Fair in 1939. Due to its cancellation, he chose to settle in New York leaving his family behind in Prague as Nazi control continued there.\n\nIn 1941, he became art director of F.W. Dodge's Sweet's Catalog Service from 1941 until 1960 where he led the development of information design along with Knud Lonberg-Holm. The company produced and distributed trade and manufacturing catalogues. Sutnar implemented both typographic and iconographic characters that enabled viewers to quickly and successfully navigate through an overwhelming amount of information. He did this by making use of grids, tabs, icons, and symbols. Sutnar and Holm published \"New Patterns in Product Information\" in 1944. Their reductive approach aimed for clarity and simplicity for all users with \"active design elements\".\n\nAt the same time, he added punctuation into traffic signs in the United States. He continued his typographic design for advertising and corporations as he was art director for \"Theatre Arts\" magazine for ten years. He also created trends in glassware and flatware products.\n\nSutnar was not credited for the implementation of parentheses around the American area code for Bell System (late 1950s-early 1960s). This addition allowed much easier access to normal and emergency services. The reason for lack of credit lies in the fact that Bell System considered \"graphic designers as transparent as the function graphics they designed.\" Sutnar used parentheses in his own work to highlight and distinguish information. Sutnar himself said that the absence of these organizational methods and simplified legibility makes everyday activities much more difficult to accomplish. Graphic design was responding to the growing pace of information standards and the need to communicate faster.\n\nSutnar was one of the first designers to actively practice in the field of information design. His work was based on rationality and the process of displaying massive amounts of information in a concise and organized way to benefit the general viewer. Typography and a limited color palette was stressed in his work. He often used punctuation symbols to help organize information, but his signature creation was the idea to place parentheses around the area codes in telephone books. While serving as art director for Sweet's Catalog Services, he created information graphics and catalog layouts for a wide range of manufactured items. He was heavily influenced by the ideas of Modernism and his work was well structured.\n\nBorrowing from the principles of De Stijl, Sutnar's work had a reduction to primary colors, straight lines, and an overall harmony of irregular text alignment. His strong use of diagonal elements, typography and imagery more strongly conveys his design style to be classified as Constructivism. Space is divided into white and black areas and consist of elements with symbolism. Similar to Jan Tschichold's work and modern typography, his style was limited to type and color within strict layouts. More strongly, his work connected with the Bauhaus fundamentals. His work is simple but suggests motion with vivid colors and directional patterns.\n\n\nThe 1960s proved to be a difficult time for the designer as he turned to publishing \"Strip Street\" (1963). It was an album of 12 erotic silk-screen prints. Sutnar organized two New York gallery exhibitions of his nudes, In Pursuit of Venus (1966) and Venus: Joy-Art (1969). These works outside of his norm still included Sutnar's hierarchical design approach as a father of modern information design. The term \"posters without words\" refers to Sutnar's distinct poster-like design that characterizes the individual prints of this series. Sutnar's paintings are reproduced in a 392-page monograph.\n\nHis racy \"Strip Street\" compilation has been relatively forgotten. He wrote an essay to accompany these works. \"In these disturbed times of cool and alienated society,\" he wrote, \"if the paintings can inject the feeling, the mission is accomplished.\" An influence of pop is notable despite Sutnar's dislike of pop and pop art.\n\n\nAlthough well after his time, Sutnar's methods of conveying information in a manner that evoked attention can be linked to the navigational aids of web design.\n\nThe Ladislav Sutnar Faculty of Design and Art, part of the University of West Bohemia and located in the designer's birthplace of Plzeň, was named in his honor on 1 April 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139847", "title": "Keyhole Markup Language", "text": "Keyhole Markup Language\n\nKeyhole Markup Language (KML) is an XML notation for expressing geographic annotation and visualization within two-dimensional maps and three-dimensional Earth browsers. KML was developed for use with Google Earth, which was originally named Keyhole Earth Viewer. It was created by Keyhole, Inc, which was acquired by Google in 2004. KML became an international standard of the Open Geospatial Consortium in 2008. Google Earth was the first program able to view and graphically edit KML files, but other projects such as Marble have added KML support.\n\nThe KML file specifies a set of features (place marks, images, polygons, 3D models, textual descriptions, etc.) that can be displayed on maps in geospatial software implementing the KML encoding. Each place always has a longitude and a latitude. Other data can make the view more specific, such as tilt, heading, altitude, which together define a \"camera view\" along with a timestamp or timespan. KML shares some of the same structural grammar as Geography Markup Language (GML). Some KML information cannot be viewed in Google Maps or Mobile.\n\nKML files are very often distributed in KMZ files, which are zipped KML files with a .kmz extension. The contents of a KMZ file are a single root KML document (notionally \"doc.kml\") and optionally any overlays, images, icons, and COLLADA 3D models referenced in the KML including network-linked KML files. The root KML document by convention is a file named \"doc.kml\" at the root directory level, which is the file loaded upon opening. By convention the root KML document is at root level and referenced files are in subdirectories (e.g. images for overlay images).\n\nAn example KML document is:\n<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?>\n<kml xmlns=\"http://www.opengis.net/kml/2.2\">\n<Document>\n<Placemark>\n</Placemark>\n</Document>\n</kml>\nThe MIME type associated with KML is \"application/vnd.google-earth.kml+xml\"; the MIME type associated with KMZ is \"application/vnd.google-earth.kmz\".\n\nFor its reference system, KML uses 3D geographic coordinates: longitude, latitude and altitude, in that order, with negative values for west, south and below mean sea level if the altitude data is available. The longitude, latitude components (decimal degrees) are as defined by the World Geodetic System of 1984 (WGS84). The vertical component (altitude) is measured in meters from the WGS84 EGM96 Geoid vertical datum. If altitude is omitted from a coordinate string, e.g. (-77.03647, 38.89763) then the default value of 0 (approximately sea level) is assumed for the altitude component, i.e. (-77.03647, 38.89763, 0).\n\nA formal definition of the coordinate reference system (encoded as GML) used by KML is contained in the OGC KML 2.2 Specification. This definition references well-known EPSG CRS components.\n\nThe KML 2.2 specification was submitted to the Open Geospatial Consortium to assure its status as an open standard for all geobrowsers. In November 2007 a new KML 2.2 Standards Working Group was established within OGC to formalize KML 2.2 as an OGC standard. Comments were sought on the proposed standard until January 4, 2008, and it became an official OGC standard on April 14, 2008.\n\nThe OGC KML Standards Working Group finished working on change requests to KML 2.2 and incorporated accepted changes into the KML 2.3 standard.\nThe official OGC KML 2.3 standard was published in August 4, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139849", "title": "Mass ratio", "text": "Mass ratio\n\nIn aerospace engineering, mass ratio is a measure of the efficiency of a rocket. It describes how much more massive the vehicle is with propellant than without; that is, the ratio of the rocket's \"wet mass\" (vehicle plus contents plus propellant) to its \"dry mass\" (vehicle plus contents). A more efficient rocket design requires less propellant to achieve a given goal, and would therefore have a lower mass ratio; however, for any given efficiency a higher mass ratio typically permits the vehicle to achieve higher delta-v.\n\nThe mass ratio is a useful quantity for back-of-the-envelope rocketry calculations: it is an easy number to derive from either formula_1 or from rocket and propellant mass, and therefore serves as a handy bridge between the two. It is also a useful for getting an impression of the size of a rocket: while two rockets with mass fractions of, say, 92% and 95% may appear similar, the corresponding mass ratios of 12.5 and 20 clearly indicate that the latter system requires much more propellant.\n\nTypical multistage rockets have mass ratios in the range from 8 to 20. The Space Shuttle, for example, has a mass ratio around 16.\n\nThe definition arises naturally from Tsiolkovsky's rocket equation:\n\nwhere\n\nThis equation can be rewritten in the following equivalent form:\n\nThe fraction on the left-hand side of this equation is the rocket's mass ratio by definition.\n\nThis equation indicates that a Δv of formula_4 times the exhaust velocity requires a mass ratio of formula_5. For instance, for a vehicle to achieve a formula_6 of 2.5 times its exhaust velocity would require a mass ratio of formula_7 (approximately 12.2). One could say that a \"velocity ratio\" of formula_4 requires a mass ratio of formula_5.\n\nSutton defines the mass ratio inversely as:\n\nIn this case, the values for mass fraction are always less than 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139853", "title": "Nickelodeon Magazine", "text": "Nickelodeon Magazine\n\nNickelodeon Magazine was an American children's magazine inspired by the children's television network Nickelodeon. Its first incarnation appeared in 1990 and was distributed at participating Pizza Hut restaurants; this version of the magazine only saw two issues. The magazine returned in the summer of 1993 with different type of content, primarily humor and comics. Originally published on a quarterly basis, it switched to bi-monthly with the February/March 1994 issue. It then went to 10 times per year starting March 1995, with a bi-annual December/January and June/July issue until its end in 2009.\n\nOn February 5, 2015, Papercutz announced that they worked a deal with Nickelodeon to revive the magazine. The new version was first released in June 2015, and new issues were released monthly until 2016.\n\nIn spite of being related to the network it was named after, \"Nickelodeon Magazine\" covered all sorts of topics, not just what was on the network. The magazine contained informative non-fiction pieces, humor, interviews, comics, pranks and recipes (such as green slime cake). The magazine's mascot was Zelda Van Gutters, a Lakeland Terrier dog who appeared throughout the magazine with sarcastic asides on the articles. She was also the star of the magazine's semi-regular photo comic strip \"Ruffing It\".\n\nOther contributors included Dan Abdo, John Accurso, Bill Alger, Graham Annable, Ian Baker, Tom Bunk, Martin Cendreda, Greg Cook, Dave Cooper, Jordan Crane, Mark Crilley, Scott Cunningham, Vincent Deporter, Stephen DeStefano, Evan Dorkin, Brent Engstrom, Feggo (Felipe Galindo), Gary Fields, Emily Flake, Ellen Forney, Francho (Arnoldo Franchioni), Dave Fremont, Tom Gauld, Justin Green, Tim Hamilton, Charise Maricle Harper, Paul Karasik, John Kerschbaum, Jacob Lambert, Roger Langridge, Chris Lanier, Robert Leighton, Alec Longstreth, Jason Lutes, Pat Moriarity, Dan Moynihan, Nate Neal, Mark Newgarden, Travis Nichols, Lark Pien, Johnny Ryan, P.Shaw!, Karen Sneider, Israel Sanchez, Jason Shiga, R. Sikoryak, Jen Sorensen, Art Spiegelman, Jay Stephens, Wayno, Todd Webb, Drew Weing, Steve Weissman, Kurt Wolfgang and Gahan Wilson.\n\nIn addition, \"Nickelodeon Magazine\"'s Comic Book also featured comics from characters of the network's programming, which usually appeared just before a season premiere or special film event for the property on the actual series. Among the Nicktoons that were featured in the Comic Book:\n\nNickelodeon Comics, formally titled Nickelodeon Magazine Presents, was a series of one-shot special issues put out by \"Nickelodeon Magazine\". Each issue tied in with comics. \"Nickelodeon Comics\" mainly contained comics, either newly made stories or two-page shorts reprinted from \"Nick Magazine\", but also featured articles, puzzles, and poster inserts.\n\nOther comics included:\n\nNickelodeon Magazine contained posters in every issue. They were often prank messages for the reader to hang on their bedroom door or elsewhere in their house.\n\nA British version of the magazine was published from 16 February 2011 as a collaboration between Nickelodeon and D. C. Thomson & Co. It seems to have been discontinued as of June 2012.\n\nViacom ended operations of the magazine in June 2009 due to economic conditions and the continual move of the network's content to their website. The title continued to publish until the December/January 2010 issue, and the final issue featured an editorial from magazine SVP/Editorial Director Laura Galen thanking the magazine's readers. On February 5, 2015, Papercutz announced that they have worked a deal with Nickelodeon to revive the magazine. The new version was released in June 2015 and ended in 2016.\n\nThe following modern Nickelodeon shows represented are:\n"}
{"id": "2139870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139870", "title": "Polish Committee of National Liberation", "text": "Polish Committee of National Liberation\n\nThe Polish Committee of National Liberation (Polish: \"Polski Komitet Wyzwolenia Narodowego\", PKWN), also known as the Lublin Committee, was an executive governing authority established by the communists in Poland at the later stage of World War II. It was officially proclaimed on 22 July 1944 in Chełm, installed on 26 July in Lublin and placed formally under the direction of the State National Council (\"Krajowa Rada Narodowa\", KRN). The PKWN was a provisional entity functioning in opposition to the London based Polish government-in-exile, the internationally recognized government of Poland. The PKWN exercised control over Polish territory retaken from Nazi Germany by the Soviet Red Army and the Polish People's Army. It was sponsored and controlled by the Soviet Union and dominated by Polish communists.\n\nAt the time of the formation of the PKWN, the principal Polish authority in German-occupied Poland was the Polish Underground State network of organizations loyal to the Polish government-in-exile, resident in London. As the Red Army, fighting Nazi German forces, entered the Polish territory, Joseph Stalin and Polish communists proceeded with the establishment of a rival executive authority, one that they could control.\n\nThe PKWN was formed in negotiations involving primarily the main Polish communist organizations, the Union of Polish Patriots (ZPP) and the Polish Workers' Party (PPR). The Polish communist movement had been decimated during the Soviet purges in the 1930s, but revived under Stalin's auspices beginning in 1940. The PPR was a new party organized in occupied Poland, the ZPP originated during the war in the Soviet Union. The PPR had already established in Warsaw a conspiratorial State National Council (KRN), which they declared to be the wartime national parliament. Because of war-related obstacles, the communist leaders arriving from Warsaw (the PPR delegation that included Władysław Gomułka and Bolesław Bierut) reached Lublin only on 31 July, and attained full agreement with the group from Moscow (ZPP) on 15 August. The documents they produced were antedated to 21 July to comply with the declarations issued as of 22 July.\n\nThe PKWN Manifesto, proclaimed on 22 July 1944, was outlined in advance in a Radio Moscow broadcast. The PKWN, located in Lublin, became known as the Lublin Committee. While the administrative authority in Poland was granted to the PKWN, many aspects of wartime governance were determined by the Soviet military presence.\n\nAs the Red Army and the allied Polish Army moved into the Polish territory, the PKWN expanded its authority within the liberated areas, except for Kresy (prewar eastern Poland), intended by the Allies to be incorporated into the Soviet Union (see Tehran Conference, Yalta Conference).\n\nAmong the members of the PKWN were politicians of various communist and leftist parties accepted by Stalin. Its chairman was Edward Osóbka-Morawski of the Polish Socialist Party (PPS). His deputies were Wanda Wasilewska and Andrzej Witos of the Union of Polish Patriots (ZPP); Witos was a younger brother of Wincenty Witos, a notable pre-war politician. Andrzej Witos was later replaced by Stanisław Janusz. The fifteen members included those from the KRN and the ZPP. Officially, three were from the Polish Socialist Workers' Party (RPPS, a left-wing PPS faction), four represented the agrarian People's Party (SL), one the Democratic Party (SD), five the Polish Workers' Party (PPR) and two were unaffiliated. Stanisław Radkiewicz was responsible for the security department and Michał Rola-Żymierski for the defense department. The Soviet side was represented by Nikolai Bulganin, whose role was to provide support for the PKWN's administration and security apparatus, and who was charged with destruction of political and military groupings representing the Polish government-in-exile. The PKWN presented itself as a broad leftist and democratic coalition, but the major Polish political parties were not officially represented. According to historian Norman Davies, most of the key positions in the PKWN were given to people who were essentially Soviet employees and not PPR members. Security, propaganda and military affairs departments were controlled by communists.\n\nThe PKWN Manifesto promised radical agrarian reforms, expansion of Polish territory to the west at the expense of Germany, and adherence to the 1921 March Constitution of Poland. It called the Polish government-in-exile an usurper and the 1935 April Constitution of Poland fascist. At the outset, Polish communists had marginal support among the Polish population and the new regime was completely dependent on Moscow. The committee's early decrees authorized the NKVD's control over the Red Army's 'rear areas' (in practice all of Poland) and announced a restoration of the Polish Army under Soviet leadership.\n\nThe PKWN used a combination of repressive and co-optive measures. It appealed to patriotic sentiment, sponsored cultural activities, and implemented a popular and long-overdue land reform. No revolutionary changes were introduced beyond the land reform. The new Polish army, largely staffed with Soviet officers (most of the Polish officer corps present in the east was eliminated in the Katyn massacre or left the Soviet Union with Anders' Army), retained the appearance of a national army and participated in the Soviet offensive all the way to Berlin.\n\nAt the end of December 1944, the PKWN was reconstituted as the Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland (RTRP), which was formally recognized by the Soviet Union in January 1945. The government-in-exile retained for the time being the recognition of the United States and the United Kingdom, but in reality the Western powers no longer considered it relevant as an international settlement on the issue of Poland's government was sought.\n\n\"a.\" \"The new Polish regime began to legislate as early as July, 1944. At that time the only existing Polish government was the Polish Government in Exile in London, which was internationally recognized\".\n\n\"b.\" \"In the summer of 1944 there were therefore two rival centres claiming authority in Poland. On one side, there was the non-communist Underground State with the AK, enjoying the support of most Poles, and owing allegiance to the legitimate Polish government in London, which was still recognized by the Western Allies; and on the other, the Soviet sponsored PKWN which, despite its feeble roots among the Polish population, enjoyed the full material support of the Red Army and of the Soviet security forces in the creation of structures of government behind the Soviet front line.\"\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2139875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139875", "title": "Bettelheim", "text": "Bettelheim\n\nBettelheim is a surname and Jewish family.\n\nThe first bearer of the Bettelheim name is said to have lived toward the second half of the 18th century, in Pressburg (Pozsony, today Bratislava). To account for its origin, the following episode is related in the family records:\n\nThere was a Jewish merchant in Bratislava (now in Slovakia) (before Pozsony), whose modest demeanor gained for him the esteem of his fellow-townsmen. He was popularly called \"\"Ein ehrlich Jud\"\" (honest Jew). His wife was a woman of surpassing beauty, and many magnates of the country, hearing of her charms, traveled to Pozsony to see her. Count Bethlen was particularly persistent, and, failing to attract her attention, he decided to abduct her. Mounted on his charger, he appeared one day in the open market, where the virtuous woman was making purchases, and in the sight of hundreds of spectators, lifted her on his horse, and heedless of her cries of entreaty, was about to gallop off with her, when her husband appeared on the scene and, after a fierce personal combat, succeeded in rescuing her.\n\nThat a Jew should engage in a hand-to-hand encounter with a nobleman of the rank of Count Bethlen was so unprecedented, and the deed itself was so daring in view of the social status of the Jews of those times (which remained unchanged until the liberal laws of Emperor Joseph II were promulgated), that the populace thenceforth styled the hero of the story \"\"Bethlen-Jude\"\". This name clung to him until the royal edict, bidding Jews to assume family names, went into force, and then the name was changed to \"Bettelheim\". Among the family relics preserved by a scion of the house in Freystadtel, on the Waga (), is an oil painting that depicts the daring rescue of Bethlen-Jude's wife from the hands of her abductor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139882", "title": "Water Communion", "text": "Water Communion\n\nThe Water Communion (Water Ritual) is a ritual service common in Unitarian Universalist congregations. It is usually held in the fall.\n\nThe first Water Ritual was held at the November 1980 Women and Religion Continental Convocation of Unitarian Universalists in East Lansing, Michigan. Created by activist Carolyn McDade and UU leader Lucile Schuck Longview \"as a way for women who lived far apart to connect the work each was doing locally to the whole\", it has come to be used as an ingathering/homecoming ritual for UU congregations.\n\nDue to the nature of Unitarian Universalism, traditions vary from one congregation to another; however, most Water Communions follow the same general idea. Throughout the year, members of the congregation collect small amounts of water that have meaning for them, either from a special location (e.g., the family home, an ocean or river, memento of a trip) or a special occasion (first rain after a dry spell). At the service, the samples of water are placed in a single bowl so they can merge. Some of the water is often saved, sterilized, and then used for ceremonial purposes at other times of the year; the rest is returned to the world. \"Returning Water to the Earth\"\n\nThe symbolism, like that of the comparable Flower Communion, can be interpreted in various ways. The classic life-related symbolism of water is apparent. The rejoining of many waters can also symbolize the rejoining of the congregation after summer travels. \n\nMcDade and Longview chose this way to honor the \"journeys\" of women, and to represent the way women both contribute to and draw from each other's strength, working both individually and together, to bring change.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139884", "title": "Sijilmasa", "text": "Sijilmasa\n\nSijilmasa (; also transliterated Sijilmassa, Sidjilmasa, Sidjilmassa and Sigilmassa) was a medieval Moroccan city and trade entrepôt at the northern edge of the Sahara in Morocco. The ruins of the town extend for five miles along the River Ziz in the Tafilalt oasis near the town of Rissani. The town's history was marked by several successive invasions by Berber dynasties. Up until the 14th century, as the northern terminus for the western trans-Sahara trade route, it was one of the most important trade centres in the Maghreb during the Middle Ages.\n\nAccording to al-Bakri's \"Book of Routes and Places\", Sufrite Kharijites first settled the town in the wake of the Berber revolts against the Umayyads. Al-Bakri recounts that others joined these early settlers there, until they numbered around four thousand, at which point they laid the groundwork for the city. They elected a leader, 'Isa bin Mazid al-Aswad (the Black), to handle their affairs during the earliest first few years after the town's establishment. However, after ruling for 14 years, he was blamed by his companions of corruption and executed. Abu al-Qasim Samgu bin Wasul al-Miknasi, chief of a branch of the Miknasa tribe, became the leader of the town. This Abu al-Qasim and his descendants are known as the Midrar dynasty.\n\nThe Arab geographer Ibn Hawqal visited Spain and the Maghreb between 947 and 951 A.D. According to the account in his \"Kitab Surat al-Ard\" completed in around 988 AD, Sijilmasa grew in economic power due to shifting trade routes. At one time trade between Egypt and the Ghana Empire took a direct route across the desert, but because of the harsh conditions, this route was abandoned. Instead caravans passed through the Maghreb to Sijilmasa and then headed south across the Sahara. Sijilmasa's economic wealth is evidenced by Ibn Hawqal's story about a bill issued to a trader in Awdaghust for forty-two thousand dinars from another merchant based out of Sijilmasa. Ibn Hawqal explains that he has never heard of such a large sum of money in all of his travels. Not only was Ibn Hawqal impressed with the volume of trade with the Maghrib and Egypt, Al-Masudi noted gold from Sudan was minted here.\n\nOn account of its wealth, the city was able to assert its independence under the Midrarid dynasty, freeing itself from the Abbasid Caliphate as early as 771. Shifting alliances with the Caliphate of Córdoba and the Fatimids of Ifriqiya destabilized the city during the 10th century, beginning with Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah's visit to the city, the man who was later known as the founder of the Fatamid dynasty. 'Abd Allah, accompanied by his son al-Qa'im, arrived in the Maghreb in 905. 'Ubayed Allah and his son made their way to Sijilmasa, fleeing persecution by the Abbasids, who not only belonged to the Isma'ili Shi'ite interpretations, but also threatening to the status quo of Abbasi caliphate. According to legend, 'Ubayed Allah and his son were fulfilling a prophecy that the \"madhi\" would come from Mesopotamia to Sijilmasa. They hid among the population of Sijilmasa for four years under the countenance of the Midrar rulers, specifically one Prince Yasa'.\n\nAl-Qasim, the son of the mahdi, had miraculous powers and caused a spring to gush forth outside of the city. A Jewish resident of the city witnessed this, and spread the word throughout Sijilmasa that 'Ubayed Allah was going to attempt to take over the city. At or around the same time, Prince Yasa', the Midrarid ruler, received a letter from the Abbasids in Baghdad, warning him to close his frontiers and be wary of 'Ubayed Allah. Yasa' was forced to imprison the men he had previously patronized. 'Ubayed Allah's servant escaped to Kairouan, which at the time was a stronghold for Isma'ilis. The leader of the Isma'ilis in Ifriqiya was Abu 'Abdallah; he quickly mustered an army to rescue his compatriot. On his way to Sijilmasa, he subdued Tahert, the nearby Ibadi Kharijite stronghold under the Rustamid dynasty. The army arrived in the Tafilalt in the latter half of 909, and laid siege to the city. After Yasa' was killed in that year or the next, the Midrar dynasty began a long process of fragmentation that eventually resulted in a hostile takeover by the Maghrawa Berbers, former clients of the Cordoban caliphate.\n\nUnder the Maghrawa, who later declared independence from the Cordoban caliphate, the city retained its role as a trade centre. It also became a center for Maghrawan government and its campaign against other tribes in Morocco proper. After 60 years of Maghrawa rule, the elders of Sijilmasa appealed to the Sanhaja Berber confederation, which was just beginning its transformation into the Almoravid dynasty. According to al-Bakri, in 1055, Abdallah ibn Yasin, the spiritual leader of the Almoravid movement, responded by bringing his new army to Sijilmasa and killed the leader of the Maghrawa, Mas'ud ibn Wanudin al-Maghrawi. The Almoravid imposed an extremely strict interpretation of Islam, smashing music instruments and closing down wine shops throughout the city. While the city would rebel against the Almoravid garrison on more than one occasion, Sijilmasa became the Almoravid's first conquest. It remained under their control until 1146, when the Almohad Caliphate took control of the city. During the Almoravid's rule, the city shared in the centralized governing structure of the Almoravid Empire. Around this time the nearby mountain fortress of Jebel Mudawwar was established.\n\nWhen the Almohad took the city in the mid-12th century, they also took advantage of the wealth of trade going through Sijilmasa. However, the strict philosophy imposed by the Almoravid at the beginning of their reign of Sijilmasa was overshadowed by the extremely violent practices of the Almohad. This culminated in the massacre of many of the Jews living in Sijilmasa.\n\nAmid the fall of the Almohad dynasty to the Zenata Berber confederation under the Marinid, Sijilmasa once again played host to the latest Berber dynasty.\n\nThe Moroccan traveller Ibn Battuta stayed in Sijilmasa on his journey to visit the Mali Empire in 1352–1353. He wrote: \"I reached the city of Sijilmasa, a very beautiful city. It has abundant dates of good quality. The city of al-Basra is like it in the abundance of dates, but those of Sijilmasa are superior.\" Ibn Battuta also mentions Sijilmasa when describing the Chinese town of Quanzhou: \"In this city, as in all cities in China, men have orchards and fields and their houses in the middle, as they are in Siljimasa in our country. This is why their towns are so big.\"\n\nThe next mention of Sijilmasa in the extant sources is that of Leo Africanus, who, travelling to Morocco in the early 16th century, goes to the Tafilalt oasis and finds Sijilmasa destroyed. He remarks on the \"most stately and high walls\", which were apparently still standing. He continues to describe the city as \"gallantly builte,\" writing there were many stately temples and colleges in the city, and water wheels that drew water out of the river Ziz. Leo Africanus says that since the city was destroyed, former residents had moved into outlying villages and castles. He stayed in this area for seven months, saying that it was temperate and pleasant. According to Leo Africanus, the city was destroyed when its last prince was assassinated by the citizens of Sijilmasa, after which the populace spread across the countryside. Ibn Khaldun says in his \"Muqaddimah\" that the city fell due to a lack of resources. Lightfoot and Miller cite several facts from their findings on site: they say that oral tradition preserved by those in the Tafilalt says that the \"Black Sultan\", a malevolent dictator, was overthrown by the populace.\n\nThe city was rebuilt in the 18th century under the orders of Sultan Moulay Ismail. It was conquered and destroyed by the nomadic tribes of Ait Atta in 1818. Today, the ruins of Sijilmasa, a couple of km north of the town of Rissani, are recognized by the World Monuments Fund as an endangered site. They are preserved by the Moroccan Ministry of Culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139888", "title": "George Mutch", "text": "George Mutch\n\nGeorge Mutch (21 September 1912 – 30 March 2001) was a Scottish footballer. He played as an inside forward. Born in Aberdeen, Mutch started his football career with Avondale before joining Banks O' Dee. He then moved on to Arbroath, and signed for Manchester United in 1934. He played for United for four years, scoring 49 goals. After leaving, he went to Preston North End, where he helped the club win the 1938 FA Cup Final, the first to be shown on television. In the last minute of extra time, Mutch was fouled. He scored the resulting penalty kick, which rebounded from the underside of the bar, to win the match for Preston North End. Mutch remained with Preston throughout the Second World War, but joined Bury at the cessation of hostilities. After a season with Bury, he joined Southport as a player-trainer, before taking up his training responsibilities on a permanent basis in 1948. He then returned to Scotland as the manager of Banks O' Dee in 1950.\n\nHe earned one cap for the Scotland national football team, a 1–0 win over England at Wembley Stadium on 9 April 1938.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139889", "title": "Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system", "text": "Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system\n\nThe Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system (abbreviated to NTI-TSS, or NTI-tension suppression system), is a type of occlusal splint that is claimed to prevent headache and migraine by reducing sleep bruxism (night-time tooth clenching and grinding). Sleep bruxism is purported to lead to a hyperactivity of the trigeminal nerve, often triggering typical migraine events. The hyperactivity of trigeminal neurons during trigemino-nociceptive stimulation is a proposed cause of migraine and is correlated with imaging of migraine sufferers. The objective of the NTI-TSS is to relax the muscles involved in clenching and bruxing, thus supposedly diminishing the chances for migraines and tension headaches to develop through the reduction in nociceptive stimulation normally caused by parafunctional activity. It is sometimes used for temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD).\n\nThe NTI-TSS is a small transparent plastic device which is, in its most widely used form, worn over the front four teeth, of either arch, at night, and intended to prevent contact of the canines and molars. It is normally fitted by a dentist trained in the technique, and is constructed by a dental laboratory.\n\nAs the NTI-TSS does not cover all of the teeth, it is classed as a partial coverage occlusal splint. Partial coverage splints are recommended by some experts, but they have the potential to cause unwanted tooth movements if worn 24 hours a day 7 days a week with no tooth contact (which is never recommended), which rarely can be severe. Since the patient cannot wear the NTI-tss device while chewing food, the posterior alveolar structures receive regular stimulation every day, therefore, there is no opportunity for a functional adaptation of the occlusal scheme, that is supra-eruption of the teeth. Research shows that alveolar bone requires at least 8 days of lack of stimulation before bone growth at the apex (supra-eruption) can initiate. Periodontal ligament that surrounds the root and holds the tooth in place - if this ligament is stimulated (exercised) it will continue holding the teeth in correct position.\n\nAs for anterior intrusion, the lack of continuous apical force does not provide adequate opportunity to intrude an incisor. A 2010 review of scientific studies carried out to investigate the use of occlusal splints in TMD concluded the following with regards anterior bite appliances (another term for partial coverage occlusal splints that cover only the front teeth):\n\n\"Other types of appliances, including [...] anterior bite appliances, have some RCT (randomized control trial) evidence of efficacy in reducing TMD pain. However, the potential for adverse events with these appliances is higher and suggests the need for close monitoring in their use.\" \n"}
{"id": "2139891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139891", "title": "Janelle Commissiong", "text": "Janelle Commissiong\n\nJanelle Penny Commissiong (born June 15, 1953) is a Trinidadian politician, model and beauty queen.\n\nCommissiong migrated to the United States at the age of 13, and returned to Trinidad and Tobago ten years later. After winning the Miss Trinidad and Tobago Universe title, she went on to be crowned Miss Universe 1977 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic and in the process became the first black woman to win the prestigious pageant crown.\n\nIn New York City, she studied fashion at the Fashion Institute of Technology, but returned to Port of Spain in 1976. The following year, Commissiong was selected to represent the Island at the 1977 Miss Universe competition in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.\n\nShe was elected Miss Photogenic four days before the final, becoming the first black woman to win these awards in Miss Universe history. On July 16, in the National Theater of Santo Domingo, Commissiong was crowned Miss Universe, attracting international attention as the first black winner in the chronology of Miss Universe.\n\nDuring her reign, she was an advocate for black rights and world peace. Commissiong was awarded the Trinity Cross, the country's highest award, in 1977. Three postage stamps were also issued in her honour.\n\nCommissiong was named chair of the newly-formed Tourism Trinidad Destination Management Company in October 2017. From 2012 to 2015 she had served as vice-chair of its predecessor agency, the Tourism Development Company.\n\nShe married Brian Bowen, founder of Bowen Marine, who died in an accident in November 1989. After his death, she married businessman Alwin Chow. She studied at Bishop Anstey High School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139892", "title": "Topicalization", "text": "Topicalization\n\nTopicalization is a mechanism of syntax that establishes an expression as the sentence or clause topic by having it appear at the front of the sentence or clause (as opposed to in a canonical position further to the right). Topicalization often results in a discontinuity and is thus one of a number of established discontinuity types (the other three being \"wh\"-fronting, scrambling, and extraposition). Topicalization is also used as a constituency test; an expression that can be topicalized is deemed a constituent. The topicalization of arguments in English is rare, whereas circumstantial adjuncts are often topicalized. Most languages allow topicalization, and in some languages, topicalization occurs much more frequently and/or in a much less marked manner than in English. Topicalization in English has also received attention in the pragmatics literature.\n\nTypical cases of topicalization are illustrated with the following examples:\n\nAssuming that the a-sentences represent canonical word order, the b-sentences contain instances of topicalization. The constituent in bold is fronted in order to establish it as topic. The first two examples, which use topicalized adjuncts, are typical, whereas the two latter examples with topicalized object arguments are comparatively rare. The appearance of the demonstrative determiners \"that\" and \"those\" is important, since without them, topicalization of an argument seems less acceptable, e.g. ?\"A pizza I won't eat\".\n\nTopicalization can occur across long distances, e.g.\n\nTopicalization is similar to \"wh\"-movement insofar as the constituents that can be \"wh\"-fronted can also be topicalized, e.g.\n\nAnd topicalization is similar to \"wh\"-fronting insofar as the islands and barriers to \"wh\"-fronting are also islands and barriers to topicalization, e.g.\n\nThese examples illustrate the similar behavior of topicalization and \"wh\"-fronting. Further data, which will not be produced here, could show, however, that topicalization is unlike the other two major discontinuity types, i.e. scrambling and extraposition.\n\nThe theoretical analysis of topicalization can vary greatly depending in part on the theory of sentence structure that one adopts. If one assumes the layered structures associated with many phrase structure grammars, all instances of topicalization will involve a discontinuity. If, in contrast, less layered structures are assumed as for example in dependency grammar, then many instances of topicalization do not involve a discontinuity, but rather just inversion. This point is illustrated here first using flatter structures that lack a finite VP-constituent (which means the entire sentence has the status of a large VP). Both constituency- and dependency-based analyses are given. The example itself is a piece of Yoda wisdom (as he speaks to Anakin), and is certainly of questionable acceptability in this regard. It is, however, perfectly understandable:\n\nThe upper two trees show the analysis using flat constituency-based structures that lack a finite VP constituent, and the lower two trees are dependency-based, whereby dependency inherently rejects the existence of finite VP-constituents. The noteworthy aspect of these examples is that topicalization does not result in a discontinuity, since there are no crossing lines in the trees. What this means is that such cases can be analyzed purely in terms of inversion. The topicalized expression simply \"inverts\" to the other side of its head.\n\nInstead of the flat trees just examined, most constituency grammars posit more layered structures that include a finite VP constituent. These more layered structures are likely to address topicalization in terms of movement or copying, as illustrated with the following two trees:\n\nTree a. shows the canonical word order again, and tree b. illustrates what is known as the movement or copying analysis. The topicalized expression is first generated in its canonical position but is then copied to the front of the sentence, the original then being deleted.\n\nThe movement analysis of discontinuities is one possible way to address those instances of topicalization that cannot be explained in terms of inversion. An alternative explanation is feature passing. One assumes that the topicalized expression is not moved or copied to the clause-initial position, but rather it is \"base\" generated there. Instead of movement, there is feature passing, however. A link of a sort is established between the topicalized expression and its governor. The link is the path along which information about the topicalized expression is passed to the governor of that expression. A piece of Yoda wisdom is again used for illustration, the full sentence being \"Careful you must be when sensing the future, Anakin\":\n\nThe nodes in red mark the path of feature passing. Features (=information) about the topicalized expression are passed rightward through (and down) the tree structure to the governor of that expression. This path is present in both analyses, i.e. in the constituency-based a-analysis on the left and in the dependency-based b-analysis on the right. Since topicalization can occur over long distances, feature passing must also occur over long distances. The final example shows a dependency-based analysis of a sentence where the feature passing path is quite long:\n\nInformation about the topicalized \"such nonsense\" is passed along the path marked in red down to the governor of the topicalized expression \"spouting\". The words corresponding to the nodes in red form a catena (Latin for 'chain', plural \"catenae\"). A theory of topicalization is then built up in part by examining the nature of these catenae for feature passing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139900", "title": "Primitive accumulation of capital", "text": "Primitive accumulation of capital\n\nIn Marxian economics and preceding theories, the problem of primitive accumulation (also called previous accumulation, original accumulation) of capital concerns the origin of capital, and therefore of how class distinctions between possessors and non-possessors came to be.\n\nAdam Smith's account of primitive-original accumulation depicted a peaceful process, in which some workers laboured more diligently than others and gradually built up wealth, eventually leaving the less diligent workers to accept living wages for their labour. Karl Marx rejected this explanation as \"childishness,\" instead stating that, in the words of David Harvey, primitive accumulation \"entailed taking land, say, enclosing it, and expelling a resident population to create a landless proletariat, and then releasing the land into the privatised mainstream of capital accumulation\". This would be accomplished through violence, war, enslavement, and colonialism.\n\nThe concept was initially referred to in various different ways, and the expression of an \"accumulation\" at the origin of capitalism began to appear with Adam Smith. Smith, writing \"The Wealth of Nations\" in his native English, spoke of a \"previous\" accumulation, although he never actually refers to accumulation as previous accumulation in \"The Wealth of Nations\"; Karl Marx, writing \"Das Kapital\" in German, reprised Smith's expression, by translating it to German as \"ursprünglich\" (\"original, initial\"); Marx's translators, in turn, rendered it into English as \"primitive\". James Steuart, with his 1767 work, is considered by some scholars as the greatest classical theorist of primitive accumulation.\n\nIn disinterring the origins of capital, Marx felt the need to dispel what he felt were religious myths and fairy-tales about the origins of capitalism. Marx wrote:\n\n\"This primitive accumulation plays in political economy about the same part as original sin in theology. Adam bit the apple, and thereupon sin fell on the human race. Its origin is supposed to be explained when it is told as an anecdote of the past. In times long gone-by there were two sorts of people; one, the diligent, intelligent, and, above all, frugal elite; the other, lazy rascals, spending their substance, and more, in riotous living. (...) Thus it came to pass that the former sort accumulated wealth, and the latter sort had at last nothing to sell except their own skins. And from this original sin dates the poverty of the great majority that, despite all its labour, has up to now nothing to sell but itself, and the wealth of the few that increases constantly although they have long ceased to work. Such childishness is every day preached to us in the defence of property.\"\n\nWhat has to be explained is how the capitalist relations of production are historically established. In other words, how it comes about that means of production get to be privately owned and traded in, and how the capitalists can find workers on the labor market ready and willing to work for them, because they have no other means of livelihood; also referred to as the \"Reserve Army of Labor.\"\n\nAt the same time as local obstacles to investment in manufactures are being overcome, and a unified national market is developing with a nationalist ideology, Marx sees a strong impulse to business development coming from world trade:\n\nAccording to Marx, the whole purpose of primitive accumulation is to \"privatize\" the means of production, so that the exploiting owners can make money from the surplus labour of those who, lacking other means, must work for them.\n\nMarx says that primitive accumulation means the expropriation of the direct producers, and more specifically \"the dissolution of private property \"based on the labor of its owner\"... Self-earned private property, that is based, so to say, on the fusing together of the isolated, independent laboring-individual with the conditions of his labor, is supplanted by capitalistic private property, which rests on \"exploitation of the nominally free labor of others\", i.e., on wage-labor\" (emphasis added).\n\nIn the last chapter of \"Capital, Volume I\", Marx described the social conditions he thought necessary for capitalism with a comment about Edward Gibbon Wakefield's theory of colonization:\n\nThis is indicative of Marx's more general fascination with settler colonialism, and his interest in how \"free\" lands—or, more accurately, lands seized from indigenous people—could disrupt capitalist social relations.\n\n\"Orthodox\" Marxists see primitive accumulation as something that happened in the late Middle Ages and finished long ago, when capitalist industry started. They see primitive accumulation as a process happening in the transition from the feudal \"stage\" to the capitalist \"stage\". \n\nHowever, this can be seen as a misrepresentation of both Marx's ideas and historical reality, since feudal-type economies exist in various parts of the world, even in the 21st century.\n\nMarx's story of primitive accumulation is best seen as a \"special\" case of the \"general\" principle of capitalist market expansion. In part, trade grows incrementally, but usually the establishment of capitalist relations of production involves force and violence; transforming property relations means that assets previously owned by some people are no longer owned by them, but by other people, and making people part with their assets in this way involves coercion.\n\nIn his preface to Das Kapital Vol. 1, Marx writes \"The country that is more developed industrially only shows, to the less developed, the image of its own future\". The less developed countries \"also\" face a process of primitive accumulation, it is an ongoing process of expropriation, Proletarianization and Urbanization. Marx comments that \"if, however, the German reader shrugs his shoulders at the condition of the English industrial and agricultural labourers, or in optimist fashion comforts himself with the thought that in Germany things are not nearly so bad, I must plainly tell him, \"\"De te fabula narratur\" ! (the tale is told of you!)\".\n\nMarx was referring here to the expansion of the capitalist mode of production (not the expansion of \"world trade\"), through \"expropriation\" processes. He continues, \"Intrinsically, it is not a question of the higher or lower degree of development of the social antagonism that results from the natural laws of capitalist production. It is a question of these laws themselves, of these tendencies working with iron necessity towards inevitable results.\"\n\nDavid Harvey expands the concept of \"primitive accumulation\" to create a new concept, \"accumulation by dispossession\", in his 2003 book, \"The New Imperialism\". Like Mandel, Harvey claims that the word \"primitive\" leads to a misunderstanding in the history of capitalism; that the original, \"primitive\" phase of capitalism is somehow a transitory phase that need not be repeated once commenced. Instead, Harvey maintains that primitive accumulation (\"accumulation by dispossession\") is a continuing process within the process of capital accumulation on a world scale. Because the central Marxian notion of crisis via \"over-accumulation\" is assumed to be a constant factor in the process of capital accumulation, the process of \"accumulation by dispossession\" acts as a possible safety valve that may temporarily ease the crisis. This is achieved by simply lowering the prices of consumer commodities (thus pushing up the propensity for general consumption), which in turn is made possible by the considerable reduction in the price of production inputs. Should the magnitude of the reduction in the price of inputs outweigh the reduction in the price of consumer goods, it can be said that the rate of profit will, for the time being, increase. Thus:\n\n\"Access to cheaper inputs is, therefore, just as important as access to widening markets in keeping profitable opportunities open. The implication is that non-capitalist territories should be forced open not only to trade (which could be helpful) but also to permit capital to invest in profitable ventures using cheaper labour power, raw materials, low-cost land, and the like. The general thrust of any capitalist logic of power is not that territories should be held back from capitalist development, but that they should be continuously opened up.\" (Harvey, \"The New Imperialism\", p. 139).\nHarvey's theoretical extension encompasses more recent economic dimensions such as intellectual property rights, privatization, and predation and exploitation of nature and folk lore.\n\nPrivatization of public services puts enormous profit into capitalists' hands. If it belonged to the public sector, that profit would not have existed. In that sense, the profit is created by dispossession of peoples or nations. Destructive industrial use of the environment is similar because the environment \"naturally\" belongs to everyone, or to no one: factually, it \"belongs\" to whoever lives there.\n\nMultinational pharmaceutical companies collect information about how herb or other natural medicine is used among natives in less-developed country, do some R&D to find the material that make those natural medicines effective, and patent the findings. By doing so, multinational pharmaceutical companies can now sell the medicine to the natives who are the original source of the knowledge that made production of medicine possible. That is, dispossession of folklore (knowledge, wisdom, practice) through intellectual property rights.\n\nDavid Harvey also argues that accumulation by dispossession is a temporal or partial solution to over-accumulation. Because accumulation by dispossession makes raw materials cheaper, the profit rate can at least temporarily go up.\n\nHarvey's interpretation has been criticized by Brass, who disputes the view that what is described as present-day primitive accumulation, or accumulation by dispossession, entails proletarianization. Because the latter is equated by Harvey with the separation of the direct producer (mostly smallholders) from the means of production (land), Harvey assumes this results in the formation of a workforce that is free. By contrast, Brass points out that in many instances the process of depeasantization leads to workers who are unfree, because they are unable personally to commodify or recommodify their labour-power, by selling it to the highest bidder.\n\nThe economist Joseph Schumpeter disagreed with the Marxist explanation of the origin of capital, because Schumpeter did not believe in exploitation. In liberal economic theory, the market returns to each person the exact value she added into it; capitalists are just people who are very adept at saving and whose contributions are especially magnificent, and they do not take anything away from other people or the environment. Liberals believe that capitalism has no internal flaws or contradictions; only outside threats. To liberals, the idea of the necessity of violent primitive accumulation to capital is particularly incendiary. Schumpeter wrote rather testily:\n\n\"[The problem of Original Accumulation] presented itself first to those authors, chiefly to Marx and the Marxists, who held an exploitation theory of interest and had, therefore, to face the question of how exploiters secured control of an initial stock of 'capital' (however defined) with which to exploit – a question which that theory \"per se\" is incapable of answering, and which may obviously be answered in a manner highly uncongenial to the idea of exploitation\" (Joseph Schumpeter, \"Business Cycles\", Vol. 1, New York; McGraw-Hill, 1939, p. 229).\n\nSchumpeter argued that imperialism was not a necessary jump-start for capitalism, nor is it needed to bolster capitalism, because imperialism pre-existed capitalism. Schumpeter believed that, whatever the empirical evidence, capitalist world trade could in principle just expand peacefully. If imperialism occurred, Schumpeter asserted, it has nothing to do with the intrinsic nature of capitalism itself, or with capitalist market expansion. The distinction between Schumpeter and Marx here is subtle. Marx claimed that capitalism requires violence and imperialism—first, to kick-start capitalism with a pile of booty and to dispossess a population to induce them to enter into capitalist relations as workers, and then to surmount the otherwise-fatal contradictions generated within capitalist relations over time. Schumpeter's view was that imperialism is an atavistic impulse pursued by a state independent of the interests of the economic ruling class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139907", "title": "City of Philadelphia v. New Jersey", "text": "City of Philadelphia v. New Jersey\n\nCity of Philadelphia v. New Jersey, 437 U.S. 617 (1978), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that states could not discriminate against another state's articles of commerce.\n\nOn account of its location wedged between New York City and Philadelphia (the two largest cities on the East Coast of the United States), New Jersey has long been a heavily industrialized state, frequently containing factories and other facilities for businesses centered in or servicing the major cities nearby; as well as in the state. Among the facilities developed in New Jersey was waste processing, including both toxic waste and regular municipal-waste landfills. Municipalities and businesses outside New Jersey made such extensive use of the state's waste-processing facilities that in 1973, the New Jersey Legislature passed a Waste Control Act (N.J.S.A. § 13 \"et seq\".) prohibiting the importation of most \"solid or liquid waste which originated or was collected outside the territorial limits of the State.\"\n\nSubsequent to the passage of the Act, the City of Philadelphia, whose municipal waste was delivered in part to landfills and other waste-processing facilities in New Jersey, filed suit against the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in the Chancery Division of the New Jersey Superior Court, seeking an injunction against enforcement of the Waste Control Act on the grounds that it was unconstitutional. The New Jersey Supreme Court, however, found that the law advanced vital health and environmental objectives with no economic discrimination against, and with little burden upon, interstate commerce. It therefore found it permissible under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nOn appeal, the U.S. Supreme Court found the New Jersey Waste Control Act unconstitutional because it violated the Dormant Commerce Clause and reversed the New Jersey Supreme Court's decision. In writing for the majority, Justice Stewart concluded that\nwhatever New Jersey's ultimate purpose, it may not be accomplished by discriminating against articles of commerce coming from outside the State unless there is some reason, apart from their origin, to treat them differently.\n\nFurthermore, the court held that legitimate local interests which had incidental interstate effects were within the state's general police powers, but \"where simple economic protectionism is effected by state legislation, a virtually per se rule of invalidity has been erected\".\n\nJustice Rehnquist, joined by Justice Burger, maintained that the law was constitutional, on the basis of the validity of quarantine laws. Rehnquist reasoned that the toxic trash New Jersey handled from out-of-state was no different from diseased meat and germ-infected rags that were legally prohibited in quarantine laws.\n\nThe physical fact of life that New Jersey must somehow dispose of its own noxious items does not mean that it must serve as a depository for those of every other state.\n\nBecause states can rightfully burden interstate commerce in the name of health and safety, Rehnquist found no hindrance to this law in the Commerce Clause.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139910", "title": "Thomas H. Jackson", "text": "Thomas H. Jackson\n\nThomas H. Jackson (born June 20, 1950) was the ninth president of the University of Rochester, preceded by Dennis O'Brien. Jackson held the position of president from 1994 until he formally stepped down on June 30, 2005 and was succeeded by Joel Seligman. Jackson's tenure was marked by the controversial \"Renaissance Plan\", which cut undergraduate enrollment while making admission more selective, and cut several graduate programs. He holds the position of Distinguished University Professor and has faculty appointments in the department of political science and in the William E. Simon Graduate School of Business Administration at the University of Rochester. Jackson is known as one of the nation's foremost experts on bankruptcy law.\n\nIn July 2011 Jackson was appointed chairman of the board of trustees of George Eastman House International Museum of Photography and Film.\n\nJackson was vice president and provost of the University of Virginia, following his appointment as dean of the School of Law. He has also been a professor of law at Harvard Law School (1986-1988) and served at Stanford University (1977-1986).\n\nJackson earned his Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from Yale Law School in 1975 and a bachelor's degree from Williams College. He clerked for United States district court judge Marvin E. Frankel and William H. Rehnquist, then an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139911", "title": "Floyd Mayweather Sr.", "text": "Floyd Mayweather Sr.\n\nFloyd Mayweather (born October 19, 1952) is an American boxing trainer and former professional boxer who competed from 1974 to 1990. Fighting at welterweight during the 1970s and 1980s, Mayweather Sr. was known for his defensive abilities and overall knowledge of boxing strategy. He is the father, and former trainer of undefeated five-division boxing champion Floyd Mayweather Jr.\n\nYounger brother Roger was WBC super featherweight and super lightweight champion and was known for his defensive skills. The youngest brother, Jeff, held the IBO super featherweight title. Floyd Mayweather Sr. is known for his outspokenness. He frequently recites poetry about his opponent and still does today for his fighter's opponent. Some refer to him as the \"poet laureate of boxing.\" He is a flamboyant dresser who wears colorful suits, ties and shoes to news conferences.\n\nMayweather Sr.'s boxing record was 28–6–1 (18 KOs), and he won the U.S. Championship Tournament in 1977 against Miguel Barreto. Mayweather Sr. suffers from the lung disease sarcoidosis. Floyd Mayweather Sr. taught Mayweather Jr. to punch when he was still a toddler in Grand Rapids, Michigan. When Mayweather Jr. was a year old, his maternal uncle shot Floyd Sr. in the leg. Prior to his breakup with his son Floyd Mayweather Jr., he served as his manager.\n\nAs a trainer, Mayweather preaches defense and a stiff jab. He teaches many of his boxers a defensive technique known as the shoulder roll, in which the fighter uses his front shoulder to deflect blows and limit their impact. He has on many occasions, including HBO's \"Mayweather-Hatton 24/7\", claimed to be \"Floyd Joy Mayweather Sr., 'The Greatest Trainer of All Time'\".\n\nHe is the former trainer of top light heavyweight Chad Dawson, former two division champion Joan Guzmán and women's champion Laila Ali. He is well known for his stint as Oscar De La Hoya's trainer from 2001 through 2006. He said he would train De La Hoya for his May 5, 2007, fight against his son, but demanded a $2 million fee to do so. After considerable deliberation, De La Hoya opted not to hire Mayweather Sr. and announced on January 30, 2007, he would use Freddie Roach instead.\n\nThe snub briefly reunited father and son, with Floyd Sr. turning up at the Mayweather Jr. boxing gym, while Roger (who had been banned from being in the corner at boxing matches for 12 months for starting a riot during Floyd Jr.'s bout against Zab Judah on April 8, 2006, when he attacked Judah) served six months in jail for a domestic assault. But when Roger was released, the situation became awkward because of the brothers’ rivalry. He also spent five years in a federal prison for convictions for violating drug trafficking laws.\n\nFloyd Jr. chose Roger as his trainer and Floyd Sr. left again, claiming that the father-son relationship was \"back to square one\" for choosing Roger over his own father again. Floyd Sr. agreed to once again train De La Hoya in anticipation for Mayweather Jr. – De La Hoya II presented by Golden Boy Promotions. However, due to disagreements with how revenues would be divided amongst the two fighters, the bout was cancelled. Mayweather Sr. trained Manchester's Ricky Hatton for seven weeks prior to his bout against Paulie Malignaggi on November 22, 2008 at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas.\n\nHatton retained his IBO light welterweight title with a technical knockout in the 11th round. However, Hatton lost only his second fight under Mayweather Sr. with a second-round knockout by Manny Pacquiao. The famous feud between Floyd Mayweather Sr. and Floyd Mayweather Jr. finally came to an end as father and son made up before Jr.'s return to the ring after a 21-month lay off. However Jr.'s uncle Roger Mayweather still trains Jr. On the HBO 24/7 program Floyd Mayweather Sr. was quoted as saying 'I don't need to train my son, I need a relationship with my son.\"\n\nA proposed March 2010 fight between Mayweather Jr. and Manny Pacquiao fell by the wayside in January 2010 when the camps representing both fighters could not agree on a timeline for drug testing for the fight. A more stringent drug test was sought by Mayweather Jr.'s representatives due to inadequacies in the current testing standards and a suspicion that Pacquiao might be utilizing banned performance enhancers in his training regimen. Mayweather Sr. had been very vocal about his theory that Manny Pacquiao's impressive displays as a welterweight were aided by performance-enhancing drugs for several months prior to the negotiation for a fight between his son and Pacquiao. On March 21, 2011, U.S. District Judge Larry Hicks said Pacquiao had sufficient evidence to continue his lawsuit that alleged Floyd Sr., Floyd Jr., and Roger acted with malice by accusing the Filipino boxer, and as of December 2011 Jr had been deposed and the case was continuing seeking damages of $10 million.\n\nMayweather trained UFC fighter BJ Penn for two weeks.\n\nIn May 2013, for the first time in 13 years, Floyd Jr. announced that Floyd Sr. would return as his trainer against Robert Guerrero. While some speculated this was because of the bloody nose Jr. got in an otherwise dominant performance against Miguel Cotto (a change to the more defensive oriented Floyd Sr. over the offensive Roger was seen as logical), Floyd Jr. cited his uncle Roger's health issues, diabetes, and poor vision as rationale for the change. Sr. has remained the trainer of Jr. ever since and trained him to victory in his fight over Manny Pacquiao.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139912", "title": "Harry Rowley", "text": "Harry Rowley\n\nHarry Rowley, (23 January 1904 - 19 February 1982) was an English footballer. He played for many clubs during his career, including Manchester City, Manchester United, Shrewsbury Town, Oldham Athletic, and Burton Albion. During his United career, he scored 55 goals in seven seasons.\n"}
{"id": "2139915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139915", "title": "Mason's mark", "text": "Mason's mark\n\nA mason's mark is a symbol often found on dressed stone in buildings and other public structures.\n\nRegulations issued in Scotland in 1598 by James VI's Master of Works, William Schaw, stated that on admission to the guild, every mason had to enter his name and his mark in a register.\n\nThere are three types of marks used by stonemasons.\n\nFreemasonry, a fraternal order that uses an analogy to stonemasonry for much of its structure, also makes use of marks. A Freemason who takes the degree of Mark Master Mason will be asked to create his own Mark, as a type of unique signature or identifying badge. Some of these can be quite elaborate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139917", "title": "Stefan Ishizaki", "text": "Stefan Ishizaki\n\nStefan Daisuke Ishizaki (born 15 May 1982) is a former Swedish footballer who last played for IF Elfsborg in Allsvenskan. He played professionally in Sweden, Italy, Norway, and the United States. He played 13 games for the Sweden national football team.\n\nBorn to a Swedish mother and a Japanese father, he started his career with Rågsveds IF and stayed with the club until 1999 when he signed a contract with major Swedish club AIK. He made his debut for the club in the same year in Svenska Cupen as he came on as a substitute in the 80th minute against Gefle IF, he later came on as a substitute again in the final, which AIK won 1–0 against IFK Göteborg, making him the youngest in the country to win the Cup, being only 16 years and 364 days old.\n\nHis league debut was not until the 2000 season against his future club IF Elfsborg. He quickly established himself as a starting lineup player and really broke through as a player against Helsingborgs IF, a 4–1 victory, scoring a goal and making 2 assists. He missed out the first game of the 2001 season due to an injury he got during the pre-season, which would continue to haunt him for the rest of the season, but he fully recovered for the 2002 season. Prior to the 2004 season he was loaned out to Italian Serie B club Genoa over the spring part of the season, later when AIK was relegated to Superettan he signed with Norwegian club Vålerenga.\n\nDuring the winterbreak of the 2003–04 season Genoa C.F.C. loaned Ishizaki until the end of the season. Ishizaki did not play many games for the club before returning to AIK. Genoa also had an option to buy the player, but it was never used.\n\nInstead of following AIK down into Superettan, Ishizaki decided to sign with Norwegian club Vålerenga, helping the club to break rival Rosenborg BK 13 straight league wins and bringing the title back to the club for the first time since 1984.\n\nHe then left the club, signing for Allsvenska club IF Elfsborg.\n\nStefan Ishizaki returned to Sweden prior to the 2006 season, signing for IF Elfsborg. Being a major signing for the coming season, he helped the club to claim the league title at the end of the season.\n\nAfter his successful first season he remained with Elfsborg, taking a medal every season, gold (1st) in 2006, bronze (4th) in 2007, the Stora Silvret (2nd) in 2008, Lilla Silvret in 2009 (3rd) and bronze (4th) in 2010. Prior to the 2010 season he signed a new 5-year contract with the club.\n\nStefan Ishizaki signed with the LA Galaxy in Major League Soccer before camps opened in January for the 2014 season. While at the Galaxy, he won the 2014 MLS Cup where he was a starter in the final. Ishizaki was released by the club on 4 July 2015 so he could return to Sweden to finish his career to be with his expectant wife.\n\nOn 10 July 2015, it was confirmed that Ishizaki signed a 2.5 year deal with AIK. After the 2017 AIK season, Ishizaki left AIK upon the expiration of his contract.\n\nIshizaki signed for Elfsborg on a free transfer ahead of the 2018 Allsvenskan season. At the end of the 2019 season, Ishizaki announced his retirement from professional football.\n\nBorn to a Japanese father and a Swedish mother, Ishizaki was eligible to play internationally for both Sweden as well as Japan. In the early 2000s, Ishizaki turned down an offer to represent the Japanese national team. He represented Sweden at the U17, U19, and U21 levels, being a squad player for the Sweden U21 team at the 2004 UEFA European Under-21 Championship where Sweden were eliminated by the Serbia and Montenegro U21 team in the semifinals after penalty kicks despite Ishizaki successfully converting his penalty kick.\n\nOn the senior level Ishizaki won 13 caps but never featured in a major tournament.\n\nAIK\n\n\nVålerenga\n\n\nIF Elfsborg\n\n\nLA Galaxy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139922", "title": "Orbiter (ride)", "text": "Orbiter (ride)\n\nThe Orbiter is a fairground ride invented by Richard Woolls in 1976.\n\nRichard Wools invented the Orbiter in 1976. Showman Henry Frederick Smith invested in the blueprints and consequently became the first owner, taking delivery in 1976 of the OB-1. The ride made its debut at Dreamland Amusement Park in Margate, Kent. The Orbiter is made by Tivoli Manufacturing, a British company. In the U.S., their representative is Amtech.\n\nThe Orbiter has a number of articulated arms Spinning sometimes there's a lot of names space rider orbiter techno power and Remix and Extreme axis. Each arm supports a cluster of cars, which are lifted through 90° into the horizontal position once the ride is spinning. At the same time, each cluster of cars rotates around its arm's axis.\n\nThe Orbiter/Typhoon/Predator arms do not always tilt at the same height (90%). Some might tilt all the way, while others tilt little. Most Orbiters consist of six arms, and have three cars for each arm with up to two people sitting in each car. There is a metal lap bar that comes down on the car for the restraint.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139924", "title": "Dick Smith (footballer, died 1909)", "text": "Dick Smith (footballer, died 1909)\n\nRichard Smith (died 18 November 1909) was an English footballer. He started his Newton Heath career in 1894. He played for the club for seven seasons, scoring 37 goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139925", "title": "Chris Thile", "text": "Chris Thile\n\nChristopher Scott Thile (; born February 20, 1981) is an American mandolinist, singer, songwriter, composer, and radio personality, best known for his work in the progressive acoustic trio Nickel Creek and the acoustic folk and progressive bluegrass quintet Punch Brothers. He is a 2012 MacArthur Fellow. In October 2016, he became the host of the radio variety show \"A Prairie Home Companion\", which in December 2017 was renamed \"Live from Here\".\n\nThe three members of Nickel Creek met in 1989 at Carlsbad, California's That Pizza Place, listening to weekly bluegrass shows with their parents. Their first album, \"Little Cowpoke\", was released on December 31, 1993. Later albums included \"Nickel Creek\" and \"This Side\", which went platinum and won a Grammy for Best Contemporary Folk Album. In 2005, Nickel Creek released \"Why Should the Fire Die?\", which received critical acclaim and sold 250,000 units.\n\nThile has also released solo albums, including \"Not All Who Wander Are Lost\" (2001) and 2004's \"Deceiver\", on which he wrote, composed, sang, and played every part. In 2008, Thile released a collaboration album with bassist Edgar Meyer, and he also plans to release a collaborative album with Hilary Hahn.\n\nIn 2003, Thile married fashion designer Jesse Meighan. The couple divorced in 2004, after 18 months of marriage.\n\nThile married actress Claire Coffee on December 23, 2013. Coffee and Thile have a son named Calvin Eugene Thile, born on May 15, 2015.\n\nBaseball Hall of Fame member Sam Thompson is Thile's great-great-great-great-uncle.\n\nThile was born in Oceanside, California, in 1981. His earliest memories of music are listening to Stan Getz's recording of \"The Girl from Ipanema\" before he even turned one year old. When he was two, his family started going to \"That Pizza Place\", where he listened to John Moore's band Bluegrass Etc. When Thile was four, his family moved to Idyllwild, California.\n\nThile began playing the mandolin at the age of five, taking occasional lessons from John Moore. At age eight, Thile's family and the Watkins family formed Nickel Creek. The band performed at many California bluegrass festivals, and as a result Chris had to be home-schooled. At age twelve, he won the mandolin championship at the Walnut Valley Festival in Winfield, Kansas.\n\nThat same year, 1993, Thile made a demo tape and sent it to the Sugar Hill and Rounder record labels. Both labels showed interest, but the Thiles went with Sugar Hill. The next year, Chris Thile released his first solo album, \"Leading Off\", featuring mostly original compositions.\n\nIn 1995, the Thile family moved to Murray, Kentucky, where Chris' father Scott Thile accepted a position at Murray State University as a musical instrument technician. In 1997, Chris released \"Stealing Second\" and Nickel Creek released \"Here to There\". Chris went on to attend Murray State University for a few semesters, where he was a music major.\n\nFollowing the major success of the album \"Nickel Creek\", Thile released \"Not All Who Wander Are Lost\" in 2001. The album featured guest appearances from several well-known instrumentalists such as Stuart Duncan, Béla Fleck, Edgar Meyer, Jerry Douglas, and Bryan Sutton.\n\nIn 2003, Thile teamed up with mandolinist Mike Marshall for the duet album \"Into the Cauldron\", which included original pieces as well as pieces by Charlie Parker and J. S. Bach. Also in 2003, Thile joined Mark O'Connor for his double CD set \"Thirty-Year Retrospective\" which was nominated for a Grammy. In 2004, Thile released \"Deceiver\", an experimental album on which he recorded every track himself. This included electric guitar, piano, drums, violin, viola, cello, and bass. \"Deceiver\" demonstrated some pop/rock songwriting in addition to \"newgrass\".\n\nIn August 2006, Nickel Creek announced that at the end of the year, they would no longer be recording together as a group, and their tour scheduled through 2007 would be their last for an indefinite period of time. In February 2014, the group announced that it would be releasing another album.\n\nThile was a judge for the fifth annual Independent Music Awards to support independent artists' careers.\n\nIn 2006, Thile formed How to Grow a Band, with whom he recorded \"How to Grow a Woman from the Ground\", Thile's fifth album. In an interview with the \"Nashville City Paper\", Thile described the band's formation:\nThe band consisted of Chris Thile (mandolin), Gabe Witcher (fiddle/violin), Chris Eldridge (guitar), Greg Garrison (bass), and Noam Pikelny (banjo). Bryan Sutton has also filled in on guitar when necessary while Eldridge played out commitments to The Infamous Stringdusters. In 2007, the band officially changed its name first to \"The Tensions Mountain Boys\" and then \"Punch Brothers\".\n\nOn March 17, 2007, at Carnegie Hall, this group debuted Thile's ambitious \"The Blind Leaving the Blind\", a 40-minute suite in four movements that Thile told NPR was written in part to deal with his 2004 divorce.\nPunch Brothers released its first album, \"Punch\", February 26, 2008, on Nonesuch Records. The album featured Thile's suite \"The Blind Leaving the Blind\", as well as other original songs.\n\nTo promote \"Punch\", Thile and Punch Brothers planned a year-long tour in 2008, as well as a February 29 appearance on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". In late 2008, Paul Kowert replaced Garrison on bass. Punch Brothers released \"Antifogmatic\" on February 15, 2010, and continued to tour. On November 5, 2010, the band performed \"Rye Whiskey\" on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" with Steve Martin guesting on banjo.\n\nThe Punch Brothers released their third album, Who's Feeling Young Now?, in early 2012.\n\nIn November 2014, Punch Brothers released a single entitled \"I Blew It Off\", from their then-untitled fourth album. In December 2014, the band announced the scheduled release of an upcoming album and simultaneous release of another new single, \"Julep\".\n\nPunch Brothers latest album, The Phosphorescent Blues, was released on January 27, 2015.\n\nIn August 2008, Thile and bassist Edgar Meyer announced the release date of the duo's planned debut album. The album was released on Thile's label Nonesuch Records on September 23, 2008. Commenting on the collaboration, Thile said \"Edgar is one of the biggest influences on my musical life, and now I'm in a duo with him and writing songs with him. This was my dream. I always wondered what it would be like to be playing music this hard.\" The duo toured in September and October 2008 to promote the album.\n\nIn 2012, Thile won a MacArthur Fellowship.\n\nIn 2014, Thile recorded a new collaborative album with Edgar Meyer entitled Bass & Mandolin and embarked on a tour with Meyer to support the album.\n\nAlso in 2014, Thile reunited with Nickel Creek to release a new album called \"A Dotted Line\" in celebration of their 25th anniversary. The group also embarked on a national tour titled NC25.\n\nThile is featured in the documentary \"Bluegrass Journey\", along with the rest of Nickel Creek. He has also appeared on a number of other artists' recordings, including Béla Fleck's \"Perpetual Motion\", playing arrangements of Baroque, Impressionist, Classical and other styles of music with Fleck and Edgar Meyer; \"Jam Session\", with Mark O'Connor, Frank Vignola, Bryan Sutton, and Jon Burr; the Dixie Chicks' \"Home\", Kate Rusby's \"Awkward Annie\", Julie Fowlis's \"Cuilidh\", Dolly Parton's \"Little Sparrow\", Dierks Bentley's \"Up on the Ridge\", and Sarah Jarosz's \"Song Up in Her Head\" and \"Follow Me Down\".\n\nThile has performed as a duo with guitarist and vocalist Michael Daves since 2005. They released their debut album, \"Sleep With One Eye Open\", on May 10, 2011. Recorded at Jack White's studio, the album consists of 16 classic bluegrass duets. Jack White also produced and played on the duo's 7\" vinyl record \"Man in the Middle\" on Third Man Records. Thile and Daves met in 2005 at a bluegrass jam at NYC's Baggot Inn.\n\nIn 2009 Thile completed a mandolin concerto entitled \"Ad astra per alas porci\". The work was commissioned by a consortium of orchestras including the Colorado Symphony Orchestra, Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra, Oregon Symphony, Alabama Symphony Orchestra, Winston-Salem Symphony, Delaware Symphony Orchestra, Portland Symphony Orchestra, and Interlochen Center for the Arts. Thile performed the world premiere of the first movement with the Interlochen Arts Camp World Youth Symphony Orchestra under director Jung-Ho Pak, and premiered his entire concerto with the Colorado Symphony Orchestra on September 17, 2009.\n\nIn 2011, he recorded \"The Goat Rodeo Sessions\" with cellist Yo-Yo Ma, bassist Edgar Meyer and fiddle player Stuart Duncan. On October 25, 2011, he appeared on the Tonight Show as a member of the Yo-Yo Ma and Friends musical act.\n\nThile released a solo album entitled \"Bach: Sonatas and Partitas, Vol. 1\" in June 2013. The work comprises three works by Johann Sebastian Bach written for solo violin: Sonata No. 1 in G minor, BWV 1001; Partita No. 1 in B minor, BWV 1002; and Sonata No. 2 in A minor, BWV 1003.\n\nFor 2018-19, Thile was named to the Richard and Barbara Debs Composer's Chair at Carnegie Hall.\n\nThile made his first appearance on Garrison Keillor's radio show \"A Prairie Home Companion\" in 1996, at age 15 and has returned numerous times—as a solo artist, with Nickel Creek, and with the Punch Brothers. On February 7 and 14 in 2015 and January 30 and February 6, 2016, he was the show's guest host. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139927", "title": "Bermuda II Agreement", "text": "Bermuda II Agreement\n\nBermuda II was a bilateral air transport agreement between the governments of the United Kingdom and the United States signed on 23 July 1977 as a renegotiation of the original 1946 Bermuda air services agreement. A new \"open skies\" agreement was signed by the United States and the European Union (EU) (of which the United Kingdom is part) on 30 April 2007 and came into effect on 30 March 2008, thus replacing Bermuda II.\n\nThe original 1946 Bermuda agreement took its name from the island where UK and US transport officials met to negotiate a new, inter-governmental air services agreement between Britain and the United States. That agreement, which was (relative to modern agreements) highly restrictive at the insistence of the British negotiators who feared that \"giving in\" to US demands for a \"free-for-all\" would lead to the then financially superior US airlines' total domination of the global air transport industry, was the world's first bilateral air services agreement. It became a blueprint for all subsequent air services agreements.\n\nBermuda II was revised several times since its signing, most recently in 1995. Although Bermuda II was much less restrictive than the original Bermuda agreement it replaced, it was widely regarded as a highly restrictive agreement that contrasted with the principle of \"open skies\" against the background of continuing liberalization of the legal framework governing the air transport industry in various parts of the world.\n\nIn July 1976, Edmund Dell, the then new UK Secretary of State for Trade, renounced the original Bermuda Agreement of 1946 and initiated bilateral negotiations with his US counterparts on a new air services agreement, which resulted in the Bermuda II treaty of 1977.\n\nThe reason for this was that there was no provision in the original 1946 Bermuda agreement that would have allowed British Caledonian (BCal), then the UK's foremost wholly privately owned, independent international scheduled airline, to use the licences the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) had awarded it in 1972 to begin daily scheduled services from its London Gatwick base to Houston and Atlanta. (These cities were not nominated as \"gateway cities\" in the original Bermuda agreement.) In addition, there was no provision in the original Bermuda agreement that would have allowed Laker Airways to use the licence the UK's Air Transport Licensing Board (ATLB), the CAA's predecessor, had awarded it the same year to commence a daily \"Skytrain\" operation between London Stansted and New York.\n\nUnder the original 1977 version of Bermuda II, British Airways, Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines were the only carriers allowed to operate flights between London Heathrow and the United States.\n\nAir India, El Al, Iran Air and Kuwait Airways were permitted to continue exercising their so-called \"fifth freedom\" traffic rights from Heathrow to John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK), which they had already enjoyed under the original Bermuda agreement. (Both El Al and Iran Air stopped exercising these rights. The former decided that it made better economic sense to fly non-stop between Tel Aviv and New York. The latter's US traffic rights were withdrawn in the aftermath of the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis.) Similarly, Air New Zealand was allowed to continue using its fifth freedom rights between London and Los Angeles.\n\nThe extensive fifth freedom rights US carriers used to enjoy from the UK to other European countries were restricted to a few routes from London Heathrow to what used to be West Germany (including West Berlin) in the days prior to German reunification. In the early '90s, United Airlines used to fly between Heathrow, Berlin, Hamburg and Munich (United had acquired these traffic rights along with Pan Am's transatlantic rights to/from Heathrow for US$1billion in 1990). A few years earlier, TWA flew between London and Brussels but, unlike United, did not have traffic rights to carry local traffic between the two cities.\n\nAmerican and British regulatory authorities needed to approve every airline's capacity and pricing ahead of each operating season. Each country could refuse traffic rights to a carrier it was not satisfied with, particularly with regard to ownership and/or control. Only a specified number of US \"gateway cities\" could be served by both UK and US carriers from London Heathrow as well as London Gatwick.\n\nOnly the following US gateway cities could be served non-stop from Heathrow: Baltimore, Boston, Chicago O'Hare, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, New York JFK, Newark, Anchorage, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington-Dulles. Anchorage and Minneapolis/St. Paul, held dormant authorities to use Heathrow as their London terminal, grandfathered from use during the original Bermuda Agreement; but could only be operated non-stop by a British carrier. As such, Anchorage remained dormant during the latter years of Bermuda II, and Minneapolis featured service only to London Gatwick, as its operating carrier (Northwest Airlines) did not have the authority to operate into Heathrow.\n\nOther airports in the United States had to be served from Gatwick rather than Heathrow: these eventually included Atlanta, Cincinnati, Cleveland, New Orleans, Pittsburgh, Dallas/Fort Worth, Houston, Las Vegas, Nashville, Orlando, Tampa, Raleigh/Durham, St. Louis and Charlotte.\n\nA provision existed that allowed any Heathrow-authorised British carrier operating as the sole carrier between London Gatwick and any US city to switch that service to Heathrow as long as the incumbent airline had demonstrated its ability to carry a minimum of 300,000 non-stop passengers (both transfer and point-to-point) between that city and London, and vice versa, over a period of two consecutive calendar years. Using this method, BA was able to transfer Denver, San Diego and Phoenix services from Gatwick to Heathrow in 2002.\n\nBermuda II continued and expanded the principle of \"dual designation\", i.e. the right to designate two UK airlines as well as two US carriers as \"flag carriers\" on the same routes, which already existed on the London–New York and London–Los Angeles routes under the original Bermuda treaty.\n\nUnder the new agreement, BCal had its licences to commence scheduled services from its Gatwick base to both Houston and Atlanta confirmed and was designated as the UK's exclusive flag carrier on both routes. It also obtained a licence and sole UK flag carrier status to commence scheduled services from Gatwick to Dallas/Fort Worth. In addition, BCal obtained a licence and sole UK flag carrier status to commence scheduled all cargo flights between Gatwick and Houston – including an optional stop-over at Manchester or Prestwick in either direction.\n\nThe UK Government chose to designate Laker Airways rather than BCal as the second UK flag carrier to New York to enable that airline to inaugurate its long-planned \"Skytrain\" operation on that route.\n\nMoreover, both sides agreed to continue dual designation, i.e. designating two UK flag carriers as well as two US flag carriers, on the London–New York and London–Los Angeles routes. The principle of dual designation was extended to another two high-volume routes. The UK side chose to designate a second carrier on London–Miami, while the US side chose London–Boston for the same purpose. This meant that a second British airline was permitted to commence scheduled services on the former route, whereas another American carrier could do the same on the latter route. The UK government chose to designate Laker Airways as the second UK flag carrier on the Los Angeles and Miami routes, whilst the US government decided to designate Northwest as the second US flag carrier on London–Boston. (Pan Am and TWA continued in their role as the two designated US flag carriers between London and New York as well as London and Los Angeles respectively.)\nDuring the Bermuda II negotiations, the UK side succeeded in having inserted into the new air services agreement a clause stating that Gatwick – rather than Heathrow – was to be nominated as the designated US flag carrier's London gateway airport whenever BCal was going to be the sole designated UK flag carrier on the same route. This clause was meant to support the growth of BCal's scheduled operation at Gatwick as well as to redress the competitive imbalance between it and its much bigger, more powerful rivals.\n\nThe UK side furthermore succeeded in negotiating a three-year \"exclusivity\" period for the incumbent operator on any new route with their US counterparts.\n\nFor Gatwick-based BCal this meant that it did not have to face any competitor that was using Heathrow, a more accessible airport with a bigger catchment area and a far greater number of passengers connecting between flights, on any of the new routes it was planning to launch to the US. It also meant that it had any new route to the US completely to itself for the first three years of operation, which most airline industry analysts reckon is sufficiently long for a brand-new scheduled air service to become profitable.\n\nAt British insistence Bermuda II furthermore contained clauses that made it illegal for any airline operating scheduled flights between the UK and the US to resort to predatory pricing or capacity dumping. Air fares were only approved if they reflected the actual cost of providing these services. Similarly, capacity increases were sanctioned on a reciprocal basis only. The reason for insisting on the inclusion of these provisions in the Bermuda II agreement was to prevent the much bigger, better financed and commercially far more aggressive US carriers from undercutting BCal with \"loss-leading\" fares cross-subsidised with profits those carriers' vast domestic networks generated as well as to stop them from \"marginalising\" the UK carrier by adding capacity far in excess of what the market could sustain.\n\nBermuda II also provided routing restrictions for flights between the United States and various British overseas colonies including Bermuda, various Caribbean islands and Hong Kong.\n\nBoth sides agreed to automatically nominate Gatwick as the gateway airport for London for any London–US route that did not already exist under the original 1946 Bermuda agreement. When all available routes between London Heathrow/Gatwick and the US were taken, any carrier wishing to start a new route to a US gateway city not served from either of London's two main airports at the time of application for route authority needed to drop another route. In addition, any such change could only become effective when there was unanimous agreement between both the UK and US governments. Failure of both nations' governments to agree to such changes prevented the introduction of additional non-stop flights, including between London and Honolulu, Portland (OR), and Salt Lake City. British Airways did successfully gain approval in 1982 to operate nonstop to New Orleans from Gatwick, as an intermediate stop on its L-1011 service to Mexico City. This gateway was later omitted as the performance capability of newer 747s allowed the airline to operate the round trip route nonstop, despite the Mexican city's high altitude.\n\nIn the wake of the bankruptcies of TWA and Pan Am, the carriers authorized to operate Heathrow routes were replaced by British Airways and Virgin Atlantic on the UK side and American Airlines and United Airlines on the US side.\n\nPan Am had previously sold its Heathrow traffic rights to United Airlines, but British negotiators initially stated that they would not allow United to receive the transferred route authority citing Bermuda II's specific designation of Pan Am; they furthermore stated that United was not a successor airline because it was not assuming ownership of Pan Am.\n\nVirgin Atlantic's access rights to Heathrow under Bermuda II derived from the fact that the UK was not using its entitlement to nominate a second carrier to match the two US carriers' presence at London's premier airport. The UK Government therefore took advantage of the abolition of the London [Air] Traffic Distribution Rules, which had confined Virgin's London operations to Gatwick, as well as of the US Government's intention to have American and United replace TWA and Pan Am as the designated US flag carriers at Heathrow to help Virgin establish a presence at that airport as well.\n\nThese access restrictions were also the reason BA (as BCal's legal heir between London and Houston, Dallas, and Atlanta) and American (as Braniff's legal heir between Dallas and London) were compelled to continue using Gatwick as their UK gateway for all non-stop scheduled operations between London and Houston, Dallas, and Atlanta as long as Bermuda II remained in force.\n\nCode sharing also became possible under the 1991 agreement. The US later approved Continental Airlines to fly to London Heathrow, but British refusal to endorse the US position prevented Continental from exercising this route authority. However, Continental succeeded in obtaining UK permission to enter into a codeshare agreement with Virgin Atlantic, which placed Continental's flight numbers in addition to Virgin's on some of the latter's Heathrow and Gatwick flights.\n\nFare and route restrictions governing all scheduled air services serving airports other than London Heathrow or London Gatwick were lifted. (This partial liberalisation came about as a UK concession to the US to help BA gain approval for its code-share alliance with US Air. As a result, access restrictions that originally covered all London airports were lifted at Luton and Stansted. This, in turn, enabled the now defunct \"new generation\", all-business class carriers such as Eos, Maxjet and Silverjet to enter the lucrative London–New York business travel market by choosing Stansted and Luton rather than Heathrow or Gatwick as their UK departure/arrival airports). Continental Airlines also took advantage of this liberalisation by starting service to a number of important regional UK airports, including Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Belfast. Continental furthermore introduced non-stop service to Stansted from Newark in 2001, but this was withdrawn in the industry downturn after the September 11 terrorist attacks.\n\nFlights between the United States and Hong Kong were removed from the scope of Bermuda II in 1997, when sovereignty over Hong Kong was transferred to the People's Republic of China.\n\nLiberalisation of the Bermuda II agreement was the declared intention of both countries since 1995. However, bilateral negotiations between the UK and the US were unsuccessful.\n\nSubsequently, matters were complicated by the European Court of Justice's judgment to declare all bilateral agreements between individual EU member states and the US illegal. Such agreements were deemed to violate the EU's Common Aviation Market.\n\nThe main sticking point that had prevented the conclusion of a new, transatlantic \"Common Aviation Area\" agreement between the EU and the US was that the UK and most other European countries viewed the US version of \"open skies\" as too restrictive. The US \"open skies\" template denied foreign airlines \"cabotage\" rights, i.e. the right to operate wholly within the US domestic market without entering into a code-share agreement with a US carrier. It also denied foreign airlines the right to acquire stakes in their US counterparts with the intention of exercising boardroom control.\n\nOn 2 March 2007 a draft agreement was reached by negotiators from the European Commission and the US that proposed to drop Bermuda II's restrictions preventing US flag carriers, other than American and United, from flying to Heathrow. This new Air Transport Agreement between the EU and the US was approved unanimously by the EU Transport Council on 22 March 2007 and replaced Bermuda II with effect from 30 March 2008. It also paved the way for either country to allow airlines headquartered in other EU countries to enter the UK-US air transport market. On 3 October 2007, Britain concluded its first fully liberal open skies agreement with Singapore, allowing Singapore Airlines to fly completely unrestricted from any point in the United Kingdom, including Heathrow, to any other destination, including the United States and domestic destinations, effective 30 March 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139929", "title": "Stu", "text": "Stu\n\nStu is a masculine given name or nickname, usually a shortened form (hypocorism) of Stuart or Stewart. It may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139931", "title": "Elunetru", "text": "Elunetru\n\nElunetru was the object placed in the sanctum sanctorum of the worship centres of Ayyavazhi. The elunetru is a compiled structure of flame shaped copper, a saffron cloth and separate garlands made of rudraksha and Flowers. The saffron cloth in wrapped on the, perpendicularly placed flame-shaped copper, which appears like a seat, on which the separate garlands made of rudraksha and flowers are placed around. In Ayyavazhi this is which placed instead of the Idol. This was placed in the belief that we are too Knowledgeless to identify the form of God. But it is comfortable to all devotees when symbolized. And so the Elunetru, the seat was provided for the Formless God.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139934", "title": "Maine v. Taylor", "text": "Maine v. Taylor\n\nMaine v. Taylor, 477 U.S. 131 (1986), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that there was an exception to the \"virtually per se rule of invalidity\" of the dormant commerce clause. The Supreme Court of the United States found that a Maine law prohibiting the importation of out-of-state bait fish was constitutional because Maine authorities couldn't be certain that imported fish would be free of \"parasites and nonnative species\" that might pose environmental harm to local ecology. Discriminatory laws may be upheld only if they serve \"legitimate local purposes that could not adequately be served by available nondiscriminatory alternatives,\" wrote Justice Blackmun, author of the majority opinion. In \"City of Philadelphia v. New Jersey\", the Court had previously ruled that New Jersey's ban of out-of-state solid waste was facially discriminatory to the state's residents in a national market and was therefore overturned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139936", "title": "Maros", "text": "Maros\n\nMaros is a town in the South Sulawesi province of Indonesia close to the provincial capital of Makassar. It is the capital of the Maros Regency. \n\nMaros is the location of the Indonesian Cereals Research Institute, a branch of the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.\n\nIn 2012, regional cement producer PT Semen Bosowa Maros began construction in Maros of a new clinker plant estimated to cost over $300 million. The clinker plant was expected to help the cement company increase production in the region in response to the growing demand for cement to support construction activities.\n\nMaros Water Park is in Maros.\n\nNearby to Maros, in the area of the Maros Regency to the north of Makassar, are Pettakere cave and other prehistoric caves that contain significant rock art. Research suggests that the rock art is of considerable archaeological significance.\n"}
{"id": "2139941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139941", "title": "Billy Vessels", "text": "Billy Vessels\n\nBilly Dale Vessels (March 22, 1931 – November 17, 2001) was a gridiron football player. He played college football at the University of Oklahoma and won the Heisman Trophy in 1952. Vessels went on to play professional football with the National Football League's Baltimore Colts and the Western Interprovincial Football Union's Edmonton Eskimos.\n\nVessels led the Oklahoma Sooners to the national championship in 1950, scoring 15 touchdowns. In 1952, he won the Heisman Trophy. Playing under the legendary Bud Wilkinson, he became the first of seven Sooners, followed by Steve Owens (1969), Billy Sims (1978), Jason White (2003), Sam Bradford (2008), Baker Mayfield (2017), and Kyler Murray (2018) to win the award. During the 1952 season he rushed for 1,072 yards including seven 100 yard performances, and 17 touchdowns. These achievements led to his induction into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1974.\n\nHe was also a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity at the University of Oklahoma, along with being a member of the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps.\n\nVessels was the first pick of the Baltimore Colts in the first round of the 1953 NFL Draft, but did not join the Colts following the draft, electing instead to play with the Edmonton Eskimos of the then Western Interprovincial Football Union. During his rookie season in 1953, Vessels led the WIFU, the forerunner of the CFL Western Conference (later changed to Division) in rushing with 926 yards on 129 carries and with eight rushing touchdowns. He caught 20 passes for 310 yards and with one touchdown. Vessels also passed 393 yards on 30 attempts with 18 completions and 4 touchdown passes to having thrown only one interception and while on defence he snagged four interceptions.\n\nVessels became the first player to win the Schenley Award as the Canadian Rugby-Football Union's (CRU) Most Outstanding Player (the CFL did not come into existence until 1958). Vessels played only the one season in Canada. In 1956, he joined the NFL's Baltimore Colts, the team that had drafted him three years prior. That season, his only for the Colts, he had 11 receptions for 177 yards and a touchdown plus returned 16 kickoffs for 379 yards. Unfortunately, Vessels' professional career in the NFL was cut short by a leg injury.\n\n After his football career, Vessels was employed for many years by The Mackle Company, one of Florida's leading developers. In the 1970s, he became involved in horse breeding and served on the Florida Pari-Mutuel Commission from 1976 to 1983, becoming its executive director. He was elected president of the National Association of State Racing Commissions in 1984 and served as director of the Florida division of Pari-Mutuel Wagering from 1987 to 1989.\n\nIn September 2003, Cleveland, Oklahoma renamed its high school football stadium \"Billy Vessels Memorial Stadium\" in honor of Vessels. In 2007, the University of Oklahoma, through the state's Centennial Celebration, awarded the Vessels Heisman statue to Cleveland, Oklahoma, where it sits across from Cleveland High School in front of the school's gymnasium and event center. OU replaced its statue, and those of its other Heisman winners, the next spring.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139944", "title": "John Munn (Manitoba politician)", "text": "John Munn (Manitoba politician)\n\nJohn Alfred Munn (April 13, 1882 — January 25, 1942) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 until his death.\n\nMunn was born in Minnedosa, Manitoba, the son of John Munn and Catherine Patterson, and was educated at the Ontario Veterinary College and the McKillop Veterinary College of Chicago. He worked in Manitoba as a veterinarian. In 1911, Munn married Hazel Smith. He was mayor of Carman from 1919 to 1921. He served as secretary of the Dufferin Agricultural Society from 1923 to 1939 and was president of the Manitoba Federation of Agriculture in 1939 and 1940, retiring due to poor health.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1927 provincial election in the constituency of Dufferin. A Progressive, Munn served as a backbench supporter of John Bracken's government. He was re-elected in the 1932 provincial election over Conservative candidate A.B. Roblin.\n\nThe Progressives contested the 1932 election in an alliance with the Manitoba Liberal Party. This alliance was consolidated after the election, and government members became known as \"Liberal-Progressives\". Munn was re-elected until this banner in the provincial elections of 1936 and 1941.\n\nHe was returned by acclamation in the 1941 election, but died from a stroke at home in Carman the following year.\n"}
{"id": "2139946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139946", "title": "Roger Ducos", "text": "Roger Ducos\n\nPierre Roger Ducos (25 July 174716 March 1816), better known as Roger Ducos, was a French political figure during the Revolution and First Empire, a member of the National Convention, and of the Directory.\n\nBorn in Montfort-en-Chalosse, Aquitaine (now in Landes department), he was elected deputy to the Convention by the \"département\" of the Landes. He sat in \"The Plain\" (the party which had no clear attitude, and served to sway the vote). He voted for the death of King Louis XVI, without appeal or delay, but was not prominent in the Convention afterwards.\n\nDucos was a member of the Council of Five Hundred, over which he presided on the 18th of Fructidor Coup (1797). At the end of his term, he became a justice of the peace, but after Barthélemy Catherine Joubert's \"coup d'état\" (the \"30 Prairial of the year VIII\", or 18 June 1799), he was named a member of the executive Directory, thanks to the influence of Paul Barras, who counted on Ducos as his partisan.\n\nOn 9 November 1799, Ducos accepted the \"coup d'état\" of Napoleon Bonaparte (the \"18 Brumaire\"), and was one of the three Provisional Consuls (with Napoleon and Emmanuel-Joseph Sieyès), becoming vice-president of the Senate with the arrival of a stable Consulate formula. He was many times honored under the Empire, but in 1814 he abandoned Napoleon, and voted for his deposition.\n\nHe sought to gain the favor of the government of the Restoration, but in 1816 was exiled on the basis of the law regarding the \"regicides\". He died in March 1816 near Ulm, from a carriage accident.\n"}
{"id": "2139949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139949", "title": "Countryfile", "text": "Countryfile\n\nCountryfile is a British television programme which airs weekly on BBC One and reports on rural, agricultural, and environmental issues in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe programme is currently presented by John Craven, Adam Henson, Matt Baker, Tom Heap, Ellie Harrison, Paul Martin, Anita Rani, Helen Skelton, Steve Brown, Charlotte Smith, and Sean Fletcher.\n\nThe show was first broadcast on 24 July 1988 as \"Country File\". While farming remained a core ingredient, the programme held a much broader brief—to investigate rural issues and celebrate the beauty and diversity of the British countryside.\n\nAnne Brown and Chris Baines fronted the programme for its first year under its original producer Mike Fitzgerald. The programme was modelled on a regional BBC magazine series called \"Your Country Needs You\", presented by Chris Baines, Directed by Ann Brown and produced by Mike Fitzgerald.\n\nBroadcaster John Craven started fronting the Sunday morning programme in 1989. The programme was originally 30 minutes in length.\n\nIn April 2009, \"Countryfile\" moved to an early Sunday evening slot, with Matt Baker and Julia Bradbury joining John Craven as co-presenters. Tom Heap and Ellie Harrison also joined in 2009. In 2014, Helen Skelton became a presenter and in 2015, Anita Rani joined the programme.\n\nThe programme currently airs 52 weeks of the year and includes a five-day weather forecast live from the BBC's weather studio in London.\n\n\"Countryfile\" was originally produced by BBC Birmingham, moving to its new home of BBC Bristol in 2012.\n\nEpisodes are typically centred on two lead presenters visiting a place or region, and uncovering the stories, characters and traditions which make that area distinctive. Typical subject matter includes wildlife, conservation, farming and food production, the arts, countryside crafts, social history and leisure activities. Presenters and guests are often wearing British country clothing, episodes may include several segments with other presenters, uncovering other stories in the region. Compilation programmes occasionally air with a thematic focus, with a reduced number of original segments typically featuring one lead presenter only, and several other segments repeated from previous shows.\n\nJournalism remains an integral part of the programme's agenda. BBC News's Rural Affairs Correspondent Tom Heap or John Craven presents a weekly investigation into the big issues affecting the British countryside. Recent examples include the impact of animal diseases, the move towards renewable energy, environmental disasters, threats to rural services as well as changes to farming policy and practices.\n\nFarmer Adam Henson joined the programme in 2001 following a search to find a new presenter amongst programme viewers. In 2009 he started fronting the weekly \"Adam's Farm\" strand which gives viewers an insight into the challenges of running a mixed farm in the Cotswolds. His father, Joe Henson, was one of the original founders of the Rare Breeds Survival Trust.\n\nIn 2013 the programme marked its 25th anniversary with a special edition guest-edited by The Prince of Wales. \"Countryfile: A Royal Appointment\" saw the team joining the Prince on his Gloucestershire farm where he shared his passion for the British countryside, rare breed animals, organic farming and hedge-laying. \"Countryfile\" also accompanied him on a trip to County Durham to find out what's being done to help struggling hill farmers before heading to a London comprehensive where pupils are growing and cooking their own food with remarkable results. The Silver Jubilee celebrations continued well into July when 250 viewers were invited to a traditional summer fayre held on Adam Henson's farm. The anniversary was marked by a new title sequence and re-versioned music composed by David Lowe.\n\nOctober 2013 also saw the programme uniting with another BBC institution. Ireland went on to win \"Countryfile's One Man and His Dog\", which was broadcast on 27 October.\n\nThe BBC's \"Countryfile\" magazine was launched in 2007 and is now published by Immediate Media Co. The current editor is Fergus Collins.\n\nThe \"Countryfile Photographic Competition\" remains a highlight of the programme's year. Viewers are invited to submit entries and the best make up a wall calendar sold in aid of Children in Need. The 2017 calendar raised over £2.2 million for the charity.\n\nIn November 2010, the BBC faced an employment tribunal following allegations of sexism and ageism brought against the corporation by ex-reporter, Miriam O'Reilly. O'Reilly sued the BBC due to the allegations following her dismissal from the programme in 2009, along with other female reporters, Michaela Strachan, Juliet Morris and Charlotte Smith. Former BBC One controller Jay Hunt told the tribunal the claims were \"entirely and categorically untrue\" as well as \"profoundly distressing and utterly offensive\", arguing that the only reason for O'Reilly's departure was because she was not recognisable to a peaktime audience.\n\nOn 11 January 2011, the employment tribunal found in favour of O'Reilly's claims on the grounds of ageism and victimisation, but not sexism. The BBC accepted the tribunal's findings after what O'Reilly described as \"an incredibly stressful 14 months.\"\n\n\"Countryfile\" started airing on BBC Knowledge New Zealand in early 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139952", "title": "Middletown and New Jersey Railroad", "text": "Middletown and New Jersey Railroad\n\nThe Middletown and New Jersey Railroad is one of two railroads in the city of Middletown, New York; the other being its interchange partner, Norfolk Southern Railway. The MNJ consists of of track in southeastern New York serving Orange County and the Hudson Valley. The railroad also operates and has trackage rights on three additional branch lines (the Hudson Secondary, Maybrook and Walden Industrials, and Southern Tier) totalling leased from Norfolk Southern in Orange County. It was known as the Middletown and New Jersey \"Railway\" until 2009, when East Penn Railroad parent Regional Rail, LLC bought the line through a new subsidiary. In 2015, Regional Rail was in turn acquired by Levine Leichtman Capital Partners (“LLCP”).\n\nIn 2012, The Middletown and New Jersey Railroad, LLC received a $1.6 million New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) grant to perform rail upgrades on the four lines it operates in Orange County. The railroad rehabilitated the line between Campbell Hall and Warwick and portions of the track in Middletown and between Walden and Montgomery.\n\nThe first railroad to reach Middletown was the New York and Erie Railroad, a predecessor of the Erie Railroad, which reached the hamlet on June 1, 1843 and remained the only railroad in the immediate region for over two decades. In the early 1840s, the NY&E fostered the growth of the Orange County dairy industry by developing the capacity to ship fluid milk to New York City without spoilage. This development provided the area's dairy farmers, who had hitherto been limited to the shipment of butter, with a far more profitable business opportunity. Furthermore, by greatly accelerating the expansion of Orange County's dairy industry, this development helped foster the creation of a number of small railroads in southeast New York State including the predecessor of the Middletown and New Jersey, the Middletown, Unionville and Water Gap Railroad. The NY&E was reorganized as the Erie Railroad on April 30, 1861.\n\nIn 1866, public meetings were held in Middletown, Westtown and Unionville, New York to discuss the viability of a railroad via these hamlets to Deckertown, Sussex County, New Jersey. A route was surveyed from there to Middletown, but, as built, the Middletown, Unionville and Water Gap Railroad only extended from a connection with the NY&E in Middletown to Unionville, which was reached on December 6, 1867, after fourteen months of construction. Freight cars received from the Erie made the trip to Unionville starting January 13, 1868. The MU&WG was built to the broad gauge of the Erie. The road was leased to the Erie and commenced regular operations as the Erie's \"Unionville Branch\" on May 15, 1868.\n\nOn January 11, 1866, the New York and Oswego Midland Railroad was incorporated with the goal of linking Oswego, New York, on Lake Ontario, with the Hudson River at a point across from New York City. The NY&OM reached Middletown in 1871 and hoped to connect with three New Jersey companies to form a through route to New York Harbor. The three New Jersey roads merged in 1870 to form the New Jersey Midland Railroad, which built west in 1871 from Two Bridges (Beaver Lake) to the New Jersey/New York state line at Hanford, just south of Unionville. The link between the NY&OM and the NJM would be the MU&WG which was leased by the NY&OM effective April 1, 1872. The MU&WG was standard-gauged, and the NY&OM built just over of track to bridge the MU&WG over the Erie and connect it to the NY&OM at East Main Street, Middletown. The NY&OM soon entered bankruptcy and dropped the lease on the MU&WG which was then leased by the NJM in 1873.\n\nThe NJM reorganized into the Midland Railroad of New Jersey in 1880 and in 1881 merged with several other roads to form the New York, Susquehanna and Western Railroad. Meanwhile, the NY&OM reorganized as the New York, Ontario and Western in 1879, and the Erie reorganized as the New York, Lake Erie & Western in 1878. The MU&WG wound up in a very favorable situation with connections to three major carriers, the NYLE&W (Erie) and O&W in Middletown and the NYS&W at Hanford. This offered the MU&WG's shippers the choice of multiple freight routings and enabled the shortline to gain better freight rates and a bigger share of the revenue by having the big carriers compete for its traffic. This advantage continued for decades and was enjoyed by its successors, the M&U and the M&NJ, until the late 1950s.\n\nThe MU&WG was the west end of the NYS&W until the NYS&W built west in 1882 from Two Bridges to Gravel Place, near Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, to gain a link to the anthracite fields via a connection with the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western. The MU&WG then functioned as the NYS&W's Middletown Branch. In 1898, the Erie Railroad, successor to the NYLE&W in 1895, gained control of the NYS&W and thus gained control of the MU&WG for the second time. The MU&WG was a very desirable property because of the tremendous milk traffic it originated, possibly the greatest in the United States at that time on a mile for mile basis. Milk was shipped to the New York metropolitan region via all three of the MU&WG's connections. Creameries and condenseries were built along the route at Pounds Station (just south of Middletown), Slate Hill, Johnson, Westtown and Unionville.\n\nThe MU&WG was taken over by the bondholders of its two mortgages on September 8, 1913 because the Erie failed to pay the interest on the bonds. The bondholders organized an independent shortline, the Middletown and Unionville Railroad, which began operations on December 1, 1913 under Vice President and General Manager J. A. Smith. The road enjoyed the revenues from its heavy milk traffic, fluid and condensed, as well as related commodities such as livestock, feed, bottles and coal for the powerhouses.\n\nThe M&U was sold at a foreclosure sale on January 15, 1947 to the three feed dealers, Manning, Simmons and Clark, who reorganized the company as the Middletown and New Jersey Railway Company, Inc. on October 1, 1947. Traffic in the 1950s was dominated by a large GLF feed mill near Dolson Ave. in Middletown. By the mid-1950s, the three owners had died and the railroad was sold around 1956 to John Manning and Marc Suffern.\n\nA substantial passenger service, often using railbuses, was offered with emphasis on carrying high school students from hamlets along the line to Middletown High School. Construction of a new high school far from the tracks resulted in cancellation of the school district's contract and the Middletown and Unionville abolished passenger service with the end of the school year in June 1940.\n\nA multi-year, see-saw battle with truck competition ended with the final shipment of milk on August 18, 1941 from Borden at Johnson. Between 1938 and 1942, the NYS&W, newly independent from Erie control, and the O&W developed a very close relationship, reminiscent of the \"Midland Route\" of an earlier era, and for a short period routed heavy coal traffic from the O&W to the NYS&W via the M&U, once again serving as the link between the two.\n\nIn the late 1950s the M&NJ lost two of its three connections as the O&W ceased operations on March 29, 1957 and the NYS&W abandoned its Hanford Branch the next year. On February 20, 1960, the railroad was sold to three partners, Jay Wulfson, Jim Wright and Pierre Rasmussen. The GLF mill at Dolson Ave. burned down on March 30, 1962 but was rebuilt as a much larger facility including a custom mix plant and a bulk plant with an annual capacity of 50,000 tons. GLF soon merged into Agway. The complex received as many as a dozen loads daily. In the early 1960s, the Empire State Railway Museum ran diesel and steam excursions over the line until relocating to Essex, Connecticut, in the mid-1960s. The ESRM has returned to New York but is now located on the Catskill Mountain Railroad in Phoenicia, New York.\n\nService on the south end of the line was cut back about to Johnson with the last run to Unionville on December 31, 1968. Within two years service was cut back two more miles to Slate Hill. Agway opened a fertilizer plant near Dolson Ave. in 1966; Balchem opened a chemical plant in an old creamery in Slate Hill in 1968 and Polytherm Plastics (now Genpak) constructed a plant in Middletown in 1969 to produce plastic plates and dishes.\n\nThese three customers were the only customers in the late 1980s and through the 1990s as the Agway feed mill at Dolson Ave. closed in the mid-1980s. Agway Fertilizer closed in June 2000 and Balchem ended rail service soon after. Pete Rasmussen became majority owner and President/General Manager of the railroad when Wulfson left to start up the Vermont Railway in the mid-1960s and sold his stock to Rasmussen.\n\nUpon President and General Manager Pierre \"Pete\" Rasmussen's death in 2004, his wife, Lucy, as administratrix of his estate, ran the railroad. In December 2005, Chartwell International of Morristown, New Jersey signed an agreement with the Rasmussen estate to purchase majority control of the Cranberry Creek Railroad, holding company for the Middletown & New Jersey. In February 2006, Chartwell Corp. finished the acquisition of the railroad begun in December 2005, acquiring 100% ownership. The failing Chartwell sold the line to Regional Rail, LLC, headquartered in Kennett Square, Pa and began operations in April 2009.\n\nWhen Regional Rail purchased the rail line it was in deep decline, but with NYS DOT grants and aggressive marketing, the line has made big advances. The old Agway Fertilizer site was converted to an inter-modal and trans-load site and now boasts of 4 regular customers. Commodities include beer, paper, lumber, fertilizer, wheat, barley, salt brine, potatoes and onions and of course its original mainstay plastics and chemicals and the occasional carnival train. The railroad recently leased NS lines that provided much needed additional operating revenue that saved 3 lines from abandonment. The railroad had the only through line connection operating after the mainline devastation after Hurricane Irene in 2011. Some MTA and NS trains were diverted over MNJ trackage and all local and through freight traffic was handled by them and the NYSW via the Campbell Hall cluster and yard.\n\nThe railway operates of track and interchanges with the Norfolk Southern Railway in Middletown and Campbell Hall, and the New York Susquehanna and Western Railroad in Warwick.\n\nA New York State Department of Transportation grant of $750,000 was expected in fall 2007, and an additional $2 million was slated for 2009, to rehabilitate several additional miles of track in order to serve various potential industrial sites. Rehabilitation began in October 2010, after the damage done by hurricane Irene in last August 2011, the MNJ was granted an additional $1.6 million by the state Department of Transportation for storm damage repairs and upgrades.\n\nIn 2010, the railroad filed a petition with the Surface Transportation Board to lease three branch lines and yards formerly operated by Norfolk Southern Railway. The M&NJ assumed operations and received trackage rights on the Walden and Maybrook industrials and the Hudson Secondary from Metro-North RR's Southern Tier Line at Campbell Hall to Warwick from Norfolk Southern on October 6, 2010, adding 40 miles of leased lines and trackage rights.\n\nThe M&NJ's offices are located in Middletown, New York in a converted train station originally built in 1872, with an engine shed located immediately behind the station. Nearby is the more-modern engine house that stores the railroad's sole operating GP9 diesel-electric locomotive.\n\nThe line currently uses its locomotive to pull the rolling stock of other railroads. In the past, it has owned steam and diesel locomotives, as well as boxcars.\n\nThe railroad and its predecessors would roster a total of eight steam locomotives over the years, all bought second hand and none with a trailing truck. Three of these were camelback locomotives and the wheel arrangements included 4-4-0, 2-6-0, 4-6-0, and 2-8-0. The line's predecessor, the Middletown and Unionville Railroad (M&U), relied on the nearby New York, Ontario and Western shops for locomotive repairs and inspections and rented fifty-six different O&W locomotives in thirteen classes while its own was in the O&W shops. On April 23, 1944, the M&U retired the last railroad-owned steam locomotive and thereafter leased O&W locomotives and then NYS&W 2-10-0 \"decapod\" steam locomotives.\n\nThe M&NJ purchased former Bath and Hammondsport Railroad 2-6-0 11 in the 1980s with the intent of restoring it for freight service. However it sat stored until 2006 when it was sold to the owner of the Everett Railroad. It is currently undergoing restoration to active service at the shops of the Western Maryland Scenic Railroad.\n\nDuring the 1960s when the Empire State Railway Museum was based out of Middletown, NY locomotive 103, a 2-6-2 from the Sumter & Choctaw Railroad was operated in excursion service between Middletown and Slate Hill, NY as the Middletown & Orange Railroad. This locomotive has since returned to the collection of the Railroad Museum of New England in Thomaston, Connecticut, where it is stored awaiting a possible restoration.\n\nThe brand new General Electric 44-ton switcher #1 arrived April 19, 1946. Three of the M&U's feed customers had purchased the diesel on behalf of the railroad. The O&W maintained M&NJ #1 and loaned its own 44-tonners, 101 and 105, when #1 was in their shop.\n\nIn 1963, the M&NJ purchased a second GE 44-tonner (#2) from Calco Chemical of Bound Brook, New Jersey. Engine #2 was the railway's sole operating unit from about 1981 into July 2007. It is now leased to an East Penn customer in Pennsylvania, while the original 44-tonner, now inoperative, is stored and slated for restoration and is in the new engine house.\n\nService is currently provided by a Canadian-built EMD GP9 (formerly Amtrak 773) which arrived in July 2007. The railroad has also leased a GE B30-7 ESPN 7811 and a B23-7 ESPN 5114 from its sister company, East Penn Railroad on October 1, 2010. 44-tonner 1 is currently stored inside the Middletown engine house while #2 was moved to the East Penn operation at Manheim, PA, where it currently operates.\n\nBecause it is a short-line railroad, the M&NJ does not ordinarily own or lease many railway cars. However, in the late 1970s, the M&NJ rostered 500 blue boxcars in length leased from NRUC, the National Railway Utilization Company. The cars were loaded with finished goods at Polytherm, then spent much of their time hauling loads in interchange service throughout the U.S. and Canada while the M&NJ collected 10% of the usage fees they generated. The boom in incentive per diem (IPD) boxcars ended by the early 1980s and the cars returned to the M&NJ which opened of unused track to store the cars until buyers could be found, a task which took almost a decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139953", "title": "Michigan (disambiguation)", "text": "Michigan (disambiguation)\n\nMichigan is a U.S. state.\n\nMichigan may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139954", "title": "I Wanna Be a Soap Star", "text": "I Wanna Be a Soap Star\n\nI Wanna Be a Soap Star is a reality television series which debuted on the cable channel SOAPnet in 2004. The show is hosted by \"All My Children\" star and ex-\"Dancing with the Stars\" participant, Cameron Mathison. It is based on the British reality series \"Soapstars\".\n\nThe first season debuted on October 16, 2004. Twelve contestants competed in various acting challenges for the prize of a role on \"General Hospital\". The performances, which involved learning how to cry on camera, filming love scenes and fight scenes, among other soap staples, were judged by film and daytime television actress Debbi Morgan, \"General Hospital\" casting director Mark Teschner and agent Michael Bruno. The show underwent some criticism when the winner, Mykel Shannon-Jenkins, was given a role as a police officer named Officer Byron Murphy that barely rose above extra status. His character was later shot and killed by Jesse Beaudry (Matt Marraccini) in July 2005.\n\nContestants for the first season included Maya Gilbert, Brianna Konefall, Alisia Geanopulos, Robyn Hyden, Mykel Shannon Jenkins, Kent Winfrey, Nick Steele, Steve (\"last name unknown\"), Jeremy (\"last name unknown\"), Michael (\"last name unknown\"), Kimberly (\"last name unknown\") and Kelly Thiebaud.\n\nThe second season debuted on June 23, 2005, this time promising a contract role on \"All My Children\". \"AMC\" casting director Judy Blye Wilson replaced Teschner as a judge. The show continued to be viewed as innocuous entertainment, but in July 2005 was criticized by \"Soap Opera Weekly\" editor Carolyn Hinsey for a segment in which all the contestants were asked difficult questions (on matters such as stem cell research) and the person who gave the least interesting answers was eliminated. Hinsey said soap reporters rarely asked questions on controversial issues and that no actor was ever fired based on giving boring interviews. The second winner of the show was Alec Musser who became the second actor on \"All My Children\" to portray Del Henry who was last played by \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" star Winsor Harmon from 1994 to 1995. He first aired on August 19, 2005.\n\nContestants for the second season included Toussaint Waterman, Prudence Zdravkovic, Alec Musser, Isaak James, Christina Fandano, Alia Urbanski, Farley Jackson, Nicole (\"last name unknown\"), Cathy (\"last name unknown\"), Maiesha (\"last name unknown\"), Sean (\"last name unknown\") and Joe (\"last name unknown\").\n\nThe third season debuted on June 8, 2006, with contestants competing for a contract with \"One Life to Live\". The winner was Mike Jerome who, unlike his predecessors, was out after his thirteen-week contract was up. Third season contestant BethAnn Bonner was offered a contract by the series, and debuted as Talia Sahid on December 21, 2006.\n\nContestants for the third season included Shamika Cotton, BethAnn Bonner, Lauren Ryland, Lindsey Spruill, Mike Jerome, Michael Albanese, Lukas Hassel, Dean Cochran, Ayinde Jones and Kelly McGarry.\n\nThe fourth and final season debuted on August 14, 2007, with the winner promised a 13-week contract on \"Days of Our Lives\". Former \"Days\" head writer Hogan Sheffer, former star Mary Beth Evans (who portrayed Kayla Johnson) and talent manager Michael Bruno served as judges. Ashlee Holland was named as the winner, and debuted on December 26, 2007 as Crystal Miller.\n\nOther contestants for the fourth season included, Jimena Hoyos (runner-up), Monica Thomas, Bo Gorman, Travis Wood, Yves Bright, Joyce Liu, Corey Shelton, Justin Kahn, and Patricia Mizen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139956", "title": "Quasi in rem jurisdiction", "text": "Quasi in rem jurisdiction\n\nA quasi in rem legal action (Latin, \"\"as if against a thing\"\") is a legal action based on property rights of a person absent from the jurisdiction. In the American legal system the state can assert power over an individual simply based on the fact that this individual has property (bank account, debt, share of stock, land) in the state. \"Quasi in rem\" jurisdiction does not have much function in the United States any longer. However, in very specific cases, quasi in rem jurisdiction can still be effective.\n\nA \"quasi in rem\" action is commonly used when jurisdiction over the defendant is unobtainable due to their absence from the state. Any judgment will affect only the property seized, as \"in personam\" jurisdiction is unobtainable.\n\nOf note, in a \"quasi in rem\" case the court may lack personal jurisdiction over the defendant, but it has jurisdiction over the defendant's property. The property could be seized to obtain a claim against the defendant. A judgment based on \"quasi in rem\" jurisdiction generally affects rights to the property only between the persons involved and does not \"bind the entire world\" as does a judgment based on \"\"jurisdiction in rem\"\".\n\nThe claim does not have to be related to the property seized, but the person must have minimum contacts with the forum state in order for jurisdiction to be proper.\n\nOn June 24, 1977, in the case of \"Shaffer v. Heitner\", 433 U.S. 186, the Supreme Court of the United States decided that the requirement that the circumstances giving rise to jurisdiction comply with the notion of \"fair play and substantial justice\" should apply to the \"quasi in rem\" jurisdiction questions. The Supreme Court significantly diminished the utility of the \"quasi in rem\" jurisdiction because if the case meets the minimum contacts, fair play and substantial justice tests, the action can be brought under the \"in personam\" jurisdiction. \"Quasi in rem\" jurisdiction, however, can still be an effective option to bring the lawsuit to a particular court because \"quasi in rem\" jurisdiction allows litigants to overcome limitations of the long-arm statute of a particular state.\n\nThere are two types of \"quasi in rem\" jurisdiction: 1) \"quasi in rem\" type 1 (QIM1); and 2) \"quasi in rem\" type 2 (QIM2). In QIM1, a plaintiff sues to secure a pre-existing claim in the subject property. For example, actions that seek quiet title against another's claim to the property. In QIM2, the plaintiff has no pre-existing claim in the subject property. That is, the property rights of the owner are not in dispute, but rather the plaintiff seeks the property so that they may satisfy a separate claim. For example, a person who walks across another's real property and falls into an open pit might have no pre-existing claim regarding the property, but may initiate a QIM2 action to redress his injury.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139960", "title": "Yobe State", "text": "Yobe State\n\nYobe is a state located in northeastern Nigeria. A mainly agricultural state, it was created on August 27, 1991. Yobe State was carved out of Borno State. The capital of Yobe State is Damaturu; its largest city in Potiskum.\n\nThe state borders four states: Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, and Jigawa. It borders to the north the Diffa and Zinder Regions of Niger. Because the state lies mainly in the dry savanna belt, conditions are hot and dry for most of the year, except in the southern part of the state which has more annual rainfall.\n\nYobe State came into being on 27 August 1991. It was carved out of the old Borno State by the Babangida administration. Yobe State was created because the old Borno State was one of Nigeria's largest states in terms of land area and was therefore considered to be too large for easy administration and meaningful development. Ethnic rivalries within the old Borno State also contributed to the decision.\n\nOn 14 May 2013, President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency in Yobe State along with nearby Borno and Adamawa States, due to the jihadist terrorist network Boko Haram's insurgency. Boko Haram's leader Abubakar Shekau was born in Shekau village of Yobe. \n\nBoko Haram's attacks in Yobe include those in Damaturu in November 2011, December 2011 and June 2012, Gadaka in December 2011, Potiskum in December 2012, November 2014 and July 2015, Mamudo in July 2013, Gujba in September 2013, Buni Yadi in February and May 2014 and Dapchi in 2018.\n\nYobe State consists of 17 local government areas (or LGAs). They are:\nWhile Yobe state is an agricultural state, it also has rich mineral deposits, including gypsum and kaolin in Fune Local Government and very rich agricultural resources as well. The state's agricultural produce include gum arabic, groundnuts, beans, and cotton. The state also has one of the largest cattle markets in West Africa, located in Potiskum.\n\nThe major ethnic groups living in Yobe State are the Kanuri and Fulani, while other major ethnic communities include Bolewa, Ngizim, Karai-Karai, Bade, Hausa, Ngamo, Shuwa, Bura, Margi and Manga.\n\nLanguages of Yobe State listed by LGA:\nPotiskum Ngizim\n\nOther languages of Yobe State are Bura-Pabir, Manga Kanuri, and Zarma.\n\nThe population is mainly Muslim. Sharia law is valid. However, there are Christians in the State, with the bulk of them from the Karai-Karai ethnic group. No Roman Catholic diocese has its seat in the state.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2139976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139976", "title": "We Are History", "text": "We Are History\n\nWe Are History is a British comedy series broadcast on the BBC. It ran for two series of six ten-minute episodes.\n\nThe series was a parody of historical and archaeological documentaries, especially those of the \"Time Team\", \"Meet the Ancestors\" and Simon Schama. Marcus Brigstocke played dubious historian David Oxley, who would attempt to 'recreate' a number of historical events in a modern setting. In one episode, he recreated the Viking invasion of Britain in \"the last bastion of Viking control\" - an IKEA store. In another, he recreated the Spanish Armada in a swimming pool with children throwing foam balls at one another.\n\nMuch of the humour derived from Oxley's singular incompetence and stupidity. He seemed totally unaware of the facts of history and often made things up as he went along. Each episode had a general theme that offered a view of history totally at odds with the known facts - such as Camelot being buried underneath Heathrow Airport or the Norman invasion being a bunch of French visitors who overstayed their welcome and got carried away. In every episode, Oxley talked of \"new evidence unearthed by local enthusiasts\".\n\nSeason 1, Episode 1: \"Boadicea: Myth or Missus?\"\nOriginal Air Date: 3 April 2000\n\nSeason 1, Episode 2: \"King Arthur: Myth or Legend?\"\nOriginal Air Date: 4 April 2000\n\nSeason 1, Episode 3: \"Our Friends in the Norse\"\nOriginal Air Date: 10 April 2000\n\nSeason 1, Episode 4: \"Hunchback!\"\nOriginal Air Date: 12 April 2000\n\nSeason 1, Episode 5: \"Armada!\"\nOriginal Air Date: 14 April 2000\n\nSeason 1, Episode 6: \"Oliver's Army\"\nOriginal Air Date: 17 April 2000\n\nSeason 2, Episode 1: \"Conquered!\"\nOriginal Air Date: 25 September 2001\n\nSeason 2, Episode 2: \"The Real Robin Hood\"\nOriginal Air Date: 2 October 2001\n\nSeason 2, Episode 3: \"Fire\"\nOriginal Air Date: 9 October 2001\n\nSeason 2, Episode 4: \"Bonnie Prince Charlie: Too Scot to Handle?\"\nOriginal Air Date: 16 October 2001\n\nSeason 2, Episode 5: \"The Industrial Revolution: Factory or Friction?\"\nOriginal Air Date: 23 October 2001\n\nSeason 2, Episode 6: \"Any Old Iron Age?\"\nOriginal Air Date: 30 October 2001\n\n"}
{"id": "2139983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139983", "title": "Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Commission", "text": "Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Commission\n\nHunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Commission, 432 U.S. 333 (1977), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously struck down a North Carolina law prohibiting the sale of apples in closed containers marked with any apple grade other than the United States Department of Agriculture grade. However, displaying the USDA grade was not required. Washington state, a major apple producer, used apple standards superior to those used by the USDA. The Court found that North Carolina's law violated the Commerce Clause by discriminating against Washington state apple producers while working to the advantage of local North Carolina apple growers.\n\nJohn R. Jordan, Jr., argued the cause for Hunt. With him on the brief were Rufus L. Edmisten, Attorney General of North Carolina, and Millard R. Rich, Jr., Deputy Attorney General. Slade Gorton, Attorney General of Washington, argued the cause for the Washington State Apple Advertising Commission. With him on the brief were Edward B. Mackie, Deputy Attorney General, and James Arneil, Special Assistant Attorney General. \n\n"}
{"id": "2139984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139984", "title": "Nocticolidae", "text": "Nocticolidae\n\nNocticolidae is a small family in the order Blattodea (cockroaches). It consists of only 32 known species in 9 genera. They are found in Africa, Asia and Australia. Most live in cave habitats, although a few are associated with termites. Cave adapted species are known from the Cenomanian aged Burmese amber, making them the oldest extant cavernicolous organisms.\n\nThe family includes the following genera:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139989", "title": "The Junkman", "text": "The Junkman\n\nThe Junkman Is a 1982 independent film which spent two years in production. To make the film, H. B. Halicki used his own personal collection of over 200 cars, toys, and guns - including Eleanor, the star of his 1974 cult classic \"Gone in 60 Seconds\".\n\n\"The Junkman\" is the second installment of Halicki's film trilogy. It presents \"Gone in 60 Seconds\" and \"Deadline Auto Theft\" as films within a film. The opening car chase sequence, which involves a 1974 Bricklin SV-1, is part of \"Deadline Auto Theft\"s storyline.\n\nHarlan B. Hollis struggles to stay alive when a jealous public relations manager hires a team of assassins to kill him. The manager, also Hollis' brother-in-law, resents Hollis for making the movie \"Gone in 60 Seconds\", which is premiering at the Cinerama Dome.\n\nThe film starts with the head hitman Frank Spyros answering a pay phone and getting instructions from a then unknown person to go ahead with a hit on Hollis as he drives to the James Dean Festival in Cholame, California. The same unknown person plays a video highlighting Hollis's life. He ejects the video and crumples up a publicity shot of Hollis.\n\nLater, Hollis is shown a picture found in the burned wreckage of one of the air covers' planes. Hollis identifies it as an unreleased publicity shot, indicating someone from inside of his own company is trying to kill him.\n\nWith the aid of the Goodyear Blimp, he travels to the Cinerama Dome, where the premiere is being held. He discovers the mystery man to be Fox, who subsequently slips off the edge of the theater roof. Clark's crew find the bomb in the limo, throw it into a parking lot, and it explodes, blowing up several cars in the process.\n\nAt the end of the film, Hollis gives his daughter Kelly a new 1982 Pontiac Trans Am for her birthday\n\nMany locals were used as extras in the movie. Most of the San Luis Obispo County sheriff deputies, Paso Robles, and Atascadero police officers in the movie were officers at the time of filming. All of the California Highway Patrol officers were professional stunt drivers. Hoyt Axton makes a special appearance as \"Captain Gibbs\"; his character would play a much larger role in Halicki's next film, \"Deadline Auto Theft\" (1983).\n\nIn 2001, Denice Shakarian Halicki, along with her business partner Michael Leone under the banner Halicki Films, released the restored film in 5.1 Dolby surround sound on DVD and VHS to American viewers. It included H. B. Halicki hosting a documentary about film making. \"The Junkman\" holds the Guinness World Record for wrecking over 150 cars, trucks, motorcycles and planes in one movie. In the DVD release, all of the rock and roll, country music soundtrack from the original film including title tracks have been completely replaced by a generic synthesizer music score. A number of dialogue changes were also made. The original version was released on video in the 1980s but is very rare today.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139991", "title": "Sinclair Inlet", "text": "Sinclair Inlet\n\nSinclair Inlet is an arm of Puget Sound in Kitsap County, Washington, USA. It is the southwestern extension of Port Orchard, and it touches the shores of three of Kitsap County's four incorporated cities: Bremerton, Bainbridge Island, and Port Orchard. It is connected to Dyes Inlet by the Port Washington Narrows and to Puget Sound by Rich Passage. It was named by United States Navy explorer Charles Wilkes for George T. Sinclair, acting master of one of his ship's crews.\n"}
{"id": "2140002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140002", "title": "Amityville II: The Possession", "text": "Amityville II: The Possession\n\nAmityville II: The Possession is a 1982 horror film directed by Damiano Damiani. The screenplay by Tommy Lee Wallace is based on the novel \"Murder in Amityville\" by the parapsychologist Hans Holzer. It is a prequel to \"The Amityville Horror\", set at 112 Ocean Avenue and featuring the fictional Montelli family loosely based on the DeFeo family. The cast includes Academy Award nominee Burt Young, who was known for \"Rocky\" at the time. This film includes one of Young's rare darker roles as he plays an abusive and sadistic father/husband. It is the second film based on the Amityville horror.\n\nAnthony Montelli and his wife, Dolores, move into the house of their dreams with their children, Sonny, Patricia, Mark, and Janice \"Jan\". Things go well at first, but everything changes after it is discovered that there is a tunnel in the basement leading into the house from an unknown place.\n\nAn evil presence is shown to be lurking within, unknown to the family. After unusual and paranormal activities, like unknown forces banging on the door at night, when nobody is outside, and an ugly demonic message painted on the wall of Janice's room, Dolores tries to have the local priest, Father Frank Adamsky, bless the house but an argument breaks out within the family shortly after Adamsky arrives. After Anthony shouts and hits the younger children, Adamsky tries to intervene but Anthony rudely orders him to leave. To Dolores' mortification, Adamsky leaves, disgusted at Anthony's behavior. He finds his car door open and the Bible on the passenger seat torn to pieces. The situation inside the home continues to deteriorate. Anthony is shown to be strict, abusive, and sacrilegious towards the Church. Dolores tries to keep things together for the youngest children. Also, Sonny and Patricia are revealed to have started to have sexual feelings for each other, due to mutual attraction that neither can act on.\n\nThe family goes to church with Anthony, so he can apologize for being rude to Adamsky. Sonny stays at home, claiming to feel unwell. He soon hears an alarming noise and goes downstairs to get his father's gun. He hears demonic laughter and follows it to the tunnel in the basement. The unseen presence pursues a frightened Sonny to his room, and he then falls victim to a demonic possession. Now possessed, Sonny approaches Patricia to play a game with him. They pretend he is a famous photographer and she is his nude model. Patricia agrees to pose naked and the pair end up having incestuous sex. Patricia is then seen at confession, confessing the act and telling the priest that he does it to \"hurt God\" but not quite revealing who the culprit is.\n\nSonny becomes more sinister and demonic, as his face starts contorting demonically. Startled, he tries to keep his family away, but is unsuccessful due to the demon's influence. On Sonny's birthday, he isolates himself from his birthday party, calls Patricia and she goes to check on him. She tells him she does not feel guilty about what they have been doing, but due to his demonic phases and his body's gradual demonic contortions, Sonny sends her away, using foul language. Patricia runs away crying, and she tries to tell Adamsky that she thinks Sonny is possessed, but he does not respond. Later that night, the evil spirit tells Sonny to \"kill them all\". Sonny goes and gets his father's rifle, and shoots his parents, Jan, Mark, and Patricia, after hunting her down.\n\nThe next day the cops arrive, pick up the bodies, and Sonny is arrested. He lies and says he does not recall killing his family. Adamsky then realizes that Sonny is possessed and asks the church if he can perform an exorcism on Sonny, but they refuse, not believing him. He takes it upon himself to perform an exorcism, without the support of the church. After freeing him from police custody, he takes Sonny to church. Sonny attacks him, and escapes after seeing the crosses on the doors. Adamsky runs after Sonny, traces him to the house, and performs the exorcism, releasing Sonny's soul. As the cops arrive, Adamsky asks Father Tom to take Sonny away from him. Tom takes Sonny outside, where the police arrest him and take him back into custody. It is revealed that the demon has transferred itself into Adamsky. Father Adamsky's fate is not revealed and eventually the house is put up for sale.\n\n\nPrincipal photography began March 8, 1982 at the same house in Toms River, New Jersey that the previous film used. After two weeks on location in New Jersey, unlike the first \"Amityville\" film, studio shooting was done in Mexico City for eight or nine weeks at Estudios Churubusco Azteca S.A.\n\nThe explosion scene at the end of the film was real during filming. A highly explosive chemical which produces flames that burn out instantly was used. During filming of the explosion scene at the end of the movie the effect reportedly backfired and burned the side of the house.\n\nGeorge Lutz wanted the sequel to the 1979 film to be based on the book \"The Amityville Horror Part II\" by John G. Jones, but the producer Dino De Laurentiis secured a deal with American International Pictures for a sequel based on \"Murder in Amityville\" by Hans Holzer. Lutz sued De Laurentiis and ultimately lost, but succeeded in having posters placed in theaters stating \"\"This film has no affiliation with George and Kathy Lutz\".\"\n\nAfter director Damiano Damiani's original cut of the film was shown to test audiences, several scenes had to be cut out for various reasons, one of them being the negative reaction of the audience to a scene in which Anthony anally rapes Dolores and another scene in which Sonny and Patricia have incestuous sex. This scene was added into the script by Damiani who wanted to really upset the viewers. The original scene was much more graphic and sexual, while in the movie it cuts to the next scene almost immediately after Sonny starts kissing Patricia. Some other deleted scenes were shown on lobby cards and stills for the movie, like a scene where Anthony is sitting outside the house drinking and cleaning a gun and a scene where Jan is pushing Mark's head under the water while he is in the bathtub. The theatrical trailer also shows a shot of Jan and Mark looking at the window and holding hands. The only deleted scene which was ever released in some form is the so-called \"Lost Souls\" scene, originally from near the end of the movie, in which souls that are within the house appear in front of Adamsky and he blesses them. No actual footage was released but a UK special collector's edition DVD includes several stills from this deleted scene.\n\n\"Amitville II: The Possession\" was distributed theatrically in the United States by Orion Pictures on 24 September 1982. The film grossed a total of $12,534,817 on its initial theatrical run.\n\nReview aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an approval rating of 11%, based on 19 reviews, with an average rating of 3.24/10. Critics thought the film used excessive effects, and found the storyline not as interesting as what it could have been. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", who gave the first film a negative review, claimed the film \"is actually slightly better than \"The Amityville Horror\"\" and mentioned some good technical credits and performances and gave the film 2 out of 4 stars. Both he and Gene Siskel selected the film as one of the worst of the year in a 1982 episode of \"Sneak Previews\". \"Variety\" complained that there are \"actually two films meandering in this mess — one a second rate horror flick about a family in peril, and another that is a slight variation on the demon-possessed \"Exorcist\" theme.\" Likewise, \"Boxoffice\" called this attempt to cash-in on the success of \"The Amityville Horror\" an \"embarrassment.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140010", "title": "Bedouin Soundclash", "text": "Bedouin Soundclash\n\nBedouin Soundclash is a Canadian band currently based in Toronto. Their sound has been described as reggae and ska. Bedouin Soundclash was formed in 2001, and has released four studio albums since its formation. The band released an album most recently in 2019, though a single was released in 2017, its first new album in almost nine years.\n\nJay Malinowski is the band's lead vocalist, while Eon Sinclair plays bass, and Chuck Treece plays drums.\n\nThe band's current lineup consists of vocalist and guitarist Jay Malinowski, and bassist Eon Sinclair with Chuck Treece on drums. Patrick Pengelly played drums for the band until 2009. The band met while attending Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. The band released their second album, \"Sounding a Mosaic\", in 2004. The album's single \"When the Night Feels My Song\" was the band's breakthrough single on Canadian radio, charting No. 1 on 102.1 The Edge CFNY and gaining airplay on commercial radio stations throughout Canada in the summer of 2005. The band released their follow-up record \"Street Gospels\" on August 21, 2007.\n\nDuring the recording of \"Sounding a Mosaic\", Bedouin Soundclash formed a close bond with producer Darryl Jenifer of Bad Brains, with whom they continue to work today. Despite drastic differences in sound, Bedouin Soundclash and Darryl Jenifer are set to release a collaborative Bad Brains vs. Bedouin Soundclash mash-up.\n\nBedouin Soundclash takes its name from a dub record by an artist named Badawi, released on ROIR records in 1996. In an early practice, Malinowski exclaimed it sounded like Bedouin Soundclash, and the name was adopted. In 2006 the band began its own imprint \"Pirates Blend\" to release their own side projects and b-sides as well as signing artists.\n\nIn the middle of 2005, Bedouin Soundclash appeared on the Vans Warped Tour bill, and had significant chart success in the UK, where \"Sounding a Mosaic\" reached No. 1 on the BBC 6 Music charts. They often perform with reggae legend Vernon Buckley from the 1970s reggae duo, The Maytones. On November 4, 2005, the band embarked on a 31-date tour of Canada.\n\nIn 2006, Bedouin Soundclash held shows with a variety of performers including Ben Harper, Damian Marley, The Skatalites, Burning Spear and The Junction. They also embarked on a sold-out tour (37 dates) across Canada November/December 2005 & UK tour January 2006\n\nThe band performed three quarters of their 1-hour headline set at the Leeds Festival in 2006, despite Jay's illness at the time. The band finished with \"When The Night Feels My Song\", which was sung entirely by the crowd (and once the band had left the stage, sung again by the crowd as a \"thank you\" to Jay for singing when he was unwell). The band came back on to listen, then Jay invited everyone to come see them again when they come back to Britain in the autumn, saying \"We owe you one.\"\n\nThey were the main performance at the September 17, 2006 Toronto rally calling for Canadian intervention in the Darfur crisis.\n\n\"When the Night Feels My Song\" becomes the No. 2 most played track on Canadian Radio competing with Nickelback's \"Photograph\" and Green Day's \"Wake Me Up When September Ends\".\n\nThe band's song \"When The Night Feels My Song\" also appears in a 2006 T-Mobile advert in the UK as well as Teton Gravity Research's ski film, Anomaly. It was also featured in a Zellers commercial in Canada, promoting the summer season of 2006. The song \"12:59 Lullaby\" was featured in an episode of Grey's Anatomy, \"Where the Boys Are\" (Season 3, seventh episode).\n\nTheir single \"St. Andrews\" became a No. 1 on major market rock station Edge 102's Top 30 Countdown. The band also appeared on the cover of \"Canadian Musician Magazine\" and in June 2007 they co-headlined Rogers Picnic with The Roots and Bad Brains.\n\nOn September 10, 2007, they played at Wilfrid Laurier University's Turret Nightclub. The crowd repeatedly asked the band to play \"Santa Monica\" off the \"Root Fire\" album. Despite the band's annoyance, and referring to the audience as \"rude\" to be yelling out requests, they played it as an encore, stating that it would most likely be the last time they ever played it live. They have yet to play it again, although Jay played a solo acoustic version at a Vancouver benefit concert for Insite on December 6, 2008, and at the 102.1 The Edge Casby Awards on October 22, 2009.\n\nThe band also performed at the 2007 V Festival in Chelmsford, Great Britain. They played several songs, including \"When The Night Feels My Song\" in the \"Virgin Mobile Union\" area. That year their video for \"Walls Fall Down\" jumped to No. 1 on MuchMoreMusic countdown, Canada's top national video channel in 2008.\n\nIn 2008, they received a prestigious \"Pop Album of the Year\" Juno Award nomination for \"Street Gospels\", alongside major international stars Celine Dion, Anne Murray, Michael Bublé and Feist. That same year \"Walls Fall Down\" received a \"Video of the Year\" Juno nomination.\n\nThey performed Japan's Summer Sonic Festival in 2008, with Coldplay, Alicia Keys and The Verve.\n\nIn 2009, Bedouin Soundclash signed on to tour alongside Paramore as the opening act for Grammy Award-winning artists No Doubt's North American Reunion Tour. They also went to do multiple performances at the Australian Soundwave Festival (NIN, Billy Talent), including city centers Melbourne and Sydney, in February 2009.\n\nOn March 6, 2009, the band premiered their new music video for the song \"Hearts in the Night\" on the website of the David Suzuki Foundation.\n\nIn August 2009, they were chosen as the Headliner at Roots and Blues Festival in Salmon Arm, British Columbia.\n\nOn January 7, 2009, drummer Pat Pengelly announced that he would be leaving Bedouin Soundclash to attend Queen's Law School. He was admitted to the Ontario Bar in 2013.\n\nIn January 2010, the band alongside their management, officially launch their new label Pirates Blend Records. They inked a distribution deal with Sony Music Canada and began with the launch of Jay Malinowski's solo effort \"Bright Lights and Bruises\". \"Bright Lights and Bruises\" was the first official release on the label.\n\nAs of February 2010, Sekou Lumumba became the official drummer of the band, starting off by joining them in Vancouver, BC for the 2010 Winter Olympic performances. After the \"Bright Lights and Bruises tour\" with Canadians Michael Rault and Kinnie Starr, Pirates Blend Records announced that King Britt was confirmed to produce the new album in Philadelphia at Larry Gold's studio in May 2010. Also at this time Bedouin officially confirmed to make their debut in Shanghai, China in October 2010 for the World Expo.\n\nOn June 18, the band performed at the 2010 Mississauga Waterfront Festival 18 at Memorial Park in Port Credit.\n\nOn September 28, 2010, the band released their fourth studio album, \"Light the Horizon\", featuring the singles \"Mountain Top\", \"Elongo\" and \"Brutal Hearts\" featuring Cœur de pirate.\n\nOn May 10, 2014, the band's original line up reunited for a performance at the Horseshoe Tavern in Toronto. The show was a cystic fibrosis fundraiser held in memory of the band's friend and agent, Paul Gourlie. In 2016, after a hiatus, the band reformed and started working on a new album in New Orleans with Preservation Hall Jazz Band and King Britt as producer. Chuck Treece joined the band on drums. In 2017, the band released \"Clock Work\", their first single in seven years.\n\nIn 2018 the band released 6 different singles throughout the year: \"Salt Water\", \"They Gutted This City\", \"When We're Gone\", \"Born Into Bad Times\", \"Drive\", and \"Holy\". They also announced on Facebook that they would have a new album out sometime in 2019.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140013", "title": "Morten Berre", "text": "Morten Berre\n\nMorten Gladhaug Berre (born 10 August 1975) is a Norwegian football coach and former player who last played for Oslo club Skeid in the 2. divisjon. With 447 top division appearances, Berre has made the second-highest number of appearances in the Norwegian top division.\n\nHe was born in Oslo and started his career at Skeid. He is best known for his spell at Vålerenga, where he stayed for 13 seasons. Berre also played for FK Haugesund and Viking as well as for German club St. Pauli. Whilst at Viking he scored one of the goals as they famously defeated Chelsea in the UEFA Cup in 2002.\n\nHe has been capped once for the Norwegian national team.\n\nViking\n\nVålerenga\n\n"}
{"id": "2140015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140015", "title": "Dog Eat Dog (Warrant album)", "text": "Dog Eat Dog (Warrant album)\n\nDog Eat Dog was the third studio album by American rock band Warrant. It was released on August 25, 1992 on the Columbia label of Sony Music. The album peaked at number 25 on The Billboard 200.\n\nThe album achieved \"gold\" status in the United States, but was significantly less successful in a commercial sense than the band's first two albums. It is, nonetheless, regarded by critics as Warrant's strongest record. The tone and style of the album could be said to be the last stage of the glam metal style during the 1980s. It is also the last album to feature all five original members.\n\nWarrant began recording bass and drums for \"Dog Eat Dog\" in Los Angeles, California in February 1992. Overdubs were recorded at \"Morrisound Studios\" in Tampa, Florida, in March 1992. The record was mixed in at Scream Studios in Studio City, California in April 1992 with producer Michael Wagener.\n\nApparently conscious of the widely circulated rumour that Joey Allen and Erik Turner had not played on the first two Warrant records, the band had Wagener include a statement in the liner notes that \"no artist, except those listed, performed on this album in any capacity whatsoever\". Jani Lane wrote in the liner notes: \"This album is dedicated to Joey Allen, one of the most under-rated guitarists in rock today.\"\n\nShortly after the release of the album, Lane discovered that a large framed poster of Warrant had been removed from the foyer in Columbia Records in Los Angeles and had been replaced by a poster of Seattle band Alice in Chains. It was at this moment, according to Lane, that he realised that \"the proverbial writing [was] on the wall\" for the band. In the absence of support from the band's label, radio and MTV, and without a major tour to support the record, sales of the album were sluggish.\n\nThe album's themes include sex (\"Machine Gun\", \"Bonfire\"), voyeurism (\"Hole in My Wall\"), Orwell style (\"April 2031\"), homicidal psychopathy (\"Andy Warhol Was Right\"), drug addiction (\"All My Bridges Are Burning\"), materialism (\"Hollywood (So Far, So Good)\"), and lost relationships (\"Bitter Pill\", \"Let It Rain\").\n\nThe song Machine Gun was the album's first single and featured a music video.\n\nThe song \"Bitter Pill\" which was the second single features an operatic interlude, performed in German by the \"Moron Fish & Tackle Choir\". The makeshift \"Choir\" consisted of security guards, engineers, janitors, and others who had been available at or near the recording studio. The song features two different music videos, one with the album version of the song featuring the whole band in the video and one with the acoustic version of the song featuring only Jani Lane in the video.\n\n\"The Hole in My Wall\" was released as the third single of the album.\n\n\"Sad Theresa\" had previously been recorded by Jani Lane and Steven Sweet's old band Plain Jane.\n\n\n\n\nHardcore punk band Dog Eat Dog named their debut album \"Warrant\" in a joking 'retaliation' for the title of this album.\n"}
{"id": "2140032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140032", "title": "AGOVV Apeldoorn", "text": "AGOVV Apeldoorn\n\nAGOVV Apeldoorn () is an association football club from Apeldoorn, Netherlands. It was established on 25 February 1913. Its professional branch was dissolved in 2013. AGOVV's male first squad plays in 2019–2020 in the Derde Klasse.\n\nThe club was founded on 25 February 1913, as AGOSV, which stood for \" Apeldoornse Geheel Onthoudersvoetbalvereniging Steeds Voorwaarts\" . When the club joined the football association of Gelderland, the club had to change its name, because there was another club called \"Steeds Voorwaarts\". The name was changed to AGOVV, or Apeldoornse Geheel Onthouders Voetbalvereniging, which means \"Apeldoorn football club for teetotallers\". The meaning of the abbreviation has since been altered. AGOVV has become \"Alleen Gezamenlijk Oefenen Voert Verder\" (Only Practising Together Brings Us Further).\n\nAGOVV became a professional (league) club in 1954, and returned to the amateur ranks in 1971 due to financial problems. On 1 July 2003, AGOVV returned to the Dutch professional league, when it was re-admitted to the Eerste Divisie. In the 2003/2004 season, forward Klaas-Jan Huntelaar became top scorer of the Eerste Divisie with 26 goals. On 11 January 2013, the professional section of AGOVV was declared bankrupt and was thus according to Dutch league rules excluded from competition, with all its previous results in the ongoing competition expunged. The professional club in its current form ceased to exist, with all its players (and staff) becoming free agents. \n\nThe amateur section of AGOVV is continuing. It currently plays in the Derde Klasse which is the eighth level of Dutch football.\n\n\nBelow is a table with AGOVV's domestic results since the introduction of professional football in 1956.\n\nThe Vitesse/AGOVV jeugdopleiding (English: Vitesse/AGOVV Youth Academy) was officially founded in 2005, when the youth academies of AGOVV and Vitesse Arnhem merged. The newly formed academy received the official regional youth academy status from the KNVB and was based on the structure of the former Vitesse youth academy, with the addition of various AGOVV youth players and staff members. The cooperation between AGOVV and Vitesse was terminated as of July 2013, where the academy continued solely as Vitesse's youth academy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140034", "title": "Germain Grisez", "text": "Germain Grisez\n\nGermain Gabriel Grisez (September 30, 1929 – February 1, 2018) was a French-American philosopher. Grisez's development of ideas from Thomas Aquinas has redirected Catholic thought and changed the way it has engaged with secular moral philosophy. In 'The First Principle of Practical Reason: A Commentary on the \"Summa Theologiae\", I-II, Q. 94, A. 2' (1965) Grisez attacked the neo-scholastic interpretation of Aquinas as holding that moral norms are derived from methodologically antecedent knowledge of human nature. Grisez defended the idea of metaphysical free choice, and proposed a natural law theory of practical reasoning and moral judgement which, although broadly Thomistic, departs from Aquinas on significant points.\n\nThrough the prism of his reworking of Thomas Aquinas's take on natural law theory, Grisez also was one of the most outspoken and forceful defenders of traditional views on contested matters in sexual morality, such as birth control and abortion. He also wrote influential articles on biotechnology and how such technologies could be used either to support palliative care and the dignity of life or speed up the end of life. \n\nGrisez was the Most Rev. Harry J. Flynn Professor of Christian Ethics at Mount St. Mary's University in Emmitsburg, MD from 1979 to his retirement in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140038", "title": "Watch with Mother", "text": "Watch with Mother\n\nWatch with Mother was a cycle of children's programmes created by Freda Lingstrom and Maria Bird. Broadcast by BBC Television from 1952 until 1975, it was the first BBC television series aimed specifically at pre-school children, a development of BBC radio's equivalent \"Listen with Mother\", which had begun two years earlier. In accordance with its intended target audience of pre-school children viewing with their mothers, \"Watch with Mother\" was initially broadcast between 3:45 pm and 4:00 pm, post-afternoon nap and before the older children came home from school.\n\nThe choice of \"Watch with Mother\" for the title of the series was intended \"to deflect fears that television might become a nursemaid to children and encourage 'bad mothering.\n\nAlthough \"Andy Pandy\" had been regularly broadcast every week since mid-1950 (normally on Tuesdays), and was joined by \"Flower Pot Men\" in December 1952 (normally on Wednesdays), the name \"Watch with Mother\" was not adopted until January 1953, shortly before the programming was expanded to three afternoons a week with the addition of \"Rag, Tag and Bobtail\" that September. The \"classic\" cycle of shows was in place by September 1955, with the first showing of \"The Woodentops\".\n\nBroadcast at 1:30 pm each day, it comprised:\n\n\nEach of the five classic shows actually consisted of only a very small number of episodes, all made on film – and all in black-and-white. Typically, not more than 26 programmes were filmed for each show, this being sufficient for a run of six months as there was only one broadcast per week. The aim was to provide children's programming on the cheap: the BBC Children's department had an extremely tiny budget, and needed a collection of films which could be endlessly repeated, typically in six-monthly cycles, for its undemanding pre-school age audience.\n\nFrom April 1963, Watch with Mother was moved to 10.45am (with a further slot at 1.30pm from September 1963). \"Tales of the Riverbank\" joined the Watch with Mother slot in December 1963.\n\n\nThe original programmes had a loyal following, and there was concern when it was learned that they would be replaced by new programmes, as in 1965 when it was (wrongly) rumoured that the new show, \"Camberwick Green\", would replace \"Andy Pandy\" and \"Flower Pot Men\". \"Camberwick Green\" eventually was slotted in the Monday slot in January 1966 and saw an end to \"Picture Book\". Eventually, new programmes were added, including \"Tales of the Riverbank\", \"Pogles' Wood\", \"The Herbs\", \"Joe\", the Trumptonshire trilogy, \"Barnaby\", \"Mary, Mungo and Midge\", \"Fingerbobs\", \"Bod\", and \"Bizzy Lizzy\".\n\nIn 1975, the \"Watch with Mother\" title was dropped, as it was considered to be dated, and the strand was known as \"See-Saw\" from 1980 to 1990. A \"Watch with Mother\" video became a best-seller in 1987, and was followed by a second and a third in 1989 and a fourth in 1993.\n\nA 45rpm promotional single was available to radio disc jockeys, for promo only, entitled \"Flob-A-Dob-A-Ben\", in 1987. The single was not released on general release and was played often as a novelty record by Radio Trent on the \"Andy Marriott Television Show\". As the shows were a great success – and fondly remembered by many – modern incarnations of \"Andy Pandy\" and \"Flower Pot Men\" have been produced.\n\nUnder British law, copyright in TV programmes lasts for 50 years from the date of first broadcast. As such, surviving episodes first transmitted between 1950 and are slowly appearing on the Internet Archive.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the shows Andy Pandy and Bill and Ben were remade as stop motion animations, which aired on CBeebies.\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2140062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140062", "title": "The Woodentops (TV series)", "text": "The Woodentops (TV series)\n\nThe Woodentops is a children's television series first shown on BBC Television in 1955. Created by Freda Lingstrom and Maria Bird, it featured on the Friday edition of \"Watch with Mother\" and regularly repeated until 1973. The main characters are the members of a middle-class family living on a farm. The aim of the programme was to teach pre-school children about family life.\n\nThe children, Jenny and Willy, were twins. They spoke, walked and did many things together.\n\nOther characters included:\n\nScripts and music: Maria Bird\nPuppeteers: Audrey Atterbury, Molly Gibson and Gordon Murray\nVoices: Eileen Browne, Josephina Ray, Peter Hawkins \nDesigns: Barbara Jones\n\n1. Introduction (9 September 1955)<br>2. Boats and Pigs <br>3. Horse<br>4. Spotty’s Paw<br>5. Spotty’s Sheep<br>6. Spotty’s Joke<br>7. Dog Washing<br>8. Injured Bird<br>9. Bird Set Free<br>10. Twins’ Holiday<br>11. Soap Box<br>12. Baby’s Bath<br>13. Surprises<br>14. Show<br>15. Party<br>16. Buttercup<br>17. Belling the Cow<br>18. Hayfield<br>19. Horse Shoe (14 March 1958)<br>20. Steam Roller<br>21. Geese<br>22. Ducks<br>23. Pram<br>24. Dinner Bell<br>25. Sacks<br>26. Paper Hats\n\nThe Woodentops was filmed in a tin shed at the BBC's Lime Grove Studios. The narrator/storyteller for all episodes, who also provided the dialogue for Mummy Woodentop, was Maria Bird who, typical of BBC presenters of the time, spoke with Received Pronunciation. Daddy Woodentop, being a farmer, spoke with a noticeable West Country accent.\nAlthough set on a farm, at an unspecified location, each episode began with the whole family being introduced as they sat in front of a tall curtain, apparently on a stage. Episodes closed with the family grouped in the same pose, with the word \"GOODBYE\" superimposed above.\n\nThe music at the beginning and end of each story is taken from the 22nd piece (\"So lokka me over den myra\") of the set of 25 Norwegian folk songs and dances for piano, Opus 17 by Edvard Grieg. This music, which is quite short in duration, is called \"Kulokk\", which translates to \"Cattle-Call\". It is divided into two sections, the first of which is used for the introduction and the second part for the end of each story. It occasionally appears as a leitmotif in the stories, hummed by Mummy Woodentop from time to time.\n\nIn 1983 the original puppets were stolen from the BBC. They were spotted a year later in an auction room in London and returned. The puppets are now in the Museum of London's permanent collection.\n\nIn 2009 the Woodentops appeared in The Official BBC Children in Need Medley music video which reached No.1 in the UK singles chart. Daddy and Mummy Woodentop appeared in the video; Jenny appears on the front cover of the CD and DVD but not in the music video.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140063", "title": "Larry Brown", "text": "Larry Brown\n\nLarry Brown may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140069", "title": "Caslon", "text": "Caslon\n\nCaslon is the name given to serif typefaces designed by William Caslon I (c. 1692–1766) in London, or inspired by his work.\n\nCaslon worked as an engraver of punches, the masters used to stamp the moulds or matrices used to cast metal type. He worked in the tradition of what is now called old-style serif letter design, that produced letters with a relatively organic structure resembling handwriting with a pen. Caslon established a tradition of engraving type in London, which previously had not been common, and was influenced by the imported Dutch Baroque typefaces that were popular in England at the time. His typefaces established a strong reputation for their quality and their attractive appearance, suitable for extended passages of text.\n\nThe letterforms of Caslon's roman, or upright type include an 'A' with a concave hollow at top left and a 'G' without a downwards-pointing spur at bottom right. The sides of the 'M' are straight. The 'W' has three terminals at the top and the 'b' has a small tapered stroke ending at bottom left. Ascenders and descenders are relatively short and the level of stroke contrast is modest in body text sizes. However, Caslon created subtly different designs of letter at different sizes, with increasing levels of fine detail and sharp contrast in stroke weight at larger sizes. Caslon's larger-size roman fonts have two serifs on the 'C', while his smaller-size versions have one half-arrow serif only at top right. In italic, Caslon's \"h\" folds inwards and the \"A\" is sharply slanted. The \"Q\", \"T\" \"v\", \"w,\" and \"z\" all have flourishes or swashes in the original design, something not all revivals follow. The italic \"J\" has a crossbar and a rotated casting was used by Caslon in many sizes on his specimens to form the pound sign.\n\nCaslon's typefaces were popular in his lifetime and beyond, and after a brief period of eclipse in the early nineteenth century returned to popularity, particularly for setting printed body text and books. Many revivals exist, with varying faithfulness to Caslon's original design. Modern Caslon revivals also often add features such as a matching boldface and 'lining' numbers at the height of capital letters, neither of which were used in Caslon's time. William Berkson, designer of a revival of Caslon, describes Caslon in body text as \"comfortable and inviting\".\n\nCaslon began his career in London as an apprentice engraver of ornamental designs on firearms and other metalwork. According to printer and historian John Nichols, the main source on Caslon's life, the accuracy of his work came to the attention of prominent London printers, who advanced him money to carve steel punches for printing, first for exotic languages and then as his reputation developed for the Latin alphabet. Punchcutting was a difficult technique and many of the techniques used were kept secret by punchcutters or passed on from father to son. Caslon would later follow this practice himself, according to Nichols teaching his son his methods privately while locked in a room where nobody could watch them. As British printers had little success or experience of making their own types, they were forced to use equipment bought from the Netherlands, or France, and Caslon's types are therefore clearly influenced by the popular Dutch typefaces of his period. James Mosley summarises his early work: \"Caslon's pica...was based very closely indeed on a pica roman and italic that appears on the specimen sheet of the widow of the Amsterdam printer Dirck Voskens, c.1695, and which Bowyer had used for some years. Caslon's pica replaces it in his printing from 1725…Caslon's Great Primer roman, first used in 1728, a type that was much admired in the twentieth century, is clearly related to the Text Romeyn of Voskens, a type of the early seventeenth century used by several London printers and now attributed to the punch-cutter Nicolas Briot of Gouda.\" Mosley also describes several other Caslon faces as \"intelligent adaptations\" of the Voskens Pica.\n\nCaslon's type rapidly built up a reputation for workmanship, being described by Henry Newman in 1733 as \"the work of that Artist who seems to aspire to outvying all the Workmen in his way in Europe, so that our Printers send no more to Holland for the Elzevir and other Letters which they formerly valued themselves much.\" Mosley describes Caslon's Long Primer No. 1 type as \"type with generous proportions and it was normally cast with letter-spacing that was not too tight, characteristics that are needed in types on a small body. And yet it is so soundly made that words that are set in it keep their shape and are comfortably readable...It is a type that works best in the narrow measure of a two-column page or in quite modest octavos.\" Caslon sold a French Canon face he did not engrave that may to have been the work of Joseph Moxon with some modifications, and his larger-size faces follow this high-contrast model. He publicised his type through contributing a specimen sheet to Chambers' \"Cyclopedia, which has often been often cut out by antiquarian book dealers and sold separately.\n\nCompared to the more delicate, stylised and experimental \"transitional\" typefaces gaining ground in mainland Europe during Caslon's life, notably the \"romain du roi\" type of the previous century, the work of Pierre-Simon Fournier in Paris, Fleischmann in Amsterdam and the Baskerville type of John Baskerville in Birmingham that appeared towards the end of Caslon's career, Caslon's type was quite conservative. Johnson notes that his 1764 specimen \"might have been produced a hundred years earlier\". Stanley Morison described Caslon's type as \"a happy archaism\".\n\nWhile not used extensively in Europe, Caslon types were distributed throughout the British Empire, including British North America, where they were used on the printing of the U.S. Declaration of Independence. After William Caslon I’s death, the use of his types diminished, but had a revival between 1840–80 as a part of the British Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nBesides regular text fonts, Caslon cut blackletter or 'Gothic' types (and sold some earlier ones from older foundries), which were also printed on his specimen. These could be used for purposes such as title pages, emphasis and drop caps. Bold type did not exist in Caslon's time, although some of his larger-size fonts are quite bold.\n\nOne criticism of some Caslon-style typefaces has been a concern that the capitals are too thick in design and stand out too much, making for an uneven colour on the page. Printer and typeface designer Frederic Goudy was a critic: \"the strong contrast between the over-black stems of the capitals and the light weight stems in the lower-case...makes a 'spotty' page\". He cited dissatisfaction with the style as an incentive for becoming more involved in type design around 1911, when he created Kennerley Old Style as an alternative.\nCaslon's types fell out of interest in the late eighteenth century, to some extent first due to the arrival of \"transitional\"-style typefaces like Baskerville and then more significantly with the growing popularity of \"Didone\" or modern designs in Britain, under the influence of the quality of printing achieved by printers such as Bodoni. His type foundry remained in business at Chiswell Street, London, but began to sell alternative and additional designs, some cut by his son William Caslon II. His grandson, William Caslon III, broke away from the family to establish a competitor foundry at Salisbury Square, by buying up the company of the late Joseph Jackson. Justin Howes suggests that there may have been some attempt to update some of Caslon's types towards the newer style starting before 1816, noting that Caslon type cast by the 1840s included \"a handful of sorts, Q, [an open-form italic] \"h, ſh, Q, T\" and \"Y\", which would have been unfamiliar to Caslon, and which may have been cut at the end of the eighteenth century in a modest attempt to bring Old Face up to date. The \"h, ſh\" and \"T\" are to be seen [in a book from] 1816, large parts of which appear to have been printed from well-worn standing type.\"\n\nEven as Caslon's type itself largely fell out of use, his reputation remained strong within the printing community. The printer and social reformer Thomas Curson Hansard wrote in 1825:\n\nAt the commencement of the 18th century the native talent of the founders was so little prized by the printers of the metropolis, that they were in the habit of importing founts from Holland, ...and the printers of the present day might still have been driven to the inconvenience of importation had not a genius, in the person of William Caslon, arisen to rescue his country from the disgrace of typographical inferiority.\n\nSimilarly, Edward Bull in 1842 called Caslon \"the great chief and father of English type.\"\n\nInterest in eighteenth-century printing returned in the nineteenth century with the rise of the arts and crafts movement, and Caslon's types returned to popularity in books and fine printing among companies such as the Chiswick Press, as well as display use in situations such as advertising.\nFine printing presses, notably the Chiswick Press, bought original Caslon type from the Caslon foundry; copies of these matrices were also made by electrotyping. From the 1860s new types began to appear in a style similar to Caslon's, starting from Miller & Richard's Modernised Old Style of c. 1860. The Caslon foundry itself covertly cut new swash capitals and replaced some sizes with new, cleaner versions.\n\nIn the United States, Caslons became almost a genre, modified expanded with new styles such as bold, condensed, inline or with modifications such as shortened descenders to fit American common line, or lining figures. Many foundries cut (or, in many cases, pirated) their own versions. By the 1920s, American Type Founders offered a large range of styles, some numbered rather than named. (Bookman Old Style is a descendant of one of these American Caslon revivals. A series of modifications has given most modern Bookman digitisations a somewhat exaggerated appearance with extremely high x-height very unlike the original Caslon.) The hot metal typesetting companies Linotype, Monotype, Intertype and Ludlow, which sold machines that cast type under the control of a keyboard, brought out their own Caslon releases.\nAccording to book designer Hugh Williamson, a second decline in Caslon's popularity in Britain did, however, set in during the twentieth century due to the arrival of revivals of other old-style and transitional designs from Monotype and Linotype. These included Bembo, Garamond and related faces such as Plantin, Baskerville and Times New Roman.\n\nCaslon type again entered a new technology with phototypesetting, mostly in the 1960s and 1970s, and then again with digital typesetting technology. There are many typefaces called \"Caslon\" as a result of that and the lack of an enforceable trademark on the name \"Caslon\" by itself, which reproduce the original designs in varying degrees of faithfulness.\n\nMany of Caslon's original punches and matrices survived in the collection of the Caslon company (along with many replacement and additional characters), and are now part of the St Bride Library and Type Museum collections in Britain. Copies held by the Paris office of the Caslon company, the Fonderie Caslon, were transferred to the collection of the Musée de l'Imprimerie in Nantes. Scholarly research on Caslon's type has been carried out by historians including Alfred F. Johnson, Harry Carter, James Mosley and Justin Howes.\n\nThe H.W. Caslon & Sons foundry reissued Caslon’s original types as Caslon Old Face from the original (or, at least, early) matrices. The last lineal descendant of Caslon, Henry William Caslon, brought in Thomas White Smith as a new manager shortly before Caslon's death in 1874. Smith took over the company and instructed his sons to change their surnames to Caslon in order to provide an appearance of continuity. The foundry operated an ambitious promotional programme, issuing a periodical, \"Caslon's Circular\". It continued to issue specimens from top printers including George W. Jones until the 1920s.\n\nSome Caslon faces were augmented by adding new features, in particular swash capitals for historicist printing. From around 1887 the type was sold with additional swash capitals. Howes describes these as \"based rather closely on François Guyot's [popular 22pt] italic of around 1557...found in English printing until the early years of the eighteenth century.\" From around 1893 the company started to additionally recut some letters to make the type more regular and create matrices which could be cast by machine. Due to the cachet of the Caslon name, some of the recuttings and modifications of the original Caslon types were apparently not publicly admitted. The H.W. Caslon company also licensed to other printers matrices made by electrotyping, although some companies may also have made unauthorized copies.\n\nIn 1937, the H.W. Caslon & Sons foundry was also acquired by Stephenson Blake & Co, who thereafter added 'the Caslon Letter Foundry' to their name.\n\nThe hot metal typesetting companies Monotype and Linotype offered \"Caslon Old Face\" releases that were based (or claimed to be based) on Caslon's original typefaces. Linotype's has been digitised and released by Bitstream.\n\nCaslon #471 was the release of the \"original\" Caslon type sold by American Type Founders. American Type Founders advertised it as \"the Caslon Oldstyle Romans and Italics precisely as Mr. Caslon left them in 1766. It was apparently cast from electrotypes held by American Type Founders' precursors. Thomas Maitland Cleland drew a set of additional swash capitals.\n\nCaslon 540 was a second American Type Founders version with shortened descenders to allow tighter linespacing. The italic was distributed by Letraset with a matching set of swashes. As a result, this often became sold or used without the regular or roman style of this revival.\n\nA slighter bolder version of Caslon 540, released by American Type Founders in 1905. BitStream sells Caslon 3 under the name of Caslon Bold with its Caslon 540 release. Russian studio ParaType have released both with Cyrillic glyphs.\n\nA decorative openface serif typeface with very high ascenders, popular in the United States. Despite the name, it has no connection to Caslon: it was an import of the French typeface \"Le Moreau-le-Jeune\", created by Fonderie Peignot in Paris, by ATF branch Barnhart Brothers & Spindlers.\n\nThe British Monotype company produced three Caslon revivals.\n\nA more regular adaptation of Caslon by the British branch of Monotype was commissioned by the London publishers of \"The Imprint\", a short-lived printing trade periodical that published during 1913. It had a higher x-height and was intended to offer an italic more complementary to the roman. It has remained popular since and has been digitised by Monotype.\n\nLudlow had a wide variety of Caslon-types.\n\nA heavy version of Caslon 540, released by American Type Founders in 1966.\n\nCaslon 223 and 224 were phototypesetting families designed by Ed Benguiat of Lubalin, Smith, Carnase and then ITC. Like many ITC families, they have an aggressive, advertising-oriented bold structure, not closely related to Caslon's original work. 223 was the first version (named for LSC's street number), a companion version with more body text-oriented proportions followed sequentially numbered 224.\n\nAdobe Caslon is a very popular revival designed by Carol Twombly. It is based on Caslon's own specimen pages printed between 1734 and 1770 and is a member of the Adobe Originals programme. It added many features now standard in high-quality digital fonts, such as small caps, old style figures, swash letters, ligatures, alternate letters, fractions, subscripts and superscripts, and matching ornaments.\n\nAdobe Caslon is used for body text in \"The New Yorker\" and is one of the two official typefaces of the University of Virginia. A modification is used on U. VA's logo. It is also available with Adobe's Typekit programme, in some weights for free.\n\nBig Caslon by Matthew Carter is inspired by the \"funkiness\" of the three largest sizes of type from the Caslon foundry. These have a unique design with dramatic stroke contrast, complementary but very different from Caslon's text faces; one was apparently originally created by Joseph Moxon rather than Caslon. The typeface is intended for use at 18pt and above. The standard weight is bundled with Apple's macOS operating system in a release including small caps and alternates such as the long s. Initially published by his company Carter & Cone, in 2014 Carter revisited the design adding bold and black designs with matching italics, and republished it through Font Bureau. It is used by \"Boston\" magazine and the \"Harvard Crimson\".\n\nLTC Caslon is a digitisation of the Lanston Type Company's 14 point size Caslon 337 of 1915 (itself a revival of the original Caslon types). This family include fonts in regular and bold weights, with fractions, ligatures, small caps (regular and regular italic only), swashes (regular italic weight only), and Central European characters. A notable feature is that like some hot metal releases of Caslon, two separate options for descenders are provided for all styles: long descenders (creating a more elegant designs) or short (allowing tighter linespacing).\n\nTo celebrate its release, LTC included in early sales a CD of music by The William Caslon Experience, a downtempo electronic act, along with a limited edition upright italic design, 'LTC Caslon Remix'.\n\nA modern attempt to capture the spirit of Caslon by William Berkson, intended for use in body text. Although not aimed at being fully authentic in every respect, the typeface closely follows Caslon's original specimen sheet in many respects. The weight is heavier than many earlier revivals, to compensate for changes in printing processes, and the italic is less slanted (with variation in stroke angle) than on many other Caslon releases. Berkson described his design choices in an extensive article series.\n\nReleased by Font Bureau, it includes bold and bold italic designs, and a complete feature set across all weights, including bold small caps and swash italic alternates as well as optional shorter descenders and a 'modernist' italic option to turn off swashes on lower-case letters and reduce the slant on the 'A' for a more spare appearance. It is currently used in \"Boston\" magazine and by \"Foreign Affairs\".\n\nA notable feature of Caslon's structure is its widely splayed 'T', which can space awkwardly with an 'h' afterwards. Accordingly, an emerging tradition among digital releases is to offer a 'Th' ligature, inspired by the tradition of ligatures in calligraphy, though itself not a historical type ligature, to achieve tighter letterspacing. Adobe Caslon, LTC Caslon, Williams Caslon and Big Caslon (italics only, in the Font Bureau release) all offer a 'Th' ligature as default or as an alternate.\n\nA number of Caslon revivals are 'distressed' in style, adding intentional irregularities to capture the worn, jagged feel of metal type.\n\nITC Founder's Caslon was digitized by Justin Howes. He used the resources of the St Bride Library in London to thoroughly research William Caslon and his types. Unlike previous digital revivals, this family closely follows the tradition of building separate typefaces intended for different sizes. Distressing varies by style, matching the effect of metal type, with large optical sizes offering the cleanest appearance.\n\nThis family was released by ITC in December 1998. Following the original Caslon types, it does not include bold typefaces, but uses old style figures for all numbers.\n\nFollowing the release of ITC Founder's Caslon, Justin Howes revived the H.W. Caslon & Company name, and released an expanded version of the ITC typefaces under the Founders Caslon name.\n\nCaslon Old Face is a typeface with multiple optical sizes, including 8, 10, 12, 14, 18, 22, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 60, 72, 96 points. Each font has small capitals, long esses and swash characters. The 96 point font came in roman only and without small capitals. Caslon Old Face was released in July 2001.\n\nCaslon Ornaments is a typeface containing ornament glyphs.\n\nThese typefaces are packaged in the following formats:\n\nHowever, following the death of Justin Howes, the revived H.W. Caslon & Company went out of business.\n\nAn exuberant parody of Caslon italics created by Mark Andresen, this 1995 Emigre font was created by blending together samples of Caslon from \"bits and pieces of dry transfer lettering: flakes, nicks, and all\".\n\nThis 2006 creation by P22 is based on the pages produced by Benjamin Franklin circa 1750. It has a distressed appearance.\n\nThis decorative serif typeface was originally called Fifteenth Century, but later renamed Caslon Antique. It is not generally considered to be a member of the Caslon family of typefaces, because its design appears unrelated, and the Caslon name was only applied retroactively.\n\nThe following two authors based their writings entirely on these three publications.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140071", "title": "Made (TV series)", "text": "Made (TV series)\n\nMTV's MADE is a self-improvement reality television series broadcast on MTV. The series follows teens who have a goal and want to be \"made\" into things like singers, athletes, dancers, skateboarders, etc.. The teens are joined by a \"Made Coach\", an expert in their chosen field, who tries to help them attain their goals over the course of several weeks. \"Made\" documents the process the teens undergo as they try to achieve their goal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140083", "title": "Nicholas Hryhorczuk", "text": "Nicholas Hryhorczuk\n\nNicholas Apoluner Hryhorczuk (December 17, 1888 – November 23, 1979) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1920 to 1936, and again from 1941 to 1945. He was the first person of Ukrainian descent to serve as an MLA in Manitoba.\n\nBorn in Buchachky (now in Sniatyn Raion, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast), Ukraine, Hryhorczuk came to Canada in 1897 with his family, who settled north of Gilbert Plains, Manitoba. He was educated at Kolomyja Public School. In 1911, he moved to Ethelbert, where he worked as a merchant. Hryhorczuk married Nelly Dzaman in 1905. From 1917 to 1919, he served as reeve of Ethelbert municipality. Hryhorczuk was a member of the Canadian Foresters.\n\nHryhorczuk was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1920 provincial election. Running as an \"Independent Farmer\", he was easily elected in the Ethelbert constituency. In the 1922 election, he was nominated as a candidate of the United Farmers of Manitoba (UFM) and was re-elected without opposition in a deferred election.\n\nThe UFM won the 1922 election, and formed government as the Progressive Party of Manitoba. Hyrhorczuk rallied support for John Bracken to serve as Premier of Manitoba, and later became a backbench supporter of Bracken's government. He was re-elected in the provincial elections of 1927 and 1932.\n\nPrior to the 1932 election, the Progressive Party formed an alliance with the Manitoba Liberal Party. This alliance soon took the form of a merger, and government members became known as \"Liberal-Progressives\".\n\nHryhorczuk was unexpectedly defeated in the 1936 provincial election by William Lisowsky, a candidate of the Manitoba Social Credit League. Lisowsky did not seek re-election in the 1941 election, however, and Hryhorczuk was narrowly returned over Fred Zaplitny of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation (CCF).\n\nIn the 1945 provincial election, CCF candidate Michael Sawchuk defeated Hryhorczuk by 338 votes. This ended Hryhorczuk's career in politics. His son, Michael N. Hryhorczuk, later served in the legislature from 1949 to 1966.\n\nThe elder Hryhorczuk retired from business in 1978, the same year that his son died, and died the following year at age 90.\n"}
{"id": "2140087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140087", "title": "Saigon Kick", "text": "Saigon Kick\n\nSaigon Kick is an American rock band from Miami, Florida, that formed in 1988.\n\nThe band was formed by lead vocalist Matt Kramer and guitarist Jason Bieler along with bassist Sean Puckett and drummer Phil Varone.\nThey gained a following on the local club scene and generated enough of a buzz to be signed to Third Stone Records in 1990.\nDuring the recording of their first album Puckett left and was replaced by Tom DeFile.\nTheir self-titled album was released in 1991, and they toured at length, but the album only made a marginal national showing.\n\nThey went immediately back into the studio to record their second album, \"The Lizard\" which was released in 1992.\nThe album spawned the band's biggest hit single, \"Love Is on the Way\", which garnered initial airplay on South Florida's WSHE.\nJust before touring for the album commenced, bassist Tom DeFile was fired.\nHe was replaced by ex-Cold Sweat bassist Chris McLernon.\nThey toured from summer 1992 to spring 1993, enjoying gold status sales for \"The Lizard\".\n\nLooking to continue their momentum, the band quickly returned to Sweden to record their third album \"Water\" in 1993. During recording, Matt Kramer became disgruntled with the direction that the band was heading both musically and stylistically. Kramer also argued that there were financial disputes within the band and tensions reached a boiling point. He officially left the band mid-session and returned to Florida. With Kramer gone, Bieler decided to take over all of the vocal duties in addition to playing guitar on the album. Finishing touches were added to the album at sessions in Tampa, Florida. Guitarist Pete Dembrowski was hired in time for the band's fall 1993 tour to support the new album. \"Water\" sold significantly less than the previous album, and Atlantic decided to drop the band in 1994.\n\nThe band signed to the CMC International label in 1995, and the lineup of Bieler, McLernon, Varone, and Dembrowski released their fourth album \"Devil in the Details\" that same year. Saigon Kick then toured to large success globally, particularly in South East Asia, but they never managed to build on the success of \"The Lizard\" in the USA.\n\nIn July 1997, the band attempted a reunion with Matt Kramer on lead vocals. Phil Varone had already left the band and was replaced by drummer Ricky Sanders. This became the first 5 piece version of the band, consisting of Kramer, Bieler, McLernon, Dembrowski and Sanders. A new song was recorded called \"Dizzy's Vine\" which was released on \"Moments from the Fringe\", a compilation album of demos and rare tracks. This lineup was quite short lived however, with Bieler leaving after only two live shows in their home state of Florida, effectively ending the reunion.\n\nBieler, Dembrowski, and Sanders would record the final Saigon Kick album, \"Bastards\" for release in the Far East in 1999. The three then decided to retire the Saigon Kick name and reorganize as Super TransAtlantic.\n\nIn 2000, original members Kramer, Varone, and DeFile resurrected the Saigon Kick name for a short tour. Jason Bieler, being involved with Super TransAtlantic and wanting no part of a reunion, was replaced by DeFile's former Left For Dead bandmate Jeff Blando on guitar. After the tour, the members scattered and Saigon Kick were considered finished.\n\nBieler, Dembrowski, and Sanders, along with bassist Pat Badger of Extreme, formed Super TransAtlantic and released the band's only album \"Shuttlecock\" in 2000. They also appear on the soundtrack to the film \"American Pie\" with the song \"Super Down\".\n\nMatt Kramer released his debut solo album titled \"War & Peas\" on September 11, 2002 through Lascivious Records. He also published his debut book of poetry, \"An American Profit\", on October 31, 2007 through Lascivious Books. Kramer has 3 additional books finished and slated for release in the future.\n\nPhil Varone joined Skid Row bassist Rachel Bolan's side project Prunella Scales in 1997 and recorded their album \"Dressing Up The Idiot\". He then joined Skid Row in 2000 and can be heard on the band's album \"Thickskin\". Varone left Skid Row in 2003, citing his ongoing battle with cocaine addiction and his need to turn his life around. Afterwards, he began promoting his movie \"Waking up Dead\" in which a film crew chronicled several years of his life as a rock star, and the behind the scenes ups and downs that come with it. His focus is no longer primarily music, and up until the summer of 2010, he was booking and hosting stand-up comedy shows in Los Angeles. In the fall of 2010, Varone moved to Las Vegas and directed a video series for pornography studio Vivid Entertainment. He also has a signature adult toy line released by California Exotics Novelties.\n\nChris McLernon and Ricky Sanders teamed up to form Two Heads Music, working in television, film and advertising music production.\n\nJason Bieler and his brother Aaron now own a recording studio and record label in South Florida called Bieler Bros. Records.\n\nRicky Sanders is currently the touring drummer for former Bad Company lead singer Brian Howe.\n\nBeginning in 2011, Jason Bieler began a new studio-only project named Owl Stretching. It is an ongoing project with songs available for download on Bandcamp and iTunes.\n\nOn 21 September 2012, via the official Saigon Kick page on Facebook, the following message was posted:\n\"Saigon Kick will be reuniting with all of the original members Matt Kramer, Phil Varone, Jason Bieler, Tom Defile and Chris McLernon. Dates to be announced shortly.\" The band has discussed the possibility of new material.\n\nOn 25 February 2013, via the official Saigon Kick page on Facebook, they announced that Tom Defile was no longer involved with the reunion in a statement that read \"\"After the official Saigon Kick reunion announcement and rehearsals, we regret to announce that Tom Defile will not be continuing with the band. Tom and Saigon Kick amicably decided this is best for both parties and we wish him nothing but success in his future endeavors.\"\"\n\nA string of concerts were played in March / April 2013 in Orlando, Ft. Lauderdale, St. Petersburg, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, and New York City.\n\nAn additional pair of shows were announced for December 2014 - in Las Vegas and St. Petersburg. These shows are significant in the band's history as they saw the return of original bassist Tom Defile to stand in for Chris McLernon. The Las Vegas concert was the first performance by all four of Saigon Kick's original members in 22 years.\n\nOn May 12, 2015, the band announced that drummer Phil Varone was leaving the group, and would be replaced by Jonathan Mover for the band's scheduled 2015 live dates. Three days later, bassist Chris McLernon had announced that he was leaving the band.\n\n\n\n\n<div class=\"left\" >\n\n"}
{"id": "2140092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140092", "title": "Surplus product", "text": "Surplus product\n\nSurplus product (German: \"Mehrprodukt\") is an economic concept explicitly theorised by Karl Marx in his critique of political economy. Marx first began to work out his idea of surplus product in his 1844 notes on James Mill's \"Elements of political economy\".\n\nNotions of \"surplus produce\" have been used in economic thought and commerce for a long time (notably by the Physiocrats), but in \"Das Kapital\", \"Theories of Surplus Value\" and the \"Grundrisse\" Marx gave the concept a central place in his interpretation of economic history. Nowadays the concept is mainly used in Marxian economics, political anthropology, cultural anthropology, and economic anthropology.\n\nThe frequent translation of the German \"Mehr\" as \"surplus\" makes the term \"surplus product\" somewhat inaccurate, because it suggests to English speakers that the product referred to is \"unused\", \"not needed,\" or \"redundant,\" while most accurately \"Mehr\" means \"more\" or \"added\"—thus, \"Mehrprodukt\" refers really to the \"additional\" or \"excess\" product produced. In German, the term \"Mehrwert\" most literally means value-added, a measure of net output, (though, in Marx's particular usage, it means the surplus-value obtained from the use of capital, i.e. it refers to the net addition to the value of capital owned).\n\nIn \"Theories of Surplus Value\", Marx says in classical economics the \"surplus\" referred to \"an excess of gross income over cost\", which implied that the value of goods sold was greater than the value of the costs involved in producing or supplying them. That was how you could \"make money\". The surplus represented a net addition to the stock of wealth. A central theoretical question was then to explain the kinds of influences on the size of the surplus, or how the surplus originated, since that had important consequences for the funds available for re-investment, tax levies, the wealth of nations, and (especially) economic growth.\n\nThis was theoretically a confusing issue, because sometimes it seemed that a surplus arose out of clever trading in already existing assets, while at other times it seemed that the surplus arose because new value was added in production. In other words, a surplus could be formed in different ways, and one could get rich either at the expense of someone else, or by creating more wealth than there was before, or by a mixture of both. This raised the difficult problem of how, then, one could devise a system for grossing and netting incomes & expenditures to estimate only the value of the new additional wealth created by a country. For centuries, there was little agreement about that, because rival economists each had their own theory about the real sources of wealth-creation—even if they might agree that the value of production must equal the sum of the new revenue which it generates for the producers.\n\nPolitical economy was originally considered to be a \"moral science\", which arose out of the moral and juridical ambiguities of trading processes themselves. It was analytically difficult to take the step from the incomes of individuals, the immediate source of which was rather obvious, to a consideration of the incomes of groups, social classes and nations. Somehow, a \"system of transactors\" showing aggregate sales and purchases, costs and incomes had to be devised, but just exactly how that system was put together, could differ a great deal, depending on \"from whose point of view\" the transactions were considered. The Physiocratic school, for example, believed that all wealth originated from the land, and their social accounting system was designed to show this clearly.\n\nIn \"Das Kapital\" and other writings, Marx divides the new \"social product\" of the working population (the flow of society's total output of new products in a defined time-interval) into the \"necessary product\" and the \"surplus product\". Economically speaking, the \"necessary\" product refers to the output of products and services necessary to maintain a population of workers and their dependents at the prevailing standard of life (effectively, their total reproduction cost). The \"surplus\" product is whatever is produced in excess of those necessaries. Socially speaking, this division of the social product reflects the respective claims which the labouring class and the ruling class make on the new wealth created.\n\nStrictly speaking, however, such an abstract, general distinction is a simplification, for at least three reasons.\n\n\nThe concept of a social surplus product seems very simple and straightforward at first sight, but for social scientists it is actually a quite complex concept. Many of the complexities are revealed when they try to measure the surplus product of a given economic community.\n\nIn producing, people must continually maintain their assets, replace assets, and consume things but they also can create more beyond those requirements, assuming sufficient productivity of labour.\n\nThis social surplus product can be:\n\nThus, for a simple example, surplus seeds could be left to rot, stored, eaten, traded for other products, or sown on new fields. But if, for example, 90 people own 5 sacks of grain, and 10 people own 100 sacks of grain, it would be physically impossible for those 10 people to use all that grain themselves—most likely they would either trade that grain, or employ other people to farm it. Since 5 sacks of grain are insufficient for 90 people, it is likely that the 90 people would be willing to work for the 10 people who own more grain than they can consume, in order to get some extra grain.\n\nIf the surplus product is simply held in reserve, wasted or consumed, no economic growth (or enlarged economic reproduction) occurs. Only when the surplus is traded and/or reinvested does it become possible to increase the scale of production. For most of the history of urban civilisation, excess foodstuffs were the main basis of the surplus product, whether appropriated through trade, tribute, taxation, or some other method.\n\nIn Marxism, the existence of a \"surplus product\" normally assumes the ability to perform surplus labour, i.e. extra labour beyond that which is necessary to maintain the direct producers and their family dependents at the existing standard of life. In \"Capital\", Vol. 1, chapter 9, section 4, Marx actually defines the capitalist surplus product exclusively in terms of the relationship between the \"value of necessary labour and surplus labour\"; at any one time, this surplus product is lodged simultaneously in money, commodities (goods), and claims to labour-services, and therefore is not simply a \"physical\" surplus product (a stockpile of additional goods).\n\nIn Marx's view, as he expresses it in the Grundrisse all economising reduces to the economy of human labour-time. The greater human productivity is, the more time there is—potentially—to produce more than is necessary to simply reproduce the population. Alternatively, that extra time can be devoted to leisure, but who gets the leisure and who gets to do the extra work is usually strongly influenced by the prevailing power and moral relations, not just economics.\n\nThe corollary of increasing wealth in society, with rising productivity, is that human needs and wants expand. Thus, as the surplus product increases, the necessary product per person also increases, which usually means an increase in the standard of living. In this context, Marx distinguishes between the \"physical\" minimum requirements for the maintenance of human life, and a \"moral-historical\" component of earnings from work.\n\nThis distinction is however somewhat deceptive, for several reasons.\n\nFor most of human prehistory, Marxian writers like Ernest Mandel and V. Gordon Childe argued, there existed no economic surplus product of any kind at all, except very small or incidental surpluses.\n\nThe main reasons were:\n\n\nThe formation of the first permanent surpluses are associated with tribal groups who are more or less settled in one territory, and stored foodstuffs. Once some reserves and surpluses exist, tribes can diversify their production, and members can specialise in producing tools, weapons, containers, and ornaments. Modern archaeological findings show that this development actually began in the more complex hunter-gatherer (foraging) societies. The formation of a reliable surplus product makes possible an initial technical or economic division of labour in which producers exchange their products. In addition, a secure surplus product makes possible population growth, i.e. less starvation, infanticide, or abandonment of the elderly or infirm. Finally, it creates the material basis for a social hierarchy, where those at the top of the hierarchy possess prestige goods which commoners do not have access to.\n\nThe first real \"take off\" in terms of surpluses, economic growth, and population growth probably occurred during what V. Gordon Childe called the neolithic revolution, i.e. the beginning of the widespread use of agriculture, from about 12,000 to 10,000 years ago onward, at which time the world population is estimated to have been somewhere between 1 and 10 million.\n\nArchaeologist Geoffrey Dimbleby comments:\n\nAs regards extraction of a surplus from the working population (whether as a tax, a tribute, a rent or some other method), modern anthropologists and archaeologists distinguish between \"staple finance\" and \"wealth finance\". They do not like the term \"surplus product\" anymore, because of its Marxist connotations and definitional controversies, but it boils down to the same thing.\n\n\nThe system of surplus-extraction might also be a mix of staple finance and wealth finance. The use of the term \"finance\" for the appropriation of a surplus is just as troublesome as the term \"surplus product\". Commoners required to pay a levy, tax or tribute to the landowners, on pain of imprisonment or death, obviously are not making an \"investment\" for which they get a return, but instead are forced to pay the cost of using a piece of land they do not own.\n\nThe increasing economic division of labour is closely associated with the growth of trade and goes together with an increasing a social division of labour. As Ashley Montagu puts it, \"barter, trade, and commerce largely depend on a society's exchangeable surpluses.\" One group in society utilizes its position in society (e.g. the management of reserves, military leadership, religious authority, etc.) to gain control over the social surplus product; as the people in this elite group assert their social power, everyone else is forced to leave the control over the surplus product to them. Although there is considerable controversy and speculation among archaeologists about how exactly these early rulers came to power (often because of a lack of written records), there is good evidence to suggest that the process does occur, particularly in tribal communities or clans which grow in size beyond 1,500 or so people.\n\nFrom that point on, the surplus product is formed within a \"class\" relationship, in which the exploitation of surplus labour combines with active or passive \"resistance\" to that exploitation.\n\nTo maintain social order and enforce a basic morality among a growing population, a centralized state apparatus emerges with soldiers and officials, as a distinct group in society which is subsidized from the surplus product, via taxes, tributes, rents and confiscations (including war booty). Because the ruling elite controls the production and distribution of the surplus product, it thereby also controls the state. In turn, this gives rise to a moral or religious ideology which \"justifies\" superior and inferior positions in the division of labour, and explains why some people are naturally entitled to appropriate more resources than others. Archaeologist Chris Scarre comments:\n\nArchaeologist Bruce G. Trigger comments:\n\nGiven the rather low labour-productivity of agrarian societies, a proportionally large amount of (surplus-)labour was needed in the ancient world to produce a relatively small amount of physical surplus.\n\nArchaeologist Brian M. Fagan comments:\n\nAccording to Gil Stein, the earliest known state organizations emerged in Mesopotamia (3700 BC), Egypt (3300 BC), the Indus Valley (2500 BC) and China (1400 BC). In various parts of the world, e.g. Africa and Australasia, tribal societies and chiefdoms persisted for much longer before state formation occurred. Many modern states originated out of colonialism. For example, the British empire at its largest contained a quarter of the world population. Many of the colonized countries originally did not have a state apparatus, only chiefdoms.\n\nThe \"size\" of the surplus product, based on a certain level of productivity, has implications for how it can possibly be shared out. Quite simply, if there is not enough to go around, it cannot be shared equally. If 10 products are produced, and there are 100 people, it is fairly obvious they cannot all consume or use them; most likely, some will get the products, and others must do without. This is according to Marx and Engels the ultimate \"reason\" for socioeconomic inequality, and why, for thousands of years, all attempts at an egalitarian society failed. Thus they wrote:\n\nBut it would be erroneous to \"simply\" infer the pattern of socioeconomic inequality from the size of the surplus product. That would be like saying, \"People are poor because they are poor\". At each stage of the development of human society, there have always been different possibilities for a more equitable distribution of wealth. Which of those possibilities have been realised is not just a question of technique or productivity, but also of the assertion of power, ideology, and morals within the prevailing system of social relations governing legitimate cooperation and competition. The wealth of some may \"depend\" on the poverty of others.\n\nSome scarcity is truly \"physical\" scarcity; other scarcity is purely \"socially constructed\", i.e. people are excluded from wealth not by physical scarcity but through the way the social system functions (the system of property rights and distributing wealth that it has). In modern times, calculations have been done of the type that an annual levy of 5.2% on the fortunes of the world's 500 or so billionaires would be financially sufficient to guarantee essential needs for the \"whole world population\". In money terms, the world's 1,100 richest people have almost twice the assets of the poorest 2.5 \"billion\" people representing 40% of the world population. In his famous book \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\", Thomas Piketty suggests that if present trends continue, there will be an even more gigantic concentration of wealth in the future.\n\nIn that case, there is no real \"physical\" scarcity with regard to the goods satisfying basic human needs anymore. It's more a question of political will and social organisation to improve the lot of the poor, or, alternatively, for the poor to organise themselves to improve their lot.\n\nThe category of surplus product is a transhistorical economic category, meaning it applies to any society with a stable division of labour, and a significant labour productivity, \"regardless\" of how exactly that surplus product is produced, what it consists of, and how it is distributed. That depends on the social relations and relations of production specific to a society, within the framework of which surplus labour is performed. Thus, the exact forms taken by the surplus product are specific to the type of society which creates it.\n\nIf we plotted economic growth or population growth rates on a graph from, for example, the year zero, we would obtain a tangent curve, with the sharp bend occurring in the 19th century. Within the space of 100 years, a gigantic increase in productivity occurred with new forms of technology and labor-cooperation. This was, according to Marx, the \"revolutionary\" aspect of the capitalist mode of production, and it meant a very large increase in the surplus product created by human labour. Marx believed it could be the material basis for a transition to communism in the future, a form of human society in which all could live to their potential, because there was enough to satisfy all human needs for everybody.\n\nEconomic historian Paul Bairoch comments:\n\nEconomic historian Roberto Sabatino Lopez adds that:\n\nSpecific to the surplus product within capitalist society, as Marx discusses in Das Kapital, are these main aspects (among others):\n\n\nMarx believed that, by splitting purely economic-commercial considerations off from legal-moral, political or religious considerations, capitalist society for the first time in history made it possible to express the \"economic\" functions applying to all types of society in their purest forms. In pre-capitalist society, \"the economy\" did not exist as a separate abstraction or reality, any more than long-term mass unemployment existed (other than in exceptional cases, such as wars or natural disasters). It is only when the \"cash nexus\" mediates most resource allocation, that \"the economy\" becomes viewed as a separate domain (the domain of commercial activity), quantifiable by means of money-prices.\n\nA socialist society, Marxian economists argue, also has a surplus product from an economic point of view, insofar as more is produced than is consumed. Nevertheless, the creation and distribution of the surplus product would begin to operate under different rules. In particular, how the new wealth is allocated would be decided much more according to popular-democratic and egalitarian principles, using a variety of property forms and allocative methods that have proved practically to correspond best to meeting the human needs of all. 20th century experience with economic management shows that there is a broad scala of possibilities here; if some options are chosen, and others not, this has more to do with who holds political power than anything else.\n\nThe magnitude of the surplus product can be estimated in stocks of physical use-values, in money prices, or in labour hours.\n\nIf it is known:\n\n\nthen measures of the necessary product and surplus product can in principle be estimated.\n\nHowever it is never possible to obtain mathematically exact or fully objective distinctions between necessary and surplus product, because social needs and investment requirements are always subject to moral debate and political contests between social classes. At best, some statistical \"indicators\" can be developed. In Das Kapital, Marx himself was less concerned with measurement issues than with the social relations involved in the production and distribution of the surplus product.\n\nEssentially the techniques for estimating the size of the surplus product in a capitalist economy are similar to those for measuring surplus-value. However, some components of the surplus product may not be marketed products or services. The existence of markets always presupposes a lot of non-market labour as well. A physical surplus product is not the same as surplus \"value\", and the magnitudes of surplus product, surplus labour and surplus value may diverge.\n\nAlthough it is nowadays possible to measure the number of hours worked in a country with reasonable accuracy, there have been few attempts by social statisticians to estimate the surplus product in terms of labour hours.\n\nVery interesting information has become available from time use surveys however on how people in society on average spend their time. From this data, it is evident just how much modern market economies in reality depend on the performance of \"unpaid\" (i.e. volunteered) labour. That is, the forms of labour that are the subject of commercial exploitation are quantitatively only a sub-set of the \"total\" labour which is done in a society, and depend on non-market labour being performed.\n\nThis in turn creates a specific and characteristic way in which different labour activities are \"valued\" and prioritised. Some forms of labour can command a high price, others have no price at all, or are priceless. Nevertheless, all labor in capitalist society is influenced by value relations, irrespective of whether a price happens to be imputed to it or not. The \"commercial\" valuation of labor may not necessarily say anything though about the \"social\" or \"human\" valuation of labor.\n\nMarxian theory suggests decadence involves a clear waste of a large part of the surplus product from any balanced or nuanced human point of view, and it typically goes together with a growing indifference to the wellbeing and fate of other human beings; to survive, people are forced to shut out from their consciousness those horrors which are seemingly beyond their ability to do anything about anymore.\nMarx & Engels suggest in \"The German Ideology\" that in this case the productive forces are transformed into destructive forces.\n\nAccording to Marxian theory, decaying or decadent societies are defined mainly by the fact that:\n\n\nMarxian scholars such as Ernest Mandel argued this condition typically involves a stalemate in the balance of power between social classes, none of which is really able to assert its dominance, and thus able to implement a constructive programme of action that would ensure real social progress and benefit the whole population. According to Herbert Marcuse, a society is \"sick\" if its basic institutions and relationships are such that they make it impossible to use resources for the optimal development of human existence.\n\nHowever, there is a lot of controversy among historians and politicians about the existence and nature of decadence, because \"value judgements\" and biases about the meaning of human progress are usually involved. In different periods of history, people have defined decadence in very different ways. For example, hedonism is not necessarily decadent; it is decadent only within a certain context. Thus, accusations of decadence may be made which only reflect a certain \"moral feeling\" of social classes, not a true objective reality.\n\n\n\n\nAdam Smith found the origin of the division of labour in the \"natural\" human propensity to truck, barter and exchange. He stated that \"the certainty of being able to exchange all that surplus part of the produce of his own labour, which is over and above his own consumption, for such parts of the produce of other men's labour as he may have occasion for, encourages every man to apply himself to a particular occupation, and to cultivate and bring to perfection whatever talent or genius he may possess for that particular species of business\".\n\nIn Marx's view, commercial trade powerfully stimulated the growth of a surplus product, not because the surplus product is itself \"generated\" by trade, or because trade itself \"creates wealth\" (wealth has to be \"produced\" before it can be distributed or transferred through trade), but rather because the final purpose of such trade is capital accumulation, i.e. because the aim of commercial trade is to grow richer out of it, to accumulate wealth. If traders did not get an income out of trading (because their sales revenue exceeds their costs) they would not engage in it. Income growth can, ultimately, only occur if the total stock of assets available for distribution itself grows, as a result of more being produced than existed before. The more surplus there is, the more there is that can be appropriated and traded in order to make money out of it. If people just consume what they produce themselves, other people cannot get rich from that.\n\nThus, because the accumulation of capital normally stimulates the growth of the productive forces, this has the effect that the size of the surplus product which can be traded will normally grow also. The more the trading network then expands, the more complex and specialized the division of labour will become, and the more products people will produce \"which are surplus to their own requirements\". Gradually, the old system of subsistence production is completely destroyed and replaced with commercial production, which means that people must then necessarily trade in order to meet their needs (\"market civilization\"). Their labour becomes \"social labour\", i.e. co-operative labour which produces products for others—products which they don't consume themselves.\n\nIt is, of course, also possible to amass wealth simply by \"taking it off other people\" in some way, but once this appropriation has occurred, the source of additional wealth vanishes, and the original owners are no longer so motivated to produce surpluses, simply because they know their products will be taken off them (they no longer reap the rewards of their own production, in which case the only way to extract more wealth from them is by \"forcing\" them to produce more). It's like killing the goose that lays the golden egg.\n\nIn \"The Wealth of Nations\" Adam Smith had already recognized the central importance of the division of labour for economic growth, on the ground that it increased productivity (\"industriousness\" or \"efficiency\"), but, Marx suggests, Smith failed to theorize clearly \"why\" the division of labour stimulated economic growth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140108", "title": "Kutama", "text": "Kutama\n\nThe Kutama (Berber: \"Iktamen\") was a Berber tribe in northern Algeria classified among the Berber confederation of the Bavares. The Kutama are attested much earlier, in the form \"Koidamousii\" by the Greek geographer Ptolemy.\n\nThe Kutama played a pivotal role during the Fatimid Caliphate (909–1171), forming the Fatimid army which eventually overthrew the Aghlabids who controlled Ifriqiya, and which then went on to conquer Egypt and the southern Levant in 969–975. The Kutama remained one of the mainstays of the Fatimid army until well into the 11th century. Their role in the dynasty was so great that Ibn Khaldun counted the dynasty among the Berber dynasties.\n\nThe Kutama are attested in the form \"Koidamousii\", by the Greek geographer Ptolemy, whose African documentation seems to date from the years 100-110. They were then in the region of the Ampsaga river (oued el-Kebir) in Mauretania Caesariensis. He locates them upstream of the \"Khitouae\" tribe and downstream of the \"Todoukae\" tribe, themselves located near the sources of the river. In the second century, they formed part of the Bavares tribal confederation, which gave a hard time to the Roman power, both in Mauretania Caesarean, then Sitifian after 303, and in Numidia. This political and military opposition did not prevent a certain romanization, at least punctually, thus the creation of the milestone \"respublica Vahartanensium\", probably linked to the need for a road crossing of the massif which is hardly attested until the reign of Hadrian. In 411, their chief town Ceramusa or Ceramudensis plebsis is attested as the seat of a bishopric. The same episcopal seat was occupied by a certain Montanus of Cedamusa during the vandal era. In the 6th century, during the byzantine rule, the kutama are attested by a Christian inscription, where a king of the \"Ucutumani\"—the Berber prefix u- is indicating parentage—is said in Latin \"Dei servus\" (slave of God). This inscription was discovered at the Fdoulès pass, south of Igilgili, at one of the last passes before the descent to Milevum.\n\nThe oldest accounts of the muslim conquest of the Maghreb, Ibn Abd al-Hakam and Khalifah ibn Khayyat, do not speak of them, any more than al-Ya'qubi (d. 897) and Ibn al-Faqih (d. after 903). Their name appears for the first time among that of other Berber tribes in the \"al-Masālik\" of Ibn Khordadbeh (d. 885). The tribe was not very important at that time.\n\nThe Kutama probably had embraced Islam, first in its Kharidjite version, a little before the middle of the 8th century. The fact remains that in 757-758 AD, during the capture of Kairouan by the Ibadites, Kutama were among the Kharidjite troops, allied with Abu al-Khattab al-Ma'afiri and Abd al-Rahman ibn Rustam. The latter, then governor of Kairouan, appointed one of their own, Uqayba, to head it.\n\nLittle is known about the Kutama for the rest of the eighth century, after the advent of the Aghlabids at Kairouan in 789. The Kutama contented themselves with ignoring the Aghlabid authorities and welcoming the rebel soldiers in their inaccessible mountains. Their large population and the isolation in their mountains caused them not to suffer any oppression on the part of this dynasty.\n\nAt the end of the 9th century, in 893-894, some Kutama notables met in Mecca the \"da'i\" Abu Abdallah al-Shi'i who attracted them to Shi'ism, and accompanied them on their return. In Ikjan, their chief-town, the \"da'i\" managed to win the sympathy of the population. Through all the trials, they would form the pillar of the Fatimid Caliphate. It was probably around this time that their geographic and human extension began. The territory that the Kutama occupied from this time seems much more extensive than it was in Roman times; it then encompassed the northern mountain ranges that stretch from Bougie to around Constantine, which al-Bakri calls \"Jabal Kutama\", \"the mountains of the Kutama\". This area, limited to the west by the country of Zouaoua (Kabylie of Djurdjura, Soummam valley and Bejaia region), extended south to Sétif, Mila, Constantine, Collo and Jijel. It was made up of the Petite Kabylie, the Collo Massif, part of the chain of Bibans, the mountains of Ferjioua, the numidic chain. This region has an extremely rugged terrain, with a steep coast, bordered by wooded mountains of very difficult access, the gaps being extremely rare, with mountains reaching almost 2000 m. The villages are perched on peaks and ridges that are difficult to access. The region presents itself as an almost impenetrable natural fortress.\n\nLater the Kutama were established further south in the plains. This extension suggests that, taking advantage of the weaknesses of the central government, the Kutama had reconstituted under their own name the old Bavares confederation, had extended to the south by reclaiming the fringe of the high plains bordering the southern flank of their mountains (Mila, Sétif regions, etc), an area favorable to the cultivation of cereals, of which their ancestors had been deprived in Roman times, for the benefit of Romano-Berber cities.\n\nAbu Abdallah formed a powerful army and launched his troops against the Aghlabid fortresses erected in the Petite Kabylie region. A first attack failed, the \"da'i\" after occupying Mila in 902, was defeated by the son of the emir Ibrahim II, who however did not succeed in pursuing him until Ikjan. The Kutama were able to adapt and constitute a formidable militia. Under the orders of Abu ‘Abdallah, they took Sétif in 904, Belezma in 905, then Béja, against superior armies in number and armament. In 907/908 they attacked Ifriqiya. After the capiltulation of Meskiana and Tébessa, they captured Constantine. Abu 'Abdallah defeated the army of Ziyadat Allah III at al-Urbus, a city in Ifriqiya; the Aghlabids, defeated on all sides, abandoned by their followers, fled to the East. The victors entered Kairouan, parading in Raqqada on March 909. \n\nThe \"da'i\" proclaimed an amnesty, but distributed the spoils among his forces. Assured of the victory, he revealed the name of his master, Abdallah al-Mahdi Billah, and went to Sijilmassa, where he was held, to escort him to Kairouan. On the way, the Kutama army conquered the Rustamid imamate and drove the Ibadis from Tiaret, who went to take refuge in Sadrata, the capital of Ouargla oasis. The Mahdi entered Kairouan in December 909/January 910. Shortly after, he had Sicily conquered, and fought in Calabria.\n\nThe Fatimids, with their Kutama army under Jawhar al-Siqilli (the Sicilian) conquered Egypt in 969. A new Fatimid capital named al-Qahira (Cairo), meaning \"the Victorious\" was founded.\n\nThe Kutamas installed a military camp near Cairo, forming a formidable military power in the service of the Fatimid Caliph. They led later expeditions to Damascus against the Abbasids. The district Kotama \"El-Hai Kotamiyine\" in Cairo and the Maghreb area of \"Al-Harat Maghariba\" in Damascus, still testify to the influence of this tribe whose members were, during different periods, repressed by the Abbasids and their allies. Saladin overthrew the Fatimids in 1171 and returned Egypt to Sunni Abbasid allegiance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140110", "title": "Surplus labour", "text": "Surplus labour\n\nSurplus labour (German: \"Mehrarbeit\") is a concept used by Karl Marx in his critique of political economy. It means labour performed in excess of the labour necessary to produce the means of livelihood of the worker (\"necessary labour\"). The \"surplus\" in this context means the \"additional\" labour a worker has to do in his/her job, beyond earning his own keep. According to Marxian economics, surplus labour is usually uncompensated (unpaid) labour.\n\nMarx explains the origin of surplus labour in the following terms:\n\nThe historical emergence of surplus labour is, according to Marx, also closely associated with the growth of trade (the economic exchange of goods and services) and with the emergence of a society divided into social classes. As soon as a permanent surplus product can be produced, the moral-political question arises as to how it should be distributed, and for whose benefit surplus-labour should be performed. The strong defeat the weak, and it becomes possible for a social elite to gain control over the surplus-labour and surplus product of the working population; they can live off the labour of others.\n\nLabour which is sufficiently productive so that it can perform surplus labour is, in a cash economy, the material foundation for the appropriation of surplus-value from that labour. How exactly this appropriation will occur, is determined by the prevailing relations of production and the balance of power between social classes. \n\nAccording to Marx, capital had its origin in the commercial activity of \"buying in order to sell\" and \"rents\" of various types, with the aim of gaining an income (a surplus value) from this trade. But, initially, this does not involve any capitalist mode of production; rather, the merchant traders and rentiers are \"intermediaries\" between non-capitalist producers. During a lengthy historical process, the old ways of extracting surplus labour are gradually replaced by \"commercial\" forms of exploitation.\n\nIn Das Kapital Vol. 3, Marx highlights the central role played by surplus labour:\n\nThis statement is a foundation of Marx's historical materialism insofar as it specifies what the class conflicts in civil society are ultimately about: an economy of time, which compels some to do work of which part or all of the benefits go to someone else, while others can have leisure-time which in reality depends on the work efforts of those forced to work. \n\nIn modern society, having work or leisure may often seem a choice, but for most of humanity, work is an absolute necessity, and consequently most people are concerned with the real benefits they get from that work. They may accept a certain rate of exploitation of their labour as an inescapable condition for their existence, if they depend on a wage or salary, but beyond that, they will increasingly resist it. Consequently, a morality or legal norm develops in civil society which imposes \"limits\" for surplus-labour, in one form or another. Forced labour, slavery, gross mistreatment of workers etc. are no longer generally acceptable, although they continue to occur; working conditions and pay levels can usually be contested in courts of law.\n\nMarx acknowledged that surplus labour may not just be appropriated directly in \"production\" by the owners of the enterprise, but also in \"trade\". This phenomenon is nowadays called unequal exchange. Thus, he commented that:\n\nIn this case, more work effectively exchanges for less work, and a greater value exchanges for a lesser value, because some possess a stronger market position, and others a weaker one. For the most part, Marx assumed equal exchange in Das Kapital, i.e. that supply and demand would balance; his argument was that even if, ideally speaking, no unequal exchange occurred in trade, and market equality existed, exploitation could nevertheless occur within capitalist relations of production, since the value of the \"product\" produced by labour power exceeded the value of labour power itself. Marx never completed his analysis of the world market however. \n\nIn the real world, Marxian economists like Samir Amin argue, unequal exchange occurs all the time, implying \"transfers\" of value from one place to another, through the trading process. Thus, the more trade becomes \"globalised\", the greater the \"intermediation\" between producers and consumers; consequently, the intermediaries appropriate a growing fraction of the final value of the products, while the direct producers obtain only a small fraction of that final value. \n\nThe most important unequal exchange in the world economy nowadays concerns the exchange between agricultural goods and industrial goods, i.e. the terms of trade favour industrial goods against agricultural goods. Often, as Raul Prebisch already noted, this has meant that more and more agricultural output must be produced and sold, to buy a given amount of industrial goods. This issue has become the subject of heated controversy at recent WTO meetings.\n\nThe practice of unequal or unfair exchange does not presuppose the capitalist mode of production, nor even the existence of money. It only presupposes that goods and services of unequal value are traded, something which has been possible throughout the whole history of human trading practices.\n\nAccording to economist Fred Moseley, \"neoclassical economic theory was developed, in part, to attack the very notion of surplus labour or surplus value and to argue that workers receive all of the value embodied in their creative efforts.\"\n\nSome basic modern criticisms of Marx's theory can be found in the works by Pearson, Dalton, Boss, Hodgson and Harris (see references).\n\nThe analytical Marxist John Roemer challenges what he calls the \"fundamental Marxian theorem\" (after Michio Morishima) that the existence of surplus labour is the necessary and sufficient condition for profits. He proves that this theorem is logically false. However, Marx himself never argued that surplus labour was a \"sufficient\" condition for profits, only an ultimate \"necessary\" condition (Morishima aimed to prove that, starting from the existence of profit expressed in price terms, we can deduce the existence of surplus value as a logical consequence). Five reasons were that: \n\n\nAll that Marx really argued was that surplus labour was a \"necessary feature\" of the capitalist mode of production as a general social condition. If that surplus labour did not exist, other people could not \"appropriate\" that surplus labour or its products simply through their ownership of property.\n\nAlso, the amount of unpaid, voluntary and housework labour performed outside the world of business and industry, as revealed by time use surveys, suggests to some feminists (e.g. Marilyn Waring and Maria Mies) that Marxists may have overrated the importance of industrial surplus labour performed by salaried employees, because the very ability to perform that surplus-labour, i.e. the continual reproduction of labour power depends on all kinds of supports involving unremunerated work (for a theoretical discussion, see the reader by Bonnie Fox). In other words, work performed in households—often by those who do not sell their labour power to capitalist enterprises at all—contributes to the sustenance of capitalist workers who may perform little household labour.\n\nPossibly the controversy about the concept is distorted by the enormous differences with regard to the world of work: \n\n\nCountries differ greatly with respect to the way they organise and share out work, labour participation rates, and paid hours worked per year, as can be easily verified from ILO data (see also Rubery & Grimshaw's text). The general trend in the world division of labour is for hi-tech, financial and marketing services to be located in the richer countries, which hold most intellectual property rights and actual physical production to be located in low-wage countries. Effectively, Marxian economists argue, this means that the labour of workers in wealthy countries is valued higher than the labour of workers in poorer countries. However, they predict that in the long run of history, the operation of the law of value will tend to equalize the conditions of production and sales in different parts of the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140123", "title": "Frank Catalanotto", "text": "Frank Catalanotto\n\nFrank John Catalanotto (born April 27, 1974) is an American former professional baseball player. He is the current head coach of the New York Institute of Technology college baseball team. The Long Island native batted left-handed and threw right-handed. In his career, Catalanotto played all infield and outfield positions except shortstop and center field.\n\nCatalanotto began his professional baseball career in 1992 when the Detroit Tigers—who first noticed him while scouting higher-profile players at a Smithtown East baseball game in 1991—drafted him in the tenth round of the 1992 Major League Baseball draft. Primarily a second baseman in the minors, he made his major league debut at second base on September 3, 1997. While in Detroit, Catalanotto battled injuries and a lack of playing time, and never recorded a season of 300 at bats for the Tigers. Detroit general manager Randy Smith chose not to protect Catalanotto in the 1996 Rule 5 draft, and he was selected by the Oakland Athletics, spending spring training with them. Catalanotto did not make the Athletics squad and was returned to the Tigers for the 1997 season.\n\nAs a reserve, Catalanotto logged significant time not only at second base, but at first base and third base as well. Over his three-year span in Detroit, he was the most often used pinch hitter for the Tigers, leading the American League (AL) in pinch-hit at bats in the 1998 season.\n\nOn November 2, 1999, Catalanotto was part of an eight player trade between the Tigers and the Texas Rangers. In the deal, he was dealt to Texas along with pitchers Francisco Cordero and Justin Thompson, catcher Bill Hasselman, and a minor leaguer for slugging outfield star Juan González, catcher Gregg Zaun, and pitcher Danny Patterson.\n\nCatalanotto made a splash to start to his Rangers career, collecting ten hits and three walks in thirteen consecutive plate appearances from April 21 to May 18, 2000. This streak stands as the Rangers franchise record for consecutive appearances reaching base. He also tied the club's record for hits in a single game (five) on May 17.\n\nAfter another season plagued by injuries in 2000, Catalanotto finally burst onto the scene in 2001 when he finished fifth in the AL in batting average (.330), and recorded a .431 batting average in August. He also logged a number of innings in the outfield, a position he had fielded for only one inning before 2001. Catalanotto battled injuries again in 2002, and the Rangers declined to offer him a contract in the 2003 offseason.\n\nOn May 1, 2004, against the Chicago White Sox, he set the Blue Jays record for hits in a game, going 6 for 6 in the second game of a double-header.\n\nCatalanotto was named AL player of the week after hitting .500 in the last week of the 2005 season helping him finish with an average of .301. He also won the AL player of the week on July 25, 2005.\n\nOn June 5, 2005, at Oakland, he collected the 700th hit of his major league career and on September 22 he scored the 400th run of his career against Seattle.\n\nOn November 19, 2006, the Texas Rangers announced that they had reacquired Catalanotto, signing him to a three-year contract worth $13.5 million.\n\nCatalanotto was released by the Rangers on April 1, 2009.\n\nOn May 12, the Milwaukee Brewers signed Catalanotto to a minor league contract. On May 25, his contract was purchased from the Double-A Huntsville Stars.\n\nCatalanotto wore the number 20 for the first few games in 2009, until switching to the released Brad Nelson's number 27 on June 1.\n\nOn January 30, 2010, Catalanotto signed a minor league contract with the New York Mets with an invitation to spring training.\n\nOn May 10, 2010, the Mets announced that Catalanotto had been designated for assignment, a move that he felt might signal \"the end of [his MLB] career\". Chris Carter was brought up from the Buffalo Bisons to fill Catalanotto's roster spot.\n\nCatalanotto retired on March 6, 2011.\n\nCatalanotto was hired on June 7, 2018 as the head coach of the New York Institute of Technology college baseball team. In his first season in 2019, he led his team to a 32-14 record and a berth in the East Coast Conference tournament.\n\nCatalanotto is an honorary chairman for the Vascular Birthmarks Foundation and participates in Little League Baseball programs. He is the president of the Frank Catalanotto Foundation.\n\nHe and his wife, Barbara, have four children: Morgan, Camdyn, Karson and Gracyn. Morgan was born with a vascular birthmark that spread across her face when she was just two weeks old. This is the reason the Catalanotto's have become honorary chairs for the Vascular Birthmarks Foundation and started the Frank Catalanotto Foundation.\n\nDespite not having Italian citizenship, Catalanotto's Italian heritage made him eligible to play for the Italian national team at the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball Classic.\n\nCatalanotto was inducted into the Suffolk Sports Hall of Fame on Long Island, New York, in the Baseball Category with the Class of 2010.\n\nBrother Michael Catalanotto is a sports agent and attorney on Long Island.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140147", "title": "Kaliopate Tavola", "text": "Kaliopate Tavola\n\nKaliopate Tavola (born 1946) is a Fijian Agricultural economist, diplomat, and politician, who was his country's Minister for Foreign Affairs from 2000 to 2006. He was also Minister for External Trade and Minister for Sugar.\n\nA native of the small island of Dravuni in the Kadavu archipelago, Tavola was educated at Ratu Sukuna Memorial School and began his career in 1973 as an agricultural economist with the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1984 he was posted to London as a Counsellor with the Fijian High Commission; he concurrently represented the Fiji Sugar Marketing Company. He was transferred to Brussels and appointed Ambassador to Belgium in 1988, and was accredited to France, Portugal, Spain, Luxembourg, and Greece, as well as to UNESCO and the World Trade Organization. He remained in that position for ten years.\n\nPrime Minister Laisenia Qarase appointed Tavola Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Interim Government that took office in July 2000, following a counter-coup which thwarted George Speight's putsch against the elected government of Mahendra Chaudhry. In the general election held to restore democracy in September 2001, Tavola was elected as a candidate of the \"Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua\" to represent the Lami Open Constituency, and retained his Cabinet position subsequently.\n\nAs Foreign Minister, Tavola had to defend Fiji's international image in the face of criticism from some countries of the government's perceived lenience towards perpetrators of the 2000 coup. He also had to deal with elements in his own government who have promoted relations with Taiwan (ROC), in defiance of his policy of fostering closer relations with the People's Republic of China. A private visit by the Taiwanese President, Chen Shui-bian, on 5 May 2005 was well received by many politicians, and on 16 May Health Minister Solomone Naivalu defied Tavola's instructions by voting in favour of observer status for Taiwan at the World Health Assembly in Geneva. Tavola was angered, declaring that Fiji could not afford to \"lose\" China, and vowed that such \"careless incidences\" would not happen again.\n\nIn an interview published on 2 February 2006 by Islands Business International, Tavola announced his decision not to contest forthcoming elections, due on 6–13 May, citing his age, health, and family commitments. \"\"Because of my other commitments in life and for family and health reasons ... I would be doing a disservice to myself and to the country if I stood in the coming general election,\"\" he said. Prime Minister Qarase had attempted, unsuccessfully, to dissuade him from this decision, he revealed. He clarified on 23 February that he only wanted to rest, and was not interested in returning to the diplomatic service.\n\nFollowing the victory of the ruling SDL in the general election, Prime Minister Qarase persuaded Tavola to reverse his decision to retire from the Cabinet. As Cabinet Ministers are required to be members of one of the two Houses of the Parliament, he accepted the Prime Minister's invitation to become a Senator as one of nine nominees of the Prime Minister. \"\"I had my retirement worked out. I was going to start some consultancy work and all that,\"\" he said in a \"Fiji Live\" interview published on 11 June 2006. \"\"It was a last-minute approach to me by the Prime Minister to consider coming back into this important portfolio.\"\"\n\nThe Fiji Live news service claimed on 4 February that Tavola was Fiji's most popular politician. Following the 2000 coup crisis, Tavola was reportedly the only Ministerial candidate acceptable to both the Military and the rebels led by George Speight. \"Fiji Live\" also claims that he remained the only Cabinet Minister to retain the favour of the Military after relations between the government and the Military worsened from 2003 onwards. However, he still lost his post in the Cabinet, along with his fellow Ministers, in the military coup that deposed the government on 5 December 2006.\n\nTavola currently serves on the board of the Pacific Institute of Public Policy and is the first High Level Representative of the Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140152", "title": "Santa Cruz, Big Trees and Pacific Railway", "text": "Santa Cruz, Big Trees and Pacific Railway\n\nThe Santa Cruz, Big Trees and Pacific Railway is a freight and heritage railroad in Northern California.\n\nIt uses diesel locomotives to haul excursion trains over an route between Felton, California and an interchange with the Saint Paul and Pacific Railroad (formerly the Santa Cruz and Monterey Bay Railroad, Sierra Northern Railway, Union Pacific Railroad, and Southern Pacific Railroad). From there, trains continue on to the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk on the SPP Watsonville–Davenport line. The SCBT&P is one of very few railroads in North America with extensive street running rails.\n\n The railway began life as the narrow gauge Santa Cruz and Felton Railroad, built between its namesake cities of Santa Cruz and Felton in 1875 to send logs and lumber down from the Santa Cruz Mountains to mills and wharves on Monterey Bay. In 1876, the South Pacific Coast Railroad narrow gauge network completed its line from Alameda to Los Gatos, then over the mountains to Felton, absorbing the Santa Cruz & Felton to complete the line to Santa Cruz. In 1887, the Southern Pacific purchased the South Pacific Coast and converted it to standard gauge over the course of more than a decade. Washouts closed the majority of the line in 1940, and the Santa Cruz-Olympia section remained in operation to serve the timber and sand industries. In 1981, further washouts brought closure of the line from Eblis to Olympia, until the line was purchased by Norman Clark, operator of the narrow gauge Roaring Camp & Big Trees Narrow Gauge Railroad and adjacent 1880s-themed park in Felton. Local legend has it that the name \"Roaring Camp\" is historical too, coming from the moniker that Mexican authorities gave to what was then, in the 1840s, the wild settlement of Zayante, founded by mountain man Isaac Graham. The first train from Felton to Rincon ran in 1985 (the year after Clark's death from pneumonia that he acquired in his work to reopen this line) and the entire line to Santa Cruz was once again reopened to traffic some time later. Clark’s daughter Melani Jolley-Clark manages the company now.\n\nTrains originate at the Roaring Camp depot in Felton, but the original Southern Pacific Coast depot at New Felton (built in 1880) still stands and serves as administrative offices for the company. The freight shed, constructed from boards salvaged from the Boulder Creek to Felton log flume, is still used by the SCBT&P as a workshop. The original Santa Cruz & Felton never crossed the San Lorenzo River and continued through the middle of the town of Felton.\n\nThe SCBT&P utilizes two former Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe CF7 locomotives as its current motive power. These former EMD F7 units were rebuilt by the Santa Fe at their Cleburne, Texas shops to their current, more practical arrangement following the end of passenger service. Both still carry their original ATSF road numbers, #2600 and #2641. In 2013 Locomotive 2641 was named in tribute to Gene O'Lague, a long time Southern Pacific engineer who was one of the original employees of Roaring Camp. A third locomotive, a Whitcomb 45-ton diesel switcher numbered 20, was retired in 1996 and stored. Santa Cruz-Portland Cement #2, an steam locomotive built by H.K. Porter in 1906, has visited the railroad in the past.\n\nIn July 2018, two additional CF7 locomotives (#2467 and #2524) were acquired from the Texas Rock Crusher Railroad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140162", "title": "Stewarton", "text": "Stewarton\n\nStewarton (, ) is a town in East Ayrshire, Scotland. In comparison to the neighbouring towns of Kilmaurs, Fenwick, Dunlop and Lugton, it is a relatively large town, with a population estimated of over 7,400. It is 300 feet above sea level. The town is served by Stewarton railway station.\n\nStewarton lies within Strathannick, with the Annick Water flowing through the town. The community is in a rural part of East Ayrshire, about six miles to the North of Kilmarnock and to the East of Irvine. In the past, Stewarton served as a crossroads between the traditional routes from Kilmarnock, Irvine and Ayr to the city of Glasgow. However, in recent times, the M77 motorway has bypassed the town. The old road is known as the \"Auld Glesga Road\" (Or the 'Old Glasgow Road') and the former name is still used by locals.\n\nHistorical records show that Stewarton has existed since at least the 12th century with various non-historical references to the town dating to the early 11th century. The most famous of these non-historical references concerns the legend of Máel Coluim III the son of Donnchad I of Scotland who appears as a character in William Shakespeare's play Macbeth. As the legend goes, Mac Bethad had slain Donnchad to enable himself to become king of Scotland and immediately turned his attention towards Donnchad's son Máel Coluim (the next in line to the throne). When Máel Coluim learned of his father's death and Mac Bethad's intentions to murder him, he fled for the relative safety of England. Unfortunately for Máel Coluim, Mac Bethad and his associates had tracked him down and were gaining on him as he entered the estate of Corsehill on the edge of Stewarton. In panic Máel Coluim pleaded for the assistance of a nearby farmer named either Friskine or Máel Coluim (accounts differ) who was forking hay on the estate. Friskine/Máel Coluim covered Máel Coluim in hay, allowing him to escape Mac Bethad and his associates. He later found refuge with King Harthacanute, who reigned as Canute II, King of England and Norway and in 1057, after returning to Scotland and defeating Mac Bethad in the Battle of Lumphanan in 1057 to become King of Scots, he rewarded Friskine's family with the Baillie of Cunninghame to show his gratitude to the farmer who had saved his life 17 years earlier. The Cunninghame family logo now features a \"Y\" shaped fork with the words \"over fork over\" underneath - a logo which appears in various places in Stewarton, notably as the logo of the two primary schools in the area - Lainshaw primary school and Nether Robertland primary school. \n\nAnother reference to Stewarton, this time a historical recorded version, is that one Wernebald was given the Cunninghame lands by his superior, Hugh de Morville, the builder of Kilwinning Abbey who lived at this time in Tour near Kirkland in Kilmaurs. The family were originally from Morville in Normandy (Wernebald was from Flanders) and had been established in Scotland for at least twenty years when one of the family was involved in the murder of Thomas Becket. Dervorguilla of Galloway, mother of John Balliol, was a daughter of the Morvilles on her mother's side, and when Robert the Bruce won the crown the family of Balliol lost their lands in Cunninghame. The Red Comyn, whom Bruce murdered, was a nephew of Balliol. William Cunninghame de Lamberton was Archbishop of St. Andrews and a supporter of Bruce.\n\nPont in 1604 - 08 records that so thickly was the district about Stewarton and along the banks of the Irvine populated for a space of three or four miles \"\"that well traveled men in divers parts of Europe (affirm) that they have seen walled cities not so well or near planted with houses so near each other as they are here, wherethrough it is so populous that, at the ringing of a bell in the night for a few hours, there have seen convene 3000 able men, well-horsed and armed.\"\"\n\nAnother significant event from Stewarton's history involves the Cunninghame family. In the 16th century Ayrshire was divided into three regions or bailiaries - Kyle, Carrick and Cunninghame. The two powerful families residing in Cunninghame - the Cunninghame's and the Montgomeries - had been involved in a dispute over landholdings which came to a head in 1586 when Hugh, 4th the Earl of Eglinton was attacked at the ford on the Annick Water (which flows through Stewarton) by 30 or so members of the Cunninghame clan and shot dead by John Cunninghame of Clonbeith. Hugh is said to have been on his way to attend the court of King James VI at Stirling when he decided to stop off at Langshaw House (now Lainshaw house which was for a long time a home for the elderly) to dine with his associates. The lady of the house Lady Montgomery - told several of her Cunninghame associates who lived in the area of the Earl's planned visit. As a response to the killing the Montgomery family declared they would kill every Cunninghame who had been at the river that day and a series of 'tit for tat' killings were carried out between the two families. John Cunninghame of Clonbeith was eventually slain in Hamilton, Scotland, but several of those responsible for the murder fled to Denmark and were eventually granted a pardon by King James upon his marriage to Anne of Denmark.\n\nLady Montgomery, who was alleged to have signaled the murderers by placing a white 'napkin' on a window sill, is said to have escaped and lived with her retainer Robert Kerr at Pearce Bank (now High Peacockbank) for several years until the 'hue and cry' died down at which point she returned to the castle and was not molested on the understanding that she did not 'show her face' outside of the grounds. A path known as the 'Weeping or Mourning Path' runs upstream from the Annick (previously Annack or Annock Water) Ford and this is where the Earl's widow is said to have wept as she later followed the trail of blood left behind as his panicked horse took him away from Bridgend. The Earl's body was placed in Lainshaw Castle until arrangements were made to remove it to Eglintoun Castle.\n\nThe name Ravenscraig or Reuincraig is derived from 'Ruin Crag', i.e. ruined castle. Godfrey de Ross and his family of Corsehill Castle were Lords of Liddesdale in the Borders and later on the Cunninghames became the holders. Corsehill (also Crosshill) castle is said to have been on the east side of the Corsehill Burn. \n\nThe 1860 OS map does record the site of Templehouse which had a small fortalice associated with it and its site was at Darlington, the village which lay just beyond Stewarton on the Kingsford road before the East Burn. Corsehill castle is shown in one old print of 1691 by Gross as Corsehill House and substantial remains existed until the railway was constructed and most of the ruins were used to build the embankment. It is recorded that an avenue of trees ran down from the well planted Corsehill into Stewarton. The single tower that remains today (2006) of Ravenscraig / Corsehill was repaired to stabilise it.\n\nIt seems that Ravenscraig and Corsehill Castles were separate entities, and that a vague memory of Templehouse and its fortalice at Darlington on the lands of Corsehill farm, may have caused some extra confusion as in the King’s Kitchen tale of the location of the Baronial residence. An area opposite the site of Templehouses was known as 'The Castle' and this may reflect the existence of the castle or fortalice here (Hewitt 2006).\n\nArchibald Adamson in his 'Rambles Round Kilmarnock' of 1875 only records three castles, these being Robertland, Auchenharvie and Corsehill. He makes no mention of the name Ravenscraig, calling the site he visited Corsehill. Aitken only marks Crosshill Castle in 1829 on the west side of the Corsehill Burn. The first OS maps show only the existing castle site, so the new survey has not perpetuate the error.\n\nTo sum up, the map in Pont's 'Cuninghame' of 1604-8 shows two buildings, \"Reuincraige\" and \"Corshill\", at approximately NS 417 467 and NS 422 465 respectively, and Dobie (1876) comments that the two have often been confused, but that \"Reuincraig\" stood on the W of the Corsehill Burn and \"Corsehill Mansion\" on its E. \"Reuincraig\", he says, was so modernised about 1840 that it was difficult to realise that it had been ruined in 1608, while the ruins of \"Corsehill\" were removed about the beginning of the 19th century and only foundations could be traced when he wrote. He also thought that \"Reuincraig\" (i.e. Ruin Craig) was not an original name. If Dobie is correct, the ruins published as \"Corsehill Castle\" on the OS 6\", must be those of \"Reuincraig\", both because they are standing remains, and because they are on the W bank of the burn. Macgibbon and Ross, describing \"Corsehill Castle\" at the end of the 19th century as a very ruinous mansion, evidently of late date and apparently of the L-plan, and ascribe it to the period 1542-1700, must be referring to \"Reuincraig\". Grose, in 1791, published an illustration of \"Corshill House\", but does not give it a close siting. As, however, he mentions that \"at a small distance from this ruin are some small remains of a more ancient building belonging to the same family\", he is also probably referring to \"Reuincraig\", the \"small remains\" being those of \"Corsehill\". (Grose 1791); (MacGibbon) and (Ross 1889).\n\nGeneral Roy's Military Survey of Scotland (1745–55) marks 'Ravenscraig' as 'Old Corsehill' and also marks the 'new' Corsehill on the other side of the burn, thereby apparently confirming that they both had the same name and one replaced the other, although only 'Old Corsehill' is still in any way visible, just the foundations of 'new' Coresehill being apparent in 2007. The same map shows buildings named 'Temple' in the area of 'Templehouse'.\n\nTo prevent the Covenanters holding 'Conventicles', King Charles II moved highland troops, the 'Highland Host' into the west-land of Ayrshire. \"\"They took free quarters; they robbed people on the high road; they knocked down and wounded those who complained; they stole, and wantonly destroyed, cattle; they subjected people to the torture of fire to discover to them where their money was hidden; they threatened to burn down houses if their demands were not at once complied with; besides free quarters they demanded money every day; they compelled even poor families to buy brandy and tobacco for them; they cut and wounded people from sheer devilment.\"\" The cost of all this amounted to £6062 12s 8d in Stewarton parish.\n\nCairnduff Hill overlooks Stewarton and is the site of the remnants of a Bronze Age burial cairn inside of which three urns or beakers were found in the 19th century containing bones and relicts.\n\nIn 1847 the old Barony Court House still stood near the Avenue running up towards Corsehill.\nThe War Memorial used to stand outside the front of the library in the avenue square and was moved to provide a more suitable setting near Standalane house above Lainshaw primary school.\n\nDunlop cheese was made in Stewarton as well as many other Ayrshire localities, such as Beith.\nRobert Burns's uncle, Robert Burnes, is known to have helped guard the Stewarton Laigh Church graveyard against the activities of body snatchers.\n\nDavid Dale, industrialist, merchant, philanthropist and founder of the world famous cotton mills in New Lanark, was born in Stewarton in 1739. He was the son of William Dale, a general dealer in the village.\n\nWilliam Jack was born here in 1834.\n\nThe ground of Stewarton's cricket club was located between Lochridge and Ward Park house.\n\nStewarton Golf Club (now defunct) was founded in 1912. The club disappeared following WW2.\n\nOn 27 January 2009, a BP tanker train carrying liquid fuels (diesel and heating oil) from Mossend to Riccarton was derailed at the bridge over the Stewarton to Kilmaurs road at Peacockbank Farm. Several wagons subsequently caught fire. The Lochrig Burn was badly polluted, however the Annick Water escaped major contamination.\n\nStewarton has many town parks and shops on the high street, some of these are:\n\n\nThe Stewarton Flower, so named due to its local abundance and recorded as such by the Kilmarnock Glenfield Ramblers, is otherwise known as Pink Purslane (\"Claytonia sibirica\") is found in damp areas. This plant was introduced from North America in Victorian times, quite possibly at the Robertland Estate.\n\nIn 1915 it was stated to have been in the area for over 60 years and was abundant on the Corsehill Burn below Robertland in 1915. As far away as Dalgarven Mill the white flowered variety still dominates. The plant is very adept at reproducing by asexual plantlets and this maintains the white gene pool around Stewarton. The pink variety has not been able to predominate here, unlike almost everywhere else in the lowlands of Scotland, England and Wales. \"Claytonia sibirica\" is a seriously destructive alien invader which should not be transplanted to other sites.\n\nThomas Oliver was titled \"roadmaker in Stewarton\", being employed by the Kilmarnock to Irvine road committee. He worked with the specifications of a road twenty four feet wide, fourteen inches thick in the middle to ten inches in the sides, the understratum to be made of stones not exceeding six pounds tron weight and six inches thick, etc. Very precise requirements which would cost seven shilling per fall from Annick Bridge to Gareer Burn, but ten shillings per fall from Gareer Burn to Corsehouse bridge (Crosshouse) because of the lack of suitable materials locally.\n\nThe station was opened in 1871 by the Glasgow, Barrhead and Kilmarnock Joint Railway. The station closed in 1966, reopening in 1967. In 2009-2010 the line was partly re-doubled and the train frequency increased to two trains an hour in each direction. The station was rebuilt and a second platform brought into use.\n\nStewarton, like many other Scottish towns, holds an annual gala festival at the beginning of summer. Dating back to the days when Stewarton had a prosperous trade in bonnet-making, the 'Bonnet Guild' organises activities for the local residents and proclaims a 'Corsehill Queen', the most academically successful girl in 2nd year at Stewarton Academy.\n\nThe Cadgers’ Fair was an annual event unique to Stewarton in the 18th Century. \"Our annual fair took place on Monday last. In the morning there was a large turnout of cattle. . . . Our Cadgers’ procession was a slight improvement on some former occasions, and headed by a brass band they marched through the town, thence to a field on the farm of Robertland where the races took place\". Horses were traded and much of the 'action' took place in the Avenue Square.\n\nThe Stewarton Woodland Action Trust (SWAT) is building an extensive network of joint pedestrian, cycle and equestrian paths to open up access to the countryside in the Stewarton area. One path runs through the lands of the old Lainshaw Estate, largely following the old carriage rides.\n\nIn recent years, Stewarton traders and residents have created and developed a new annual event. The \"Stewarton Yuletide festival\" usually takes place in mid-December and sees many of the town's shops and local businesses extending their opening hours, to allow \"late shopping.\" In addition, entertainment and activities take place in the town's Avenue Square and Main Street. The event embraces the neighbouring towns of Dunlop, Fenwick and Kilmaurs as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140169", "title": "Jan Koželuh", "text": "Jan Koželuh\n\nJan Koželuh (29 January 1904 – 4 June 1979) was a Czech tennis player of the 1920s, not to be confused with his older brother Karel Koželuh (1895–1950), a player of the same era. Although Karel was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island, in 2006, Jan is almost totally forgotten today outside his native Czechoslovakia.\n\nJan Koželuh was the son of Josef and Maria Koželuh, one of 7 brothers and two sisters. All six brothers and one sister were active in sports, a new phenomenon of that era. Karel, the most notable of the Koželuh family, achieved his fame as one of the first professional players in tennis, soccer, and field and ice hockey.\n\nJan, said by some to be the most talented of them all, remained an amateur throughout his career. He was the Czech national singles and doubles champion 1925-1928 as well as a quarter-finalist at Wimbledon in 1926 and 1927. He played many matches for the Czechoslovakia Davis Cup team 1924–1930. His highest world ranking was World No. 10 in 1927. Although Karel continued to play at a top level on the professional tennis circuit until he was in his forties, Jan ended his amateur career in the mid 1930s, which many considered a mistake. Afterwards, he lived in Florida, where he gave tennis lessons until his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140171", "title": "Wyolica", "text": "Wyolica\n\nWyolica (ワイヨリカ) is a two-piece folk-pop/chillout group from Japan. They consist of Azumi (vocals) and So-To (guitar) and debuted in 1999. The band's name is a neologism defined as “people of the grass fields.”\n\nWyolica formed in 1997 when guitarist So-to met Azumi at a Sony audition. So-To has said his influences were Nick Heyward from Haircut One Hundred and Brian McKnight and he cut his teeth in an Earth, Wind & Fire tribute band during his college days. Azumi cites her main influences as Ella Fitzgerald and Keith Jarrett.\n\nThey released their debut single on 21 May 1999 titled \"Kanashii Wagamama\" (悲しいわがまま), produced by one of Japan's leading producers, Shinichi Osawa.\n\nTheir debut album, \"Who Said La La?\" was released in February 2000 and the group, who dubbed their music \"Funky Soul,\" followed it up with two more albums by the end of 2003. \n\nIn 2003 Azumi left Wyolica to get married and moved to the United States, living in California. She returned as a solo artist in 2005, releasing three singles, \"Kick Up Kiss\", \"Snowflake\" and \"Fly\".\n\nSo-To went on to produce for artists such as Kou Shibasaki and Kousuke Atari.\n\nThe duo resumed in 2007 with acoustic live shows and released \"Balcony\" in 2009, followed by a digital-only single \"Boku wa Wasurenai\" on HearJapan. Feeling the need to celebrate a ten-year anniversary, the duo stepped up their activities with live dates in Osaka and Tokyo in June 2009. The duo have stated that their goal is a performance on UK music TV show Later... with Jools Holland. \n\nWyolica's latest album, \"Castle of Wind\", appeared in September 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140178", "title": "Road Trip Adventure", "text": "Road Trip Adventure\n\nRoad Trip Adventure, also known as Road Trip or Choro Q HG 2 (often mislabeled as Road Trip: Arcade Edition), is a racing adventure video game for the PlayStation 2 developed by E-game (but commonly credited to Takara). The game was released in 2002 in Japan by Takara, in North America by Conspiracy Entertainment, and in 2003 in Europe and other PAL regions by System 3 under their Play It label.\n\nThe game combines elements of racing and adventure games, and is widely considered to be the best of the Choro Q series due to its large seamless world which the player can freely explore. The game takes place in a world of anthropomorphic cars that interact like humans. As part of the PS2 Classics release, \"Road Trip Adventure\" was released on the PlayStation Store for the PS3 in Europe on February 15, 2012; however, it was not released on the American PSN.\n\nAfter starting a new game in Adventure Mode, a cutscene begins inside the office of President Forest, who is burnt out from being president. He has decided to hand over the presidency to the winner of the World Grand Prix, a seven race series for only the most elite and talented racers. The president's secretary leaves, ready to broadcast this news to the world.\n\nNext, the player appears inside the Q’s Factory in Peach Town, a small town named after the surrounding peach farms. Each town's Q's Factory is where the player changes car parts. The worker in the Q's Factory informs the player that he or she may become president, if lucky enough to win the World Grand Prix.\n\nAfter these starting scenes, gameplay is almost entirely open-ended, loosely centered around the goal of winning the World Grand Prix and becoming president. To qualify for the World Grand Prix, the player must have two teammates and a Class Super A License, earned by finishing top 6 in every race of each license tier: C, B, and A, respectively. To acquire teammates, one can simply talk to other cars; if they can be recruited, they may ask the player to add them as a teammate, provided the player has previously won a race. Each race rewards the performance of the player's teammates, as well as the player’s. As a result, it is imperative for a player to equip his or her teammates with adequate parts for each race.\n\nTo measure a player's achievement, there are 100 \"stamps\" which he or she can earn, one of which is becoming president. Stamps involve activities ranging from mini-games to doing small favors for other cars, and upon earning all 100, the player is eligible for a special surprise. As an example, one of the 100 stamps requires completing the player's picture album. To take a picture, the player can visit any of the 100 Quick-Pic Shops, denoted by black marks on the mini-map; after taking a picture, the owner (always a pink Toyota Vitz) will inform the player of the next shop's location. Another important stamp entails collecting all 100 Choro Q coins hidden in the cities around the world (with the exception of Cloud Hill). One of the residents of My City trades various parts and objects for Choro Q coins, and many of these parts can give the player a distinct advantage in other tasks, including winning the World Grand Prix. Each city contains a bar, whose owner can give hints as to the whereabouts of nearby coins.\n\nAdditionally, a major recurring theme is populating \"My City,\" the city which the player founds as the first resident. To build up My City, the player must talk to many different cars throughout the world and find those interested in starting a new life or building new homes or shops. As more and more residents move to My City, those residents' houses and shops appear throughout the city, each building being themed after the architectural style of its resident's hometown. Once complete, My City contains a school, fire department, police station, Q's Factory, Body Shop, Parts Shop, Paint Shop, parks, and residential houses.\n\nAt the start of the game, the player is asked to specify a name for the currency used for the rest of the game. Money is central to Road Trip Adventure, as it is necessary to purchase most parts. To win money, one can race, advertise for various shops, sell parts to a resident of My City, or even play roulette. Five shops can provide a small above-car billboard to advertise with: the coffee shop in Peach Town (10 currency per km), a noodle restaurant in Fuji City (20 currency per km), a cake shop in Sandpolis (30 currency per km), a wool shop in White Mountain (40 currency per km), and a coconut shop in Papaya Island (50 currency per km). Each shop gives you a certain amount of money per kilometer driven while equipped with its respective advertisement sign. The player can also put one sign on each teammate.\n\nThere are around 20 minigames in Road Trip Adventure. Completing them earns money, stamps and parts. These minigames include Soccer, Roulette, and Drag Races.\n\nThe following is a list of cities in Adventure Mode in the order in which they are typically first encountered. The world in Adventure Mode, with the exception of Cloud Hill, is cyclic, meaning that one can driving through all the cities consecutively and return to the original location of Peach Town.\nIn the US and European versions, there are two radio stations to choose from. The Japanese version's radio feature is more extensive, featuring an additional station with voiced DJs.\n\nThe first station includes slight remixes of the following songs:\n\nThe second station consists of original, instrumental-only music composed for the game.\n\n\"Road Trip\" received \"favorable\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. The game was praised for its wide world to explore and great depth, but criticized for its sound.\n"}
{"id": "2140185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140185", "title": "Roaring Camp &amp; Big Trees Narrow Gauge Railroad", "text": "Roaring Camp &amp; Big Trees Narrow Gauge Railroad\n\nThe Roaring Camp & Big Trees Narrow Gauge Railroad is a narrow-gauge tourist railroad in California that starts from the Roaring Camp depot in Felton, California and runs up steep grades through redwood forests to the top of nearby Bear Mountain, a distance of .\n\nSeveral steam engines date from the 1890s and are some of the oldest and most authentically preserved narrow-gauge steam engines still providing regular passenger service in the United States. (The Cumbres & Toltec Scenic Railroad in Colorado and New Mexico has the oldest steam engines, dating back to 1883.)\n\nThe American Society of Mechanical Engineers designated three engines at Roaring Camp and Big Trees Railroad as Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmark #134 in 1988.\n\nRoaring Camp Railroads operations began in 1963 under the guidance of F. Norman Clark (1935–1985), who was the founder and owner. His purpose was to keep a family tradition of constructing railroads and to \"bring the romance and color of steam railroading back to America\". In 1958, Clark found the engine \"Dixiana\" abandoned near a coal mine in the Appalachian Mountains; he described it as looking like a \" rusty pile of junk\". \"Dixiana\" was reconditioned and began service in 1963 on rails that had been shipped around Cape Horn in 1881. The railway route was laid out so that as few trees as possible would have to be cut on the Clark acquired with a 99-year lease of the larger Big Trees Ranch.\n\nThe Big Trees Ranch was bought in 1867 by San Francisco businessman Joseph Warren Welch to preserve the giant redwood trees from logging. It was the first property in the state acquired specifically for that purpose. In 1930, the Welch family sold part of the property to Santa Cruz County, which eventually became part of Henry Cowell Redwoods State Park.\n\nThe first scheduled train trip was on April 6, 1963 with 44 ticketed passengers.\n\nClark's wife, Georgiana, Vice President of Operations assumed the ownership and management responsibilities following his death on December 2, 1985.\n\nOriginally, two large trestles formed a \"corkscrew\" loop at Spring Canyon, but these were destroyed by a 1976 fire, the smoke from which could be seen from San Francisco. Within six months, a switchback was constructed to bypass the severed loop and the entire line was returned to service. The switchback has an estimated 9.5% grade, making it the steepest passenger grade still in use. The length of the tail tracks in the switchback restricts the trains that may be operated to six cars or fewer. Special events are held to raise funds for repair and reconstruction of the trestles and steam locomotives at Roaring Camp. In 2003, the first \"Day Out with Thomas\" special event was held. The event was the single largest in the 40-year history of Roaring Camp, with an estimated 25,000 participants over a three-day period.\n\nOn December 28, 2015, a train collided with a stop block on part of the switchback. Six people were injured. The cause was driver error.\n\nThe railroad owns several locomotives in various states of repair. Regular service is typically handled by the railroad's two Shay locomotives, with occasional appearances by the Heisler. \"Kahuku,\" the oldest locomotive on the roster, is used in shuttle service on special occasions. Due to its small size, it is not capable of hauling trains up the mountain.\n\nThe American Society of Mechanical Engineers collectively designated Roaring Camp's Shay, Climax and Heisler engines National Mechanical Engineering Historical Landmark (#134) on August 1988, as examples of small, slow-speed 19th century geared locomotives.\n\nBuilt in 1912, this engine was originally owned by the Alaculsy Lumber Company, and was used on the Smokey Mountain Railroad in Tennessee. The \"Dixiana\" is named for a small narrow-gauge mining railroad, now abandoned, out of Dixiana, Virginia. Notable characteristics include the boiler, which was set left of centerline to compensate for the weight and position of the engine – giving it a lopsided appearance – and the engine design of a three-cylinder exhaust system.\n\nThe \"Bloomsburg\" was built in 1928 for the Elk River Coal and Lumber Company in Swandale, West Virginia.\nPrevious owners include W.M. Ritter Lumber Company, Georgia Pacific Railroad, and the Carroll Park and Western Railroad in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania until bought for Roaring Camp in 1975.\nIt is the last locomotive of its type manufactured by Climax that operated for logging in the west.\n\nBuilt in 1899 for the Hetch Hetchy Valley and Yosemite Railroad for use at the sawmill of West Side Flume and Lumber Company near Tuolumne City. First named \"Thomas S. Bullock\" after the first general manager of the West Side Flume and Lumber Company, the locomotive was purchased for Roaring Camp in 1962 for $7,000. It is the last steam engine used in the commercial lumber business in Tuolumne, California, and the oldest Heisler still in operation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140190", "title": "County of Valentinois", "text": "County of Valentinois\n\nThe County of Valentinois was a fiefdom within Dauphiné Viennois (formerly in southeast France at Italy) and was a part of the Holy Roman Empire from 1032 until the sixteenth century. \n\nThe last Dauphiné, Humbert II de la Tour-du-Pin depleted his treasury by funding an unsuccessful Crusade to conquer the Holy Land. After the death of his only son and heir, André, Humbert sold his lands to Philip VI of France in 1349 for 400,000 écus and an annual pension. To keep up appearances, the sale was referred to as a \"transfer.\" In order to prevent the title from going extinct, Humbert instituted a statute whereby the Dauphiné was exempted from many taxes. This statute was subject to many parliamentary debates at the regional level, as local leaders sought to defend their autonomy and privilege against the state.\n\nFrom 1349, the Dauphiné was transformed into the Dauphiné of France, a title carried by all the heirs to the French throne. In 1498, Louis XII of France divided the lands of the Dauphiné and gave them to Valence, Diois, and Grenoble as a dukedom to Cesar Borgia.\n\nThe County of Valence (Valentinois) was a fiefdom of the Holy Roman Empire, which was first held by Odilon, a count in Valence.\n\n\nNamed after the castle of \"Pictavis\", now part of Châteauneuf-de-Bordette, and unrelated to the city of Poitiers in western France.\n\n\nThe counts of Valentinois of House of Poitiers remained vassals of the Dauphin of Viennois until 1338; they held the title until the death of Louis of Poitiers in 1419. \nOn 1029 Valence passed to the House of Albon the Dauphins of Viennois. In 1338 it fell to Philip VI of France.\n\n\nAfter the death of Cesar Borgia, the Duchy became a part of the French Royal domain as a part of the Dauphiné. It is now the capital of the Drôme department within the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140201", "title": "Joseph Wawrykow", "text": "Joseph Wawrykow\n\nJoseph Wawrykow (April 25, 1908 – November 2, 1979) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1936 to 1945.\n\nWawrykow was born in Gimli, Manitoba to George Wawrykow and Marthe Grabowski, a Ukrainian immigrant family. He received a B.S.A. from the University of Manitoba, and worked as a teacher and farmer. In 1943, Wawrykow married Ann Kaschak.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1936 provincial election. Running as a candidate of the Independent Labour Party-Cooperative Commonwealth Federation (ILP-CCF), he defeated Liberal-Progressive candidate B.J. Lifman by 261 votes. After the election, his party was usually referred to as simply the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation (CCF).\n\nIn 1940, the CCF entered into a coalition government with three other parties in the legislature. This decision was opposed by supporters of the party, and the CCF performed poorly in the 1941 provincial election. Wawrykow was the only CCF candidate elected outside of Winnipeg, defeating Liberal-Progressive candidate S.T. Sigurdson by 555 votes. He did not run for re-election in 1945. After leaving politics, Wawrykow worked for the United Grain Growers.\n\nHe died in Winnipeg at the age of 71.\n"}
{"id": "2140204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140204", "title": "Sebastian, or, Virtue Rewarded", "text": "Sebastian, or, Virtue Rewarded\n\n\"Sebastian, or, Virtue Rewarded\" is the name of an unpublished poem written around 1815 by the 9-year-old Elizabeth Barrett, later famous as Elizabeth Barrett Browning. The autographed manuscript of the poem is held in the Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection of English and American Literature in the New York Public Library. Note that the ambitious young Elizabeth signs herself F. R. S. (Fellow of the Royal Society) on the cover shown right.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140216", "title": "KGNS-TV", "text": "KGNS-TV\n\nKGNS-TV, virtual and VHF digital channel 8, is an NBC/ABC/Telemundo-affiliated television station licensed to Laredo, Texas, United States. Owned by Gray Television, it is a sister station to low-powered CBS affiliate KYLX-LD (channel 13). The two stations share studios on Del Mar Boulevard (near I-35) in northern Laredo; KGNS-TV's transmitter is located northwest of the city. On cable, the station can be seen on Charter Spectrum channel 10 in both standard and high definition, and is also available on Dish Network and DirecTV.\n\nKGNS originally went on air January 7, 1956 as KHAD-TV, it has been a primary NBC affiliate since its sign on, but the station initially held secondary affiliations with CBS and ABC. CBS programming moved to KVTV in December 1973 (it went dark in 2015) and ABC programming moved to present-day Univision affiliate KLDO-TV in December 1984, effectively making KGNS an exclusive NBC affiliate.\n\nDonrey Media Group (now Stephens Media Group) bought the station on September 1, 1958. One of its first moves under Donrey ownership was to change the station's call letters, Donrey management held a contest in which elementary and middle school students from both the United States and Mexico sides of the Rio Grande region to choose a new callsign; the winning entry resulted in the station changing its callsign to the current KGNS-TV (standing for \"Good Neighbor Station\").\n\nIn 1985, KGNS was purchased by Century Development Corporation. In 1990 the station began a Spanish language newscast.\n\nBy 1998, KGNS gained a secondary affiliation with the United Paramount Network (UPN) lasting at least until 2000 while definitively off the station by 2004. then move to cable only on Time Warner Cable Channel 16. In 2000, the WB affiliate in the market was cable-only KTXW, and its successor network, the CW was carried on the .2 subchannel, which now carries ABC.\n\nIn April 2002, the Spanish news staff resigned their jobs, forcing the station to initially run a sitcom, then replacing it with English language news.\n\nIn 2004, the station was purchased by SagamoreHill Broadcasting. The sale to SagamoreHill was approved by the Federal Communications Commission on December 1, 2005.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, The WB and CBS Corporation-owned UPN announced that the two networks would cease broadcasting and merge into a new broadcast network called The CW. On September 18, 2006, KGNS-TV rebranded \"KTXW\" Time Warner Cable channel 19 as The CW Laredo starting its CW programming. With the subsequent sign-on of digital subchannel 8.2, the subchannel began broadcasting \"KTXW\" bringing the channel over-the-air coverage throughout the market. In 2010, local Spanish language news returned to the station on Telemundo affiliated subchannel 3.\n\nIn May 2013, SagamoreHill Broadcasting reached a deal to sell KGNS, along with KGWN-TV in Cheyenne, Wyoming and KSTF in Scottsbluff, Nebraska, to Yellowstone Holdings, a subsidiary of Frontier Radio Management. On November 4, 2013, Gray Television announced a deal to acquire Yellowstone Holdings for $23 million. The sale was competed on December 31.\n\nOn November 6, 2013, KGNS-TV reached an agreement with the ABC Television Network to add the ABC affiliation, originally slated to launch February 2014 on channel 8.2. The ABC affiliation began on July 1, 2014, making The CW available in Laredo exclusively on Time Warner Cable via the national feed of The CW Plus; ABC network programming had been provided on cable via KSAT-TV or Corpus Christi affiliate KIII since KLDO-TV lost its ABC affiliation in 1988. The CW programming wouldn't be seen over the air in Laredo area until October 2015, as KYLX-LP picked up the affiliation.\n\nIt broadcasts its main programming NBC on channel 8.1 in 1080i HD and ABC programming on subchannel 8.2 and Telemundo programming on subchannel 8.3 (both in 720p HD). KGNS was one of the last American television stations that continued to sign off during the overnight hours, doing so nightly from 1:35 to 5:30 a.m.; , the station now operates 24 hours a day. However, in later years, its second and third digital subchannels remained on the air during the overnight hours even when the main channel did not.\nOn April 8, 2004, KGNS-TV launched its digital signal on UHF channel 15, becoming the first television station in the Laredo market to operate a digital broadcast television signal. KGNS-TV discontinued Its analog signal and began broadcasting exclusively on a digital-only signal on June 12, 2009. The station vacated its pre-transition digital channel 15, and moved its digital channel allocation to its former analog VHF channel 8. KGNS-TV began broadcasting high-definition programming on its digital signal in October 2008. KGNS-TV previously operated the area's CW affiliate on digital subchannel 8.2, branded as Laredo CW 19. On November 6, 2013, KGNS-TV reached an agreement with the ABC Television Network to add the ABC affiliation, originally slated to launch February 2014 on channel 8.2. The ABC affiliation began on July 1, 2014, leaving Laredo without a CW affiliate.\n\nSyndicated programming currently broadcast on KGNS includes \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"The Mel Robbins Show\", \"Paternity Court\", \"Impractical Jokers\", \"Access Hollywood\", \"Pawn Stars\", \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\", \"Dr. Phil\" and \"Wheel of Fortune\" (\"Jeopardy!\" usually paired with \"Wheel\" instead airs on KYLX-LD)\n\nKGNS's second subchannel airs the rebroadcast of its 5:00 p.m. newscast at 5:30 p.m. As a result, it airs \"ABC World News Tonight\" on a 30-minute tape delay at 6:00 p.m. unlike most ABC stations in the Central Time Zone. Syndicated programming currently broadcast on KGNS-DT2 includes \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"DailyMailTV\", \"25 Words or Less\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", \"Divorce Court\", \"Funny You Should Ask\", \"Judge Mathis\" and \"The People's Court\".\n\nSince CBS affiliate KVTV shut down its news department in 2006, KGNS has operated the only English-language news department in the market. It currently airs three hours of newscasts every weekday and one hour per day on weekends. The station employs a number of recent college graduates. According to Nielsen Media Research, KGNS competes closely with Spanish-language station KLDO.\n\nIn 1990, the station began a Spanish language newscast at 5 PM called \"Noticias en Español\" with news anchor Hector Lerma. On April 29, 2002, the Spanish news staff resigned from the station forcing them to run a sitcom in that time slot. KGNS eventually replaced the Spanish news broadcast with English language news on March 1 of the following year. In 2010, local Spanish language news returned to the station on Telemundo affiliated subchannel 3. Initially, there was a Sunday morning show, “Telemundo Laredo … En tu Casa” then expanded on November 18, 2010 with a week night 10 PM show.\n\nOn June 21, 2008, KGNS-TV began producing a weeknight, 9 o'clock newscast on its CW-affiliated second digital subchannel titled \"Laredo's First News at 9\". This program was the only primetime newscast in the Laredo-Nuevo Laredo market until Fox affiliate KXOF-CA launched a competing 9 p.m. newscast on April 9, 2012. The half-hour newscast is anchored by Brenda Medina and Ryan Bailey. This newscast was targeted at young adults between the ages of 21 and 34 years old.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140228", "title": "Alcabideche", "text": "Alcabideche\n\nAlcabideche () is a parish located in the Portuguese municipality of Cascais. The population in 2011 was 42,162, in an area of 39.77 km².\n\n"}
{"id": "2140235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140235", "title": "Sanhaja", "text": "Sanhaja\n\nThe Sanhaja (, pl. Iẓnagen, and also Aẓnaj, pl. Iẓnajen; , \"Ṣanhaja\") were once one of the largest North African tribal confederations, along with the Iznaten and Imesmuden confederations. Many tribes in Morocco, Western Sahara and Mauritania bore and still carry this ethnonym, especially in its Berber form. Other names for the population include \"Zenaga\", \"Znaga\", \"Sanhája\", \"Sanhâdja\" and \"Senhaja\".\n\nAfter the arrival of Islam, the Sanhaja spread out to the borders of the Sudan as far as the Senegal River and the Niger. Some Saharan Sanhaja claim that they traced their lineage back to the Himyar who are people of Southern Arabia. \n\nSanhaja Berbers were a large part of the Berber population. From the 9th century, Sanhaja tribes were established in the Middle Atlas range, in the Rif Mountains and on the Atlantic coast of Morocco as well as large parts of the Sanhaja, such as the Kutâma, were settled in central and eastern parts Algeria (Kabylia, Setif, Algiers, Msila) and also in northern Niger. They played an important part in the rise of the Fatimids. The Sanhaja dynasties of the Zirids and Hammâdids controlled Ifriqiya until the 12th century.\n\nIn the mid-11th century, a group of Sanhaja chieftains returning from the Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) invited the theologian Ibn Yasin to preach among their tribes. Ibn Yasin united the tribes in the alliance of the Almoravids in the middle of the 11th century. This confederacy subsequently established Morocco, and conquered western Algeria and Al-Andalus (part of present-day Spain).\n\nThe Zenata or Sanhaja tribes would remain in roles as either exploited semi-sedentary agriculturalists and fishermen (Zenaga or Znaga tribes), or, higher up on the social ladder, as religious (Marabout or Zawiya) tribes. Though often Arabized in culture and language, they are believed to be descended from the Zenata or Sanhaja Berber population present in the area before the arrival of the Arab Maqil tribes in the 12th century, which was finally subjected to domination by Arab-descended warrior castes in the 17th century Char Bouba war.\n\nAccording to Mercer, the words \"Zenaga\" or \"Znaga\" (from the Berber root \"ẓnag\" or \"ẓnaj\", giving the noun \"Aẓnag\" or \"Aẓnaj\" with the additional masculine singular prefix \"a-\", or \"Taẓnagt\" or \"Taẓnajt\" with the additional feminine singular circumfix \"ta--t\", or \"Iẓnagen\" or \"Iẓnajen\" with the additional masculine plural circumfix \"i--en\", or \"Tiẓnagen\" or \"Tiẓnajen\" with the additional feminine plural circumfix \"ti--en\") are thought to be a romanized distortion of \"Zenata\" and \"Sanhaja\" from Arabic.\n\nThe descendants of the Sanhaja and their languages are still found today in the Middle Atlas mountains, eastern Morocco, Northern Morocco (Rif), Western Algeria, Kabylia and Kabyle territories. \n\nThe Zenaga, a group believed to be of Gudala (the southernmost Sanhaja tribe) origin, inhabit southwestern Mauritania and parts of northern Senegal. However, they are a small population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140240", "title": "Mack 10", "text": "Mack 10\n\nDedrick D'Mon Rolison (born August 9, 1971), better known by his stage name Mack 10, is an American rapper and actor. He has sold nearly 11 million records independently combining his solo and group works. Mack 10 made his first appearance on Ice Cube's 1994 \"Bootlegs & B-Sides\" compilation on the remixed track \"What Can I Do?\" and was a member of hip hop supergroup Westside Connection along with WC and Ice Cube. Mack 10 is also the founder of independent record label Hoo-Bangin' Records and got his stage name from the Ingram MAC-10 submachine gun.\n\nMack 10 made his first appearance on Ice Cube's \"Bootlegs & B-Sides\" compilation on the track \"What Can I Do? (Remix)\"\n\nHis debut, gold selling album \"Mack 10\" was released in 1995 on the Priority label. He made his hip hop debut with the hit single, \"Foe Life\", off his self-titled album. His next two releases \"Based on a True Story\" (1997) and \"The Recipe\" (1998) also reached gold certification and peaked at No. 14 and No. 15 on the Billboard 200, respectively.\n\nRolison is also the founder of independent record label Hoo-Bangin Records. He appeared with W.C. and Ice Cube in the 1996 all-star side project Westside Connection, and formed his own production company, Mack One-O, which signed the acts Allfrumtha-I and the Comrades. Mack 10 also signed Glasses Malone to his Hoo-Bangin Records imprint through Cash Money Records.\n\nHis most recent album, 2009's \"Soft White\" was released on Hoo-Bangin' Records and Fontana Distribution. The first single was \"Big Balla\" featuring Birdman and Glasses Malone.\n\nMack 10 was involved in numerous feuds including with the rapper Common in the song \"Westside Slaughterhouse\" featured the rapper Ice Cube in his critically acclaimed self-titled album, the diss was a response to the song named \"I Used to Love H.E.R.\" by Common. Later on, in 1996, when Mack 10 was a member in the rap supergroup Westside Connection, he was featured in the song \"King of the Hill\" by Ice Cube - a diss song directed to the rap group named Cypress Hill. WC (a member of the rap supergroup Westside Connection) did not want to participate in the feud so as not to ruin his long-lasted relationship with Cypress Hill. The feud was later squashed by both parties.\n\nRolison married Tionne \"T-Boz\" Watkins, from R&B trio TLC in August 2000. They divorced in 2004. They have one daughter, Chase Anela Rolison, born in October 2000.\n\n\n\n\nMack 10 is a playable character in the video game \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2140243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140243", "title": "Doroshevich", "text": "Doroshevich\n\nDoroshevich (; ) is the surname of:\n\n"}
{"id": "2140246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140246", "title": "Kristjan Palusalu", "text": "Kristjan Palusalu\n\nKristjan Palusalu (until 1935 Kristjan Trossmann, – 17 July 1987) was an Estonian heavyweight wrestler and Olympic winner. Palusalu became the first and only wrestler in Olympic history ever to win both the Greco-Roman and freestyle heavy weight events.\n\nPalusalu was born in Varemurru village, Saulepi Parish, Lääne County (now Matsi village, Varbla Parish, Pärnu County) as one of eight children to Jüri and Liisu Trossmann. He is best remembered for winning two gold medals at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin. He was given the honor of carrying the Estonian flag to Olympiastadion. The triumph was celebrated across Estonia with Palusalu and other Estonian athletes touring the country by rail giving speeches. A third of the inhabitants of Tallinn turned out to greet him and the Estonian government granted him a farm.\n\nAfter the Soviet Union occupied Estonia in 1940, Palusalu was sent to hard labour in Kotlas, Russia in 1941. He tried to escape with other prisoners but was captured after a few days. He was then sentenced to death together with his fellow fugitives but was given the chance to go to the front line to fight against Finland in the Continuation War. He deserted to the Finnish side in Northern Karelia, northwest of Lake Onega. According to one Finnish soldier, Mr. Suuperko, Palusalu and his friends shouted \"Finnish boys do not shoot Estonians\", when they crossed the lines. Palusalu was soon recognized by a person in the Finnish army, who had sports background (Heikki Savolainen).\n\nHe was imprisoned but then was allowed to return to his homeland, which was then under German occupation. After the return of the Soviet army in 1945 he was arrested again, but was later allowed to work as trainer and referee, he also participate some competition in Estonia. He was not forgotten by the Estonian people. As one of the most popular sportsmen in Estonia throughout history, Kristjan Palusalu is one of the few who have become synonymous with the Estonian nation itself.\n\nPalusalu was married to Ellen Saidla. The couple had a son, Jüri Palusalu.\n\nThe international Kristjan Palusalu Memorial in Greco-Roman wrestling is held in Estonia from 1988.\n"}
{"id": "2140256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140256", "title": "Mikhail Doroshevich", "text": "Mikhail Doroshevich\n\nMikhail Doroshevich (Belarusian language:\"Міхаіл Дарашэвіч\") is a founder of e-belarus.ORG, a Minsk-based news and analytical site covering developments in ICT in Belarus and Information Policy Blog, which provides daily news about information policy. DoWire.org Democracies Online features him as one of the most notable human rights bloggers on the Internet. Mr. Doroshevich is a frequent contributor to Internet periodicals about technology and freedom in Eastern Europe.\n\nDoroshevich influenced the 2005 Belarus government policy change allowing Wi-Fi access. He advocates for communications technology freedom and related human rights issues in Belarus and neighboring countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140270", "title": "Parede", "text": "Parede\n\nParede () is a former civil parish in the municipality of Cascais, Portugal. In 2013, the parish merged into the new parish Carcavelos e Parede. In 2001 its resident population was approximately 17,830 inhabitants, covering an area of 3.6 km², west of Lisbon on the coast near the mouth of the Tagus estuary. Parede is a community between the larger towns of Oeiras and Cascais, in the district of Lisbon, along the \"Linha do Estoril\" railline that follows the coast from Lisbon to Estoril and Cascais.\n\nThe places name is generally associated with the abundant rocks/boulders within the region, or the walled parcels, common until the growth of the urban settlement. Professor Diogo Correia, in his book \"Toponímia do Concelho de Cascais\", refers to the topology in these terms: \"\"In the opinion of authoritative specialists, the walls that gave the name to the homonymic settlements, were from ruined castles, dismantled redoubts, and many times, hilltop rocks. It was probably from one of these old constructions, not likely castros that fostered the name Parede, in the municipality of Cascais\"\". Branca Colaço and Maria Archer, later confirm these ideas in their explanation for the locality: \"\"...Parede...its old name, of three or four centuries...topology that many suggest from the many walls of loose rock, that were used to circle their properties...which even today are maintained, and that others attribute to the local terrain's structure, rich limestone in quarries, which, for centuries, were used in the construction of the walls of Lisbon\"\".\n\nThe occupation of Parede extends over four thousand years, although only documented references exist from the late 19th century. Although evidence of a Roman presence within the municipality exists (particularly in the civil parish of Alcabideche, Cascais, Estoril, and São Domingos de Rana), there are no similar signs of their presence in Parede. Although not explicit, there is an assumption that Roman forces used the extracted stone from the region, in many of their artefacts or buildings. Vidal de Caldas Nogueira, in articles composed in 1957, suggest that: \"\"The Romans would collect the rock for their constructions, monuments and many of the inscriptions in Olissipo (Lisbon) from the quarries in Lisbon and Sintra, is not difficult to believe that this antique burgh were today exists Parede, they became active in this inscription industry from marble and granite.\"\"\n\nUntil 1953, the parish was part of the neighbouring civil parish of São Domingos de Rana. At that time, it received administrative autonomy, bringing with it the places of Buzano, Junqueiro, Madorna, Murtal, Penedo and Rebelva. Its limits were established under Decree 39208, 14 May 1953.\n\nParede is part of the municipality of Cascais, in the district of Lisbon in the historical province of Estremadura, pertaining to the old comarca of Cascais, and the Diocese of Lisbon. It is one of six civil parishes that comprise the municipality of Cascais, bordered on the south by the Atlantic Ocean, east by Carcavelos, north by São Domingos de Rana and in the west by Estoril. Apart from the road network, it is connected with other civil parishes by the \"Linha do Estoril\" railline which connects Cascais to Lisbon.\n\nOpen and green spaces include public parks and its beachfront coastal spaces, with rocky beaches and strong biodiversity, supporting a Blue flag designation.\n\nThe region is supported by many standard municipal services, including a police station, a fire department, a healthcare center, schools, a market, some banks, a supermarket, a small shopping center and many minor shops. Although two centres exist for specialized healthcare treatment, the Hospital de Santa Ana and the Hospital/Sanitario Dr. José d'Almeida (for endocrinology and ortopedy, respectively), its population has no general hospital.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140279", "title": "Dudley, North Carolina", "text": "Dudley, North Carolina\n\nDudley is an unincorporated community in Wayne County, North Carolina, United States, about 9 miles south of Goldsboro. Part of this area includes the Brogden CDP. Dudley is included in the Goldsboro, North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nAnother town named Dudley originally existed several miles north from its current location. It was founded by Labon Lewis, the son of a Revolutionary soldier, named for his deceased brother Dudley Lewis. On January 13, 1840, a post office was established for this town. This office's name was later changed to Everettsville, which was moved to a new location in 1849 and was closed in 1866.\n\nThe second and present town bearing the name was set up around 1836-1840 as a camp for the Wilmington & Weldon Railroad. This time, however, it was named for Governor Edward B. Dudley, the railroad's founder. In the years in which the village grew, it gained a depot and a passenger station. Its post office was established on February 3, 1850.\n\nIn December 1862, during the Battle of Goldsboro Bridge, a number of\nbuildings and railroad cars were destroyed in Dudley by the Union Army under\nMaj. Gen. John G. Foster.\n\nDudley was incorporated in 1897, with J. W. Hatch elected as the town's first mayor. The town's government lasted for many years until eventually no more officials were elected and the incorporation ended.\n\nThe Georgia Pacific Corporation opened a facility in Dudley in 1973 and now employs over 625 people.\n\nEducation in Dudley is administered by the Wayne County Public School system with children attending classes at Brogden Primary School, Brogden Middle School and Southern Wayne High School. Higher education is offered through Wayne Community College in Goldsboro and Mount Olive College in Mount Olive.\n\n\n\n\n2. See also: http://www.usgennet.org/usa/nc/county/wayne/articles/dudley.htm\n"}
{"id": "2140287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140287", "title": "Meredith Kline", "text": "Meredith Kline\n\nMeredith George Kline (December 15, 1922 – April 14, 2007) was an American theologian and Old Testament scholar. He also had degrees in Assyriology and Egyptology.\n\nKline received his AB from Gordon College, Th.B. and Th.M. from Westminster Theological Seminary in Pennsylvania, and PhD in Assyriology and Egyptology from Dropsie College. He enjoyed a long and fruitful professorial career spanning five decades and two coasts, teaching Old Testament at Westminster Theological Seminary (1948–77), Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary (1965–93), the Claremont School of Theology (1974–75), Reformed Theological Seminary (1979–83), and Westminster Seminary California (1981–2002). Kline was a professor emeritus at Westminster Seminary California and Gordon-Conwell until his death. He was an ordained minister in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church.\n\nBuilding on the legacy of Geerhardus Vos, Kline was an influential voice for covenant theology in the Reformed tradition, providing both new insights into biblical accounts and critical engagement with contemporary biblical scholarship. He is, perhaps, best known for his contributions on the subject of ancient suzerain–vassal treaties, specifically on the relationship of treaties from the 2nd millennium BC to covenants found in the Bible.\n\nKline is also well known for propounding the framework interpretation of the creation account found in the first chapter of Genesis.\n\nTheologian John Frame has called Kline \"the most impressive biblical theologian of my lifetime,\" adding that Kline's work \"is orthodox, yet often original, and it always provides [a] rich analysis of Scripture.\"\n\nIn 2000, a festschrift was published in Kline's honor: \"Creator Redeemer Consummator: A Festschrift for Meredith G. Kline\", ed. H. Griffith and J. R. Muether (Greenville, SC: Reformed Academic Press), featuring scholars (and former students) such as Tremper Longman and Charles Lee Irons.\n\nSome of Kline's many publications include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140290", "title": "Cleveland Metropolitan School District", "text": "Cleveland Metropolitan School District\n\nCleveland Metropolitan School District, formerly the Cleveland Municipal School District, is a public school district in the U.S. state of Ohio that serves almost all of the city of Cleveland. The district covers 79 square miles. The Cleveland district is the second largest PreK-12 district in the state, with a 2017–2018 enrollment of about 38,949. CMSD has 68 schools that are for kindergarten to eighth grade students and 39 schools for high school aged students. \n\nIn 2005 and in years following, the system faced large budget shortfalls and repeated possibility of slipping back into \"academic emergency\" as rated by the Ohio Department of Education. The mayor was given control of the city schools after a series of elected school boards were deemed ineffective by city voters. The school board appoints a chief executive officer, the equivalent of a district superintendent, who is responsible for district management. CMSD is the only district in Ohio that is under direct control of the mayor, who appoints a school board. The former chairman of the Board of Education, Robert M. Heard Sr., was appointed July 1, 2007 by Mayor Frank G. Jackson, and CEO's appointed included Barbara Byrd Bennett and Eugene Sanders. In response to declining enrollment over more than a decade and the corresponding growth in charter schools in the city, the District took several steps to improve academic performance and increase graduation rates. In the 2007–08 school year, the District changed its name to the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to attract students throughout the region.\n\nThe district has seen the graduation rate improve 22.4 percent since 2010. The 4-year graduation rate for students who entered the 9th grade in 2014 and graduated by 2017 was 74.6 percent. The 5-year graduation rate for students who entered the 9th grade in 2013 and graduated by 2017 was 79.6 percent. CMSD reports that the 4-year graduation rate for the class of 2018 was 74.6 percent.\n\nIn 2011, Board of Education Chair Denise Link, led the board in its current transformation efforts, including the appointment of Eric S. Gordon as chief executive officer. In 2012, collaboration with the community and Cleveland Teachers Union, the district designed \"Cleveland's Plan for Transforming Schools\" also referred to as \"The Cleveland Plan.\" The purpose of the Cleveland Plan was to remove legislative barriers to school reform in Cleveland and to implement a portfolio strategy to: Grow the number of high-performing CMSD and charter schools in Cleveland and close and replace failing schools; Focus CMSD's central office on key support and governance roles and transfer authority and resources to schools; Invest and phase in high-leverage system reforms across all schools from preschool to college and career; and Create the Cleveland Transformation Alliance to ensure accountability for all public schools in the city. This included major changes in the District's contract with the Cleveland Teachers Union. House Bill 525 was then created and passed with a bipartisan vote of 27-4, to support the districts most aggressive reform strategies in history. Working closely with Mayor Frank G. Jackson and a coalition of concerned citizens throughout the city, Link and Gordon additionally led the district to passage of CMSD's first operating levy, Issue 107, in 16 years in November, 2012. The District moved its central office in 2013 to its current location at 1111 Superior Ave. E, Cleveland, Ohio 44114.\n\nIn 2013, Board Chair Denise L. Link won the Green-Garner \"Top Urban Educator\" Award, the highest honor given by the Council of the Great City Schools for significant contributions to urban schools and students. CEO Eric Gordon was a national finalist for the same award in 2012. In 2016, Eric Gordon won the \"Urban Educator of the Year Award from the Council of Great City Schools.\n\nCleveland was hit hard in the 1960s and early 1970s by white flight and suburbanization, exacerbating a long-term decline in population that began in 1950. While the city's total population declined, Cleveland Public Schools' enrollment had increased: 99,686 in 1950, and 134,765 in 1960, and 148,793 in 1963. Cleveland Public Schools financially struggled with a growing student population, and a declining tax base due to regional industrial decline and depopulation of the metropolitan and urban areas in favor of the suburbs.\n\nAfter World War II, middle-class jobs and families migrated to the suburbs leaving behind predominantly low-income student enrollment in the Cleveland Public School system.\n\nOn December 12, 1973, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's Cleveland Chapter filed suit, Reed vs. Rhodes, against the Cleveland Board of Education in Cleveland's United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio to racially integrate Cleveland Public Schools, claiming that the public schools were at least partly at fault for Cleveland's housing segregation into ethnic neighborhoods. Between August 31, 1976 and 1984, Chief United States District Judge Frank J. Battisti issued over 4,000 court orders including implementation of forced-busing of Cleveland Public Schools; the case was appealed to the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals, which by 23 Aug. 1979 upheld Battisti's earlier orders, and was later upheld on appeal by the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nMandatory busing was one of several factors which sped up the migration out of Cleveland by those who could afford to. The administrative and operational expense of complying with mandatory busing and other federal court orders caused a dramatic increase in overhead expenditures per student, while declining tax revenues resulted in lower expenditures on actually educating public school students.\n\nThe combination of many factors resulted in declining enrollments. Before mandatory busing, in 1976, minority enrollment in Cleveland Public Schools was 58%; by 1994 it was 71%. By 1996, Cleveland Public Schools' total enrollment was half of what it was pre-mandatory busing. In 1991, Ohio had a new proficiency test for 9th grade students, which the majority of Cleveland Public Schools students did not pass. By 1994, almost 50% of the system's students were failing to graduate from high school. Meanwhile, many \"graduates\" did not qualify for \"entry-level\" jobs, with many employers increasingly requiring secondary or post-secondary degrees due to more information technology-related jobs and other changes in the overall economy.\n\nIn March 1994, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's Cleveland Chapter, Reed vs. Rhodes plaintiff, challenged the fairness of the Ohio 9th grade proficiency test as an Ohio secondary school graduation requirement for African-American students; the subsequent federal court settlement agreement(s) left the 9th grade secondary school graduation requirement intact and unchanged in 1994 and subsequently. Prior to mandatory busing, Cleveland Public Schools' graduation rate was 75 percent; by 1996 it had dropped to 26.6 percent. Although mandatory busing ended in the 1990s, Cleveland continued to slide into poverty, reaching a nadir in 2004 when it was named the poorest major city in the United States. Cleveland was again rated the poorest major city in the U.S. in 2006, with a poverty rate of 32.4%.\n\n\"Growth schools,\" the highest-rated group, will stay as is while gaining some extra freedom in management. \"Refocus schools,\" are improving and will get added attention—for example, leadership training—to help continue their progress. \n\"Repurpose schools,\" which face staff changes or conversion to charters to give them a jolt. The remaining schools will close, with students transferred to neighboring facilities unless they take advantage of citywide open enrollment. \"Monitor closely schools,\" are those schools that will not be placed in a group until the 2011–2012 school year.\n\nPrior to 1998 the school board was elected. Since that time the board has been appointed by the Mayor.\n\nIn October 1921, the Cleveland Public School System began its first program for gifted children at Denison Elementary School where gifted children in grades four, five, and six participated. This program was supported by the Women's City Club of Cleveland. \nFrom 1921 to 1927, fourteen elementary and two junior high schools were established as centers for gifted children. In the decades of the 1940s and 1950s, the Cleveland Public Schools developed and articulated a program for gifted pupils from the primary grades through high school. \nThus, from a modest beginning, the program, which at one time was called the \"greatest experiment in education,\" has grown and developed into a program that currently provides enriching educational experiences for over 2,500 children with high intellectual and/or academic ability.\n\nTotal district revenues for the 2011–2012 school year amounted to $630,981,000, with 27% of revenues coming from local funding, 58% from state funding, and 15% derived from federal funding. This total revenue amounted to $15,464 per pupil. The Ohio Department of Education reports the average teacher salary for the 2012–2013 school year was $69,314, with a median teacher salary of $72,940.\n\nThe Gifted Education Program in the Cleveland Metropolitan School District consists of the 'Major Work' Program, currently in grades 2–8, and the Honors and Advanced Placement (AP) Programs in grades 9–12. There are seven PreK-8 Schools, one Grades 2–12 School, and five Grades 9–12 Schools that service gifted identified children. The AP courses vary amongst high schools.\n\nEntrance into the 'Major Work' Program is based upon a 95 percentile score in the National Range in a major subject area on the Stanford 10 Group Test or the Woodcock-Johnson-III Individual Test. A Full Scale IQ score of 125 or above on the Otis-Lennon Group Test or the WISC-IV Individual Test also qualifies a child for the program.\n\n\nGifted coded students feed into these high schools unless they apply to another special program or thematic school: \n\nCourses vary from school to school: \n\nThe district requires all kindergarten through 8th grade student to wear school uniforms; this rule began in 2008. High schoolers are required to adhere to a strict dress code. In February 2009 the school board voted in favor of a rule stating that high schoolers need to wear uniforms.\n\nIn early 2009, Ohio Department of Education announced its new high school graduation requirements that would take effect starting with students entering ninth grade in 2010 (Class of 2014). Under these requirements, students must take an additional year of mathematics, more business/ career tech class and fewer electives.\n\nIn the 2009–2010 school CMSD introduced its new report card and progress report system. The new report cards were reduced from four pages to one page in high schools, and from four to six – eight pages for students in grades 1–8, but offered less information about students' progress. Teachers, principals, and teacher union officials complained about the new system, arguing teachers had to wake up at 3AM to enter grade because the system was kicking them out and not allowing them to enter grades at reasonable times. Principals had problems printing report cards and saving grades. Parents and students felt the report cards showed very little information compared to the older versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140299", "title": "Zenón de Somodevilla, 1st Marquess of Ensenada", "text": "Zenón de Somodevilla, 1st Marquess of Ensenada\n\nZenón de Somodevilla y Bengoechea, 1st Marquess of Ensenada (April 20, 1702 in Alesanco near LogroñoDecember 2, 1781), commonly known as the Marquess of Ensenada, was a Spanish statesman.\n\nLittle is known of Somodevilla's parents, Francisco de Somodevilla and his wife, Francisca de Bengoechea, nor is anything known of his own life prior to entering the civil administration of the Spanish navy as a clerk in 1720. He served in administrative capacities in Ceuta in that year and in the reoccupation of Oran in 1731. His ability was recognized by Don José Patiño, the chief minister of King Philip V, who promoted him to supervise work at the naval arsenal at Ferrol, the main base of the Spanish Navy's Maritime Department of the North since the time of the early Bourbons.\n\nSomodevilla was also involved in the endeavors by the Spanish government to elevate the king's sons by his marriage to Elizabeth Farnese, Charles and Philip, on the thrones of Naples and Parma respectively. In 1736 Charles, afterwards King Charles III of Spain, conferred on Somodevilla the Neapolitan title of \"Marqués de la Ensenada\". While an \"ensenada\" is a roadstead or a small bay, some of the ancestry-conscious upper-classes and nobility of the court, envious of the rise of this upstart self-made man delighted in the pun, that the name from the title can be phonetically divided into three Spanish words \"\"en si nada\",\" which means \"in himself nothing.\"\n\nIn 1742 Ensenada became Secretary of State and War to Philip, duke of Parma. The following year, on April 11, 1743, after Patinos's successor Campillo died, as Marquess of Ensenada, he was chosen by Philip V as Minister of Finance, War, the Navy and the Indies (i.e. the Colonies). Ensenada met the nomination with a \"nolo episcopari\", professing that he was incapable of filling the four posts at once. His reluctance was dismissed by the king, and he became prime minister at the age of forty-one. During the remainder of the king's reign, which lasted till July 11, 1746, and under his successor Ferdinand VI until 1754, Ensenada was the prime minister, leading the country to victory alongside France and Prussia in the War of the Austrian Succession.\n\nHis administration is notable in Spanish history for the vigour of his policy of internal reform. He drew up reports on the finances and general condition of the country for the new king on his accession, and again after peace was made with Britain at Aix-la-Chapelle on October 18, 1748. Under his direction the despotism of the Bourbon kings became paternal, public works were undertaken, shipping was encouraged, trade was fostered and numbers of young Spaniards were sent abroad for education. From 1749 onwards Ensenada encouraged one of the most important census and statistical investigations in the Europe of his time, known as Catastro of Ensenada, as a first step of a broader reform on taxes.\n\nEnsenada was a strong supporter of a French alliance and of a policy hostile to Britain. Sir Benjamin Keene, the British minister, supported the Spanish court in opposing Ensenada, and succeeded in preventing him from adding the foreign office to the others which he held. Ensenada would probably have fallen sooner but for the support he received from the Portuguese queen, Barbara. In 1754 he offended her by opposing an exchange of Spanish and Portuguese colonial possessions in America which she favored. Following a scandal at court resulting from a conspiracy between anglophile José de Carvajal and the British ambassador to Spain, he was arrested by the king's order on July 20, 1754, and was sacked as prime minister upon Carvajal's death (see \"Enlightenment Spain\"). He was sent into mild confinement at Granada; he was afterwards allowed to relocate to Puerto de Santa Maria.\n\nOn the accession of Charles III in 1759, he was released and allowed to return to Madrid. The new king named him as member of a commission appointed to reform the taxation system. Ensenada soon offended the king. On April 18, 1766 he was again exiled from court, and ordered to go to Medina del Campo. He remained here until his death on 2 December 1781 and was never again involved in public life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140303", "title": "Petit Saint Vincent", "text": "Petit Saint Vincent\n\nPetit St Vincent, known locally as PSV, is an island south of St. Vincent in the Grenadine islands. It is the southernmost island in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The entire island operates as an eco-friendly boutique luxury resort. \nResort has 22 one- and two-bedroom bluff cottages and luxury villas, and has been a part of the Small Luxury Hotels of the World hotel chain since July 2013.\n\nPetit St Vincent is located in the southern part of the Grenadines island chain, to the north of Carriacou and Petite Martinique and south of Palm Islands and Union Island.\n\nPSV is surrounded by of white sand beaches. Inland, the terrain consists of gently rolling hills and tropical woodland, amid which the resort’s accommodation is built. The highest point on the island is on Marni Hill to the northwest of the island, which is above sea level. The Grenadines are marginally drier and warmer than St. Vincent to the north, with the average daily temperature being between all year round, due to the island chain’s proximity to the equator.\n\nThe island is privately owned. In 1963 Haze Richardson and Doug Terman chartered their 77’ schooner \"Jacinta\" to Mr. H.W. Nichols, Jr. and family. During this three-week cruise, Mr. Nichols expressed interest in purchasing an island and building a small hotel. Richardson and Terman concentrated their search on the Grenadines island chain, eventually arranging the purchase of Petit St. Vincent from a woman on Petit Martinique. The two men oversaw the construction of the 22 cottage resort on the behalf of Nichols, who asked Richardson to stay on as manager. Richardson accepted this offer and never left the island, becoming owner after Nichols’ death in 1985.\n\nRichardson died in a swimming accident in Costa Rica in 2008. His wife, Lynn Richardson, continued to manage the resort until November 2010, when it was announced that the island had been sold to Freedom Resorts Ltd., operated by business partners Phil Stephenson (majority owner) and Robin Paterson. Improvements made by this group include renovations to the cottages, a new beach bar and restaurant, and a spa. \n\nThe Petit St. Vincent resort features the 22 luxury cottages with a Balinese-inspired spa and a dive center in the 115 acre area. Food services are provided by the Main Pavilion Restaurant and Bar and the nearby Beach Restaurant with the adjacent Goatie’s Bar. Stephenson invested heavily in the refurbishment of the resort, and under the management of husband and wife team Matthew and Anie Semark, the island was inducted into the portfolio of Small Luxury Hotels of the World in July 2013.\n\nJean Michel Cousteau opened the diving center on the island in 2014. \nIt offers guided dives for \"avid diver, snorkeler or anything in-between\". \n"}
{"id": "2140323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140323", "title": "Masmuda", "text": "Masmuda\n\nThe Masmuda is a Berber tribal confederacy of Morocco and one of the largest in the Maghreb, along with the Zanata and the Sanhaja. They were composed of several sub-tribes: Berghouatas, Ghomaras (Ghomarids), Hintatas (Hafsids), Tin Malel, Hergha, Genfisa, Seksiwa, Gedmiwa, Hezerdja, Urika, Guerouanes, Bni M'tir, Hezmira, Regraga, Haha les Banou Maghus, Gilawa and others. Today, the Masmuda confederacy largely corresponds to the speakers of the Shilha (Tachelhit) Berber variety, whereas other clans, such as Regraga and Doukkala, have adopted Arabic.\n\nThe Masmuda settled large parts of Morocco, and were largely sedentary and practised agriculture. The residence of the Masmuda aristocracy was Aghmat in the High Atlas. From the 10th century the Berber tribes of the Sanhaja and Zanata groups invaded the lands of the Masmuda, followed from the 12th century onwards by Arab Bedouins (see Banu Hilal).\n\nIbn Tumart united the Masmuda tribes at the beginning of the 12th century and founded the Almohad movement, which subsequently unified the whole of the Maghreb and Andalusia. After the downfall of the Almohads, however, the particularism of the Masmuda peoples prevailed once more, as a result of which they lost their political significance.\n\nThe author of the book \"Mafakhir al-Barbar\" (roughly translates as: \"The prides of the Berbers\"), cites the sub-tribes of the Masmuda as follows: \n\n"}
{"id": "2140331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140331", "title": "São Domingos de Rana", "text": "São Domingos de Rana\n\nSão Domingos de Rana () is a civil parish () of the Portuguese municipality of Cascais, part of the Greater Lisbon subregion. The population in 2011 was 57,502, in an area of 20.36 km². The parish includes the localities Abóboda, Cabeço de Mouro, Caparide, Matarraque, Outeiro de Polima, Polima, Rana, Talaíde, Tires, Trajouce and Zambujal.\n\nThe settlement of São Domingos de Rana, is associated with the fertility of the soils and the abundance of spring-waters: the number of archaeological vestiges in the parish implies its place in the settlement of the municipality. In many localities of the parish, human occupation has been almost permanent since the Paleolithic. The archaeological graves in the region attest to agricultural and hunting cultures.\nThis parishes origins date to the settlement of the territory during the Paleolithic to Medieval. The first historical references originated in the Middle Age, one attesting to the existence of locality of Trajouce and the other that mentioned (in 1385) the casal in Freira.\n\nThe first census referred, in 1527, referred to all the current localities in the parish. At that time, there was already a parish of São Domingos de Rana, that extended to Albarraque, expanding in 1758 to São Pedro do Estoril. Until 1838, the area was part of the municipality of Oeiras, before integrated into Cascais.\n\nFor four decades the territory was exclusively agricultural, cultivating wheat, corn and vegetables, in addition to vineyards. Also, the region was known for the extraction of stone used in the construction. In 1983, professor José d’Encarnação described São Domingos de Rana as an area known of cereal harvests, but was slowly threatened by the growth of the city, and the industrial production of Abóboda. With its accelerated growth, and lack of planning, resulted in the growth of illegal barrios.\nOn 3 March 1976, the \"Ministérios da Habitação, Urbanismo e Construção\" and \"Ministério dos Assuntos Sociais\" created an interministerial group (the \"Comissão para o Alojamento de Refugiados - CAR\") in order to coordinate and develop solutions for the housing ex-colonial Africans and refugees, then living in emergency housing in Lisbon or along the Algarve. The development of the CAR neighbourhood of Faceiras, in three phases, began on 18 August 1977 with the construction of 81 homes. The following year (resolution 99/78) this program was integrated with other projects by the commission and the \"Fundo de Fomento da Habitação (FFH)\" (\"Housing Development Fund\") to sustain the program (17 June 1978).\n\nWith , São Domingos de Rana is one of the four parishes in the municipality of Cascais. In 1970 its resident population included 18,140 inhabitants, expanding to 29,342 (in 1981), 35,938 (in 1991) and 43,991 (in 2001): the 2011, included a population of 57,502 inhabitants.\n\nThe protected Costa do Sol-Guincho area is situated along the southern margin at the mouth of the Tagus River, east of Lisbon, with the Serra de Sintra to the northwest and \"Linha de Sintra\" to the north: it includes the municipalities of Cascais and Oeiras. It partially includes a portion of the Sintra-Cascais Nature Park (Regulatory Decree 8/94, 11 March 1994), and was also included in the Natura 2000 designation for the site of Sintra-Cascais (Council of Ministers Resolution 142/97, 28 August 1997).\n\n\n\nIn the locality of Outeiro de Polima is the Saint Dominic's International School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140335", "title": "Merrymount Press", "text": "Merrymount Press\n\nMerrymount Press was a printing press in Boston, Massachusetts, founded by Daniel Berkeley Updike in 1893. He was committed to creating books of superior quality and believed that books could be simply designed, yet beautiful. Upon his death in 1941, the Press was taken over by his partner John Bianchi, but ceased operations in 1949. Updike and his Merrymount Press left a lasting impression on the printing industry, and today Updike is considered one of the most distinguished printers of the twentieth century. Stanley Morison, the typographer responsible for creating the ubiquitous Times New Roman, had this to say of the Merrymount Press after Updike's passing: “The essential qualities of the work of the Merrymount Press...may be said without exaggeration…to have reached a higher degree of quality and consistency than that of any other printing-house of its size, and period of operation, in America or Europe.”\n\nIn 1892, after 12 years at Houghton Mifflin and its Riverside Press, Daniel Berkeley Updike was approached to design a new standard version of the Episcopal Church's Book of Common Prayer. The following year, work began on what would become known as the Altar Book, to be funded by Harold Brown. The commencement of Merrymount Press followed. As Updike described the Press's establishment: “In no exact sense was the Press ever founded—it only began.”\n\nUpdike derived the name Merrymount from Nathaniel Hawthorne’s short story “The May-Pole of Merrymount.” The story centers on Thomas Morton's seventeenth century settlement in present-day Quincy, Massachusetts. Morton's estate was apparently the site of sports, music, and frivolity—set up in the face of his Puritanical neighbors. According to Updike, “The Press took its name from the fancy that one could work hard and have a good time.”\n\nThe style of the Press developed quickly in its early years, at first imitating William Morris’s style and the Arts and Crafts movement. But where Morris’s work was decorative and heavy, Updike’s designs soon became clean and practical. By the end of the 19th century Updike had done away with designs inspired by Morris’s Gothic revival. Instead, Merrymount Press became known for its readable type and minimal decoration. This practicality could also be seen in the kinds of jobs that Updike took on, and which ultimately sustained the business. Bookplates, advertisements, concert programs, catalogs, greeting cards, periodicals, government tracts, diplomas, and more made up the bulk of the work done at Merrymount.\n\nFrom 1915, Updike ran the Press with John Bianchi, who had been a foreman in the workroom since Merrymount’s early days. Bianchi shared many of Updike’s same values and objectives, and was therefore made partner in 1915. Every single item produced by Merrymount was supervised by either Updike or Bianchi. After Updike’s death in 1941, Bianchi carried on the work of the Press with his son Daniel Berkeley Bianchi (named after Updike), but business dwindled and Merrymount Press ceased operations in 1949.\n\nOver the course of 56 years of operation, the Merrymount Press printed more than 20,000 items. Updike, always modest about his achievements, never attributed the Press’s success to any innate talent or instinct of his own, but to hard work and a desire to learn: “Perhaps the reason that I survived, in spite of mistakes, was that a simple idea had got hold of me—to make work better for its purpose than was commonly thought worth while…”\n\nAccording to Updike's own bibliography of the Press's work, the following typefaces comprised the majority of work produced by Merrymount: \n\nNotably, Updike was the first in America to acquire the now universal Times New Roman; its first major appearance was the December 1941 issue of \"Woman’s Home Companion\", which was set by Merrymount. That same year, Updike used Times to print his last publication, \"Some Aspects of Printing Old and New\".\n\nOver its 56-year history, Merrymount Press produced a significant volume of ephemera, especially for local businesses and organizations. Advertisements, dinner invitations, letterhead, and the like were Merrymount's bread and butter, keeping the Press in operation. What made Updike New England's most distinguished printer, however, were the beautiful, finely printed books produced by Merrymount Press. Below is a sampling of what many consider to be the Press's most noteworthy works.\n\nMerrymount's first major work was the Altar Book—begun in 1893 and completed in 1896—financed by Harold Brown. Updike attributed the establishment of Merrymount Press to the commission of the Altar Book saying, “Had I not had this definite work to do I should not have had the courage to leave my current position [at Riverside Press].” The Altar Book was set in the Press's proprietary Merrymount typeface, which was designed by Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue in 1895 and based on William Morris's Arts and Crafts style—or what Updike later called “Morris’s unduly black types.” After completing the Altar Book, Updike quickly abandoned this heavy style in favor of a cleaner, more practical look and reserved use of the Merrymount typeface for large pages as in the Altar Book.\n\n While the Altar Book was being prepared, Updike worked on other titles. The first of these was \"Vexilla Regis Quitidie\", completed in 1893. The book was a selection of prayers and hymns for every day of the year compiled by Lucy Bradlee Stone. Because Merrymount had not yet acquired much type, the book was actually printed by Riverside Press, although Updike did arrange the book.\n\nThe Humanists’ Library, edited by Lewis Einstein, was issued in two series and was printed in the Press's proprietary Montallegro type designed by Herbert Horne. The first series was printed between 1906 and 1908, the second from 1912 to 1914. Each consisted of four titles:\n\nIn 1928, the Episcopal Church decided to issue a revision of its Book of Common Prayer, to be financed by J.P. Morgan, Jr., whose father had funded the previous revision in 1892. Morgan solicited designs from several printing houses, including the Oxford and Cambridge University Presses, William Edwin Rudge, and Merrymount Press. Updike provided two designs for the Prayer Book, one in Lutetia typeface and one in Janson; the Dutch Janson was ultimately chosen for what would become known as Merrymount's finest work. Five hundred copies were issued in November, 1930, and a year later the book was named one of the American Institute of Graphic Arts Fifty Books of the Year.\n\nUpdike's friendship with Edith Wharton led to a long and successful relationship between Merrymount Press and Wharton's publisher, Scribner's. When Wharton published her first book in 1899, \"The Greater Inclination\", she insisted that Merrymount be the printer. Merrymount would print many more of Wharton's books and other titles published by Scribner's. The association was a fruitful one and vital to Merrymount's success in its early years according to Updike: “Nothing could have helped the Press more, just then, than the Scribner connection, for it showed we were not amateurs but could hold our own with larger printing houses…” In 1915, after visiting the front of World War I, Wharton began collaborating with Updike to plan a collection of original stories, essays, poems, art works, and musical scores, the profits from which would benefit the war effort. The book was published in 1916 alongside a special limited edition run of 175 copies, each signed by Updike.\n\nBetween 1930 and 1942, Merrymount Press published eight books for The Limited Editions Club, a publisher of fine bindings. The Limited Editions Club issued just 1,500 copies per title and was available only to subscribing members. Merrymount also printed The Limited Editions Club's first prospectus, issued as a hardcover book. \n\nUpdike was joined by a number of artists over the years who contributed to Merrymount's distinctive look.\n\nWhile employed with the architectural firm Cram & Wentworth, Bertram Goodhue designed the cover, borders, initials, and typeface for Merrymount's Altar Book—one of Merrymount's best known publications. He continued to dabble in typography and book design, but history would know him primarily as an architect.\n\nT.M. Cleland ran his own press, the Cornhill Press in Boston, until 1902 when he returned to New York, where he had begun his career as a freelance artist at age 15. During his time in Boston, he accepted a number of commissions from Updike, who mentored him in his early years. Among his designs for Merrymount are the cover and title page for \"The Poems of Dante Gabriel Rossetti\" in 1903, title page for \"The Life of Benvenuto Cellini\" in 1906, and many more small projects. After leaving Boston Cleland spent a year, from 1907-1908, as art director for \"McClure’s Magazine\" and was later art director for \"Fortune\". He would go on to become known for much of his commercial art. His clients included the American Piano Company, the Cadillac Motor Company, Grolier Club, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nIn 1906, W.A. Dwiggins began working for Merrymount Press on commission. A graphic artist who had studied under Frederic W. Goudy at the Frank Holme School of Illustration in Chicago, he joined Updike at a time when he was still growing as an artist. As Updike was exacting in his expectations, much of what Dwiggins submitted had to be redone or was rejected outright, but he soon become the preferred artist at Merrymount Press. Most of what Dwiggins contributed was completed between 1907 and 1912, including lettering, ornaments, borders, title pages, binding designs, endpapers, and illustrations. Some of his more notable work can be found in The Humanists’ Library series.\n\nRudolph Ruzicka was a Czech artist known for his wood engravings, illustrations, and typefaces. Among the titles designed and printed for The Limited Editions Club by Merrymount Press is \"The Fables of Jean de La Fontaine\", which include decorations engraved on copper by Rudolph Ruzicka. Ruzicka provided a number of illustrations for Merrymount Press over the years, including contributing to Edith Wharton's \"Book of the Homeless\" and illustrating a book commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of Vassar College. According to Updike himself, Ruzicka's best-known works were the engravings he did for the Press's Annual Keepsakes series, beginning in 1912.\n\nThe Boston Athenæum maintains an extensive collection of material designed, printed, and generated by Merrymount Press, including job tickets, specimens of type, artwork, and correspondence.\n\nThe Huntington Library holds the business records of the Merrymount Press and the papers of Daniel Berkeley Updike, including correspondence with authors and publishers, and bills and estimates for clients.\n\nThe Daniel Berkeley Updike Collection on the History of Printing at the Providence Public Library in Rhode Island contains Updike's personal collection of books on printing, as well as ephemera from the Merrymount Press, including a set of punches and two sets of matrices for Merrymount's proprietary types, Montallegro and Merrymount. Updike's personal correspondence, as well as books produced by Merrymount Press, also comprise the collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140341", "title": "International Mind Sports Association", "text": "International Mind Sports Association\n\nThe International Mind Sports Association (IMSA) is an association of the world governing bodies for contract bridge, chess, draughts (checkers), go, xianqi (Chinese chess), and mahjong. Its members are the World Bridge Federation (WBF), World Chess Federation (FIDE), World Draughts Federation (FMJD), International Go Federation (IGF), World Xiangqi Federation (WXF), Mahjong International League (MIL) and Federation of Card Games (FCG). IMSA is a member of Sportaccord (formally the General Association of International Sports Federations) and was founded 19 April 2005 during the GAISF General Assembly. It is based in Lausanne, Switzerland.\n\nThe IMSA generally pursues common aims and interests of its constituent sports. Foremost it organizes the World Mind Sport Games whose first rendition was held in Beijing, China 3–18 October 2008, about two months after the Beijing Olympic Games. The second Games in 2012 would have been formally announced 17 November during the 2011 Mind Sports Festival in London, except that they failed to secure a venue by that time. However a venue was found in Lille in France and the second World Mind Sports Games was held from 9–23 August 2012.\n\nLong term, it hopes to establish \"World Mind Sports Games by analogy with Olympics, held in Olympic host cities shortly after Winter or Summer Games, using Olympic Games facilities and volunteers. The constituent World Bridge Federation incorporated several quadrennial world bridge championships in the World Mind Sport Games because it considers the WMSG a \"stepping stone on the path of introducing a third kind of Olympic Games (after the Summer and the Winter Olympics)\".\n\nIMSA inaugurated the SportAccord World Mind Games December 2011 in Beijing. For all sports, the meet was invitational and the events were not world championships. Beside satisfaction of the participating players and federations, the main objectives were to achieve \"a worldwide TV coverage, and a large participation to the online tournament linked to the event.\"\n\nThe first four meetings occurring between 2011 and 2014, took place in Beijing during December.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140351", "title": "Ilizarov apparatus", "text": "Ilizarov apparatus\n\nThe Ilizarov apparatus is a type of external fixation used in orthopedic surgery to lengthen or reshape limb bones; as a limb-sparing technique to treat complex and/or open bone fractures; and in cases of infected nonunions of bones that are not amenable with other techniques. It is named after the orthopedic surgeon Gavriil Abramovich Ilizarov from the Soviet Union, who pioneered the technique.\n\nIlizarov used external fixation devices on patients to treat non-unions in the 1950s. Ilizarov observed the callus formation and discovered distraction osteogenesis when one patient lengthened his frame rather than compressing it. The procedure, and the first apparatus he designed for it, was inspired by a shaft bow harness on a horse carriage (see photo to the right). Originally bicycle parts were used for the frame.\n\nThe technique gained fame across the Soviet Union when he successfully treated Soviet world-record holder, and gold medalist high jumper, Valery Brumel in 1968. Brumel broke his tibia in a motorcycle accident and had 20 unsuccessful operations over a three-year period to try to repair his non-union. Ilizarov used distraction osteogenesis to heal the non-union and leg length discrepancy.\n\nIlizarov gained more fame in 1980 when he successfully treated Italian journalist and adventurer, Carlo Mauri. Mauri had broken his leg in a skiing accident ten years earlier and his tibia never properly healed. When he was on an expedition across the Atlantic, the wound on his leg reopened and a Russian doctor advised him to see Ilizarov. When Mauri returned to Italy after his treatment, Italian doctors were impressed that his tibial non-union was repaired. They invited Ilizarov to speak at the Italian AO Conference in Bellagio. This was the first time Ilizarov spoke outside of the \"Iron Curtain\".\n\nThe technique was brought to the US in 1987 by Victor Frankel, president of Hospital for Joint Diseases, and Dr. Stuart Green who, in 1992, edited the first English translation of Ilizarov's book.\n\nThe Ilizarov external fixators can be used to correct angular deformity in the leg, to correct leg-length differences, and treat non-unions. In most developing countries it is a highly specialized technique used mainly for deformity correction by experienced surgeons due to its complexity. Further development of the ring construct led to the Taylor Spatial Frame which is more versatile and far easier to use, but very costly. Intramedullary limb lengthening devices are also available, but are also a very costly option.\n\nThe device is a specialized form of external fixator, a circular fixator, modular in construction. Stainless steel (or titanium) rings are fixed to the bone via stainless heavy-gauge wire (called \"pins\" or Kirschner wires). The rings are connected to each other with threaded rods attached through adjustable nuts. The circular construction and tensioned wires of the Ilizarov apparatus provide far more structural support than the traditional monolateral fixator system. This allows early weightbearing.\n\nThe apparatus is based on the principle which Ilizarov called \"the theory of tensions\". Through controlled and mechanically applied tension stress, Ilizarov was able to show that the bone and soft tissue can be made to regenerate in a reliable and reproducible manner. The top rings of the Ilizarov (fixed to the healthy bone by the tensioned wire) allow force to be transferred through the external frame (the vertical metal rods), bypassing the fracture site. Force is then transferred back to the healthy bone through the bottom ring and the tensioned wires. This allows the Ilizarov apparatus to act as a sort of bridge, both immobilizing the fracture site and relieving it of stress, while allowing for the movement of the entire limb and partial weight-bearing. Middle rings (and tensioned wires) act to hold the bone fragments in place and to give greater structural support to the apparatus and limb. However, the critical load bearing rings are the top and bottom rings which transfer the force from the healthy bone down to the healthy bone, bypassing the fracture site.\n\nIn addition to being used to support a fractured limb, the Ilizarov frame is also commonly used to correct deformity through distraction osteogenesis.\n\nThe procedure consists of an initial surgery, during which the bone is surgically fractured and the ring apparatus is attached. As the patient recovers, the fractured bone begins to grow together. While the bone is growing, the frame is adjusted by means of turning the nuts, thus increasing the space between two rings. As the rings are connected to opposite sides of the fracture, this adjustment, done four times a day, moves the now-healing fracture apart by approximately one millimeter per day. The incremental daily increases result in a considerable lengthening of the limb over time. Once the lengthening phase is complete, the apparatus stays on the limb for a consolidation period. The patient is able to fully weight bear on the Ilizarov frame, using crutches initially and pain is lessened. Once healing is complete, a second surgery is necessary to remove the ring apparatus. The result is a limb that is significantly longer. Additional surgery may be necessary, in the case of leg lengthening, to lengthen the Achilles tendon to accommodate the longer bone length. The major advantage of this procedure is that because the apparatus provides complete support while the bone is recovering the patient can remain active aiding recovery.\n\nA further use is in bone transport, whereby a defect in a long bone can be treated by transporting a segment of bone, whilst simultaneously lengthening regenerating bone to reduce the defect and finally dock with the other segment, producing a single bony unit.\n\nWhile the Ilizarov apparatus is minimally invasive (no large incisions are made), it is not free of complications. Pain is common and can be severe, but is treatable with analgesics. Careful attention to cleaning and hygiene is necessary to prevent pin site infection. Other complications include swelling, muscle transfixion, and joint contractures. Physical therapy is often indicated.\n\nThe Ilizarov method is widely used to treat complex and/or open bone fractures. This method is preferred over conventional treatment options (such as internal fixator or cast) where there is a high risk of infection or the fracture is of such severity that internal fixators are unworkable. Journalist Ed Vulliamy wrote a detailed description from the patient's viewpoint of Ilizarov apparatus treatment of a bad fracture.\n\nThe following case study illustrates the Ilizarov apparatus treatment procedure for a fractured limb. The photographs are of the same patient during the course of treatment. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140352", "title": "Liu Xiao Ling Tong", "text": "Liu Xiao Ling Tong\n\nZhang Jinlai (; born 12 April 1959), better known by his stage name Liu Xiao Ling Tong (), is a Chinese actor best known for his role as the Monkey King (Sun Wukong) in the 1986 television series \"Journey to the West\" () adapted from the classic Chinese novel of the same name. Zhang adopted his father Zhang Zongyi's stage name, Liu Ling Tong, and amended it to Liu Xiao Ling Tong.\n\nHis compelling performance in \"Journey to the West\" was greatly praised by critics and helped him win the Best Actor award at the sixth Golden Eagle Awards in 1988. On Sept 27, 2006, he was conferred the Certificate of Mouthpiece of the 3rd International Forum of the China Cultural Industry.\n\nIn recent years, Zhang has made great efforts promoting Sun Wukong in popular culture, which contributed to increasing the popularity of both the classic novel and the character around the world.\n\nZhang was born on April 12, 1959 in Shanghai, in a family of performing artists. His family members, who are Peking opera actors, specialized in playing the role of the Monkey King (Sun Wukong), the protagonist of the classical novel \"Journey to the West\". Zhang's great-grandfather, Zhang Tingchun (), was even considered \"better than a living Monkey King\". Zhang Tingchun mostly performed in the countryside of Zhejiang under the stage name \"Huo Hou Zhang\" ().\n\nZhang's grandfather, Zhang Yisheng (), had the stage name \"Sai Huo Hou\" (). Zhang Yisheng moved from Peking to Shanghai and trained his two sons. Zhang's father, Zhang Zongyi, whose stage name was \"Liu Ling Tong\" (), was famously known as \"Nan Hou Wang\" (). Zhang Zongyi's stage name indicated his age when he started performing. His performance was acclaimed by Chinese leaders, including Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai. His specialty was Sun Wukong, gaining him the nickname \"Monkey King of the South\"; another actor, Li Wanchun, was better known in northern China.\n\nZhang's uncle, who specialized in playing Zhu Bajie, had the stage name \"Qi Ling Tong\" (). Zhang's elder brother used the stage name \"Xiao Liu Ling Tong\" (), which means \"Little Six Year Old Child\", or \"Six Year Old Child, Junior\". The role of Sun Wukong was originally offered to Zhang's elder brother, but because his brother died of leukemia in 1966, Zhang inherited his father's legacy instead. He changed his stage name slightly, to \"Liu Xiao Ling Tong\", which still means \"Little Six Year Old Child\".\n\nAs a dedication to the memory of his elder brother, Zhang put great effort into playing the role of Sun Wukong well. He also helped people affected by leukemia. In 1992, China Central Television produced an eight-episode television series titled \"Hou Wa\" () about Zhang's life.\n\nZhang gained international fame for his starring role as the Monkey King (Sun Wukong) in the 1986 television series \"Journey to the West\", adapted from the classic Chinese novel of the same title. Zhang's compelling performance, which was greatly praised by critics, helped him win the Best Actor award at the 6th Golden Eagle Awards in 1988. After that, he also appeared in other films and television series, such as \"New Year's Day\" (). On September 27, 2006, he was conferred the Certificate of Mouthpiece of the 3rd International Forum of the China Cultural Industry.\n\nZhang reprised his role as Sun Wukong in \"Wu Cheng'en and Journey to the West\", a 2010 television series about Wu Cheng'en—the author of \"Journey to the West\"—and his inspiration for writing the novel. Zhang also simultaneously portrayed Wu Cheng'en.\n\nZhang's activities mainly focus on promoting Sun Wukong in popular culture. Zhang expressed his concern over more contemporary Sun Wukong portrayals. While Zhang stated that he was happy to see \"Journey to the West\", as well as other Chinese classical novels, receiving increased attention from foreign directors, he emphasized that \"such adaptation has to be based on adequate knowledge of Chinese culture\" and that \"the Monkey King is not King Kong\". Zhang believes that Goku from \"Dragon Ball\" does not portray the Chinese style of Sun Wukong.\n\nSome of Zhang's activities and behavior have attracted the attention of internet users, who have created memes that mimic or parody Zhang's behavior, often by making fun of some of Zhang's \"quotes\". These memes have gone viral and a subculture has formed around them, called \"Liu Xue\" (literally \"LiuXiaoLingTong-ology\" or \"Age-six-ology\"). This is especially dominant in Chinese Internet communities. In response, Zhang said while he could accept \"normal critical discussion\" and suggestions, he could not understand the rumors against him. Zhang stated that his Sina Weibo account and information were public while many users' information were not. Zhang elaborated that he and these users \"are not equal and they could not be responsible for what they said. The websites still need to improve the real-name system.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2140370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140370", "title": "Progestogen-only pill", "text": "Progestogen-only pill\n\nProgestogen-only pills or progestin-only pills (POP) are contraceptive pills that contain only synthetic progestogens (progestins) and do not contain estrogen. They are colloquially known as mini pills.\n\nAlthough such pills are sometimes called \"progesterone-only pills\", they do not actually contain progesterone, but one of several chemically related compounds; and there are a number of progestogen-only contraceptive formulations.\n\nThe theoretical efficacy is similar to that of the combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP). However, this pill is taken continuously without any breaks between packets, and traditional progestogen-only pills must be taken to a much stricter time every day (within 3 hours vs. a COCP's 12 hours). However, in some countries, the POP desogestrel (Cerazette) has an approved window of 12 hours. The effectiveness is, therefore, dependent upon compliance.\n\nLacking the estrogen of combined pills, they are not associated with increased risks of deep vein thrombosis or heart disease. With the decreased clotting risk, they are not contraindicated in the setting of sickle-cell disease. The progestin-only pill is recommended over regular birth control pills for women who are breastfeeding because the mini-pill does not affect milk production (estrogen reduces the amount of breast milk). Like combined pills, the minipill decreases the likelihood of pelvic inflammatory disease.\n\nIt is unclear whether POPs provide protection against ovarian cancer to the extent that COCPs do.\n\nThere are fewer serious complications than with COCPs.\n\nCommercially available progestogen-only pills include the following common or widely used formulations:\n\nAnd the following rare or mostly discontinued formulations:\n\n\nAs well as the following completely discontinued formulations:\n\n\nIn the United States, the only progestogen-only pill that remains available is the 350-μg norethisterone formulation.\n\n\nEpidemiological evidence on POPs and breast cancer risk is based on much smaller populations of users and so is less conclusive than that for COCPs.\n\nIn the largest (1996) reanalysis of previous studies of hormonal contraceptives and breast cancer risk, less than 1% were POP users. Current or recent POP users had a slightly increased relative risk (RR 1.17) of breast cancer diagnosis that just missed being statistically significant. The relative risk was similar to that found for current or recent COCP users (RR 1.16), and, as with COCPs, the increased relative risk decreased over time after stopping, vanished after 10 years, and was consistent with being due to earlier diagnosis or promoting the growth of a preexisting cancer.\n\nThe most recent (1999) IARC evaluation of progestogen-only hormonal contraceptives reviewed the 1996 reanalysis as well as 4 case-control studies of POP users included in the reanalysis. They concluded that: \"Overall, there was no evidence of an increased risk of breast cancer\".\n\nRecent anxieties about the contribution of progestogens to the increased risk of breast cancer associated with HRT in postmenopausal women such as found in the WHI trials have not spread to progestogen-only contraceptive use in premenopausal women.\n\nThere is a growing body of research investigating the links between hormonal contraception, such as the progestogen-only pill, and potential adverse effects on women’s psychological health. The findings from a large Danish study of one million women (followed-up from January 2000 to December 2013) were published in 2016, and reported that the use of hormonal contraception, particularly amongst adolescents, was associated with a statistically significant increased risk of subsequent depression. The authors found that women on the progestogen-only pill in particular, were 34% more likely to subsequently take anti-depressants or be given a diagnosis of depression, in comparison with those not on hormonal contraception. In 2018, a similarly large nationwide cohort study in Sweden amongst women aged 12–30 (n=815,662) found an association, particularly amongst young adolescents (aged 12–19), between hormonal contraception and subsequent use of psychotropic drugs. Such studies highlight the need for further research into the influence of hormonal contraception, including the progestogen-only pill on women’s psychological health.\n\nThere is some evidence that progestin-only contraceptives may lead to slight weight gain (on average less than 2 kg in the first year) compared to women not using any hormonal contraception.\n\nThe mechanism of action of progestogen-only contraceptives depends on the progestogen activity and dose.\n\n\nIn anovulatory cycles using progestogen-only contraceptives, the endometrium is thin and atrophic. If the endometrium were also thin and atrophic during an ovulatory cycle, this could, in theory, interfere with implantation of a blastocyst (embryo).\n\nThe first POP to be introduced contained 0.5 mg chlormadinone acetate and was marketed in Mexico and France in 1968. However, it was withdrawn in 1970 due to safety concerns pertaining to long-term animal toxicity studies. Subsequently, levonorgestrel 30 µg (brand name Microval) was marketed in Germany in 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140375", "title": "Zanj Rebellion", "text": "Zanj Rebellion\n\nThe Zanj Rebellion ( ) was a major uprising against the Abbasid Caliphate, which took place from 869 until 883. Begun near the city of Basra in present-day southern Iraq and led by one 'Ali ibn Muhammad, the insurrection is traditionally believed to have involved some enslaved Bantu-speaking people (Zanj) who had originally been captured from the coast of East Africa and transported to the Middle East. It grew to involve many slaves and free men from several regions of the Caliphate, and claimed tens of thousands of lives before it was finally defeated.\n\nSeveral Muslim historians, such as al-Tabari and al-Mas'udi, consider the Zanj revolt to be one of the \"most vicious and brutal uprisings\" of the many disturbances that plagued the Abbasid central government. Modern scholars have characterized the conflict as being \"one of the bloodiest and most destructive rebellions which the history of Western Asia records,\" while at the same time praising its coverage as being among the \"most fully and extensively described campaign[s] in the whole of early Islamic historical writing.\" The precise composition of the rebels remains a subject of debate, both as regards their identity and as to the proportion of slaves and free among them – available historical sources being open to various interpretations.\n\nThe Zanj were Bantu-speaking slaves who had been forcibly taken from Africa and who were primarily used for agricultural labor as part of the plantation economy of southern Iraq. The demand for servile labor during this period was fueled by wealthy residents of the port city of Basra, who had acquired extensive marshlands in the surrounding region. These lands had been abandoned as a result of peasant migration and repeated flooding over time, but they could be converted back into cultivatable status through intensive labor.\n\nLocal magnates were able to gain ownership of this land on the condition that they would make it arable. As a result, they acquired large numbers of Zanj and other slaves, who were placed into work camps and tasked with clearing away the nitrous topsoil as part of the reclamation process. Other Zanj were used to work in the salt flats of lower Iraq, especially in the area around Basra.\n\nBoth the working and living conditions of the Zanj were considered to be extremely miserable. The menial labor they were engaged in was difficult and the slaves appear to have been poorly treated by their masters. Two previous attempts to rebel against these circumstances are known to have occurred in 689–90 and in 694. Both of these revolts had quickly failed and thereafter little is known about their history prior to 869.\n\nBeginning in 861, the Abbasid Caliphate was weakened by a period of severe disorder known as the Anarchy at Samarra, during which the central government in Abbasid Samarra was paralyzed by a struggle between the caliphs and the military establishment for control of the state. Throughout the 860s the various factions in the capital were distracted by this conflict, which resulted in the deaths of several caliphs, army commanders and bureaucrats, the outbreak of multiple troop riots, a damaging civil war in 865–866, and the virtual bankruptcy of the government.\n\nThe anarchy in Samarra allowed a number of provinces to fall into the hands of rebels, while provincial governors were free to act in an independent manner in the territories assigned to them. The effective loss of provinces, in turn, resulted in a decrease in taxation revenues received by the central government, further exacerbating the crisis in the capital and crippling the government's ability to effectively respond to challenges against its authority. This continuing instability greatly facilitated the initial success of the Zanj revolt, as the government proved incapable of committing sufficient troops and resources to subdue the rebels.\n\nThe leader of the revolt was a 'Ali ibn Muhammad, an individual of uncertain background. Little is known about his family or early life due to a scarcity of information and conflicting accounts. According to one version, his paternal grandfather was descended from the 'Abd al-Qays and his paternal grandmother was a Sindhi slave woman, while his mother, a free woman, was a member of the Banu Asad ibn Khuzaymah. Some later commentators have presumed him to have been of Persian rather than Arab background, but other historians consider this to be unlikely. 'Ali himself claimed to have been descended from Ali ibn Abi Talib, the son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and fourth caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate, but this was largely rejected by Muslim historians of the era as false.\n\nRegardless of his origins, 'Ali appears to have spent at least a part of his youth living in the area of Rayy, and at an unspecified date he moved to the 'Abbasid capital of Samarra, where he mixed with some of the influential slaves of Caliph al-Muntasir (861-62). In 863, he made his way from Samarra to Bahrain (modern eastern Arabia), where he pretended to be Shi'i and started to rouse the people into rebellion against the caliphate. Support for his cause quickly grew. A large number of Bahranis submitted to his authority and the \"kharaj\" (land taxes) were collected in his name. Despite this, his rebellion eventually failed due to opposition from the local inhabitants, whereupon 'Ali abandoned the region and relocated to the city of Basra in southern Iraq in 868.\n\nIn Basra 'Ali sought to take advantage of disturbances caused by the city's rival groups, the Bilaliyyah and Sa'diyyah, and attempted to secure the support of one of the factions. Eventually he proclaimed a new revolt, but no one in the city rallied to his side and he was forced to flee to the marshlands of southern Iraq. There he was arrested by the provincial authorities and sent to Wasit. He was quickly able to secure his freedom and went to Baghdad, where he remained for the next year. During his time in Baghdad he claimed to be a Zaydi by being related to the grandson of Zayd ibn Ali and won over additional followers for his movement.\n\nWhen 'Ali heard news about another scuffle between Basra's factions in 869, he returned to the region and \"began to seek out black slaves working in the Basra marshes and to inquire into their working conditions and nutritional standards.\" He began a campaign to liberate and recruit Zanj and other slaves, promising them freedom and wealth in exchange for their support. A large number of people quickly joined his cause, and 'Ali soon came to be known by the title \"Sāhib az-Zanj\", meaning \"Chief of the Zanj\". However, 'Ali's movement attracted not only Zanj but many other socially downtrodden peoples. These included \"semi-liberated slaves, clients of prestigious families, a number of small craftsmen and humble workers, some peasantry and some Bedouin peoples who lived around Basrah.\"\n\nWhile he was gaining followers for his rebellion, 'Ali adopted slogans of the egalitarian doctrine of the Kharijites, who \"preached that the most qualified man should reign, even if he was an Abyssinian slave.\" He inscribed his banner and coins with Kharijite expressions and started off his Friday sermons with the slogan \"God is great, God is great, there is no God but God, and God is great; there is no arbitration except by God,\" which was \"the war cry used by the Kharijites when they defected from the ranks of Ali ibn Abi Talib during the battle of Siffin.\" At the same time, however, 'Ali did not completely abandon the pretense of being an Alid and maintained the claim that he was a Zaydi.\n\nThe revolt, which began in September 869, was concentrated in the districts of Iraq and al-Ahwaz (modern Khuzestan Province) in the central regions of the Abbasid Caliphate. Over the course of the next fourteen years, the Zanj were able to combat the superior arms of the Abbasid government by waging guerrilla warfare against their opponents. They became adept at raiding towns, villages and enemy camps (often at night), seizing weapons, horses, food and captives and freeing fellow slaves, and burning the rest to cinders to delay retaliation. As the rebellion grew in strength, they also constructed fortresses, built up a navy for traversing the canals and rivers of the region, collected taxes in territories under their control, and minted their own coins.\n\nIn its initial stages, the rebellion was limited to the region around the city of Basra and the Blind Tigris. Early efforts by the Abbasid government to crush the revolt proved ineffectual, and several towns and villages were occupied or sacked, including al-Ubulla in 870 and Suq al-Ahwaz in 871. Basra fell in September 871 following an extended blockade, resulting in the city being burned and its inhabitants massacred. A retaliatory campaign undertaken by the caliphal regent Abu Ahmad ibn al-Mutawakkil (known by his honorific of al-Muwaffaq) against the rebels in 872 ended in failure, and the Zanj remained on the offensive over the next several years.\n\nThe continuing inability of the Abbasid army to suppress the revolt, caused in part by its preoccupation with fighting against the Saffarid Ya'qub ibn al-Layth's advance into al-Ahwaz and Iraq, eventually encouraged the Zanj to expand their activities to the north. A campaign by the rebels to occupy the marshlands between Basra and Wasit in 876 proved successful, and soon they made their way into the district of Kaskar. By 879, the rebellion reached its furthest extent. Wasit and Ramhurmuz were sacked and the rebels advanced northwest along the Tigris, coming to within fifty miles of Baghdad.\n\nThe Abbasid government regained the initiative in the war in late 879, when al-Muwaffaq sent his son Abu al-'Abbas (the future caliph al-Mu'tadid) with a major force against the rebels. Al-Muwaffaq himself joined the offensive in the following year, and over the next several months the government forces succeeded in clearing the rebels out of the districts of Iraq and al-Ahwaz and driving them back toward their \"capital\" of al-Mukhtarah, to the south of Basra.\n\nAl-Mukhtarah was placed under siege in February 881, and over the next two and half years a policy by al-Muwaffaq of offering generous terms to anyone that voluntarily submitted convinced many of the rebels to abandon the struggle. The fall of al-Mukhtarah in August 883, combined with the death or capture of 'Ali ibn Muhammad and most of the rebel commanders, brought the revolt to an end, and the remaining rebels either surrendered to the government or were killed.\n\nThe number of people killed in the conflict is difficult to estimate; contemporary writers gave widely variable figures, and these are considered by modern historians to be gross exaggerations. Al-Mas'udi reported a \"moderate\" estimate of 500,000 casualties – though he added a clarification that this was \"empty conjecture - rigorous calculation [of the amount slain] is impossible\" – and separately noted that 300,000 were killed at the battle of Basra. Al-Suli gave a figure of 1,500,000 dead, which was subsequently quoted by multiple sources, while Ibn al-Taqtaqi provided a high-end number of 2,500,000. Al-Tabari's \"History\" contains no comprehensive figures, but the author frequently noted the number of soldiers killed or injured in individual battles, with amounts ranging from hundreds to thousands.\nThe rebellion greatly disrupted economic activity and caused extensive damage to the districts it took place in. Sources of the revolt describe burnt cities and towns, the seizure of food and other resources by advancing armies, the abandonment of lands and the cessation of agricultural activity, disruptions in the regional trade, and the damaging of bridges and canals in the name of military exigency. Shortages of basic necessities, such as food and water, at times became severe, and instances of cannibalism are reported to have occurred.\n\nBoth the rebels and their opponents engaged in looting, destroying supplies that were likely to fall into enemy hands, and massacring or executing captives. The long term effects of the revolt, on the other hand, are more difficult to ascertain and opinions by modern historians vary; some like Bernard Lewis believe that the rebellion resulted in no significant changes, while others such as Theodor Nöldeke argue that the regions devastated by the conflict never fully recovered afterward.\n\nThe significant arms and resources that the Abbasid government was required to throw against the Zanj meant that it was forced to divert its attention from other fronts for the duration of the conflict, resulting in the effective loss of several provinces. Ahmad ibn Tulun, the Tulunid governor of Egypt, was able to take advantage of the Abbasids' preoccupation with the Zanj and forge a \"de facto\" independent state which would survive for more than three decades, while the Saffarids Ya'qub ibn al-Layth and Amr ibn al-Layth seized several of the eastern provinces and faced no serious opposition from the central government until Ya'qub's attempt to march on Iraq itself in 876. The revolt may have also affected the government's ability to defend against the Byzantines, who scored several successes on the Anatolian frontier during this period, and possibly even indirectly contributed to the rise of the Qarmatians of Bahrain a few years later.\n\nGhada Hashem Talhami, a scholar of the Zanj rebellion, argues that modern views of the revolt are distorted by mistakenly equating the Zanj with East Africans. The assumption that ‘Abbasid writers exclusively used the term \"Zanj\" to mean specifically the East African coast, and that therefore the people they called Zanj originated from a specific part of that region, is unsupported by contemporary sources due to their silence on the existence of an East African slave trade in this period, as well as by their occasional use of the term to mean \"blacks\" or \"Africa\" in general.\n\nTalhami cites from various historians and works to make her point that the rebellion was more of a religious/social uprising made by the lowly classed and suppressed citizens of the Basra area, which included a wide variety of people, including slaves of indeterminate origin. She points out that the sources specifically state that the people referred to as \"Zanj\" were not the only participants of the revolt, but were joined by Bahranis, Bedouins and others from the Basra region; moreover, they give no explicit indication that the Zanj even constituted a majority of the rebels.\n\nHistorian M. A. Shaban has argued that rebellion was not a slave revolt, but a revolt of blacks (\"zanj\"). In his opinion, although a few runaway slaves did join the revolt, the majority of the participants were Arabs and free East Africans, and if the revolt had been led by slaves, they would have lacked the necessary resources to combat the Abbasid government for as long as they did.\n\nMuch of the current knowledge of the Zanj Rebellion comes from the historian al-Tabari's work \"History of the Prophets and Kings\". It has been the subject of research by such famous Orientalists as Theodor Nöldeke (\"Sketches from Eastern History\") and Louis Massignon (\"The Passion of al-Hallaj\"). Alexandre Popović has authored a more recent monograph on the subject.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140387", "title": "List of programs broadcast by Disney Channel", "text": "List of programs broadcast by Disney Channel\n\nThis is a list of television programs currently broadcast (in first-run or reruns), scheduled to be broadcast or formerly broadcast on Disney Channel, a family-oriented American basic cable channel and former premium channel, owned by The Walt Disney Company. The channel was launched on April 18, 1983, and airs a mix of animated and live-action programming, ranging from action to drama to comedy.\n\nA list of programs currently broadcast in reruns.\n\nA list of programs currently broadcast on the Disney Junior programming block of Disney Channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140388", "title": "Petrie, Queensland", "text": "Petrie, Queensland\n\nPetrie is a suburb in the Moreton Bay Region, Queensland, Australia.\n\nPetrie is in the North Pine River section of its local government area 24 kilometres north of Brisbane City. The southern boundary is marked by the North Pine River.\n\nPetrie is a suburban village with new housing developments on land which was previously used for pine plantations and agriculture. Petrie railway station provides access to regular Queensland Rail City network services to Brisbane and Ipswich, as well as Caboolture and the Sunshine Coast. There are also commuter rail services to Kippa-Ring (Redcllife) via the newly built Redcliffe branch railway line.\n\nThe Gympie Road, Dayboro Road and Anzac Avenue roundabout junction and surrounding area encompass the town centre which includes establishments, such as retail, commerce, cosmetology, health, education, sport and mechanical industries and establishments. There are also police, fire brigade and ambulance establishments in the town centre.\n\nThe University of the Sunshine Coast Moreton Bay campus is situated in Petrie on the site of the former Amcor Paper Mill.\n\nThe origin of the suburb name is from an early inhabitant by the name of Tom Petrie. The township was named Petrie after his death. Prior to this, the area was known as North Pine. Tom Petrie was a highly regarded individual in the area through his community work and his cooperation with the local Aboriginal inhabitants.\n\nPetrie has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nIn the , Petrie recorded a population of 8,499 people, 50.3% female and 49.7% male. The median age of the Petrie population was 34 years, 3 years below the national median of 37. 78.6% of people living in Petrie were born in Australia. The other top responses for country of birth were England 5.9%, New Zealand 4.6%, South Africa 1%, Scotland 0.6%, Philippines 0.6%. 92.8% of people spoke only English at home; the next most common languages were 0.5% Afrikaans, 0.3% Dutch, 0.3% Italian, 0.3% Samoan, 0.3% Spanish.\n\nPetrie has a number of active community groups including the Phoenix Masonic Lodge. Founded in 1894, it is the oldest masonic lodge in the area. Since 1929 Phoenix Lodge has been meeting at the Petrie Masonic Centre in Whites Road.\n\nThe Pine Rivers branch of the Queensland Country Women's Association meets at the QCWA Hall at 1058 Anzac Avenue.\n\nTourism in Petrie is mainly focused on recreation. Recreational activities, such as bushwalking, canoeing, fishing and horseriding take place.\n\n\nThe Moreton Bay Regional Council operates a mobile library service which visits Mathieson Park on Mundin Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140397", "title": "Thabilitho", "text": "Thabilitho\n\nIn the Syriac Orthodox Church a thabilitho is a wooden slab placed at the center of the altar and covered with cloth. During Holy Qurbana (the Eucharist) the paten and chalice are placed over it. It is consecrated with chrism by a bishop during the consecration of a church. Each thabilitho has inscribed on it the following: \"The Holy Ghost has hallowed this thabilitho by the hands of Mar...\" and the year. The Holy Qurbana can be celebrated anywhere on a thabilitho, and cannot be celebrated without one. The thabilitho symbolizes the Cross on which Jesus was crucified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140399", "title": "Leap Castle", "text": "Leap Castle\n\nLeap Castle is a castle in Coolderry, County Offaly, Ireland, about 6 km north of the town of Roscrea and 10 km south of Kinnitty on the R421.\n\nThere are varied accounts as to when exactly the main tower/keep was constructed; ranging anywhere from the 13th century to the late 15th century, but most likely around 1250 CE. It was built by the O'Bannon clan and was originally called \"Léim Uí Bhanáin\" (as was the fertile land around the castle which was associated with the Bannon clan), or \"Leap of the O'Bannons\". The O'Bannons were the \"secondary chieftains\" of the territory and were subject to the ruling O'Carroll clan. There is evidence that it was constructed on the same site as another ancient stone structure perhaps ceremonial in nature, and that that area has been occupied consistently since at least the Iron Age (500 BCE) and possibly since Neolithic times.\n\nThe Annals of the Four Masters record that the Earl of Kildare, Gerald FitzGerald, tried unsuccessfully to seize the castle in 1513. Three years later, he attacked the castle again and managed to partially demolish it. However, by 1557 the O'Carrolls had regained possession.\n\nFollowing the death of Mulrooney O'Carroll in 1532, family struggles plagued the O'Carroll clan. A fierce rivalry for the leadership erupted within the family. The bitter fight for power turned brother against brother. One of the brothers was a priest. While he was holding mass for a group of his family (in what is now called the \"Bloody Chapel\"), his rival brother burst into the chapel, plunged his sword into him and fatally wounded him. The butchered priest fell across the altar and died in front of his family.\n\nIn 1659, the castle passed by marriage into the ownership of the Darby family, notable members of whom included Vice-Admiral George Darby, Admiral Sir Henry D'Esterre Darby and John Nelson Darby. During the tenure of Jonathan Charles Darby, séances were held in the castle by his wife Mildred Darby who was a writer of Gothic novels: this led to publicity about the castle and its ghosts. The central keep was later expanded with significant extensions, but in order to pay for these, rents were raised and much of the land accompanying the castle was sold. This is one theorised motivation for the burning of the castle during the Irish Civil War in 1922. After its destruction, Mr. Darby obtained a reinstatement estimate from Beckett & Medcalf, surveyors in Dublin, that was issued in September 1922. Confusingly, it gives the address as Leap Castle, Roscrea, Co. Tipperary. The net \"Amount of Claim\" was £22,684.19.1, equivalent to about €1m in 2018. The claim was settled for a lesser amount.\n\nIn 1974 the now ruined castle was bought by Australian historian Peter Bartlett, whose mother had been a Banon. Bartlett, together with builder Joe Sullivan, carried out extensive restoration work on the castle up to the time of his death in 1989.\n\nSince 1991, the castle has been privately owned by musician Seán Ryan and his wife Anne who continue the restoration work.\n\nDuring renovation of the castle in the 1900s, workers found an oubliette behind a wall in the chapel. At the bottom of the shaft were many human skeletons amassed on wooden spikes. When cleaned out, it took three cartloads to remove the bones. Today, the dungeon is now covered over in order to keep people away from it. It is believed that the O’Carrolls would drop guests through the trap door to be impaled on the spikes 8 feet below. A pocket watch found at the same time, dating from the mid 1800s, shows how recently the oubliette may have been used.\n\nA Red Lady ghost is reported to walk the halls holding a dagger. Two little girls named Charlotte and Emily are reported to run up and down the spiral staircase. Emily does after she fell from the battlements on the top of the castles tower and Charlotte can still be seen running around after her sister and calling her name. \nThe castle has been visited by paranormal investigators from ABC Family's \"Scariest Places on Earth\" and Living TV's \"Most Haunted\" in its first season, as well as The Atlantic Paranormal Society (TAPS) from Syfy's \"Ghost Hunters\". Most recently in August 2014, Travel Channel's \"Ghost Adventures\" filmed their tenth season Halloween special at the castle. The castle is allegedly haunted by a sinister elemental spirit referred to only as \"It\". The creature is described by Mildred Darby as being about the size of a sheep with a human face, black holes for eyes and a nose and giving off the smell of a rotting corpse. The castle describes itself as \"the world's most haunted castle\".\n\nThis castle was featured on the cover of several editions of the novel The Riders by the Australian author Tim Winton.\n\nIn 1996, Leap Castles history and hauntings where examined in \"Castle Ghosts of Ireland\" presented by Robert Hardy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140404", "title": "Dice chess", "text": "Dice chess\n\nDice chess can refer to a number of chess variants in which dice are used to alter gameplay; specifically that the moves available to each player are determined by rolling a pair of ordinary six-sided dice. There are many different variations of this form of dice chess. One of them is described here.\n\nThe players alternate rolling the dice and, if possible, moving. On each die, the \"1\" represents a pawn, \"2\" a knight, \"3\" a bishop, \"4\" a rook, \"5\" a queen, and \"6\" a king. The player may move either of the pieces indicated on the two dice. For example, a player rolling a \"1\" and a \"2\" may move either a pawn or a knight. A player who rolls doubles (the same number on both dice) may play any legal move. Otherwise, standard chess rules apply, with these exceptions: \n\nHere is a sample game of dice chess:\n\nThere is no standard for dice chess, and so games called \"dice chess\" may have different rules to the ones given here.\n\nFor example, in the version of dice chess given on the BrainKing site:\nBrainKing also provides a variant on 10×10 board with three kings on each side. To win you need to capture all enemy kings. All other rules are the same as for the 8×8 version. The intention of adding two more kings is to reduce the elements of chance in the game.\n\nAnother form of dice chess is Vegas Fun Chess, whose rules are described on \"The Chess Variant Pages\". That site also states that \"Pritchard's \"Encyclopedia of Chess Variants\" contains descriptions of seven versions of what he calls 'Dice Chess'.\"\n\nJohn Gollon, in his book \"Chess Variations: Ancient, Regional, and Modern\", notes three ways in which dice may be used in connection with a game of chess. The most common is similar to that described in the preceding sections. A second way to use dice is to have each player roll one die on each turn, with the number rolled indicating the number of moves to be played. The maximum number of moves that can be played is usually four, so a roll of a \"4\", \"5\", or \"6\" allows the player to make four moves. A third form of the game uses two dice of contrasting colors, with one determining the piece that can move, and the other the number of moves that the piece makes.\n\nAnne Sunnucks writes that there is evidence from the literature of the period that dice were used to play chess in Europe between the 11th and 14th centuries, and even earlier in Burma and India. The dice were thrown before each turn to determine the piece to be moved; the same numbering system as set forth above was used (\"1\"=pawn, \"2\"=knight, etc.). In the Burmese form of the game, three dice were thrown and each player made three moves at a time. Vladimir Pribylinec writes that the cubes in Cubic Chess move as in orthochess by a symbol uppermost as is described in both editions of Pritchard's \"Encyclopedia of Chess Variants\", first published in 1977. In the variant Protheus cubes are turned on the adjacent squares.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140407", "title": "Adaptec", "text": "Adaptec\n\nAdaptec was a computer storage company and remains a brand for computer storage products. The company was an independent firm from 1981 to 2010, at which point it was acquired by PMC-Sierra, which itself was later acquired by Microsemi, which itself was later acquired by Microchip Technology.\n\nLarry Boucher, Wayne Higashi, and Bernard Nieman founded Adaptec in 1981. At first, Adaptec focused on devices with Parallel SCSI interfaces. Popular host bus adapters included the 154x/15xx ISA family, the 2940 PCI family, and the 29160/-320 family. With advancements in technology, RAID functions were added while interfaces evolved to PCIe and SAS.\n\nOn May 10, 2010, PMC-Sierra, Inc. and Adaptec, Inc. announced they had entered into a definitive agreement of PMC-Sierra acquiring Adaptec's channel storage business on May 8, 2010, which included Adaptec's RAID storage product line, the Adaptec brand, a global value added reseller customer base, board logistics capabilities, and SSD cache performance solutions. The transaction was expected to close in approximately 30 days, subject to customary closing conditions. Following the sale, Adaptec would retain its Aristos ASIC technology business, certain real estate assets, more than 200 patents, and approximately $400 million in cash and marketable securities.\n\nOn June 8, 2010, PMC-Sierra and Adaptec announced the completion of the acquisition. PMC-Sierra renamed the channel storage business \"Adaptec by PMC\". PMC-Sierra was in turn acquired by Microsemi in January 2016.\n\nThe old Adaptec, Inc. changed its name to ADPT Corporation, and then again to Steel Excel, Inc. Steel Excel is now an investment firm.\n\nAdaptec produced interface products involving SCSI, USB, IEEE 1394, iSCSI, Fibre Channel, and video. Adaptec once produced CD- and DVD-burning software under the brand names of Easy CD Creator and Toast, as well as network-attached storage devices such as the Snap Server product line.\n\nThe Adaptec brand is used to sell host bus adapters, RAID adapters, SAS expander cards, cables, and accessories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140408", "title": "HMS Royal Oak (1674)", "text": "HMS Royal Oak (1674)\n\nHMS \"Royal Oak\" was a 74-gun third-rate ship of the line of the Royal Navy, built by Jonas Shish at Deptford and launched in 1674. She was one of only three Royal Navy ships to be equipped with the Rupertinoe naval gun. Life aboard her when cruising in the Mediterranean Sea in 1679 is described in the diary of Henry Teonge.\n\nShe was rebuilt at Chatham Dockyard in 1690 as a 70-gun third rate.\n\nOn 24 August 1704, \"Royal Oak\" participated in the Battle of Vélez-Málaga, in the centre division of the combined English-Dutch fleet under Admiral George Rooke.\n\nShe was rebuilt a second time at Woolwich Dockyard, relaunching on 14 May 1713 as a 70-gun third rate built to the 1706 Establishment. She fought off Forbin's squadron during the Action of 2 May 1707, and was also present in the Battle at The Lizard.\n\nUnder the command of Captain Thomas Kempthorne, \"Royal Oak\" took part in the Battle of Cape Passaro on 11 August 1718 as part of Admiral Sir George Byng's fleet.\n\nOn 8 March 1737 she was ordered to be taken to pieces at Plymouth, and rebuilt as a 70-gun ship according to the 1733 proposals of the 1719 Establishment. She was relaunched on 29 August 1741. Captain Philip Vincent took command and the ship was assigned to the Mediterranean with Rear Admiral Richard Lestock's squadron. Vincent was succeeded by Captain Edmund Willams, Captain Charles Long and finally Captain James Hodsall.\n\n\"Royal Oak\" was converted to serve as a prison ship at Plymouth in 1756. The ship was the scene of an incident in January 1759 in which a French prisoner, Jean Manaux, told the warden that his fellow prisoners were forging passes. His fellow prisoners discovered this and, on 25 January, dragged him to a remote part of the ship, gave him approximately 60 strokes with a large iron thimble tied to a rope, then beat him to death after he struggled from his bonds. They dismembered his body in an attempt to dispose of it. At an inquest ashore the next day, one of the prisoners provided information on the murder, which resulted in the hanging of Charles Darras, Louis Bourdec, Fleurant Termineu, Pierre Pitroll and Pierre Lagnal on April 25 at Exeter.\n\n\"Royal Oak\" was broken up in 1763.\n"}
{"id": "2140433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140433", "title": "Aleksey Koltsov", "text": "Aleksey Koltsov\n\nAleksey Vasilievich Koltsov () (October 15, 1809 – October 29, 1842) was a Russian poet who has been called a Russian Burns. His poems, frequently placed in the mouth of women, stylize peasant-life songs and idealize agricultural labour. Koltsov earnestly collected Russian folklore which strongly influenced his poetry. He celebrated simple peasants, their work and their lives. Many of his poems were put to music by such composers as Dargomyzhsky, Mussorgsky, and Rimsky-Korsakov.\n\nHe was born in Voronezh as a son of a cattle merchant. Having studied for less than two years at a local school (1818-1820), Aleksey quit at the insistence of his father who wanted his help with his business. Koltsov moved, bought and sold cattle; and in the meantime, wrote poems secretly from his father.\n\nThe first serious introduction of his poetry occurred in 1831, when Nikolai Stankevich, a poet and philosopher from Moscow, published several poems in \"Literaturnaya gazeta\" (\"Literary newspaper\") with a short introduction. In 1835, his first collection of poetry was published. Koltsov often traveled on business to St. Petersburg and Moscow, where he met Belinsky, who became his mentor, as well as Vasily Zhukovsky, Pyotr Vyazemsky, Vladimir Odoevsky, and Aleksandr Pushkin, who published one of Koltsov's poems in his journal \"Sovremennik\".\n\nKoltsov's father constantly and cruelly controlled his life, suppressing Aleksey's creative writing and his personal life. Weakened by depression and a year-long tuberculosis, Koltsov died in 1842 at the age 33. He was buried in Voronezh.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140435", "title": "Balé Province", "text": "Balé Province\n\nBalé is one of the 45 provinces of Burkina Faso, located in its Boucle du Mouhoun Region with Boromo as capital. Its area is , and in 2006 had a population of 213,897. The province is known for its Deux Balé Forest, populated by savannah elephant herds. Boromo, the provincial capital, is located on the main road from Ouagadougou to Bobo-Dioulasso.\nIn June 2007, the Canadian mining company, Semafo, open the third gold mine in the country in Mana in the province, with an investment of about $116 million.\n\nOn November 15, 2008 a bus accident killed 69 people at Boromo. when a passenger bus transporting workers to Côte d'Ivoire collided with a commercial truck. Both vehicles burst into flames.\n\nThe province is known for its Deux Balé Forest, populated by savannah elephant herds. Boromo, the provincial capital, is located on the main road from Ouagadougou to Bobo-Dioulasso, and serves as a gateway to the park.\n\nMost people in the province live in rural areas; 199,012 Burkinabé live in the countryside with only 14,885 people residing in urban areas. There are 105,853 men living in Balé Province and 108,044 women.\n\nBale is divided into 10 departments:\n\nIn June 2007, the Canadian mining company, Semafo, open the third gold mine in the country in Mana, with an investment of about $116 million. There is a hydroelectric station at Boromo, operated by the Société Nationale d'électricité du Burkina Faso (SONABEL) with 1,269 MWh.\n\nIn 2011 the province had 164 primary schools and 22 secondary schools.\n\nIn 2011 the province had 31 health and social promotion centers (\"Centres de santé et de promotion sociale\"), 4 doctors and 115 nurses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140441", "title": "Port Authority of Allegheny County", "text": "Port Authority of Allegheny County\n\nPort Authority of Allegheny County (also known as Port Authority or PAAC and formerly as Port Authority Transit (PAT) and PATransit) is the second-largest public transit agency in Pennsylvania and the 26th-largest in the United States. The county-owned, state-funded agency is based in Pittsburgh and is overseen by a CEO and a nine-member board of unpaid volunteer directors, who are appointed by the county executive and approved by the county council.\n\nPort Authority's bus, light rail and funicular system covers Allegheny County. On some longer-distance routes, service extends into neighboring counties such as Beaver, Washington, and Westmoreland. These counties have their own transit systems, including several routes that run into downtown Pittsburgh, where riders can make connections with Port Authority service.\n\nPort Authority was created by the Pennsylvania General Assembly in 1956 to allow for creation of port facilities in the Pittsburgh area. Three years later, the legislation was amended to allow the Port Authority to acquire privately owned transit companies that served the area. This included the Pittsburgh Railways Company and 32 independent bus and incline operations.\n\nOn April 19, 1963, the Board of Allegheny County Commissioners authorized the acquisition of 32 transit companies, including the Pittsburgh Railways Company, which had provided bus and streetcar service to Pittsburgh since January 1902, and an incline plane company, for about $12 million. On March 1, 1964, Port Authority Transit began service.\nShortly after the Port Authority began service, 150 GM \"Fishbowl\" buses were introduced to replace aging ones acquired from its predecessors, a new route numbering convention was introduced, and the fare system was streamlined. Due to urban sprawl, the agency introduced new routes that served new communities. In the following years, additional buses were ordered and several new transit garages opened. Many of the trolley lines acquired from Pittsburgh Railways were abandoned, and turned into bus lines; South Hills lines via Beechview and Overbrook were retained. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Port Authority hoped to introduce a modern rapid transit system known as Skybus with rubber-tired vehicles running on rails, but the plan fell through.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the Port Authority entered what was dubbed by its fans the \"Mod\" era, with buses repainted in splashy paint schemes. Several new flyer routes and routes to Oakland's university core were introduced as part of a new general marketing strategy. In 1975 the Port Authority took over the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad commuter rail line to Versailles, which it branded PATrain. These new routes, coupled with the 1973 oil crisis, generated a major increase in ridership. Due to the poor state of the economy at the time, fares increased and there was a brief strike in 1976. In spite of these setbacks, the South Busway opened in 1977 and plans for other capital investments were made.\n\nDuring the 1980s, with gas prices falling and population loss from the decline of the steel industry, ridership decreased and the agency lowered fares to attract new riders in the middle of the decade. Many new buses were ordered, and the Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway opened in 1983. Construction of a light rail line that started in downtown south to traverse Beechview, with lines to South Hills Village and Library progressed during the decade. Part of the line was an updated version of the old trolley system. In July 1985, the downtown subway opened, the Beechview line followed in 1987 and the Library line a year later. In 1989, the agency celebrated its twenty-fifth year of existence, and commuter rail to Versailles was discontinued.\n\nThe agency was rocked by a four-week strike due to a labor dispute in 1992. The strike, coupled with changing demographic patterns, caused a decrease in ridership. New buses that were compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 were introduced early in the decade. In 1993, the badly deteriorated Overbrook light rail line was shut down, requiring trains to use the Beechview line. Several capital projects, such as the construction of a western busway and light rail extensions were considered. In 1998, the agency rebranded itself as \"Ride Gold\" with new paint schemes and a new marketing campaign.\n\nIn 2000, the West Busway from the Ohio River to Carnegie was opened. Shortly thereafter, new bus routes to outlying communities such as Cranberry were established. In 2003, a short extension of the East Busway was completed. The following year, the Overbrook light rail line was re-opened after a lengthy reconstruction. Construction also started on a light rail extension to Pittsburgh's North Shore near Heinz Field, known as the North Shore Connector. Unfortunately, in spite of the capital projects expansion, the agency was in serious financial trouble by the middle of the decade. In June 2007, the agency went through with a 15 percent service cut in order to cut the deficit. In order to provide a dedicated source of funding, Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan Onorato introduced the controversial 10% Allegheny County Alcoholic Beverage Tax in 2008 to fund the agency. Later that same year, another strike was narrowly averted. The agency is planning a major service overhaul that will begin to go into effect in March 2010.\n\nThe Port Authority pays $168,763 annually to Buchanan, Ingersoll & Rooney and $48,750 annually to Greenlee Partners to lobby the Pennsylvania General Assembly.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2010, the Port Authority cut its annual expenses by $52 million and raised its revenues by $14 million to help alleviate a statewide transportation funding crisis. The funding crisis only grew worse, however. The state legislature assumed it would receive permission to convert Interstate 80 into a toll road to increase revenues, but the federal government denied the request, leading to a gap in the state transportation budget of $472 million.\n\nOn November 24, 2010, the Port Authority's board of directors approved a massive service cut and fare hike to go into effect in March 2011, reducing service hours by approximately 35 percent, including the elimination of 45 routes. The Port Authority's budget from the state is to be substantially reduced for 2011, and as chairperson Joan Ellenbogen noted, the Port Authority is legally required to adopt a balanced budget. Chairperson Guy Mattola stated that \"Unfortunately, we are now at the point that all options have been exhausted...It is necessary to move forward with this service reduction plan recognizing the devastating consequences for riders and non-riders alike.\"\n\nOn December 13, 2010, the Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission approved a plan by governor Ed Rendell to allocate $45 million in temporary funding for the Port Authority to help reduce the magnitude of these service cuts. Many details of the emergency funding, including how long the Port Authority must make the $45 million last and exactly how many routes slated to be cut could be saved, were not settled by the end of 2010.\n\nOn March 27, 2011, a 15 percent service reduction went into force. Twenty nine routes were removed, thirty seven reduced, and a bus maintenance facility shut down\n\nOn September 2, 2012, a 35% reduction is scheduled; fares rose on July 1 to $2.50 in Zone 1.\n\nIn November 2013, the Pennsylvania legislature approved a long-awaited and hotly debated transportation bill, now known as Act 89. Act 89 provided dedicated funding to Port Authority, putting the agency on more solid financial footing. One of the routes cut in 2011, the 55 Glassport, was restored in 2013.\n\nAlthough Port Authority is part of the local fans' folklore, its off-beat imaging is more notorious. Throughout the 1960s and early 1970s the bus fleet was very recognizable with its fleet of air-conditioned GM \"Fishbowls\" (from their 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967 and 1971 orders) sporting a white top with small red strip. Other noticeable features included side destination signs placed near the exit door and an unusual seating arrangement with one side facing forward and the other lining up to match the seating placed on the wheel well. PAT would continue ordering buses in that specification until 1995 when they ordered buses with both seating sides facing front except when on wheel wells. The side destination signs were moved immediately to the left of the front door starting with the 1998 Neoplan AN-460 (articulated bus) order. This continued with the Neoplan Metroliner order but skipped the Neoplan AN-440LF order in 1999. The 2003 order of Gillig Advantage low-floors and all subsequent orders have conformed with the side sign next to front door configuration. It is worth noting that the 1980 GM's RTS buses acquired were specified with the current side sign configuration.\n\nBy 1972 it entered what was dubbed by fans the \"Mod\" era, as buses were given flashy new paint schemes. Buses were painted with color at the front and rear, slanted to line up with the windows, and a large white portion in between.\n\nIn the 1980s, the classic 1960s white and red strip look was updated with a larger red strip accompanied by a black strip painted around the window area, while a white background covered most of the bus exterior. This color scheme was in existence for roughly 20 years on the Flxible and NovaBus 'classics' series, although these buses were later repainted and refurbished into the uniform color livery up until their retirements.\n\nIn 1998 Port Authority rebranded itself as \"Ride Gold\" to coincide with its 35th anniversary.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Port Authority's buses included various transportation-related words and phrases repeated across the exterior, such as the words \"move\", \"go\" \"ride\" or \"connect\", combinations of \"rockin'\" and \"rollin'\", \"ziggin'\" and \"zaggin'\", or \"here\" and \"there\".\n\nOn September 21, 2006, Port Authority announced that it was retiring the \"Ride Gold\" campaign and that the bus and light rail fleet will follow the standard design and uniform colors of its Gillig bus fleet. The reason was the system's decision to return to a back-to-basics approach and to save costs on wholesale repainting and refurbishing. Their website began to use simple \"PORT AUTHORITY\" fonts, and some buses and light rail vehicles have been repainted with the standard \"Port Authority\" font.\n\nOn April 29, 2016, following several months of public hearings, the Port Authority's board of directors voted unanimously to implement sweeping changes to the fare system in 2017, including a decrease in fares for some riders for the first time in over 35 years. The new fare system eliminated the current zone-based fare collection in favor of a flat $2.50 single-ride fare for all riders who pay via ConnectCard. Riders between Zones 1 and 2 used to pay a single-ride fare of $3.75, one of the highest intra-urban fares in the country. Although doing so will result in approximately $4 million in lost revenue for the agency, it hopes to recoup at least some of the losses by implementing a 25-cent surcharge for riders paying with cash, eliminating paper transfer tickets for cash fares and establishing a $2 surcharge for new or replacement ConnectCard purchases. These changes are also intended to discourage paying fares with cash in favor of increased ConnectCard use, which the agency also says will speed up trip times. Seniors at least 65 & kids below 6 (3-kid limit applies) with fare-paying rider ride for free; disabled & Medicare users pay either $1.35 in cash or $1.25 with ConnectCard; $0.50 extra for transfers.\n\nThe agency also voted to abolish the \"pay enter/pay leave\" fare collection policy in favor of all riders simply paying their fare upon entering the bus regardless of destination, similar to the method used on most other American transit agencies. This change will mean the elimination of the free fare zone in downtown Pittsburgh, although free rides on the \"T\" between Downtown and the North Shore will continue. For light-rail rides outside these stops, cash fares will no longer be accepted, and the agency will eventually implement a proof of payment system, with riders required to scan their ConnectCards at kiosks on station platforms prior to boarding and Port Authority police officers performing random inspections on board to ensure payment.\n\nPort Authority used a fare structure based on four main zones (1, 1A, and 2). The downtown area was an unnumbered \"Free Fare Zone\", established in 1985 to encourage transit use in downtown and reduce stop \"dwell\" times (the amount of time a transit vehicle must remain stopped for passengers to board or alight). All rides within the downtown zone are free, at all times on the light rail system (called the \"T\") and until 7 p.m. on buses, seven days a week. Originally the free-fare zone applied only until 7 p.m. on both buses and light rail, but it was expanded to 24 hours on the latter in 1989. Zone 1 was the zone closest to downtown Pittsburgh, and Zone 2 comprised the outer half of Allegheny County and all stops outside of Allegheny County. A few routes cross briefly into neighboring counties.\n\nThe system used an \"outbound\" pay system for daytime transit to and from downtown. Fare was paid when boarding on the \"outbound\" part of the route. This applies only on buses that serve downtown; on most that do not serve downtown, the rider pays upon entry. During the evening, on buses serving downtown, the method changes on many routes to \"pay when boarding\" (also known as \"pay enter\"), due to the possibility of riders trying to avoid paying the fare. In combination with the downtown \"Free Fare Zone\", this fare collection system permits boarding to take place via all doors in downtown (except evenings), greatly reducing loading delays in the part of the system with the heaviest concentration of transit routes and passenger boarding per stop.\n\nThe Port Authority sells non-discounted single-use tickets, and discounted weekly, monthly and annual passes. Each carries a small discount over earlier time-based passes and is valid for an unlimited number of trips/transfers in the specified zone(s) for that time period. For example, for a zone 1 pass the cost of a weekly is the equivalent of 9.5 one-way trips, a monthly is equivalent to 34 trips, and an annual is equivalent to 377 trips. An annual pass is a 12-month subscription to monthly passes, which can be either mailed or picked up at the Downtown Service Center on Smithfield Street.\n\nStudents and staff of several colleges in the area, most notably Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh, ride the bus at a discounted yearly rate: students pay a fee each semester to the Port Authority.\n\nPort Authority installed new fareboxes on all buses in 2011, and has converted to a smart card fare collection system marketed as the \"ConnectCard\" starting in early 2012. The University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University use the new farebox system by equipping their ID cards with a chip the farebox can scan and recognize. Because individuals affiliated with the Universities ride for \"free,\" the system serves only to authenticate the validity of the ID card, and no fares are calculated or assessed.\n\nThe Port Authority operates a light rail system called \"The T\", from downtown subway to neighborhoods and suburbs south of the city on a surface light rail right-of-way.\n\nThe system comprises three lines:\n\nPittsburgh's mass transit system also includes two unique funiculars (called \"inclines\" locally) from the top of Mt. Washington to its base along the Monongahela River, just across from Downtown Pittsburgh.\n\nBoth the Duquesne Incline and the Monongahela Incline have stations along Grandview Avenue atop Mt Washington and in the Station Square area at the base.\n\nThe Duquesne Incline is owned by Port Authority, and The Society for the Preservation of the Duquesne Heights Incline operates it as a non-profit organization. It has the original cars and the original stations.\n\nThe Port Authority operates 700 buses, as of April 2014, in Allegheny County, and also service extends slightly into neighboring Beaver, Butler, Washington and Westmoreland counties. Some bus routes operate seven days a week between 4:00 am and 2:00 am, but many routes have more restricted hours, or do not operate on weekends, or on Sundays and holidays.\n\nIn May 2001 the fleet installed its first bike racks, with 75 buses installing 2 bike racks on 8 routes on May 17, 2001. In September 2011, the last remaining buses received bike racks.\n\nIn December 1977 Port Authority unveiled its first dedicated busway, the 4.3-mile South Busway, which combined bus and light rail routes into an efficient and quicker connection between downtown Pittsburgh and the South Hills area. The Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway, which used express routes to connect downtown with nearby east side communities like Swissvale, Wilkinsburg and Homewood followed in February 1983. On Sunday, September 10, 2000 Port Authority opened its West Busway, which provides service from downtown Pittsburgh to Carnegie. In 2003, the East Busway was expanded by a few miles to Swissvale and Rankin.\n\nOn July 22, 2011, the Port Authority approved spending at least $1 million, including $837,993 in federal funding and $209,498 in county money, to study developing a rapid bus line from Downtown to the Oakland section.\n\nBus rapid transit or BRT provides bus service that is intended to resemble light rail, with higher frequency of service, fewer stops and, in several cities, pre-ticketing options or buses that look like trains or trolleys. The mode has had mixed success depending on jurisdiction, with some transportation planners citing a service-dilution pattern that they call Bus rapid transit creep.\n\nThe study should take up to 18 months to be completed and will use no money from the Port Authority's operating budget.\n\nAll of PAAC’s bus fleet (except for buses contracted to Lenzner) as of 2019 is low floor.\nPort Authority operates more than 60 park-and-ride lots in Allegheny County. It owns 66 transit bridges, 11 highway bridges and four tunnels.\n\nUnder the Port Authority-sponsored ACCESS program, a private contractor provides door-to-door service to elderly and disabled passengers throughout the county, seven days a week from 6 a.m. to midnight. Reservations are placed one day in advance. The ACCESS program is noted as one of the first, most innovative and best in the nation.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2004 the Port Authority worked with the local community group Ground Zero to create and operate the \"Ultra Violet Loop\"; known to some as the \"party bus\", the UV Loop bus was special service operated on Friday and Saturday nights through the early morning, serving city nightlife and university centers. The UV Loop bus was part of special evaluative service supported in part by local foundations & businesses. While it was well regarded in the abstract, it never achieved the ridership and consistent service needed to continue without external support. The \"Ultra Violet Loop\" name is a play on the Pittsburgh/Allegheny County Belt System.\n\nSeveral capital expansions have been proposed from various sources. The construction of a light rail line from Oakland to Pittsburgh International Airport has been proposed by County Executive Dan Onorato and Congressman Mike Doyle, projected to cost about $3.5 billion. Doyle has recently submitted a request to the Federal government to study the feasibility of the project. Studies for a commuter rail line from downtown to Arnold along the right-of-way of the Allegheny Valley Railroad and from downtown to Greensburg along the right-of-way of Norfolk Southern railroad are also underway. According to the feasibility study, it is unclear whether the Port Authority, the Westmoreland County Transit Authority, or an as-yet created independent agency would operate the railway.\n\nSince 2007, the Port Authority cut annual expenses by $52 million and raised revenues by $14 million to help alleviate a $472 million gap in the state transportation budget. In late 2010, the Port Authority's board approved service cuts of 35% (45 routes) and fare increases. The Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission approved a plan by Governor Ed Rendell to allocate $45 million for the Authority to help reduce service cuts to only 15% on March 27, 2011. Since Governor Tom Corbett's 2012 budget, the Port Authority has renewed plans to cut service by 35% if the state fails to help with a projected $64 million budget deficit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140448", "title": "Pelle Almqvist", "text": "Pelle Almqvist\n\nPer \"Pelle\" Almqvist (born 29 May 1978), also known as Howlin' Pelle Almqvist, is a Swedish singer and songwriter. He is the lead singer of garage rock band The Hives.\n\nAlmqvist and his brother Nicholaus Arson formed the band in 1993, and, according to a fictional biography about the band, attracted the attention of promoter/manager/songwriter Randy Fitzsimmons, which is a pseudonym of Arson's. He had previously worked as a postman and a sixth-grade teacher.\n\nAlmqvist is known for being particularly animated during live shows, and his onstage antics have earned the band the title of \"The best live band in the world\" from \"Spin Magazine\", which also puts Almqvist in their list of the \"50 Greatest Frontmen of All Time\". Some of his onstage antics include regularly mixing with the crowd, climbing on amps/ladders/stairs, and saying very ridiculous, nonsensical and seemingly arrogant things between songs.\n\nAlmqvist was previously in a relationship with Maria Andersson (lead vocalist of the Swedish rock band Sahara Hotnights) until a 2006 breakup. Since May 2010 he has been in a relationship with Catrin Nilsson.\n\nIn January 2007, Almqvist led the P3 Guld Awards.\n\nIn 2016, he presented Musikhjälpen which was broadcast from Örebro.\n\nAlmqvist is a vegetarian and an atheist.\n\nAlmqvist performed a collaboration with Swedish rock artist Moneybrother, a cover of an Operation Ivy song \"Freeze Up\". They used Swedish lyrics and called it \"\", which translates as \"I Won't Sign Anything\". He was also the featured singer in the DJ Duo Punks Jump Up single 'Dance to our Disco'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140452", "title": "Zhe school (painting)", "text": "Zhe school (painting)\n\nThe Zhe School (浙派) was a school of painters and was part of the Northern School, which thrived during the Ming dynasty. The school was led by Dai Jin, traditionally considered its founder. The \"Zhe\" of the name refers to Dai Jin's home province - Zhejiang. The school was not a school in the proper sense of the word in that the painters did not formulate a new distinctive style, preferring instead to further the style of the Southern Song, specializing in decorative and large paintings. Instead the school was identified by the formal, academic and conservative outlook, being a revival in the early Ming Dynasty of the Ma-Xia (Ma Yuan 馬遠, Xia Gui 夏珪), 'academic', style of painting landscapes of the Southern Song.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140457", "title": "CSS Resolute", "text": "CSS Resolute\n\nCSS Resolute was a tugboat built in 1858 at Savannah Georgia as the \"Ajax\" which served in the Confederate States Navy during the American Civil War.\n\n\"Resolute\" entered Confederate service in 1861 and operated as a tow boat, transport, receiving ship, and tender to the sidewheeler on the coastal and inland waters of Georgia and South Carolina.\n\nOn 5–6 November 1861, \"Resolute\", under Lieutenant John Pembroke Jones, CSN, in company with , , and \"Savannah\", under the overall command of Flag Officer Josiah Tattnall, CSN, offered harassing resistance to a much larger Union fleet preparing to attack Confederate strongholds at Port Royal Sound, S.C.\n\nDuring November 7, while \"Resolute\" had been sent to Savannah with dispatches, the Union fleet under Flag Officer Samuel Francis du Pont, USN, pounded the Confederate Fort Walker and Fort Beauregard until they were abandoned. Upon her return, \"Resolute\" helped evacuate the garrison of Fort Walker and then returned to spike the Confederate guns at Pope's Landing on Hilton Head Island.\n\nLater that month, on November 26, \"Resolute\", in company with \"Sampson\" and \"Savannah\", under Flag Officer Tattnall, weighed anchor from under the guns of Fort Pulaski, S.C., and made a brief attack on Union vessels at the mouth of the Savannah River. On January 28, 1862, accompanied by \"Sampson\" and \"Savannah\", she delivered supplies to the fort despite the spirited opposition of Federal ships.\n\nWhile on an expedition to destroy the Charleston and Savannah Railway bridge spanning the Savannah River, in cooperation with gunboats and \"Sampson\", under Flag Officer William W. Hunter, CSN, on December 12, 1864, \"Resolute\" received heavy fire from battery I, First New York Artillery. Although hit twice, she was not seriously damaged until she was disabled in collision with the two gunboats during their retreat. Although the gunboats escaped, \"Resolute\" grounded on Argyle Island on the Savannah River. She was captured on the same day by soldiers of Company F of the 3rd Wisconsin Veteran Infantry, commanded by Captain Charles Ransom Barrager, under Colonel W. Hawly, USA, in the army of General William T. Sherman, and destroyed.\n"}
{"id": "2140458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140458", "title": "Zhe school (guqin)", "text": "Zhe school (guqin)\n\nThe Zhe school is a school of musicians for the guqin. It should not be confused with the Zhe school of landscape painters. \n\n"}
{"id": "2140462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140462", "title": "Everything Is Wrong (album)", "text": "Everything Is Wrong (album)\n\nEverything Is Wrong is the third studio album by American electronica musician Moby, released on March 14, 1995 by record labels Mute in the United Kingdom and Elektra in the United States. It was released with a limited-edition bonus disc of ambient music titled \"Underwater\".\n\nFollowing the release of two albums, \"Moby\" and \"Ambient\", on Instinct, Moby signed to Mute and Elektra and began work on what he felt was his first \"legitimate\" album, seeking to create a record that encompassed his various musical influences. Moby has described \"Everything Is Wrong\" as \"a record that almost served as a lifeboat for the songs I cared the most about\", noting that he attempted to cover as many musical styles as possible not \"out of trying to be eclectic, but just because I was in love with all of these genres and I felt like this may be my only chance to make a record.\"\n\nMoby recorded and mixed the album himself in his apartment on Mott Street in Manhattan, New York, using inexpensive recording equipment. \"Everything Is Wrong\" features guest vocal contributions from Rozz Morehead, whom Moby had met while performing on the British television program \"Top of the Pops\", and Mimi Goese, whose work with the band Hugo Largo he admired, and who he later found out lived just a block away from him.\n\nMoby titled the album \"Everything Is Wrong\" and wrote its extensive accompanying liner notes as a means of expressing some ideas that he felt were important to him, later reflecting, \"At the time, I was — and am still — a vegan and an animal rights activist, really militant in all my beliefs. So I would wake up really angry every day, and sleep angry every night because I thought the world was in terrible shape, and I thought, 'What small thing can I do to express my beliefs that the world is in such terrible shape?' And that’s where the title of the album came from.\" Inside the album's booklet, Moby provides two personal essays, quotes from notable figures (from Albert Einstein to St. Francis of Assisi), and facts that he has collected regarding subjects such as vegetarianism, environmentalism, and animal experiments.\n\n\"Everything Is Wrong\" was released to positive reviews from music critics. \"Spin\"s Barry Walters praised its diverse range of musical styles compared to most other \"one-dimensional\" electronic albums and dubbed it \"a hugely passionate album held together by its intensity\". Greg Kot of the \"Chicago Tribune\" felt that Moby \"explodes the boundaries of the genre\" with an album \"as moving as it is adventurous\", while Lorraine Ali of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that \"Everything Is Wrong\" \"swoops from agony to ecstasy, leaping from the glittery heights of disco divadom to the rampaging ugliness of speed-metal to the refined feel of classical—while always remaining consistently Moby.\" In \"The Village Voice\", Robert Christgau remarked: \"Where in concert he subsumes rockist guitar and classical pretensions in grand, joyous rhythmic release, on album his distant dreams remain tangents.\" \"Everything Is Wrong\" was voted the third best album of 1995 in \"The Village Voice\"s year-end Pazz & Jop critics' poll. By 2002, the album had sold over 180,000 copies in the United States.\n\n\"God Moving Over the Face of the Waters\" is featured in the closing moments of the 1995 film \"Heat\". \"First Cool Hive\" is featured in the final scene of the 1996 film \"Scream\".\n\n\"When It's Cold I'd Like to Die\" is featured in \"The Sopranos\", at the end of the episode \"Join the Club\". Additionally, the song was featured in season 1 of \"Stranger Things\".\n\nCredits for \"Everything Is Wrong\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\n\n\nA two-disc remix album entitled \"Everything Is Wrong: Non-Stop DJ Mix\" was released in January 1996 by Mute. The album was mixed by Moby from various remixes that were commissioned by the label.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140467", "title": "Badis ibn Mansur", "text": "Badis ibn Mansur\n\nBadis ibn al-Mansur (; died 1016), known fully as Abu Manad Badis Nasir al-Dawla (أبو مناد باديس ناصر الدولة), was the third ruler of the Zirids in Ifriqiya (995–1016).\n\nBadis ibn Mansur succeeded his father al-Mansur ibn Buluggin (984–995) as viceroy of Ifriqiya. He stayed very close to his overlords, the Fatimids of Egypt, on account of a power struggle amongst the Zirids - his right to rule was challenged by his great-uncle Zawi ibn Ziri, who was ultimately driven into Andalusia where he founded the Zirid dynasty of Granada (1012–1090).\n\nMore serious was the challenge posed by his uncle Hammad ibn Buluggin, who as governor of Algeria was building up his power and had established his own residence at Bejaia - ultimately, in 1014, the Hammadids separated from the Zirids. In the ensuing struggle the Zirids received no support from the Fatimids, and were forced to concede the independence of the breakaway dynasty.\n\nBadis was succeeded by Al-Muizz ibn Badis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140483", "title": "Arios", "text": "Arios\n\nArios may refer to\n\n"}
{"id": "2140487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140487", "title": "Kissonerga", "text": "Kissonerga\n\nKissonerga is a village in South West Cyprus, about 8 km north of Paphos, in a region notable for the cultivation of banana plantations, an area known as the Ktima Lowlands. In 1980 the population of the village was 700 people.\n\nKissonerga is about eight kilometres down the main road from Paphos towards Coral Bay. Along the coast road are several hotels, mini-markets, numerous bars and taverns, as well as small complexes of shops mainly catering for tourists. The village is located 112 metres above sea level.\n\nAway from the coast road, Kissonerga village has a main street where there are restaurants, several mini-markets, two banks, two coffee shops (one of which also operates as a sub post office), a bookshop, florist, chemist and hairdressers. There is also an internet café near the playground. Kissonerga has a collection of holiday homes named Juliepapas Gardens which is in the suburbs and is signposted off the coastal road.\n\nAt the far end of the main street, opposite the school, which caters for children from nursery age to 11 years old, there is a communal area which is mainly used as a playground. Bordering this area is a monument dedicated to two young men of the village, Christos Miltiadous Kkelis (23) and Georgios Michalis (17) who were members of EOKA (National Organisation of Cypriot Fighters) and who died for their cause. The inscriptions read - ΑΓΩΝΙΣΤΗΣ ΤΗΣ ΕΟΚΑ 1955-59 ΕΠΕΣΕ ΜΑΧΟΜΕΝΟΣ ΥΠΕΡ ΠΙΣΤΕΩΣ ΚΑΙ ΠΑΤΡΙΔΟΣ (EOKA FIGHTER OF 1955-59 - FELL FIGHTING FOR FAITH AND HOMELAND).\nThe main street that runs through Kissonerga is named after Kkelis.\n\nEOKA started a guerrilla campaign against British colonial rule and aimed at union with Greece (Enosis) on 1 April 1955. The campaign lasted until 1959 and caused the deaths of more Greek Cypriot civilians than British colonialists. It created civil strife and mistrust between the two Cypriot communities. The first British soldier to be killed in the conflict, Lance Corporal A. R. L. Milne, was killed in Kissonerga when a bomb was thrown into his vehicle.\n\nAcross the road from the playground is the Church of the Transfiguration (also known as Metamorphosis) and not far from this church are the ruins of a tiny chapel dedicated to Saints Zinovia and Filonilli. Although of modern architecture, the church the icons from the church of 1775 are preserved. These two saints accompanied St Paul to Paphos to help spread Christianity. They died and were buried in Kissonerga.\n\nTo the north of Kissonerga a new football stadium has recently been built in amongst the numerous plantations of bananas. Before the advent of European Union directives, Kissonerga was awash with these thriving plantations, but now many of them have fallen into decay as the bananas produced did not fit the exacting criteria that allowed them to be exported to other parts of the EU.\n\nAmong the establishments to be found in Kissonerga, are a horse-riding centre and the boat yard which sells, repairs and services boats of all shapes and sizes.\n\nConstruction of Paphos Marina was long planned for the Potima Bay area, located to the north of Kissonerga. The marina will be the largest in the Eastern Mediterranean and will have a capacity to accommodate 1.000 vessels. Construction began in 2009.\n\nTo the north of Kissonerga a rare settlement of the Chalcolithic culture characteristic of the Paphos region, which lasted for about a millennium (3500-2500 BCE), has been discovered. The site is an important settlement and evidence suggests that a powerful fertility goddess was worshipped here, who protected childbirth and infants. Among the many artefacts found was a clay figurine of a woman, in the midst of childbirth, seated on a stool as well as a unique limestone statuette representing a pregnant woman with a phallic neck.\n\nThe village consisted of clusters of round houses (some of which have been reconstructed on the site) built of stone and mud and with no defensive walls. Its inhabitants lived on hunting, fishing, herding and the gathering and growing various plants. They made tools of stone, bone and deer antler and knew how to make pottery, stone and wood carving, weaving, and basketry. They also used a few small copper objects.\n\nExpert analysis of human remains found at the site confirm the existence of thalassaemia, a blood disorder which affects the production of haemoglobin and results in severe anaemia. The disorder is passed from parent to child via genes and is the most common inherited blood disorder in the world. Thalassaemia is particularly prevalent in people from Mediterranean countries and a broad region extending across the Middle East and South East Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140507", "title": "Lake Wivenhoe", "text": "Lake Wivenhoe\n\nLake Wivenhoe is a lake formed by the Wivenhoe Dam and the surrounding locality in the Somerset Region, Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe locality includes the dam wall and associated water management infrastructure at the south, the lake created by the dam, sections of the Brisbane and Stanley Rivers as they flow into the lake from the north and a narrow strip of land around the dam, the lake and river the sections. The lake's boundaries are very irregular and this is reflected in the very irregular boundaries of the locality. The locality is entirely set aside for water management purposes.\nDue to its unusual shape, Lake Wivenhoe has many adjacent localities including (commencing from the dam wall in the south and proceeding clockwise:\nWivenhoe Pocket, Patrick Estate, Wivenhoe Hill, Coominya, Moombra, Glen Esk, Murrumba, Coal Creek, Caboonbah, Mount Beppo, Cressbrook, Lower Cressbrook, Cooeeimbardi, Somerset Dam, Crossdale, Bryden, Dundas, and Split Yard Creek.\n\nThe Brisbane Valley Highway passes through the south of the locality as it travels across the top of the dam wall.\n\nThe name \"Wivenhoe\" comes from the name of the pastoral property established circa 1845 by Edmund Blucher Uhr, which took its name from the town of Wivenhoe in Essex, England.\n\nLake Wivenhoe has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nAlthough it is not a populated area, Lake Wivenhoe offers a range of outdoor recreational facilities for camping, picnics, swimming, fishing and water sports.\n\nCamping sites are provided at Captain Logan and Lumley Hill Areas. The managed camping facilities at Captain Logan Camp include hot showers, barbecues and toilets, and are adjacent to playgrounds and a boat ramp at Logan Inlet. Cormorant Bay, Hamon Cove and Spillway Common also have facilities for picnic.\n\nA stocked impoundment permit is required to fish in the dam. Swimming is permitted and camp sites have been established. Electric and non-powered boating with a permit is allowed, but domestic animals are banned.\n\nThe heritage-listed Caboonbah Homestead was located on to the north-west of the lake (near but not within the locality of Caboonbah) where it was a tourist attraction operated by the Brisbane Valley Historical Society until the homestead burned down in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2140508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140508", "title": "Monster in a Box", "text": "Monster in a Box\n\nMonster in a Box is a monologue originally performed live on stage by the writer Spalding Gray then subsequently made into a 1992 film starring Gray and directed by Nick Broomfield.\n\nA follow-up to Gray's earlier work, \"Swimming to Cambodia\", the work consists of a long-form monologue by Gray detailing the trials and tribulations he encountered while writing his first novel, \"Impossible Vacation\". The soundtrack for the film was composed by Laurie Anderson.\n\nAn extended version of the monologue was published in book form prior to the release of the film.\n\nThis monologue – or at least its title – was parodied on \"Sesame Street\" in an installment of \"Monsterpiece Theater.\" The main actor (and writer) for the parody was a monster aptly called Spalding Monster in homage to Gray.\n"}
{"id": "2140510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140510", "title": "François", "text": "François\n\nFrançois () is a French masculine given name and surname, equivalent to the English name Francis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140528", "title": "D3 Publisher", "text": "D3 Publisher\n\nBetween 2007 and 2014, D3 Publisher owned a North Carolina-based game development studio Vicious Cycle Software. In 2009, Bandai Namco Holdings gained a controlling share of D3 and currently owns 95% of its stock. After the bankruptcy of Midway Games, the company became the publisher of Cartoon Network games from 2009 until 2014, when American publisher Little Orbit took control.\n\nIn 2015, D3 Publisher announced that D3 Publisher of America Inc. would rebrand as D3 Go! and that it would no longer publish video games but focus on publishing mobile games, but D3 Publisher Inc. in Japan would remain the same. D3 Go! is also expected to release some games from D3 Publisher Inc.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140529", "title": "Norman von Heldreich Farquhar", "text": "Norman von Heldreich Farquhar\n\nRear Admiral Norman von Heldreich Farquhar (11 April 1840 – 3 July 1907) was an officer in the United States Navy during the American Civil War. He is best known for commanding a naval squadron which was wrecked with three German warships at Apia, Samoa in 1889.\n\nAfter graduating from the Naval Academy in June 1859, he served with the Africa Squadron until September 1861 when he sailed a prize slaver home to the United States.\nLieutenant Farquhar spent most of the Civil War off the U.S. Atlantic coast and in the West Indies, serving in the gunboats , and , and the cruiser . At the close of the war, he was executive officer of the gunboat . He was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Commander in August 1865, a few months after the fighting ended, and was on duty at the U.S. Naval Academy from then until September 1868. For the rest of the 1860s and into the next decade, Farquhar served in the screw sloop , was Executive Officer of the sloop and the frigate , and Commanding Officer of the gunboat . He also had two tours at the Boston Navy Yard on ordnance duty and as Executive Officer.\n\nAdvanced in rank to Commander in December 1872, Farquhar spent nearly five years at the Naval Academy. He commanded the training ship in 1877-78, and the steam sloops and in European waters in 1878-1881. Five more years of Naval Academy duty were followed by torpedo instruction at Newport, Rhode Island, in 1886. From May 1887 until her loss in the March 1889 Samoan hurricane, Captain Farquhar commanded the steam frigate . Farquhar was commended for his fine handling of his ship during that disastrous 1889 hurricane at Apia, Samoa, in which she and a number of other American and foreign naval vessels were lost.\n\nHe then served on several of the Navy's boards and, in March 1890 became the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks. During 1894-97, he was Commandant of the Philadelphia Navy Yard, Commanding Officer of the cruiser , and President of the Naval Examining Board.\n\nWhile holding the ranks of Commodore and Rear Admiral, Farquhar was Commandant of the Norfolk Navy Yard in 1897-99, commanded the North Atlantic Squadron during 1899-1901 and was Chairman of the Lighthouse Board in 1901-02. \n\nAdmiral Farquhar was a companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States (insignia number 9937) and a member of the Naval Order of the United States.\n\nRear Admiral Farquhar retired on 11 April 1902, and died at Jamestown, Rhode Island on 3 July 1907. Farquhar was buried in Section 1 of Arlington National Cemetery. His wife, Addie Whelan Pope Farquhar (1845–1909), is buried with him.\n\nTwo ships have been named for him.\n\nThe Farquhar Glacier in Greenland was named after him by Robert Peary.\n"}
{"id": "2140547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140547", "title": "USS Farquhar", "text": "USS Farquhar\n\nUSS \"Farquhar\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2140548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140548", "title": "USS Farquhar (DD-304)", "text": "USS Farquhar (DD-304)\n\nUSS \"Farquhar\" (DD-304) was a built for the United States Navy during World War I.\n\nThe \"Clemson\" class was a repeat of the preceding although more fuel capacity was added. The ships displaced at standard load and at deep load. They had an overall length of , a beam of and a draught of . They had a crew of 6 officers and 108 enlisted men.\n\nPerformance differed radically between the ships of the class, often due to poor workmanship. The \"Clemson\" class was powered by two steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by four water-tube boilers. The turbines were designed to produce a total of intended to reach a speed of . The ships carried a maximum of of fuel oil which was intended gave them a range of at .\n\nThe ships were armed with four 4-inch (102 mm) guns in single mounts and were fitted with two 1-pounder guns for anti-aircraft defense. In many ships a shortage of 1-pounders caused them to be replaced by 3-inch (76 mm) guns. Their primary weapon, though, was their torpedo battery of a dozen 21 inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes in four triple mounts. They also carried a pair of depth charge rails. A \"Y-gun\" depth charge thrower was added to many ships.\n\n\"Farquhar\", named for Norman von Heldreich Farquhar, was launched 18 January 1919 by Union Iron Works, San Francisco; sponsored by Mrs. J. Reed; and commissioned 5 August 1920, Lieutenant Commander R. A. Hall in command.\n\nFrom her home port, San Diego, where she first arrived 26 August 1920, \"Farquhar\" operated with the Pacific Fleet in training, maneuvers, and war problems along the west coast from the coast of Washington state to the Panama Canal Zone. In August 1921, she rescued 42 passengers of SS \"San Jose\", stranded off the coast of Mexico. In 1924 and 1927, she joined in fleet concentrations in the Caribbean, and during the second cruise, sailed north to visit New York, Newport, Rhode Island and Norfolk, before returning to San Diego.\n\n\"Farquhar\" sailed to Hawaii on maneuvers in April 1925, and joined a large force for a cruise to Samoa, Australia, and New Zealand, returning to the west coast in September. April through June 1928 again found her in the Hawaiian Islands for exercises of the complete Battle Fleet. She carried reservists for training in July 1929, and the next month began inactivation at San Diego. \"Farquhar\" was decommissioned 20 February 1930, and after temporary service as a barracks ship for submariners, was scrapped in accordance with the London Treaty limiting naval armaments. The scrapped materials were sold 23 April 1932.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140557", "title": "Zhukovsky", "text": "Zhukovsky\n\nZhukovsky (masculine), Zhukovskaya (feminine), or Zhukovskoye (neuter) may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140561", "title": "Mathieu Carrière", "text": "Mathieu Carrière\n\nMathieu Carrière (born 2 August 1950 in Hanover, Germany) is a German actor.\n\nCarrière grew up in Berlin and Lübeck; he attended the Jesuit boarding school in Vannes, France, a school which had previously been attended by the director of Carrière's first major film, Volker Schlöndorff. In 1969, Carrière moved to Paris to study philosophy and continue his acting. Carrière is also a director and a writer and is known to fight for the rights of fathers. His sister Mareike Carrière was also an actress.\n\nAfter playing the young Tonio at the age of 13 in Rolf Thiele's 1964 film \"Tonio Kröger\", he played a main part in the 1966 German movie \"Der junge Törless\" (\"Young Törless\"). In 1980, he was a member of the jury at the 30th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140563", "title": "Eileen Clegg", "text": "Eileen Clegg\n\nEileen Clegg is an American visual journalist and founder of Visual Insight. Eileen combines experience with journalism and art as part of an evolving visual language. Eileen's murals are created in real time at a large scale and feature a combination of strategic quotes and ancient symbols to convey the \"gestalt\" of an event or meeting.\nEileen's specialty is a practical application of ideas developed by scholars including Carl Jung's collective unconscious and Rudolf Arnheim's belief that visual perception and thinking are inextricably linked. Eileen has continued this stream of research with Bonnie DeVarco through their project Shape of Thought.\n\nEileen uses visual language to report on emergent knowledge and future trends, including the Future of Learning in affiliation with Institute for the Future (since 1999), future workforce/workplaces through the Future of Talent (since 2003), and Co-Evolution of Tools and Technology inspired by her work with inventor Doug Engelbart (since 2002).\n\nEileen designed and maintains the influential History of Corporate Education, Women Inventors and Innovators, and Co-Evolution of Tools and Technology murals.\n\nEileen was a daily news journalist for 20 years with The Press Democrat, and has written numerous books and articles on women, visuals, technology and learning. Her books include Goodbye Good Girl (New Harbinger Publications, 1998), Claiming Your Creative Self: True Stories from the Every day Lives of Women (New Harbinger Publications, 1999), Creating a Learning Culture (Cambridge University Press, 2001), Corporate University Workbook (JosseyBassPfeiffer, 2002), and The Engelbart Hypothesis (NextNowNextPress, 2008) with Valerie Landau in conversation with Douglas Engelbart.\n\nAs of 2014, Eileen is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.\n"}
{"id": "2140583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140583", "title": "The Highway", "text": "The Highway\n\nThe Highway, formerly known as the Ratcliffe Highway, is a road in the East End of London. The route dates back to Roman times. In the 19th century it had a reputation for vice and crime and was the location of the Ratcliff Highway murders. The name \"Ratcliffe\" literally means \"red cliff\", referring to the red sandstone cliffs which descended from the plateau on which the road was situated down to the Wapping Marshes to the south.\n\nThe Highway runs west-east from the eastern edge of London's financial district, the City of London, to Limehouse. It runs parallel to and south of Commercial Road, the Docklands Light Railway and Cable Street, and connects East Smithfield and the Limehouse Link tunnel.\n\nThe road forms an unofficial boundary of Wapping, which lies between the River Thames and The Highway. It is also close to Shadwell Basin to the southeast, Tower Hill to the west, and Whitechapel and Stepney to the north.\n\nThe Highway is in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets, in postal districts E1 and E1W. It lies within the parliamentary constituencies of Bethnal Green and Bow and Poplar and Canning Town.\n\nThe Ratcliffe (sometimes Ratcliff) Highway dates from at least Saxon Britain, running east from the City of London, London's historic core, along the top of a plateau near the edge of the eponymous \"red cliff\" which descended onto the low-lying tidal marshes of Wapping to the south.\nIn the late 19th century Charles Jamrach, a dealer in wild animals, opened Jamrach's Animal Emporium on The Highway. The store became the largest pet store in the world as seafarers moored at the Port of London sold any exotic animals they had brought with them to Jamrach, who in turn supplied zoos, menageries and private collectors. At the north entrance to the nearby Tobacco Dock stands a bronze sculpture of a boy standing in front of a tiger, commemorating an incident where a fully-grown Bengal tiger escaped from Jamrach's shop into the street and picked up and carried off a small boy, who had approached and tried to pet the animal having never seen such a big cat before. The boy escaped unhurt after Jamrach gave chase and prised open the animal's jaw with his bare hands. The tale was the inspiration for the 2011 novel \"Jamrach's Menagerie\" by British author Carol Birch.\nBy 1908 Ratcliff Highway had different names for each of its sections. From west to east these ran: St. George's Street East, High Street (Shadwell), Cock Hill, and Broad Street. The whole of the central area of The Highway was named after St. George in the East church and the parish of St. George in the East.\n\nA Roman bath house was excavated in 2004 by the junction of The Highway and Wapping Lane. The discovery of women's jewellery along with soldiers' possessions suggested that this location outside of the Roman walls allowed less restricted use of the baths than those in the City itself. The remains of the baths and under-floor heating system were re-buried under the car-park of a development of new apartments.\n\n\"Ratcliffe Highway\" is a traditional folk song (Roud 598 ; Ballad Index Doe114 ; Wiltshire 785].\n\nListed from west to east:\n\nThe Highway is a major arterial route into and out of the City of London and can become heavily congested during rush hour. There are two lanes in each direction throughout its length. It lies outside of the London congestion charge zone (CCZ).\n\nThere are few bus stops on The Highway, but London Buses routes 100 and D3 pass along short lengths of it. Route 100 connects to Shadwell, Liverpool Street, St. Paul's and Elephant and Castle, while D3 connects to the Isle of Dogs, Limehouse, Shadwell and Bethnal Green.\n\nThe following stations are located on or near The Highway, all in Transport for London's fare zone 2:\n\n\nDocklands Light Railway stations:\n\nSome names associated with the area include:\n\n\nThe following people inspired some local street names:\n\nWest of The Highway:\n\nNorth of The Highway, from west to east:\n\n\nEast of The Highway:\n\n\nSouth of The Highway, from west to east:\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2140595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140595", "title": "2003 Canadian federal budget", "text": "2003 Canadian federal budget\n\nThe Canadian federal budget of 2003 was unveiled on February 18, 2003. It was the first budget issued by Finance Minister John Manley who was given the job in May 2002 replacing Paul Martin. It was also the last budget of Prime Minister Jean Chrétien.\n\nIn the previous fiscal year the Canadian economy had done well, despite the recent recession in the United States. The budget saw another large surplus, which was enhanced by a shift to more stringent accrual accounting announced in the budget.\n\nThe bill was largely seen as a departure from the fiscal austerity of the last several years. It had a wide range of new spending initiatives on health care, child care, defence, education, and other social programs. The budget had only limited tax cuts, mostly directed at corporations. The budget set forth a plan of gradual reductions that would see corporate taxes fall well below American levels. The most important was the reduction of the Canadian Capital Tax. Employment Insurance premiums were also cut.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140596", "title": "2006 Mexican elections", "text": "2006 Mexican elections\n\nA number of elections on the federal and local level took place in Mexico during 2006.\n\nA general election was held on Sunday, July 2, 2006. Voters went to the polls to elect, on the federal level:\n\n\nThe Federal Electoral Institute (IFE) is the public organization responsible for organizing the general election in Mexico.\n\nIn addition to the general election in July 2006, 12 states and the Federal District (Mexico City) held local elections during the course of the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140597", "title": "Lekor", "text": "Lekor\n\nLekor (), keropok lekor () or fish sausage is a traditional Malay fish cracker snack originating from the state of Terengganu, Malaysia. It is made from fish and sago flour and seasoned with salt and sugar. It is slightly greyish in colour and gives off a fishy taste and smell which becomes more prominent as it cools down after frying. The word \"lekor\" is said to be derived from a Terengganu Malay word meaning \"to roll\".\n\nIt is usually made by grinding fish or vegetables into a paste, mixing it with sago and then deep-frying it. It comes in three main forms: \"lekor\" (long and chewy), \"losong\" (steamed) and \"keping\" (thin and crispy).\n\nThere are two types of keropok lekor which are the \"keropok lekor goreng\" and \"keropok lekor keping\" - the former are shaped like sausages with a chewy texture whereas the latter is cut into slices prior to frying, giving its crispier texture.\n\nThe snack is eaten with special homemade chili blends that are particular to Terengganu and sold there; though modern innovations like adding mayonnaise and cheese sauce (the combination known locally as \"keropok cheese\") may also be available.\n"}
{"id": "2140602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140602", "title": "USS Kennedy (DD-306)", "text": "USS Kennedy (DD-306)\n\nUSS \"Kennedy\" (DD-306) was a built for the United States Navy during World War I.\n\nThe \"Clemson\" class was a repeat of the preceding although more fuel capacity was added. The ships displaced at standard load and at deep load. They had an overall length of , a beam of and a draught of . They had a crew of 6 officers and 108 enlisted men.\n\nPerformance differed radically between the ships of the class, often due to poor workmanship. The \"Clemson\" class was powered by two steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by four water-tube boilers. The turbines were designed to produce a total of intended to reach a speed of . The ships carried a maximum of of fuel oil which was intended gave them a range of at .\n\nThe ships were armed with four 4-inch (102 mm) guns in single mounts and were fitted with two 1-pounder guns for anti-aircraft defense. In many ships a shortage of 1-pounders caused them to be replaced by 3-inch (76 mm) guns. Their primary weapon, though, was their torpedo battery of a dozen 21 inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes in four triple mounts. They also carried a pair of depth charge rails. A \"Y-gun\" depth charge thrower was added to many ships.\n\n\"Kennedy\", named for the 21st Secretary of the Navy and US Representative from Maryland, John P. Kennedy, was launched 15 February 1919 by Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, San Francisco, California; sponsored by Mrs. Eugene F. Essner; and commissioned 16 August 1920, Lieutenant Commander Charles Jefferson Parrish in command. \"Kennedy\" arrived in San Diego, California, her homeport, 7 October 1920 and joined the Pacific Fleet in exercises and maneuvers along the West Coast from the Pacific Northwest to South America. Gunnery drills, torpedo practice, plane-guard duty, fleet problems, and war maneuvers with the Army kept \"Kennedy\" busy at sea.\n\nDuring the spring of 1924, the destroyer transited the Panama Canal for fleet concentrations in the Caribbean. She returned San Diego 22 April to resume operations of her homeport. She sailed 13 June 1925 for a fleet problem and joint exercises off Hawaii. During this cruise she accompanied the Battle Fleet to Pago Pago, Samoa, and ports in Australia and New Zealand, returning San Diego 26 September. In 1927 she revisited the Caribbean for more exercises, this time calling at Norfolk, Virginia and New York before returning San Diego 22 May. \"Kennedy\" sailed once again 9 April 1928 for large scale maneuvers in Hawaiian waters, resuming operations out of San Diego 2 months later. After training cruises for reserves during the summer of 1929, \"Kennedy\" arrived in San Diego 27 September and decommissioned there 1 May 1930. Her hulk was sold 19 March 1931 and scrapped in accordance with the terms of the London Treaty limiting naval armament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140603", "title": "Ballblazer", "text": "Ballblazer\n\nBallblazer is a 1984 futuristic sports game created by Lucasfilm Games. It was originally released for the Atari 8-bit family, then ported to the Atari 5200, Apple II, ZX Spectrum, Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64, MSX. and later the Atari 7800 and the Nintendo Famicom. The game was called \"Ballblaster\" during development; pirated versions of the game went by this name as well. The principal creator and programmer of \"Ballblazer\" was David Levine.\n\nIn 1990, LucasArts and Rainbow Arts released a remake and follow-up to this game, called \"Masterblazer\". This game was released for the Amiga, Atari ST, and MS-DOS. On March 31, 1997, a remake of the original titled \"Ballblazer Champions\" was released for the Sony PlayStation.\n\n\"Ballblazer\" is a simple one-on-one sports-style game bearing similarities to basketball and soccer. Each side is represented by a craft called a \"rotofoil\", which can be controlled by either a human player or a computer-controlled \"droid\" with ten levels of difficulty. (The game allows for human vs. human, human vs. droid, and droid vs. droid matches.) The basic objective of the game is to score points by either firing or carrying a floating ball into the opponent's goal. The game takes place on a flat, checkerboard playfield, and each player's half of the screen is presented in a first-person perspective.\n\nA player can gain possession of the ball by simply running into it, at which point it is held in a force field in front of the craft. The opponent can attempt to knock the ball away from the player using the fire button, and the player in possession of the ball can also fire the ball toward the goal. When a player does not have possession of the ball, his or her rotofoil automatically turns at 90-degree intervals to face the ball, while possessing the ball turns the player toward the opponent's goal. The goalposts move from side to side at each end of the playfield, and as goals are scored, the goal becomes narrower.\n\nPushing the ball through the goal scores one point, firing the ball through the posts from close range scores two points, and successfully scoring from long range (where the goalposts are not visible) scores three points. The maximum number of total points between the two players is ten, meaning that any points scored that would take the combined total above ten will cause the opponent's score to be reduced by the same amount, resulting in a kind of tug of war scoring system. The game ends when either a player successfully scores ten points or the timer runs out. If time runs out and the score is tied, the game goes into \"sudden death\", where the first player to score wins.\n\n\"Ballblazer\"'s theme music, called \"Song of the Grid\" and heard between matches, was algorithmically generated, a technique designed by Lucasfilm Games team leader Peter Langston and called \"riffology\". The lead melody is assembled from a predefined set of 32 eight-note melody fragments, or riffs, which are put together randomly by an algorithm that also makes choices on several parameters including \"how fast to play the riff, how loud to play it, when to omit or elide notes, when to insert a rhythmic break\". The melody is accompanied by bassline, drums and chords, which are also assembled on the fly by a simplified version of the above approach. In effect the music plays forever, without repeating itself but without straying too far from the original theme. Langston, an experienced jazz, rock, and folk musician, said of \"Ballblazer's\" music: \"One reviewer, an eminent jazz player <nowiki>[</nowiki>Pat Metheny], said it sounded like John Coltrane did it. I think that's my best compliment so far.\" The Atari 7800 version was one of the rare releases for the system to use the POKEY additional sound chip.\n\nA sample of \"Ballblazer\" music from the Commodore 64 version : \n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" stated that the \"quick and intense\" \"Ballblazer\" \"squeezes more out of the Atari 400/800 than any game I've ever seen ... spectacular graphics\". \"Info\" rated \"Ballblazer\" four stars out of five, stating that \"It is undoubtedly the FASTEST game available for the 64\" and recommending it to \"gamers with strobe-like reflexes\".\n\n\"Zzap!64\" gave an enthusiastic review of the Commodore 64 version of the game, their only criticism being weak sound effects. With an overall rating of 98% the game was described as being \"The best sports simulation to hit the 64 yet.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140604", "title": "Miss Universe Barbados", "text": "Miss Universe Barbados\n\nMiss Universe Barbados is the national beauty pageant responsible for selecting a delegate to represent Barbados at the Miss Universe pageant. This pageant is unrelated to \"Miss Barbados World\" and \"Miss Barbados International\" contest.\n\nMiss Barbados Universe sent its first contestant to Miss Universe in 1976 and has sent 11 delegates between 1976 and 2005. They have never sent a delegate for more than 5 years in a row.\n\nAfter the death of the National Director Andy Niles in 2006, Candi Nicholls, a former member of Niles' team, took over the franchise. Niles had been national director from 2003 to 2005.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2015 Barbados was absent from the Miss Universe pageant.\n\nAs of 2016, Crown Events Inc. with National Director Brian Green are the new management of the franchise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140605", "title": "ITC Entertainment", "text": "ITC Entertainment\n\nThe Incorporated Television Company (ITC), or ITC Entertainment as it was referred to in the United States, was a British company involved in production and distribution of television programmes.\n\nTelevision mogul Lew Grade set up the Incorporated Television Programme Company (ITP) with Prince Littler and Val Parnell in 1954. Originally designed to be a contractor for the UK's new ITV network, the company failed to win a contract when the Independent Television Authority felt that doing so would give too much control in the entertainment business to the Grade family's companies (which included large talent agencies and theatre interests) although the ITA said that ITP were free to make their own programmes which they could sell to the new network companies. ITP put most of the production budget into producing one show, \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" (ITV, 1955–59).\n\nHowever, the winner of one of the contracts, the Associated Broadcasting Development Company, had insufficient funds to start broadcasting, so the ITP owners were brought into the consortium and Lew Grade came to dominate it.\n\nIn 1957, now known as Incorporated Television Company (ITC), the company became a subsidiary of the Associated Broadcasting Company (ABC)–which soon changed its name to Associated Television (ATV) after threats of legal action from fellow ITV company Associated British Corporation–and produced its own programmes for ATV and for syndication in the United States. It also distributed ATV material outside of the UK. From 1966 to 1982 it was a subsidiary of Associated Communications Corporation after the acquisition of ATV.\n\nThe initials 'ITC' stood for two different things: Independent Television Corporation for sales to the Americas, and Incorporated Television Company for sales to the rest of the world. The American Independent Television Corporation was formed in 1958 as a joint venture with Jack Wrather. In September 1958 it purchased Television Programs of America (TPA) for $11,350,000. Wrather sold his shares to Lew Grade at the end of the decade.\n\nThe large foreign sales achieved by ITC during the British government's export drives of the 1960s and 1970s led to ACC receiving the Queen's Award for Export on numerous occasions until ITC's association with the broadcaster and success actually led to the demise of both ATV as a broadcaster and ITC as a production company in 1982.\n\nDuring 1988 The Bell Group, the owners of ITC were taken over by the Bond Corporation. Subsequently, the new owners started an asset-stripping programme. In November 1988 ITC Entertainment was bought by its management. In 1990, ITC abandoned television production and concentrated on low-budget feature films. TV production at ITC would not resume until the company forged a deal with producer David Gerber in 1993.\n\nIn 1989, ITC Home Video was formed in the United Kingdom, to make use of the many hours of programmes in the archive, then unseen for years. This short-lived home entertainment division would end in 1991. In the following period, ITC continued to distribute its past library.\n\nIn 1995, PolyGram purchased the company for $156 million. with Grade once again returning to ITC to act as a consultant until his death in December 1998.\n\nOn 10 December 1998, Universal Studios' parent, Seagram purchased PolyGram for $10.2 billion. In early January 1999, Carlton Communications bought the ITC television and film library from PolyGram/Seagram for £91 million, which reunited the programme library of ATV and Central Television and doubled the stock of its library division \"Carlton International\", by giving it a total of 15,000 hours of programming. Carlton chairman Michael Green said: 'The ITC library is a jewel in the crown. We can now unite it with the other gems from Britain's film and television heritage in our excellent library.' In 2004, Carlton merged with Granada plc to form ITV plc. ITV Studios continues to release ITC's original output through television and internet streaming repeats, books and DVD and Blu-ray releases.\n\nIn 2005, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the company, Network released a DVD box set entitled \"ITC 50\" featuring episodes from eighteen different ITC productions.\n\nITC is best known for being the company behind many successful British cult TV filmed series during the 1960s and 1970s, such as \"The Saint,\" \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased),\" \"Danger Man,\" \"The Baron,\" \"Gideon's Way,\" \"The Champions,\" \"The Prisoner,\" \"Thunderbirds,\" \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons,\" \"Stingray\", \"Joe 90\", \"Man in a Suitcase,\" \"Strange Report,\" \"Department S,\" \"The Persuaders!,\" \"Jason King,\" \"The Adventurer,\" \"The Protectors\", \"Space 1999\", and \"Return of the Saint.\" It was also the production company for \"The Muppet Show\" and \"Julie on Sesame Street\" which were both made at ATV's Elstree Studios and distributed in the UK by ATV and in the US by ITC.\n\nITC got its start as a production company when former American producer Hannah Weinstein approached Lew Grade. Weinstein wanted to make a programme called \"The Adventures of Robin Hood.\" Weinstein proposed making the series for ITV and simultaneously marketing it in the United States through an American TV distribution company, Official Films. The series was a big success in both countries, running from 1955 until 1959 on CBS and ATV London.\n\nGrade realised the potential in overseas sales and colour television (the last 14 episodes of \"The Adventures of Sir Lancelot\" were filmed in colour a decade before colour television existed in the UK), and ITC combined high production values with exotic locations and uses of variations on the same successful formula for the majority of its television output.\n\nAlthough most of the ITC series were produced in Britain, ITC often worked with Television Programs of America (TPA) and several series were filmed in America. Possibly the earliest ITC series produced in the US was \"Fury,\" a Saturday morning live-action series, about a beloved ranch horse, which starred Peter Graves and ran on NBC in the late 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nIn 1963 Gerry Anderson's Anderson-Provis (AP) Films became part of ACC and produced \"Fireball XL-5,\" the hugely successful children's series \"Thunderbirds\" and, under its successor company Century 21 Television/Cinema Productions, \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons.\" ITC also funded Anderson-created programmes aimed at the adult market, including \"UFO\" and \".\" It was at ITC's request that Fanderson, \"the Gerry Anderson Appreciation Society,\" was founded. Another ITC children's series was \"The Adventures of Rupert Bear,\" the first television outing for the \"Daily Express\" cartoon character. ITC (in partnership with the Italian company RAI) was also behind Franco Zeffirelli's Biblical mini-series \"Jesus of Nazareth\", \"Moses the Lawgiver\", and the Gregory Peck television film \"The Scarlet and the Black.\"\n\nIn addition to television programming, ITC also produced several films. In 1976, the company teamed up with General Cinema Corporation to form Associated General Films, and produced films including \"Voyage of the Damned\", \"Capricorn One\", and \"The Eagle Has Landed\" but the partnership ended the following year.\n\nOther films produced by ITC include \"The Boys from Brazil,\" \"The Return of the Pink Panther,\" \"The Last Unicorn,\" and a number of Jim Henson Company productions: \"The Dark Crystal\" and the first two Muppet films, \"The Muppet Movie\" and \"The Great Muppet Caper.\" Initially, ITC productions were licensed out to other US studios for release until 1979, when ITC partnered with another UK-based production company, Thorn EMI Screen Entertainment, to create Associated Film Distribution, which would release films produced by each company, as well as pick-ups from other production companies. In 1979, the subsidiary Black Lion Films was founded in the manner of Thames Euston Films, but its best remembered production, \"The Long Good Friday,\" was sold on to HandMade Films.\n\nIn the summer of 1980, two films released by AFD within six weeks of each other helped lead to the distribution company's dissolution. \"Can't Stop the Music\", designed to be a showcase for Village People at the height of disco music, was released 20 June 1980, by which time disco's popularity had diminished and the form was experiencing a backlash from music listeners. The poorly reviewed film ultimately grossed $2 million on a $20 million budget. On 1 August 1980, the release of the poorly received \"Raise the Titanic!\" met with pre-release criticism from the novel's author, Clive Cussler, and recouped only a fraction of its costs; Grade himself retired from active film production, commenting that it would have been cheaper to \"lower the Atlantic.\" Cussler himself told \"People Weekly\" Magazine, \"The film was so poor, it boggles the mind.\"\n\nAfter the films' failures, ITC and EMI agreed to sell AFD and the distribution rights to its library to Universal Pictures, though the AFD films which were then in post production at the time were still ultimately released by AFD, to handle the release of the remaining pictures still in production at the time of the sale, beginning with \"The Legend of the Lone Ranger,\" and including \"On Golden Pond\", \"Sophie's Choice\", \"The Dark Crystal\", and \"The Great Muppet Caper\". As January 2016 was beginning, while the various copyrights had reverted to their respective owners, Universal still maintained theatrical rights to most of the ITC and EMI films initially released by AFD.\n\nIn 1983, ITC produced and released the animated series \"Thunderbirds 2086\", which was not an original British series based on the Gerry Anderson Thunderbirds. It was actually an English dubbed version of \"Scientific Rescue Team Technoboyager\", a Japanese anime that has an identical premise to Anderson's Thuderbirds. ITC licensed the series for an English dub and re-imagined the series as set twenty years after the original, thus being an evolution of that same International Rescue Organization. However, the Tracy family and associated characters from the Gerry Anderson Thunderbirds are never mentioned.\n\nIn 1990, ITC briefly attempted to enter the lucrative American game show market, with a syndicated revival of \"Tic-Tac-Dough,\" which had previously run from 1978 to 1986 in syndication, alongside Barry & Enright Productions. However, the show was off the air by March 1991, mainly due to a glut of syndicated game show offerings during the 1990-91 season, as well as several changes in gameplay which were criticised, as was host Patrick Wayne.\n\nGrade himself died in 1998.\n\nAs a distribution company, ITC was also the worldwide distributor for ATV's 1967 one-off \"The Benny Hill Show\" special, but not the Thames Television series that followed.\n\nToday, the underlying rights are generally owned by ITV Studios Global Entertainment via ITV plc and its respective predecessors, although in most cases Shout! Factory now holds full worldwide distribution rights (with US theatrical distribution handled by Shout!’s Westchester Films division, passed on from former distributors Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Park Circus). In turn, Shout!’s video distribution rights in North America to a majority of the ITC Entertainment library were assumed from Lionsgate Home Entertainment.\n\nAs for ITC's television output, Carlton (and later Granada and now ITV) released some of these shows on DVD both in Europe and North America. There were however a few exceptions: \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" and the other swashbuckling adventure series of the late 1950s and early 1960s were released on DVD by Network, as was \"Strange Report\".\n\nMany of the drama shows from the 1960s and 1970s have since been released by Network as limited edition box sets.\n\nThe Walt Disney Company has owned the \"Muppets\" franchise since 2004, including ITC productions \"The Muppet Show\", \"The Muppet Movie\", and \"The Great Muppet Caper\". The Jim Henson Company owns the ITC production \"The Dark Crystal\" as it had bought the film from the company after production had completed; the film is distributed on home video under license by Sony Pictures Entertainment.\n\nITC produced and distributed a wide range of content across both film and television, over several decades. ITC productions and distributions crossed many different genres – from historical adventure, to spy-fi and action, and later into both children's and adult science-fiction – as well as films covering many different subjects.\n\nThe page offers a complete list of ITC produced and distributed programmes.\n\nITC had no studios of its own. Programmes were made in several facilities but most notably at ABPC's Elstree film studios (not to be confused with ATV's nearby Clarendon Road Studios, Borehamwood studios which was a live/videotape facility, and now known as BBC Elstree). However, the MGM-British Studios complex at Borehamwood, the Rank Organisation's Pinewood and Shepperton Studios were also used.\n'Ghost Squad' was made at the Independent Artists Studio in Beaconsfield.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140606", "title": "Penny &amp; Me", "text": "Penny &amp; Me\n\n\"Penny & Me\" is a song written and performed by American pop-rock band Hanson, produced by Hanson and Danny Kortchmar. It was the first single from the band's third commercial studio album, \"Underneath\" (2004). The song peaked at number two on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Singles Sales chart, number 28 on the Irish Singles Chart, and number 10 on the UK Singles Chart. It also reached the top 40 in Italy and was a minor hit in Germany and the Netherlands.\n\nThe music video features actress Samaire Armstrong and was directed by Chris Applebaum.\n\nAll songs written by Isaac Hanson, Taylor Hanson, and Zac Hanson.\n\nUK CD1\n\nUK CD2\n"}
{"id": "2140611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140611", "title": "Farley &quot;Jackmaster&quot; Funk", "text": "Farley &quot;Jackmaster&quot; Funk\n\nFarley \"Jackmaster\" Funk (born Farley Keith Williams, January 25, 1962, Chicago, Illinois, United States) is an American musician, DJ and record producer of Chicago house and acid house music. He is notable for writing and producing a number of highly influential tracks in the mid and late 1980s. He has released records under various aliases like \"Farley Funkin' Keith\", \"Rude Boy Farley Keith\", \"The Housemaster Boyz\", \"Jackmaster Dick\" or \"The Godfather of House\".\n\nFarley got his start in the music industry in 1981 as one of the original members of the Hot Mix 5, a DJ team at WBMX-FM 102.7 FM, Oak Park, Illinois (original members of Kenny \"Jammin\" Jason, Mickey \"Mixin\" Oliver, Scott \"Smokin\" Silz, Farley \"Funkin\" Keith and Ralphi \"Rockin\" Rosario). He was a guest DJ at the Warehouse nightclub, and was a resident DJ at The Playground, which later became The Candy Store and later La Mirage.\n\nIn 1985, together with Chip E., he started a record label named House Records whose first release was \"Jack Trax\" by Mirage & Chip E. Farley's own debut single, and catalogue number 2, was \"Aw Shucks (Let's Go Let's Go)\" in 1985, followed by \"Funkin With the Drums\" in the same year. The latter contained stripped down \"beat tracks\" composed with drums alone. \n\nAfter that followed a series of influential house and acid house records on Chicago's Trax Records: In 1985, Farley's single \"Jack the Bass\" (along with Chip E.'s \"Time to Jack\" from the \"Jack Trax\" EP) ushered in the popular \"jacking\" dance craze in Chicago house. Also in 1985, he released \"Funkin' with the Drums Again\", followed in 1986 by \"Give Yourself to Me\" with vocals by Kevin \"Jack N House\" Irving and gospel singer Ricky Dillard. \n\nIn 1986, his roommate at the time, Steve \"Silk\" Hurley, who was an important house pioneer himself, had produced a cover of \"I Can't Turn Around\" by Isaac Hayes selling well in the Chicago area. Hearing Hurley's version of the song, Farley teamed up with Jesse Saunders to make his own version of the track. Keeping much of Hurley's instrumental arrangement, he changed the hook from \"I Can't Turn Around\" to \"Love Can't Turn Around\" and dropped the rest of Hayes' original lyrics, substituting new words by author Vince Lawrence. The lead vocals were performed by church singer Darryl Pandy who also performed the song on the British TV show \"Top of the Pops\". The new version, \"Love Can't Turn Around\", reached number 10 in the UK Singles Chart in 1986. It holds an important place in the history of house music as the first record in that genre to make it into the UK Singles Chart and to popularize house music overseas.\n\nFarley had several other follow-up hits during the late 1980s, most notably \"House Nation\" in 1986, credited to The House Master Boyz and the Rude Boy of House, which followed \"Love Can't Turn Around\" into the UK top ten. \n\nThe album \"No Vocals Necessary\" (1988) contained a 303 driven instrumental acid house track named \"The Acid Life\" that was successfully (but uncredited) covered by Technotronic as \"Pump Up the Jam\" (1989). \n\nApart from his own works, he did some remixing, producing and editing for other artists during this time. He also DJed and performed at many parties in the Chicago suburbs, and is still playing venues as a DJ today.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140617", "title": "House of Blood murders", "text": "House of Blood murders\n\nEdith McAlinden (born 1968) is a Scottish murderer who, along with her 17-year-old son John McAlinden and his 16-year-old friend Jamie Gray, was involved in a triple murder at a flat, dubbed \"The House Of Blood\", in Crosshill, Glasgow, Scotland on 17 October 2004.\n\nOn 16 October 2004, McAlinden, a convicted thief, prostitute, and homeless drifter, was released from prison, having served a nine-month sentence for a serious assault. She visited a top-floor flat on Dixon Avenue, in Crosshill, where her boyfriend David Gillespie, 42, lived with fellow tenant Anthony Coyle, 71, and landlord Ian Mitchell, 67, whom McAlinden referred as \"Pops\".\n\nAn argument erupted between McAlinden and Gillespie during a drinking session, which spurred her into stabbing a knife in Gillespie's thighs repeatedly, severing a femoral vein in one thigh that caused him to bleed to death. McAlinden panicked and telephoned her son John for help. John arrived with his friend Jamie Gray by taxi. McAlinden persuaded Mitchell to pay for their taxi fare. He agreed, mistakenly believing that her son and his friend had come to help Gillespie.\n\nWhen John realised Mitchell was a witness, he fatally stabbed him and kicked his head repeatedly, which caused his brain to bleed heavily. Coyle escaped to his bedroom where he locked himself in. John and Jamie used a drill to remove the door locks and forced their way into the bedroom. Jamie chased Coyle and beat him to death with a golf club.\n\nTwo hours later, at approximately 03:00, McAlinden went to neighbour James Sweeney's house and claimed something had happened at Ian Mitchell's flat. She begged him to check. Sweeney went to the flat and once he saw the state of the hallway, he phoned the emergency services on his mobile phone. He later revealed to local reporters that walls and floors were covered with blood, which quickly earned the killings a nickname, \"The House of Blood.\"\n\nWhen the police and paramedics arrived, they found McAlinden alone and clinging to Gillespie's body, screaming at him to wake up. McAlinden was formally charged next day, Monday 18 October, at Glasgow Sheriff Court for the murders. During the investigation, the police speculated McAlinden didn't act alone and that there were two or three strong men involved because, according to a police record during the trial, \"there was so much blood in the flat that it was impossible to be precise about the details of the violence.\"\n\nTwo weeks later, homeless unit resident Bryan Gallagher visited a police station to file a claim that his fellow resident, John McAlinden, had boasted about the murders the night before. John McAlinden and Jamie Gray were arrested and formally charged.\n\nIn May 2005, Edith McAlinden, John McAlinden and Jamie Gray appeared at Glasgow High Court. All denied murdering Mitchell, Coyle, and Gillespie. During the trial, prosecutor Sean Murphy QC claimed that the victims had been \"beaten with knives, metal files, a belt, and pieces of wood\" and \"hit with a bottle, punched, stabbed and stamped on the head, and had boiling water poured over them\". The defendants changed their pleas during the trial. John McAlinden admitted he killed Mitchell, Jamie Gray admitted killing Coyle, and Edith McAlinden admitted killing Gillespie.\n\nOn 29 June 2005, Edith McAlinden was sentenced to life imprisonment with an understanding that she is to serve her prison sentence until at least 2018. John McAlinden and Jamie Gray were each given a minimum tariff of 12 years.\n"}
{"id": "2140621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140621", "title": "Darwin, Ohio", "text": "Darwin, Ohio\n\nDarwin is a small unincorporated community in central Bedford Township, Meigs County, Ohio, in the United States. It is located along U.S. Route 33 between Athens and Pomeroy, at its intersection with State Route 681.\n\nPublic education in the community of Darwin is provided by the Meigs Local School District. Campuses serving the community include Meigs Primary School (Grades K-2), Meigs Intermediate School (Grades 3-5), Meigs Middle School (Grades 6-8), and Meigs High School (Grades 9-12).\n"}
{"id": "2140622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140622", "title": "Australian Software Engineering Conference", "text": "Australian Software Engineering Conference\n\nThe Australian Software Engineering Conference (ASWEC) is Australasia's leading forum for exchanging project experiences and new research results in software engineering. Established in 1986, ASWEC attracts contributions covering the whole spectrum of software engineering research and practice. It provides an opportunity for interaction between software engineering researchers and industry practitioners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140624", "title": "Bruce Weber (basketball)", "text": "Bruce Weber (basketball)\n\nBruce Brett Weber (born October 19, 1956) is an American college basketball coach who is currently the men's basketball head coach at Kansas State University. Weber was formerly head coach at Southern Illinois University and the University of Illinois.\n\nWeber has won conference championships and conference coach of the year awards at each of the three schools where he has served as head coach. He has guided his teams to a combined total of 13 NCAA Tournaments, including an appearance with Illinois in the championship game of the 2005 NCAA Tournament. Weber was the consensus national coach of the year in 2005.\n\nWeber began his coaching career with a brief stint as a graduate assistant coach at Western Kentucky University during the 1979–80 season under head coach Gene Keady. In 1980, Weber moved to Purdue University along with Keady. He remained an assistant coach at Purdue for 18 seasons before becoming the head coach at Southern Illinois University in 1998.\n\nIn his five seasons at Southern Illinois, Weber led the Salukis to consecutive Missouri Valley Conference championships and NCAA tournament appearances in 2002 and 2003, including a Sweet Sixteen finish in 2002.\n\nOn April 30, 2003, Weber was hired by Illinois to replace Bill Self, who had departed from Illinois to take the head coaching job at Kansas.\n\nThe Illini played a tough early season game against North Carolina on December 2 in Greensboro, and were tied at 69 with just six minutes to go. Illinois eventually lost the game 88–81, but it proved to be a good test for the young team with no seniors in the starting lineup. Weber faced his toughest test after starting the conference schedule with an even 3–3 mark. He changed many doubters' minds by winning the remaining ten games on the conference schedule, winning the Big Ten title outright for the first time since 1952. The Illini finished second losing to Wisconsin in the Big Ten Tournament championship game. They received a bid as a #5 seed in the 2004 NCAA Tournament, defeating Murray State and Cincinnati in the first two rounds to reach the Sweet Sixteen. A 72–62 loss to top-seeded Duke ended their tournament run, but capped a solid first season for coach Weber.\n\nThe 2005 season opened with high expectations and the return of all the team's starters. On December, 1 the Illini defeated the number-one ranked team, Wake Forest, 91–73, at Assembly Hall. Weber sported a glowing orange blazer for the game, and Assembly Hall was painted orange by the 16,618 fans wearing school colors. The pressure grew for Weber as the victory vaulted the Illini to the top spot in the polls the following week, a spot they would carry for the rest of the season. Regular season perfection and their 29–0 record ended on the last game of the regular season, however, as Illinois lost a 12-point, second half lead to Ohio State and lost on a last second shot to the Thad Matta-coached Buckeyes, 65–64. The Illini won the Big Ten regular season and Tournament titles.\n\nIn the 2005 NCAA Tournament the team received the overall #1 seed, and top seed in the Midwest Regional. Illinois defeated Farleigh Dickinson and Nevada in the first two rounds in Indianapolis. In the Sweet Sixteen, Weber led the Illini to a victory over his alma-mater, Milwaukee, then defeated Arizona in an amazing comeback to advance to the Final Four. After leading Illinois to a win over Louisville in the Final Four, Weber could not deliver the Fighting Illini their first national championship, falling 75–70 to North Carolina in the National Championship game.\n\nWeber coached the team to the best record in school history, finishing 37–2, and tying the NCAA record for most wins in a season. Weber won many coaching awards after the season, including the Naismith Award and the Henry Iba Award.\n\nDespite losing three starters to the NBA, the Illini finished the 2005–06 season with a 26–7 record and reached the second round of the NCAA Tournament.\n\nThe 2006–07 season had a disappointing start, including the first three-game losing streak in Weber's tenure. However, the Illini rebounded to finish 23–11 and again qualify for the NCAA tournament.\n\nThe 2007–08 season marked the first time during Weber's tenure that the Illini did not qualify for a postseason tournament, finishing the season with an overall record of 16–19, 5–13 in the Big Ten.\n\nThe team improved markedly the following year, however, finishing 24–10, 11–7 in the Big Ten and returning to NCAA Tournament.\n\nAfter a 10–0 start to the 2011–12 season, Weber's Illini went 7–15, finishing the season with a 17–15 record.\n\nOn March 9, 2012, one day after the Illini lost its Big Ten Tournament opening-round game to Iowa, Weber was relieved of his duties. During his nine-year tenure as Illinois coach, Weber amassed a Big Ten record of 89–64, and an overall record of 210–101. His overall win percentage with Illinois (67.5%) stands as second only to Bill Self in the modern era. His 210 wins are the third-most in school history, behind only Lou Henson and Harry Combes.\n\nOn March 31, 2012, Weber was hired as head coach at Kansas State University. In his first eight seasons as head coach, Weber has led the team to two conference championships and five NCAA tournament appearances. His team advanced to the Elite Eight of the NCAA tournament in 2018. Weber won the Big 12 Conference Coach of the Year award in 2013. He is third on K-State's all-time total wins list, behind only Jack Hartman and Tex Winter, and 11th in overall winning percentage.\n\nIn his first season at K-State, Weber led the Wildcats to 27–8 record and tied for the Big 12 Conference title with a 14–4 conference mark. The title was K-State's first regular-season conference championship since 1977. Weber was named the 2013 Big 12 Conference Men's Basketball Coach of the Year. His first season at KSU ended with an upset loss in the second round of the NCAA Tournament to LaSalle, 63–61, in Kansas City's Sprint Center. The team finished ranked #12 in the nation in the AP Poll and #20 in the Coaches Poll. Senior Rodney McGruder was named first-team all-conference.\n\nShortly after the end of Weber's first season, starting point guard Ángel Rodríguez and two other players announced their intentions to transfer. Kansas State's roster was further thinned when incoming freshman Neville Fincher was declared ineligible for the 2013–14 season, and incoming point guard Jevon Thomas was declared ineligible for the fall semester.\n\nWeber started his second season at Kansas State 0–1 after losing at home to the Big Sky Conference's Northern Colorado Bears, but finished the non-conference schedule with an 8-game winning streak and a 10–3 record. In its first conference game, Kansas State upset #6 Oklahoma State and earned a #25 ranking in the following week's AP Poll. The team finished the regular season with a 20–12 record, 10–8 in the Big 12, and returned to the NCAA Tournament for a school-record fifth straight season.\n\nThe next two years for Kansas State under Weber were less successful. His third season at Kansas State ended with a 15–17 record (8–10 in Big 12 play), and the school did not advance to the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 2009. The losing record was only the second for Weber in his first 17 seasons as a head coach. Following the season, Weber's squad saw the transfer and departure of six scholarship players, including Marcus Foster, Jevon Thomas, Nigel Johnson, Tre Harris and Malek Harris. Following the departure of numerous players from the prior season, the 2015–16 season was again difficult. The Wildcats finished 17–15, 5–13 in Big 12 play.\n\nFrom that point, Weber successfully rebuilt the program. In 2016–17, the Wildcats returned to the NCAA tournament and finished with a 21–14 (8–10) record. In 2017–18, the team improved to 25–12 (10–8) and advanced to the Elite Eight of the 2018 NCAA tournament, including a 61–58 win over Kentucky in the Sweet Sixteen. The team received a #19 national ranking at season's end in the Coaches Poll.\n\nIn 2018–19, the team tied for its second regular-season Big 12 Conference title under Weber, with a 14–4 conference record. For the third consecutive season, Kansas State was invited to the NCAA tournament. After an upset first-round loss in the NCAA tournament, the team finished with a 25–9 record and a #18 national ranking in the AP Poll, and #19 ranking in the Coaches Poll. Two players from the team were named first-team all-conference: Dean Wade and Barry Brown Jr.\n\nWeber's team followed the championship season with a last-place finish in the Big 12 Conference, with a record of 10–21 (3–15) in 2019–20. It was the first last-place conference finish of Weber's career as a head coach.\n\nIn the summer of 2019, Weber coached the United States national under-19 team at the 2019 FIBA Under-19 World Cup in Heraklion, Greece. His team won the tournament championship with a 7–0 record.\n\nWeber was born in Milwaukee to Louis and Dawn Weber, growing up with two sisters and two brothers. Weber graduated from the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee in 1978 with a bachelor's degree in education. Weber added a master's degree in education administration and physical education from Western Kentucky University in 1981. He is married to Megan Weber, and has three daughters – Christy, Emily, and Hannah.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140643", "title": "Battle of Luzon", "text": "Battle of Luzon\n\nThe Battle of Luzon (Filipino: \"Labanan sa Luzon\"), was a land battle of the Pacific Theater of Operations of World War II by the Allied forces of the U.S., its colony the Philippines, and allies against forces of the Empire of Japan. The battle resulted in a U.S. and Filipino victory. The Allies had taken control of all strategically and economically important locations of Luzon by March 1945, although pockets of Japanese resistance held out in the mountains until the unconditional surrender of Japan. While not the highest in U.S. casualties, it is the highest net casualty battle U.S. forces fought in World War II, with 192,000 to 205,000 Japanese combatants dead (mostly from starvation and disease), 8,000 American combatants killed, and over 150,000 Filipinos, overwhelmingly civilians who were murdered by Japanese forces, mainly during the Manila massacre of February, 1945.\n\nThe Philippines were considered to be of great strategic importance because their capture by Japan would pose a significant threat to the U.S. As a result, 135,000 troops and 227 aircraft were stationed in the Philippines by October 1941. However, Luzon—the largest island in the Philippines—was captured by Imperial Japanese forces in 1942. General Douglas MacArthur—who was in charge of the defense of the Philippines at the time—was ordered to Australia, and the remaining U.S. forces retreated to the Bataan Peninsula.\n\nA few months after this, MacArthur expressed his belief that an attempt to recapture the Philippines was necessary. The U.S. Pacific Commander Admiral Chester Nimitz and Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Ernest King both opposed this idea, arguing that it must wait until victory was certain. MacArthur had to wait two years for his wish; it was 1944 before a campaign to recapture the Philippines was launched. The island of Leyte was the first objective of the campaign, which was captured by the end of December 1944. This was followed by the attack on Mindoro, and later, Luzon.\n\nBefore U.S. forces could launch the attack on Luzon, a base of operation needed to be established close to the island. Airbases in particular had to be established in order to provide the advancing troops with air support. Troops under Brigadier General William C. Dunckel captured the island of Mindoro, with the assistance of the 7th Fleet. By 28 December, two airbases were controlled by the U.S. and were ready to assist in the attack on Luzon, which was scheduled to be launched on 9 January 1945. With the capture of Mindoro, U.S. forces were positioned south of Luzon. However, MacArthur intended to land his forces at Lingayen, further north. This would place his troops close to several roads and railways on Luzon, which led to Manila—the main objective—through the plains in the center of the island.\n\nU.S. aircraft constantly made reconnaissance and bombing flights over southern Luzon, intending to deceive the Japanese forces into believing that the attack on Luzon would come from the south. In addition, transport aircraft were used to make parachute drops with dummies. Minesweepers were used to clear the bays of Balayan, Batangas, and Tayabas, located to the south of Luzon, and Filipino resistance fighters conducted sabotage operations in southern Luzon. These deception operations failed to convince General Yamashita, the leader of the Imperial Japanese Army in the Philippines, and he built significant defensive positions in the hills and mountains surrounding the Lingayen Gulf in Northern Luzon.\n\nAllied Forces, Southwest Pacific Area\n<br>\nGeneral Douglas MacArthur\n\nLieutenant General Walter Krueger\n\nWestern Landing Area (Lingayen):\n\nEastern Landing Area (San Fabian):\n\nFourteenth Area Army<br>\nGeneral Tomoyuki Yamashita\n\nNorthern Luzon:\n\nCentral Luzon:\n\nSouthern Luzon:\n\nThe assault on Luzon was launched, as planned, on 9 January 1945, codenamed S-day. The Japanese forces reported more than 70 Allied warships entering the Lingayen Gulf. Pre-assault bombardment of Japanese shore positions from these ships began at 7:00. The landings were commenced an hour later. The landing forces faced strong opposition from Japanese \"kamikaze\" aircraft. The escort carrier was destroyed by a \"kamikaze\" attack, while a destroyer and several other warships were also sunk. Aircraft from the 3rd Fleet assisted the landings with close air support, strafing and bombing Japanese gun positions.\nThe landings at the Lingayen Gulf on 9 January were carried out by the 6th Army under the command of General Walter Krueger. Approximately 175,000 troops from the 6th Army landed along the beachhead within a few days, while the I Corps protected their flanks. XIV Corps under General Oscar Griswold then advanced south toward Manila, despite Krueger's concerns that his eastern flank was unprotected and vulnerable if the Japanese forces attacked. However, no such attack occurred, and the U.S. forces did not meet much resistance until they reached the Clark Air Base on 23 January. The battle there lasted until the end of January, and after capturing the base, XIV Corps advanced toward Manila.\nA second amphibious landing took place on 15 January, southwest of Manila. On 31 January, two regiments of the 11th Airborne Division made an airborne assault, capturing a bridge, and later advanced toward Manila. On 3 February, the 1st Cavalry Division captured the bridge across Tullahan River leading to the city. They advanced into the city that evening, and the battle for the capture of Manila began. On 4 February, the paratroopers of the 11th Airborne—approaching the city from the south—came to the main Japanese defences south of the city of Manila where their advance was halted by heavy resistance. General Yamashita had ordered his troops to destroy all bridges and other vital installations as soon as the U.S. forces entered the city, and Japanese forces entrenched throughout the city continued to resist U.S. forces. General MacArthur announced the imminent recapture of Manila on the same day. On 11 February, the 11th Airborne Division captured the last Japanese outer defences, thus encircling the whole city. U.S. and Filipino forces carried out clearing operations in the city in the following weeks. Military casualties totalled 1,010 Americans, 3,079 Filipinos and 12,000 Japanese.\n\nBattles continued throughout the island of Luzon in the following weeks, with more U.S. troops having landed on the island. Filipino and American resistance fighters also attacked Japanese positions and secured several locations. The Allies had taken control of all strategically and economically important locations of Luzon by early March. Small groups of the remaining Japanese forces retreated to the mountainous areas in the north and southeast of the island, where they were besieged for months. Pockets of Japanese soldiers held out in the mountains—most ceasing resistance with the unconditional surrender of Japan, but a scattered few holding out for many years afterwards. Casualties were stunningly high for the Japanese. Japanese losses were 205,535 dead, with 9,050 taken prisoners. U.S. losses were far lower, with 8,310 killed and 29,560 wounded. Civilian casualties are estimated at 120,000 to 140,000 dead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140648", "title": "SAO Krajina", "text": "SAO Krajina\n\nThe Serbian Autonomous Oblast of Krajina ( / Српска аутономна област Крајина) or SAO Krajina (САО Крајина) was a self-proclaimed Serbian autonomous region (oblast) within modern-day Croatia (then Yugoslavia). The territory consisted of majority-Serbian municipalities of the Republic of Croatia that declared autonomy in October 1990. It was formed as the Serbian Autonomous Oblast of Krajina ( / Српска аутономна област Книнска Крајина) or SAO Kninska Krajina (САО Книнска Крајина), but, upon inclusion of additional Serb-populated areas, changed its name simply to SAO Krajina. In 1991 the SAO Krajina declared itself the Republic of Serbian Krajina, and subsequently included the other two Serbian SAOs in Croatia, the SAO Western Slavonia and the SAO Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Syrmia.\n\nAfter the Croatian multi-party elections in 1990, ethnic tensions within Croatia increased. The Croatian President Franjo Tuđman was planning Croatia secession from Yugoslavia, so, in anticipation, Serb leaders created an autonomous region around the city of Knin. Initially, this was dubbed the SAO Kninska Krajina, but, after joining with the Association of Municipalities of Northern Dalmatia and Lika, it was renamed SAO Krajina in December 1990.\n\nIn December 1990, the SAO Kninska Krajina encompassed the Community of Municipalities of Northern Dalmatia and Lika. It merged with the Association of Autonomous Serb Municipalities and soon started making its own government institutions, including the Serbian National Council, a parliament for the region. Originally it was expected that Franjo Tuđman wanted Croatia to be a nation state within Yugoslavia after democratic and decentralizing reforms. When this turned out to be unlikely, they wanted it to be independent of Croatia but remain within the mini-Yugoslavia proposed under the Belgrade Initiative. On February 28, 1991 the SAO Krajina was officially declared. It announced that it planned to separate from Croatia if it moved for independence from Yugoslavia.\n\nThe Serb National Council on March 16, 1991 declared Krajina to be independent of Croatia. On May 12, 1991 a referendum was held with over 99 percent of the vote supporting unification with Serbia. Afterwards the Krajina assembly declared that \"the territory of the SAO Krajina is a constitutive part of the unified territory of the Republic of Serbia\".\n\nConflict soon began between the Krajina Serbs and Croatian authorities. After Slovenia and Croatia declared independence, violence escalated as the Serbs expanded the territory they held with the help of the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA), eventually to include SAO of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem and SAO Western Slavonia. The Serb-controlled territory included a third of Croatia at this point of the Croatian War of Independence.\n\nOn 19 December 1991, the two SAOs through the initiative of Milan Babić (president of SAO Krajina) and Goran Hadžić (president of SAO Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem) were declared as one Serbian state with the name Republic of Serbian Krajina. In February 1992, the authorities declared independence.\n\nThis self-proclaimed SAO Krajina was dissolved after August 5, 1995 when Croatian armed forces reintegrated its territories into Croatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140657", "title": "Azadi (film)", "text": "Azadi (film)\n\nAzadi is a 2005 Australian short film, written and directed by award-winning film-maker Anthony Maras, and produced in association with the Australian Film Commission, the Adelaide Film Festival Investment Fund and the South Australian Film Corporation.\n\nThe film has earned numerous accolades on the international festival circuit and has screened on broadcast television, festivals and at human rights events the world over.\n\n\"Azadi\" follows the plight of an Afghan schoolteacher and his asthmatic son who escape their oppressive Taliban homeland in search of a new life in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140658", "title": "Tom Davies Square", "text": "Tom Davies Square\n\nTom Davies Square () is the city hall of Greater Sudbury, Ontario.\n\nBuilt in the late 1970s and originally known as Civic Square or 'Place-Civique' in French, the building was part of an urban renewal movement toward transforming the city's visual image by investing in modern architecture. The square consists of a triangular main building with its right angle facing the corner of Brady and Paris Streets and a glass-walled hypoteneuse facing onto an outdoor plaza in the centre of the complex. This building contains the city hall proper, its administrative offices and the city council chambers. A diamond-shaped second building located to the west once contained the Sudbury Public School Board and the Sudbury Public Library's Archives branch. It now houses the headquarters of the Greater Sudbury Police Service. Another similar shaped but taller building housing provincial government offices was added to the northeast corner of the site several years later. Completing the square is a fourth building in similar materials, built in a rectangular shape with modern colonnade breezeway, housing Bell Canada offices.\n\nThe complex was designed by the local architecture firm Townend, Stefura, Baleshta and Nicholls, with the lead architects being Arthur Townend and John Stefura.\n\nPrior to the completion of the current facility, the former city hall was so overcrowded that the civic administration was operating out of several different downtown office buildings, and council meetings had to be held in the auditorium of the Sudbury Public Library's Mackenzie branch.\n\nThe facility was renamed in 1997 in honour of Tom Davies, the retiring chairman of the Regional Municipality of Sudbury.\n\nIn 2017, Greater Sudbury City Council began accepting bids for a construction project to redesign the complex's central plaza, although all bids received came in significantly higher than the city had budgeted for the project. The city allocated the additional funding necessary, and completion of the project is slated for spring 2019.\n"}
{"id": "2140665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140665", "title": "Parkia speciosa", "text": "Parkia speciosa\n\nParkia speciosa (\"petai\"), (; Vaiphei: Jawngta;Hmar: Zawngṭa; Simte: Jawngta; Karbi: Themuke; Dimasa: Barthai; Mizo: Zawngṭah; Paite: Zawngtah; Thadou: Jonglha; Tripuri: Wakre ; Gangte: Zawngtah; Liangmai: Karampi; Malaysia: petai; Indonesia: petai \"or\" pete; ; ; Rongmei: Kam or Kampai; Khasi: Soh btar; English: bitter bean, twisted cluster bean, or stink bean) is a plant of the genus \"Parkia\" in the family Fabaceae. It bears long, flat edible beans with bright green seeds the size and shape of plump almonds which have a rather peculiar smell, similar to, but stronger than that of the shiitake mushroom, due to sulfur-containing compounds also found in shiitake, truffles and cabbage.\nThe petai tree can grow to about 30 metres. It bears flowers in a light bulb-shaped mass at the end of long stalks. The flowers secrete a nectar that attracts bats and other pollinators. The fruits emerge as long, twisted, translucent pods in a cluster of seven or eight pods. When those pods are mature, within them will reside the petai beans or seeds.\n\nThe beans of other \"Parkia\" species (\"Parkia javanica\" and \"Parkia singalaris\" for example) are also popular as culinary ingredient in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Laos, southern Thailand, Burma, and northeastern India specially Nagaland,Manipur and Mizoram, and are sold in bunches, still in the pod, or the seeds are sold in plastic bags. Pods are gathered from the wild, or from cultivated trees: they are exported in jars or cans, pickled in brine, or frozen.\n\nIt is known as \"petai\", \"pete\" in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. In marketplace, depending on the country of origin \"Parkia\" species may be labelled \"wakerec\", \"petai\", \"yongchak\", in Thadou \"Jonglha\" (pronounced zong-lha). They are best when combined with other strongly flavoured foods such as garlic, chili peppers, dried shrimp or shrimp paste, as in sambal petai. When young, the pods are flat because the seeds have not yet developed, and they hang like a bunch of slightly twisted ribbons, pale green, almost translucent. At this stage they may be eaten raw, fried or pickled. Young tender pods with undeveloped beans can be used whole in stir-fried dishes.\n\nThe seeds are also dried and seasoned for later consumption. When dried the seeds turn black. Petai beans or seeds look like broad beans. Like mature broad beans, they may have to be peeled before cooking. Petai has earned its nickname 'stink bean' because its strong smell is very pervasive. It lingers in the mouth and body. Like asparagus, it contains certain amino acids that give a strong smell to one's urine, an effect that can be noticed up to two days after consumption. Like other beans, their complex carbohydrates can also cause strong-smelling flatulence.\n\nIn Indonesia, \"petai\" is very popular in the highlands of Java and Sumatra, especially among Sundanese, Minangkabau and many other people in different cultures of the island. In Sundanese cuisine \"petai\" might be eaten raw with \"sambal\" as part of \"lalab\", fried or grilled. It also can be stir fried and mixed with \"oncom\". In Java and Sumatra, it also might be added to \"sayur lodeh\" or \"sambal goreng ati petai\" (fried diced beef or chicken liver in \"sambal\" and \"petai\"). \"Nasi goreng kambing petai\" is popular variant of \"nasi goreng\" (fried rice) with goat meat and petai. In Minangkabau cuisine it usually become part of \"lado\" (Minang sambal) for \"ayam pop\" (Padang style fried chicken).\n\nIn Manipur, it is grown mainly on all the hilly districts especially Kuki inhabited areas, who called it \"Jonglha\", Hmar tribes call it \"Zawngṭa\" It is grown in the hill district of Hmârbiel and some other parts of Manipur valley. Varieties found here are somewhat harder than the counterparts of Thailand or Malaysia. The wild variety from the hills is more commonly sold in market. Some species of \"Parkia\" are grown in small scale by farmers in northeast India. In mainland India, it is grown as an ornamental plant, shade tree and border tree. This bean has become an important ingredient in many food items in Tripura too. \n\nIn Manipur, the seeds or the bean as a whole are eaten by preparing a local delicacy called \"Hmarcha dêng\", Eromba or Yongchaak singju (salad). Eromba is a very common cuisine in Manipur made with boiled potato, fermented fish, chili and other vegetables, in this case, Parkia. \"Yongchaak singju\" is another favourite side dish made with \"Parkia\" cut into small pieces and then mixed with red hot chili paste. Parkia is also used for making various other dishes with fish and vegetables.The Kuki Tribe,a tribe from North-East India, called it \"Jonglha\" and relished it with almost like a special vegetable. Rongmei Tribe of Manipur, Nagaland and Assam call it \"Kampai\" which is cooked with meat or prepared as salad, and sometimes seeds are eaten with \"Chattni\" made of dry fish. The Hmar tribe of Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Manipur call it \" Zawngṭa\" (pronounced Zongtra) and mainly prepare it with chilli, Sodium Bi-carbonate, little amount of salt and a special fermented pork called \"Saum\"(sa means meat,um means fermented) and called it \" Zawngṭa-râwt\".\n\nIn Mizoram, the Mizo people are also very fond of it, and call it \" Zawngṭah\" and they use to prepare it with chili and a fermented pork called \"Saum\" which is the same as 'sathu' of Manipur. In Manipur, Assam, Tripura, the (Tripura people call it \"Wakerec mosedang\") and Bangladesh Manipuris call it Yongchak or wakerec in the local manipuri dialect and consume it as a salad mixed with fermented fish or, the boiled or roasted seeds either alone or in a mash of boiled vegetables laced with fermented fish.\n\nIn Malaysia and Singapore, petai is also commonly served with sambal, or mixed with dried shrimp, chili peppers, red onions, belacan (prawn paste), soy sauce and prawn.\n\nIn Thailand it is called \"sah-taw\" (), as \"mu phat sah-taw\", stink bean with stir fried pork.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140666", "title": "Baseball (1983 video game)", "text": "Baseball (1983 video game)\n\nIn 1983, the Famicom had only three launch games — soon to be seven, including \"Baseball\". Shigeru Miyamoto said he \"personally really wanted there to be a \"Baseball\" game\", and was \"directly in charge of the character design and the game design\".\n\nAt the 1985 launch of the Nintendo Entertainment System in the Manhattan initial test market, the game was featured prominently among 18 total games. It was demonstrated on a large projector screen, by real Major League Baseball players who played the video game and signed autographs for fans. Because the video game industry was so young and had recently crashed in America, and because the other NES launch games featured fantasy themes that weren't recognizable on sight, the presence of a traditional American pastime was said to be an instantly relatable aid to the system's introductory presentation.\n\nAs in real baseball, the object of the game is to score the most runs. The game supports one player versus a computer opponent, or two players. Each player can select from one of six teams.\n\nThough lacking a license to give official team names, their initials in the game are meant to represent the names of real teams from the Japanese Central League or the American Major League Baseball in their respective regions. In gameplay, the only practical difference between the teams is the uniform colors.\n\nIn 2007, \"IGN\" gave \"Baseball\" a 5.5 out of 10, noting its depth of pitching, its two-player support, \"its still-intact sense of fun\", and its important place in Nintendo's history. The review said that the 1985 test market launch of the Nintendo Entertainment System had \"heavily relied upon\" \"Baseball\", due to the globally recognizable status of the sport. The review summarized that \"the NES came out a winner—thanks, in part, to \"Baseball\"\".\n\nIn 2006, \"GameSpot\" gave \"Baseball\" a 4.2 out of 10, stating that while it was easy to play, the \"bare-bones\" replica of the sport \"hasn't withstood the test of time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2140675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140675", "title": "Legacy: The Greatest Hits Collection", "text": "Legacy: The Greatest Hits Collection\n\nLegacy: The Greatest Hits Collection is a 2001 greatest hits LP for R&B group Boyz II Men, released by Universal Records.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140677", "title": "List of sports rivalries", "text": "List of sports rivalries\n\nA sports rivalry is intense competition between athletic teams or athletes, affecting participants, management, and supporters all to varying degrees.\n\nThe intensity of the rivalry can range anywhere from a light hearted banter to serious violence. A rivalry that gets out of control can lead to fighting, hooliganism, rioting and some instances with career-ending and even fatal consequences. In \"The football war\", along with other factors, it was suggested to have been the tipping point in leading to military conflicts.\n\nOwners have been known to encourage rivalries as they tend to improve game attendance and television ratings for rivalry matches. Clubs can reduce fan aggression surrounding rivalry games by acknowledging rather than downplaying the conflict because the rivalry is an integral part of fan identity.\n\nGames between two rivals that are based in areas of close geographical proximity are often known as a local derby, or simply just a derby ( , ); a sporting event between two teams from the same town, city or region. The term is usually connected with association football and the media and supporters will often refer to this fixture as Derby Day.\n\nThe term \"derby\" possibly originated from The Derby, a horse race in England, founded by the 12th Earl of Derby in 1780. The 19th Earl has since claimed the Derby name was originally only given to one other sporting event: Rugby league fixtures between St Helens at one end of the family's Knowsley estate and Wigan at the other. \n\nThe other theory as to the name's origin involves Shrovetide football, an early, unofficiated version of both association and rugby football. It was first played in the town of Derby prior to Medieval times. From as early as the 12th century it was known to have been played in Ashbourne. It was a chaotic and exuberant affair that involved the whole town, often resulting in fatalities. The goals were at Nuns Mill in the north and the Gallows Balk in the south of the town, and much of the action took place in the River Derwent or the Markeaton Brook. Nominally the players came from All Saints' and St Peter's parishes, but in practice the game was a with as many as 1,000 players. A Frenchman who observed a match in 1829 wrote in horror, 'if Englishmen call this play, it would be impossible to say what they call fighting'. Shrovetide football is still an annual event in the town of Ashbourne.\n\nSince at least as early as 1840 'derby' has been used as a noun in English to denote any kind of sporting contest. Other names for derbies include Clásicos in certain parts of the world and crosstown rivalries in the United States.\nRivalries do not always stem from the sharing of an area. Hostilities can occur for different reasons, such as in the case of El Clásico with tensions between fans with a background of historically cultural and political differences. Frequent meetings in important games between teams can also lead to unpleasantries.\n\n\nIn Swedish bandy, derby games are often played on Saint Stephen's Day.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nONEFA/CONADEIP (National College Association of American Football/National College Sports Commission of Private Institutions)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHull Fc vs Hull Kingston Rovers \n\nHailed as the only true Derby in English rugby.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140680", "title": "Charlotte Barton", "text": "Charlotte Barton\n\nCharlotte Atkinson (1796–1867) was the author of Australia's earliest known children's book. The book titled \"A Mother's Offering to her Children: By a Lady, Long Resident in New South Wales.\" Sydney: Gazette Office was published in 1841.\n\nAnonymously published, the book was originally attributed to Lady J.J. Gordon Bremer, the wife of Sir James John Gordon Bremer. However, extensive research by Marcie Muir supports its attribution to Charlotte Barton.\n\nCharlotte Waring was born in 1796 and christened on 13 March 1796 at St Mary's, Marylebone, London. Her parents were Albert Waring and his wife Elizabeth Turner.\nIn 1826 Charlotte Waring came to New South Wales to take up a position as governess to the family of Hannibal Hawkins Macarthur. She became engaged during the voyage to James Atkinson, a highly respected agriculturalist and author of the first substantial book on Australian farming. They married in 1827. The couple settled at Atkinson's property Oldbury in the Southern Highlands of New South Wales. They had four children, including the author and naturalist Caroline Louisa Waring Calvert (née Atkinson). The children appear, slightly disguised, as the four children of the book. Charlotte's father, Thomas Albert Waring, died in 1829. She is mentioned in his will as the wife of James Atkinson in NSW.\n\nJames Atkinson died in 1834, and Charlotte married Oldbury's overseer George Bruce Barton in March 1836. He became insane and Charlotte was forced to separate from him. Barton had a history of alcoholism and violence, and was eventually convicted of manslaughter in Bathurst in 1854.\n\nCharlotte left Oldbury with her children bound for Budgong and later moved to Sydney. Her guardianship of her children was resoundingly confirmed as of 6 July 1841 in a decision by C.J. Dowling of the Supreme Court of New South Wales.\n\nIt being made manifest, therefore, that Mrs. Barton is herself competent to educate her children either by herself or by any competent assistance under her own eye, it would require a state of urgent circumstances to induce the Court to deprive them (all of whom are under thirteen years of age) of that maternal care and tenderness, which none but a mother can bestow.\n\nAfter winning legal custody of her children, Charlotte returned to Oldbury, where she died in 1867.\n\n\"A Mother's Offering\", which predates subsequent Australian literature for the young by a decade, is written in the genre of children's conversation textbooks, a dialogue between mother and children, reflecting the importance of family conversation to education in the home in the nineteenth century, and follows the pattern of literature by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in its expository question-and-answer format concluding in pious moralising. It is not a dull tract however; Charlotte drew on her own experiences in the colony, and probably on actual conversations with her children, in preparing a stimulating, often exciting text that presents children with local adventures and Australian heroes for the first time. It is an excellent example of the influence women had on the community through the education of their children, though the children's questions and reactions are gendered; Clara being interested in botany and Julius in hunting.\n\nThe book covers a variety of topics, from natural history, often as an example for human morality, to geology, shipwrecks and the customs of the Australian Aborigines. Some parts are quite lurid, such as her description of the wreck of the \"Charles Eaton\", a ship that went down in the Torres Strait in 1834. It was claimed that many children survived the shipwreck only to be eaten by cannibals. She describes Aboriginal 'monsters' and their 'wanton barbarities' in her \"A Mother's Offering\" account of shipwrecked Eliza Fraser's treatment, which she explains is a result of Islanders and aborigines being more prone to 'unrestrained passions' than the British. Life's dangers were a frequent theme of 19th-century Australian children's fiction. And yet there is scientific understanding evident in her accounting for explosions heard in the bush 'as loud as cannon' with reference to theories of Sir John Herschel.\n\nThe book was published by George William Evans (1780–1852), a surveyor who had arrived in Port Jackson in 1802. He led the expedition which crossed the Great Dividing Range in 1813. He returned to England in 1826 but came back to Australia in 1832 and set up as a bookseller and stationer.\n\nThe book is very rare and it commands high prices; in April 2005 a copy fetched $48,000. In July 2011 another auctioned by Treloars sold for $25,000 and on 12 June 2011 her \"workbook\", a 30-page book of illustrations with pen, ink & watercolour drawings that was created as a gift to her daughter Jane Emily on her thirteenth birthday in 1843, sold at auction for $70,000 to a private bidder. . Aalders auction catalogue included the following biography:\n\nMost of the work of the talented Atkinson family is in the State Library of NSW, where many pages are dignified not by one hand, but \"Atkinson family\". Here though we can see a direct source for the known work, dated, personal, and full of the quiet and tender observation that conjured so much fully realised work that now makes up our understanding of a life in the new colony. A brilliant and dazzling jewel. Provenance: The Atkinson family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140686", "title": "Jamie Gray", "text": "Jamie Gray\n\nJamie Gray may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "2140687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140687", "title": "Larry Jordan", "text": "Larry Jordan\n\nLawrence Jordan (born 1934 ) is an American independent filmmaker who is most widely known for his animated collage films. In 1970 he received a Guggenheim Fellowship to make \"Sacred Art of Tibet\". \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140695", "title": "Finderscope", "text": "Finderscope\n\nA finderscope is an aiming device used in astronomy, typically a small auxiliary telescope mounted on the main astronomical telescope along the same line of sight. The finderscope usually has a smaller magnification than the main telescope, providing a much larger field of view, useful for manually aiming (also called \"slewing\") a telescope and locating a desired astronomical object. Some finderscopes have crosshairs to aid in accurately pointing the telescope system at a target.\n\nFinderscopes contain mechanisms to properly align them with the main telescope's line of sight. Accomplishing this alignment varies based on the design of the finderscope and its mount: usually on amateur telescopes it is done by three or six adjustment screws.\n\nFinderscopes usually come with a designation of the form A×B, where A is the magnification and B is the aperture of the finderscope's objective lens in millimeters; for example, a 6×30 finderscope means a finderscope with a 30 mm objective and a magnification of 6×. This designation is in the same format used by most binoculars.\n\nA 6×30 finderscope is typically considered the minimum useful size for a magnifying finderscope on an amateur telescope, and an 8×50 or larger finderscope is preferred for more accurate aiming.\n\nMost finderscopes have one of three viewing orientations:\n\nAnother type of finder commonly found on amateur telescopes is known as a reflector (reflex) sight. This non-magnifying sight (technically not a \"scope\") uses a type of beam splitter to \"reflect\" a reticle generated by collimating optics into the users field of view. The view of the sky seen through the sight is just what can be seen with the naked eye with an illuminated crosshair or dot seeming to float in space at infinity. These crosshairs are generally illuminated by a small LED. Reflector sights are useful for locating bright objects visible to the naked eye such as stars and planets. Since the sight uses a beam splitter \"window\", instead of an optical telescope with the ability to gather light, objects dimmer than the naked eye limit can not be seen through it. Finding dim objects with a reflector sight is accomplished by using the object's known position relative to brighter objects as a reference and then slewing a known angular distance (or \"star hopping\") from the bright object to the desired object. Many reflector sights have circles with a given angular dimension in order to facilitate this. Reflector sights are less useful in light polluted areas since the stars used to guide the observer to a dim object may also be invisible.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140697", "title": "Group 180", "text": "Group 180\n\nGroup 180 (180-as Csoport in Hungarian) was a Hungarian ensemble dedicated to the performance of new music, active from 1978 until 1990. The group achieved recognition for their performances and recordings of contemporary music in the minimal style. Group 180's membership included several young Hungarian composers (among them László Melis and Tibor Szemző), whose works formed an important part of the ensemble's repertoire. This brought the group prominence as one of the preeminent European new music ensembles, and brought international attention to the emerging trend of Hungarian minimalism.\n\nIn addition to works by Hungarian composers, Group 180 also performed works by minimal composers from other nations, such as Philip Glass, Roberto Carnevale, Steve Reich and Frederic Rzewski.\n\nGroup 180 released several recordings on the Hungaroton label.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140705", "title": "Kalmar Castle", "text": "Kalmar Castle\n\nKalmar Castle () is a castle in the city Kalmar in the province of Småland in Sweden.\n\nDuring the twelfth century a round defensive tower was built on Kalmarsund and a harbour constructed. At the end of the thirteenth century King Magnus Ladulås had a new fortress built with a curtain wall, round corner towers and two square gatehouses surrounding the original tower. Located near the site of Kalmar's medieval harbor, it has played a crucial part in Swedish history since its initial construction as a fortified tower in the 12th century. \n\nOne of the most significant political events in Scandinavia took place at Kalmar Castle in 1397, when the Kalmar Union was formed - a union of Denmark, Norway and Sweden (including Finland), organized by Queen Margaret I of Denmark. During the Swedish rebellion against Denmark in 1520, the fortress was commanded by Anna Eriksdotter (Bielke), who at the death of her spouse, Johan Månsson Natt och Dag, in the middle of the rebellion against Denmark in 1520, took control over his fiefs and defended Kalmar against Denmark.\n\nThe fortress was improved during the 16th century under the direction of King Gustav I and his sons King Eric XIV and King John III, who turned the medieval fortress into a castle fit for a renaissance king. Kalmar Castle suffered heavy damage during the Kalmar War of 1611-13 and was badly damaged by a fire in 1642. Repairs were begun but from the end of the seventeenth century the castle was allowed to fall into disrepair.\nIn 1856, architect Fredrik Wilhelm Scholander (1816–1881) initiated reconstruction/restoration work at Kalmar Castle. His pupil Helgo Zettervall continued restoring Kalmar Castle in the 1880s. Architect Carl Möller drew up the plans and other documents. The work began in 1885 and by 1891 the castle had gained the silhouette it bears today. In 1919 professor Martin Olsson was charged with the continuing restoration of earthworks, the moat, the bridge and the drawbridge. Work continued until 1941, when the castle was once more surrounded by water. Today, it is one of Sweden's best preserved renaissance castles and is open to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140713", "title": "Marion Davis Berdecio", "text": "Marion Davis Berdecio\n\nMarion Davis Berdecio (1922 - 2006), born Marion Davis, was a recruit of the Soviet intelligence in USA. \n\nMarion Davis Berdecio worked on the staff of the Office of Naval Intelligence at the United States Embassy in Mexico City. She was one of several people recruited to assist Soviet intelligence during World War II by Flora Wovschin, who was Davis's classmate at Barnard College. She was later transferred to the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (CIAA) in Washington DC. Her recruitment by Wovschin is documented in three Venona project decrypts. Russian archives in Moscow also show the KGB querying the Comintern for information on Davis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140716", "title": "Daniel Nannskog", "text": "Daniel Nannskog\n\nDaniel Paul Gustav Nannskog (born 22 May 1974) is a former Swedish footballer, who was active as a striker for Högaborg, Malmö FF, Djurgården, Assyriska, Sylvia, Landskrona BoIS, Sichuan Guancheng and Stabæk IF, as well as for the Sweden national team. He is a pundit on Swedish TV channel SVT, as part of their football coverage. Nannskog was known for being a hard working, determined player who worked for the team by not only scoring goals but creating them as well. On 23 November 2010, he announced his retirement.\n\nDaniel started up at Högaborg, a small football club from his home city Helsingborg in Scania, the southernmost of Sweden, as a young boy. However, from the age 15 he quit football to concentrate on handball. After some persuasion, he started to play football again at the age of 19. After his comeback, he played two seasons for Högaborg, before switching to Allsvenskan side Malmö FF. His time at the club was not particular successful, but a goal he scored for them was very important as it sent Malmö to the UEFA Cup. The next seasons were spent in Swedish second tier, the Superettan.\n\nWhen he was 27, he was brought to Landskrona BoIS, by current Stabæk coach Janne Jönsson. His first season there they reached second place and got promoted, with Nannskog as the league's top scorer with 21 goals. He followed Landskrona up to Allsvenskan and did very well, becoming the club's top scorer with 11 goals, playing an important part in them finishing just above relegation play-off. In the middle of the Swedish 2003 season, he moved on to China.\n\nNannskog played for Swedish Landskrona BoIS from 2001 when the club played in second tier Superettan. He was involved in the promotion of Landskrona BoIS to Swedish top tier league, Allsvenskan. And his success continued during the following year. Already in the first match, Nannskog scored a goal as Landskrona BoIS in a remarkable match defeated their old rivals Helsingborgs IF as Landskrona BoIS won 6–2 in front of an attendance of 12.000 at Landskrona IP. Together with BoIS' other forward, Danijel Milovanović, both of them became a feared top-duo that led their recently promoted club to the top position of Allsvenskan at the break for the World Cup in Japan and South Korea. After the eight first matches, Landskrona BoIS had won five matches, drawn three times and never lost. When forward colleague Milovanović got seriously injured against rivals Malmö FF (an injury from which Milovanović never recovered), this surprising success ended for Nannskog's club, but Nannskog himself continued to score.\n\nNannskog left Landskrona BoIS in summer of 2003 to join the Chinese club Sichuan Guancheng on a two-year deal. He went on to stay for a year-and a half, but terminated his contract in order to play for his old coach Janne Jönsson at Stabæk in the 2005 season.\n\nHis first season at Stabæk was very successful, with his club being promoted in style. \"The Body\" Nannskog was also named top scorer with 27 goals in 29 games.\nNannskogs debut in the Norwegian top division was successful. They finished fifth, just outside an UEFA Cup spot. Nannskog was crowned top scorer with his 19 goals, one goal ahead of team-mate Veigar Páll Gunnarsson. Nannskog and Stabæk continued their progress, and for a second time in a row, he managed to score 19 goals, but this time finishing behind Brann's Torstein Helstad, who scored 22. However, Stabæk did better in the league, finishing second behind Brann. They were in front half way, but did not have the edge in the second part of the season.\n\nStabæk have played well in the first part of the 2008 season with Nannskog an integral part, like when he scored two goals in the away match against Ham-Kam (2–0 victory) in round 5 . The Norwegian media felt it was time the Swedish national team took a look at him again with a possible inclusion in the Euro 2008 squad, following his winning goal against Rosenborg on 4 May. However, he did not make the squad. On 14 September Nannskog scored four goals in a 6–0 victory over Strømsgodset, taking him to the top of the goal scoring chart with 13 goals – helping Stabæk with a six-point advantage with six rounds to go. On 24 September, Nannskog scored two goals and made one assist in the semifinal of the Norwegian Cup, helping Stabæk to a 3–0 victory over Molde. A few days later, on 29 September Nannskog scored his 99th and 100th goal against Molde. This time in a league match.\n\nStabæk won the league in stylish fashion. Nannskog was crowned top scorer of the league with his 16 goals, four more than fellow team-mate and swede Johan Andersson. He was denied 'the double' as they lost in the Norwegian Cup final against Vålerenga.\nOn 8 March Stabæk claimed their first trophy of the season when they won the Norwegian Superfinal against last season's cup winners Vålerenga by 3 goals to 1 with Nannskog scoring the opener.\n\nNannskog scored a hat-trick on 5 April as Stabæk turned 1–3 to a 3–3 draw in the third league round. Nannskog was injured for just over a month before making a comeback on 24 May, scoring a brace in a 3–0 victory over Start in the Tippeligaen. He soon got injured again and so far only restricted him to 11 league games this season (5 goals).\n\nIn total, Nannskog scored 123 goals in 172 games for Stabæk in all competitions.\n\nNannskog failed to return from his injuries and subsequently retired from football.\n\nHis debut for the Swedish national team came 14 January 2007 against Venezuela. His first goal for his national team came against Ecuador on 21 January 2007, in a game which ended 1–1. In January 2009 Nannskog was called up to the Swedish squad to face the United States and Mexico during their annual North-American tour. On 25 January 2009, Nannskog scored his second goal for Sweden in a 3–2 loss against the United States.\n\nNannskog was born to a Swedish mother and an American father, who worked as a basketball coach and a jazz singer.\n\nHe went on to work at Norwegian television channel\nTV2 following his retirement, but has since made the move to a similar role at the Swedish national public TV broadcaster SVT.\n\nStabæk\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140720", "title": "Domain-specific modeling", "text": "Domain-specific modeling\n\nDomain-specific modeling (DSM) is a software engineering methodology for designing and developing systems, such as computer software. It involves systematic use of a domain-specific language to represent the various facets of a system. \n\nDomain-specific modeling languages tend to support higher-level abstractions than general-purpose modeling languages, so they require less effort and fewer low-level details to specify a given system.\n\nDomain-specific modeling often also includes the idea of code generation: automating the creation of executable source code directly from the domain-specific language models. Being free from the manual creation and maintenance of source code means domain-specific language can significantly improve developer productivity. The reliability of automatic generation compared to manual coding will also reduce the number of defects in the resulting programs thus improving quality.\n\nDomain-specific language differs from earlier code generation attempts in the CASE tools of the 1980s or UML tools of the 1990s. In both of these, the code generators and modeling languages were built by tool vendors. While it is possible for a tool vendor to create a domain-specific language and generators, it is more normal for domain-specific language to occur within one organization. One or a few expert developers creates the modeling language and generators, and the rest of the developers use them.\n\nHaving the modeling language and generator built by the organization that will use them allows a tight fit with their exact domain and in response to changes in the domain.\n\nDomain-specific languages can usually cover a range of abstraction levels for a particular domain. For example, a domain-specific modeling language for mobile phones could allow users to specify high-level abstractions for the user interface, as well as lower-level abstractions for storing data such as phone numbers or settings. Likewise, a domain-specific modeling language for financial services could permit users to specify high-level abstractions for clients, as well as lower-level abstractions for implementing stock and bond trading algorithms. Domain-specific modeling is also helpful to reason about low-level software artifacts.\n\nTo define a language, one needs a language to write the definition in. The language of a model is often called a metamodel, hence the language for defining a modeling language is a meta-metamodel. Meta-metamodels can be divided into two groups: those that are derived from or customizations of existing languages, and those that have been developed specifically as meta-metamodels.\n\nDerived meta-metamodels include entity relationship diagrams, formal languages, extended Backus-Naur form (EBNF), ontology languages, XML schema, and Meta-Object Facility (MOF). The strengths of these languages tend to be in the familiarity and standardization of the original language.\n\nThe ethos of domain-specific modeling favors the creation of a new language for a specific task, and so there are unsurprisingly new languages designed as meta-metamodels. The most widely used family of such languages is that of OPRR, GOPRR, and GOPPRR, which focus on supporting things found in modeling languages with the minimum effort.\n\nMany General-Purpose Modeling languages already have tool support available in the form of CASE tools. Domain-specific language languages tend to have too small a market size to support the construction of a bespoke CASE tool from scratch. Instead, most tool support for domain-specific language languages is built based on existing domain-specific language frameworks or through domain-specific language environments.\n\nA domain-specific language environment may be thought of as a metamodeling tool, i.e., a modeling tool used to define a modeling tool or CASE tool. The resulting tool may either work within the domain-specific language environment, or less commonly be produced as a separate stand-alone program. In the more common case, the domain-specific language environment supports an additional layer of abstraction when compared to a traditional CASE tool. \n\nUsing a domain-specific language environment can significantly lower the cost of obtaining tool support for a domain-specific language, since a well-designed domain-specific language environment will automate the creation of program parts that are costly to build from scratch, such as domain-specific editors, browsers and components. The domain expert only needs to specify the domain specific constructs and rules, and the domain-specific language environment provides a modeling tool tailored for the target domain.\n\nMost existing domain-specific language takes place with domain-specific language environments, either commercial such as MetaEdit+ or Actifsource, open source such as GEMS, or academic such as GME. The increasing popularity of domain-specific language has led to domain-specific language frameworks being added to existing IDEs, e.g. Eclipse Modeling Project (EMP) with EMF and GMF, or in Microsoft's DSL Tools for Software Factories.\n\nThe Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a general-purpose modeling language for software-intensive systems that is designed to support mostly object oriented programming. Consequently, in contrast to domain-specific language languages, UML is used for a wide variety of purposes across a broad range of domains. The primitives offered by UML are those of object oriented programming, while domain-specific languages offer primitives whose semantics are familiar to all practitioners in that domain. For example, in the domain of automotive engineering, there will be software models to represent the properties of an anti-lock braking system, or a steering wheel, etc.\n\nUML includes a profile mechanism that allows it to be constrained and customized for specific domains and platforms. UML profiles use stereotypes, stereotype attributes (known as tagged values before UML 2.0), and constraints to restrict and extend the scope of UML to a particular domain. Perhaps the best known example of customizing UML for a specific domain is SysML, a domain specific language for systems engineering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140729", "title": "Prise de parole", "text": "Prise de parole\n\nPrise de parole (\"Speaking Out\") is a Canadian book publishing company. Located in Greater Sudbury, Ontario, the company publishes French language literature, primarily but not exclusively by Franco-Ontarian authors.\n\nThe company was established in the early 1970s by the Coopérative des artistes du Nouvel-Ontario, a group of professors and students at Laurentian University who established nearly all of the city's contemporary francophone cultural institutions. Its first book, released in 1973, was \"Lignes Signes\", an anthology of poetry by Jean Lalonde, Placide Gaboury, Denis St-Jules and Gaston Tremblay, while its first fiction title was \"Hermaphrodismes\", two erotic novellas written by Fernand Dorais under the pen name \"Tristan Lafleur\".\n\nThe most successful title in the company's history is Doric Germain's novel \"La vengeance de l'orignal\". In 1996, the firm was involved in the Federal Court of Canada case \"Prise de parole Inc v Guérin, éditeur Ltée\", after another publishing company published unauthorized excerpts from \"La vengeance de l'orignal\" in an anthology for use in schools. The case, which awarded Germain $10,000 in compensation but found that Guérin's actions were not an infringement on Germain's moral rights as the excerpts were not damaging to his reputation, is now considered a key precedent in the matter of moral rights in Canadian copyright law,\n\nOther writers published by the company have included Herménégilde Chiasson, Jean-Marc Dalpé, Fernand Ouellet, Daniel Poliquin, Patrice Desbiens, Michel Bock, Marguerite Andersen, Robert Marinier, Melchior Mbonimpa, Jocelyne Villeneuve, Maurice Henrie, Hélène Brodeur, Franco Catanzariti, Estelle Beauchamp and Robert Dickson, as well as French translations of English works by Charlie Angus, Phil Hall, Matthew Heiti and Tomson Highway.\n\nAs of 2018, titles published by the company have won the Governor General's Award for French-language drama twice, for Dalpé's \"Le Chien\" in 1989 and \"Il n'y a que l'amour\" in 1999, the Governor General's Award for French-language poetry twice, for Chiasson's \"Conversations\" in 1999 and Dickson's \"Humains paysages en temps de paix relative\" in 2002, and the Governor General's Award for French-language fiction once, for Dalpé's \"Un vent se lève qui éparpille\" in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "2140735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140735", "title": "Nicholas Payton", "text": "Nicholas Payton\n\nNicholas Payton (born September 26, 1973) is an American trumpet player and multi-instrumentalist. A Grammy Award winner, he is from New Orleans, Louisiana. He is also a prolific and provocative writer who comments on a multitude of subjects, including music, race, politics, and life in America.\n\nThe son of bassist and sousaphonist Walter Payton, he took up the trumpet at the age of four and by age nine was sitting in with the Young Tuxedo Brass Band alongside his father. He began his professional career at ten years old as a member of James Andrews' All-Star Brass and was given his first steady gig by guitarist Danny Barker at The Famous Door on Bourbon Street. He enrolled at the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts and then at the University of New Orleans.\n\nAfter touring with Marcus Roberts and Elvin Jones in the early '90s, Payton signed a contract with Verve Records; his first album, \"From This Moment\", appeared in 1995. In 1996 he performed on the soundtrack of the movie \"Kansas City\", and in 1997 received a Grammy Award (Best Instrumental Solo) for his playing on the album \"Doc Cheatham & Nicholas Payton.\"\n\nAfter seven albums on Verve, Payton signed with Warner Bros. Records, releasing \"Sonic Trance\", his first album on the new label, in 2003. Besides his recordings under his own name, other significant collaborations include Trey Anastasio, Ray Brown, Ray Charles, Daniel Lanois, Dr. John, Stanley Jordan, Herbie Hancock, Roy Haynes, Zigaboo Modeliste, Marcus Roberts, Jill Scott, Clark Terry, Allen Toussaint, Nancy Wilson, Dr. Michael White, and Joe Henderson.\n\nIn 2004, he became a founding member of the SFJAZZ Collective. In 2008, he joined The Blue Note 7, a septet formed in honor of the 70th anniversary of Blue Note Records. In 2011, he formed a 21-piece big band ensemble called the Television Studio Orchestra. In 2011, he also recorded and released \"Bitches\", a love narrative on which he played every instrument, sang, and wrote all of the music. In 2012 the Czech National Symphony Orchestra commissioned and debuted his first full orchestral work, \"The Black American Symphony\". And in 2013, he formed his own record label, BMF Records, and the same year released two albums, \"#BAM Live at Bohemian Caverns\", where he plays both trumpet and Fender Rhodes, often at once, and \"Sketches of Spain\", which he recorded with the Basel Symphony Orchestra in Switzerland.\n\nPayton's writings are provocative. One of his most notable pieces to date, \"On Why Jazz isn't Cool Anymore\" describes the effects of cultural colonization on music. The article quickly earned his website 150,000 page views and sparked international press attention and debate.\n\n\nWith Eric Alexander\n\nWith Joanne Brackeen\n\nWith Joe Henderson\n\nWith Elvin Jones\n\nWith Jimmy Smith\n\nWith Allen Toussaint\n\n"}
{"id": "2140737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140737", "title": "CSS Lady Davis", "text": "CSS Lady Davis\n\nCSS Lady Davis was a gunboat in the Confederate States Navy during the American Civil War.\n\nOriginally the Richmond iron steam tug \"James Gray\", built at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1858, \"Lady Davis\" was purchased in March 1861 by Governor Francis Wilkinson Pickens of South Carolina, who armed her and placed in command Lieutenant William Gaillard Dozier, South Carolina Navy, with orders to thwart reinforcement of Fort Sumter by Union troops.\n\nOn May 7, 1861 \"Lady Davis\" was purchased by the Confederacy for $32,000 and commissioned in the Confederate Navy, operating thereafter along the Georgia and South Carolina coasts. Lieutenant Thomas P. Pelot, CSN, took command about 5 days later, relieving Lieutenant Edward Cantey Stockton, South Carolina Navy. At that time, the little gunboat served as flagship of Commodore Josiah Tattnall's Savannah Defense Squadron, consisting of CSS \"Savannah\", CSS \"Sampson\" and CSS \"Resolute\".\n\nOn May 19, \"Lady Davis\" began her career with distinction by capturing and taking into Beaufort, South Carolina the \"A. B. Thompson\", a full-rigged ship of 980 tons and a crew of 23 out of Brunswick, Maine, whom she encountered off Savannah while on an expedition seeking the U.S. armed brig Perry. The exploit culminated in acrimonious litigation to decide whether an Army captain and a dozen of his soldiers should share in the prize money. Captain Stephen Elliott, Jr., CSA, happened to be on board and acted as pilot during the capture and afterward, while his men claimed to have helped bring in the prize.\n\nOn the following day, the crew were reenlisted into the Confederate States Navy, the State officers being replaced by regulars between then and June 1. \"Lady Davis\"'s rifled gun remained the property of South Carolina, on loan, while the other, a 24-pounder howitzer, was a gift outright to the Confederacy. By November, Lieutenant John Rutledge commanded her.\n\nShe joined in the battle of Port Royal, South Carolina on November 7, 1861. Although her engines were transferred to CSS \"Palmetto State\" late in 1862, well built iron hulls were in great demand and she was able to continue her successful career as a privately owned blockade runner out of Charleston, South Carolina. With the occupation of Charleston in 1865 by Federal forces, \"Lady Davis\" was captured and turned over to the Light House Board by Admiral John A. Dahlgren, who praised her hull, while noting that she was, again, minus her machinery, whose disposition is not recorded.\n"}
{"id": "2140740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140740", "title": "Logone River", "text": "Logone River\n\nThe Logon or Logone River is a major tributary of the Chari River. The Logone's sources are located in the western Central African Republic, northern Cameroon, and southern Chad. It has two major tributaries. The Pendé River (Eastern Logone) in the prefecture Ouham-Pendé in the Central African Republic and the Mbéré River (Western Logone) at the east of Cameroon. Many swamps and wetlands surround the river.\n\nSettlements on the river include Kousseri, Cameroon's northern most city, and Chad's capital city, N'Djaména, which is located at the spot where the Logone empties into the Chari River.\n\nThe Logone forms part of the international border between Chad and Cameroon.\n\nThe flow of the river has been observed over 38 years (1951–84) in Bongor a town in Chad downstream of the union with the Pendé about above the mouth into the Chari. The Bongor observed average annual flow during this period was fed by an area of about approximately 94.5% of the total catchment area of the River. Due to the strong evaporation, the amount of water flowing into the estuary decreases. In N'Djamena, the flow reduces to .\nThe average monthly flow of the river Logone at hydrological station of Bongor (in m / s ) (Calculated using the data for a period of 38 years, 1948–86)\n\nIn the eastern lower Logone valley formed out of the Kotoko population several historic sultanates (Kousseri, Logone-Birni, Makari-Goulfey and others) which were vassals of the Bornu or Baguirmi inside the borders of modern-day Cameroon.\n\nIn Chad, the administrative regions Logone Oriental and Logone Occidental named after the river. Ober-Logone was an administrative district of the German colony of Cameroon.\n\nOn the night of September 17 to September 18, 2013, heavy rains caused a rupture of the dam along the Logone River at the town of Dougui, Kai Kai District in the Far North Region of Cameroon. This caused initial evacuations of people to the banks of the dam. On September 27, a second rupture in the dam from the first rupture started flooding the area and nearly 9,000 people were displaced.\n"}
{"id": "2140750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140750", "title": "Sebkha de Ndrhamcha", "text": "Sebkha de Ndrhamcha\n\nThe Sebkha de Ndrhamcha is a large salt pan in Mauritania that is about in diameter and the lowest point in Mauritania. The Atlantic Ocean borders it to the west, and the Sahara Desert lies directly to its east.\n"}
{"id": "2140756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140756", "title": "Natalie Gregory", "text": "Natalie Gregory\n\nNatalie Lynn Gregory (born October 20, 1975) is an American former child actress.\n\nShe starred as Alice in the television film \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1985). Gregory is the youngest actress to have played the role in a television or sound-film production based on the novel \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" by Lewis Carroll; Gregory's nearest rival is British actress Sarah Sutton who was 12 when she portrayed Alice in a 1974 BBC production. Her performance in the film earned her a nomination for Exceptional Young Actress Starring in a Television Special or Movie of the Week in the 1986 Young Artist Awards. Acting in the production with her in the role of her sister was her real-life sister Sharee Gregory, who is married to actor Michael Landon Jr.\n\nGregory has had guest-starring roles in a number of television series including a two-part episode of the drama \"Highway to Heaven,\" which starred her brother-in-law's father. She also starred in the Disney animated film \"Oliver & Company\" (1988) as the speaking voice of Jenny Foxworth and appeared in other films.\n\nShe has also appeared as Annie at Cranium Command, an attraction at Epcot, a Walt Disney World Resort theme park. Prior to acting in movies and TV shows, she got her start appearing in commercials for certain products, such as Hamburger Helper, Care Bears, McDonald's, and Chips Ahoy.\n"}
{"id": "2140769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140769", "title": "USS Queen of France (1777)", "text": "USS Queen of France (1777)\n\nUSS \"Queen of France\" was a frigate in the Continental Navy. She was named for Marie Antoinette.\n\n\"Queen of France\" was an old ship purchased in France in 1777 by American commissioners, Benjamin Franklin and Silas Deane, and fitted out as a 28-gun frigate. She was in Boston Harbor by December 1778.\n\nIn a squadron commanded by Captain John Burroughs Hopkins, \"Queen of France\", commanded by Captain Joseph Olney, departed Boston, Massachusetts 13 March 1779. She cruised along the Atlantic coast as far south as Charleston, South Carolina to destroy small armed vessels operating out of New York to prey upon American shipping. Near dawn 6 April, some 16 miles east of Cape Henry, Virginia, they sighted schooner \"Hibernia\", a 10-gun privateer, and took her after a short chase. At about the same time the next morning, the American warships saw a fleet of 9 sails and pursued them until catching their quarry that afternoon. Ship \"Jason\", mounting 20 guns and carrying 150 men, headed the list of seven prizes that day, including also ship \"Meriah\" — carrying 10 six pounders and richly laden with provisions and cavalry equipment — brigs \"Patriot\", \"Prince Ferdinand\", \"John\", and \"Batchelor\", and finally schooner \"Chance\". Hopkins ordered his ships home with their prizes, and \"Queen of France\" reached Boston with \"Maria\", \"Hibernia\", and three brigs on the 20th. \n\nWhile \"Queen of France\" was in Boston, Captain John Rathbun relieved Capt. Olney in command of the frigate. She sailed 18 June with and . She fell in with the British Jamaica Fleet of some 150 ships near the Grand Banks of Newfoundland about the middle of July. In the dense fog, the American warships pretended to be British frigates of the convoy’s escort and, sending boarding parties across by boats, quietly took possession of eleven prizes before slipping away at night. Three of the prizes were later recaptured, but the eight which reached Boston with the squadron late in August were sold for over a million dollars. \n\n\"Queen of France\" departed Boston with frigates and , and sloop \"Ranger\", on 23 November and cruised east of Bermuda. They took 12-gun privateer \"Dolphin\" on 5 December before arriving Charleston, on the 23rd. \n\n\"Queen of France\" was sunk at Charleston to avoid falling into British hands when that city surrendered 11 May 1780.\n\nAs of 2012, no other ship has been named \"Queen of France\".\n"}
{"id": "2140770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140770", "title": "Family tree of Abu Bakr", "text": "Family tree of Abu Bakr\n\nAbu Bakr (c. 573–August 23, 634/13 AH) was the first Muslim ruler after Muhammad (632–634). Sunnis regard him as his rightful successor (\"caliph\"), the first of four righteous Caliphs (\"Rashidun\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140771", "title": "Spokane Shadow", "text": "Spokane Shadow\n\nSpokane Shadow is an American soccer team, founded in 1996. The team competes in the National Premier Soccer League as well as the Evergreen Premier League, one of United States Adult Soccer Association's elite amateur leagues. From 1996 to 2005, they played in the United Soccer Leagues Premier Development League (PDL), the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid. The men's team folded when the franchise was terminated by the PDL after the 10-year-old artificial turf at their home ground, Joe Albi Stadium in Spokane, Washington was declared unsafe for play.\n\nSpokane's place in the Western Conference Northwest Division of the PDL was taken by Tacoma F.C. The team was revived in 2014. The Spokane Shadow now play in the soccer stadium at Spokane Falls Community College and compete in the Evergreen Premier League (EPLWA). Beginning with the 2017 season, SSC Shadow will also field a team in NPSL.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140792", "title": "Bujingai", "text": "Bujingai\n\n, known in North America as Bujingai: The Forsaken City and in Europe as Bujingai: Swordmaster, is an action video game developed by Taito Corporation in collaboration with Red Entertainment, for the PlayStation 2 console. The game was published by Taito in Japan on December 25, 2003. It was released North America by BAM! Entertainment and in Europe by 505 Games on July 22, 2004 and February 18, 2005 respectively.\n\n\"Bujingai\" is set in the 23rd century, about 100 years after a global catastrophe wiped out a majority of the Earth's population and its entire government. The survivors have found themselves in possession of magical powers stemming from the energies of the Earth. The game's story follows one such man, Lau Wong, a sword-wielding exile who returns to Earth to confront a former ally and an army of demons who have taken hold of the titular Asian city of Bujingai. The graphics and gameplay in \"Bujingai\" are visually inspired by martial arts (Wuxia) films of Hong Kong. The game is a third-person beat 'em up/hack and slash in which the player controls the protagonist Lau, exploring open environments, solving minor puzzles, and battling enemies and bosses. The game features a counterattack mechanic and the ability to chain together sword slashes in excess of 1,000 hits.\n\n\"Bujingai\" acted as a 50th anniversary release for Taito. Taking two years to create, the development team included Taito veteran Hiroshi Aoki as director, Taito's in-house band Zuntata as music composers, and external talent in the form of \"Cowboy Bebop\" character designer Toshihiro Kawamoto and \"Trigun\" scenario writer Yōsuke Kuroda in their respective roles. The likeness of Japanese pop icon Gackt was used in making the protagonist Lau Wong; Gackt himself aided in the game's promotion prior to its launch. \"Bujingai\" received above-average reviews from press sources, who praised its combat gameplay, visual style, and character designs. However, many of these same reviewers criticized the game as having poor jumping mechanics, dull level designs, and a weak plot.\n\nSet in the 23rd century, \"Bujingai\" begins 100 years after an accident involving an environmentally-friendly energy source annihilated 70 percent of the world's population and all of its government. Those who survived found themselves with special abilities harnessed through the energies of the Earth itself, which they honed into a discipline of magic and swordplay. A mysterious and powerful human exile, Lau Wong, returns to the planet to battle his former friend and training partner Rei Jenron, who has been possessed by an evil spirit. Rei has kidnapped the soul of his once-beloved Yohfa and opened numerous portals, allowing demons to overtake the Asian city of Bujingai. Lau stands as the only one capable of stopping Rei and the demons threatening the world's remaining population.\n\n\"Bujingai\" is a third-person beat 'em up/hack and slash game where the player controls the protagonist Lau, exploring different environments, completing minor objectives, and battling numerous enemies and more powerful end-stage bosses. The player can attack with dual-wielded swords, jump, spin, execute magical abilities, or perform any combination of the aforementioned abilities. The game contains a large number of combination attacks, some of which can be chained together in excess of 1,000 hits on a single adversary. While in combat, the player will automatically block an enemy's strike if facing their direction. However, a defense meter for both Lau and his enemy will deplete after each blow is exchanged; only when the defense meter is emptied can any real damage be incurred. \"Bujingai\" allows the player to counter an assailant as well. By timing it with an attack of their own, the camera will cut away to a fixed, posed shot of Lau, then allowing the player to deal heavy damage to the foe. Some tougher enemies like mid-stage bosses are, in turn, adept at countering Lau in a similar fashion. \"Bujingai\" offers the player a number of magic spells ranging from a basic fireball to a powerful whirlwind foray. These spells are dependent on a magic meter which can be refilled by picking up power-ups or successfully dicing up enemies.\n\nThe gameplay in \"Bujingai\" is visually styled akin to Hong Kong martial arts (Wuxia) films with colorful sword-slashes, spinning aerial jousts, and gliding. Alongside basic jumping, the player can tap the appropriate button again to glide through the air or run along a wall. These abilities are key to solving puzzles and navigating certain levels. By defeating enemies and busting up destructable objects, the player can collect blue orbs, which can be exchanged at the end of each stage to upgrade Lau's health, defense, magic meter or magic attacks. Bonuses can also be earned depending on how well the player performs in each level, dependent on factors such as completion time, the amount of damage taken, the number of continues used, and \"stylized action points\". Collecting hidden coins within stages allow for additional bonuses.\n\n\"Bujingai\" was developed as a joint venture between Taito Corporation and Red Entertainment, with the game representing a 50th anniversary release for Taito. \"Bujingai\" was directed and chiefly designed by Hiroshi Aoki. The game's characters were designed by Toshihiro Kawamoto, whose previous credits include the anime television series \"Cowboy Bebop\" and \"Wolf's Rain\". Yōsuke Kuroda, the game's scenario writer, worked on series including \"Please Teacher!\", \"s-CRY-ed\", and \"Trigun\". The game's music was composed by members of Zuntata, Taito's in-house band: Katsuhisa Ishikawa acted as sound director and composed the game's sound effects while Hideki Takahagi composed the background music. The likeness of Japanese pop icon Gackt was used to create \"Bujingai\" protagonist Lau Wong with CG models and motion capture. Though Gackt does not speak any actual lines (with the exception of some lines for gameplay) as Lau, fellow voice actors Kōichi Yamadera, Maaya Sakamoto, and Norio Wakamoto provide a generous amount of dialogue as supporting characters in the game.\n\n\"Bujingai\" took about two years total to develop, with the first six months devoted to pre-production. Producer Keisaku Okumura explained that it was a challenge to make a universally accepted collaboration between Taito, an old corporation with a large imprint on the history of the Japanese arcade industry, and Red Entertainment, a younger \"hooligan\" company. The developers discussed with Taito at the project's outset about surpassing traditional Hong Kong cinema, specifically its martial arts films. Aoki's goal was to make the game unique among other action titles like \"Shinobi\" and \"Nightshade\" by implementing intuitive controls, responsive enemies, and faithfully reproduced swordplay. Kuroda expanded on the setting ideas of the game as first presented by Aoki. Kuroda had never work on an action genre game before, but found it the writing relatively easy, creating \"a unique game that would appeal to consumers while still including some of <nowiki>[his]</nowiki> own interests\". Kuroda noted the finished product as \"a game with an 'Asian flavor' as seen through Japanese eyes\". The team had no particular theme when designing Lau and his antagonists at the start, but gradually focused on character silhouettes; imagery using mythological creatures like the dragon and phoenix; and \"beauty of the flow of action during the sword fighting scenes\".\n\n\"Bujingai\" was first announced in an August 2003 issue of Enterbrain's \"Weekly Famitsu\" magazine after the game was about 50 percent complete. \"Bujingai\" was first presented on August 28 at a 50th anniversary commemoration event for Taito. In the months leading up to its release, the game was demonstrated by the development staff at Japanese tradeshows, notably the Tokyo Game Show and Games Japan Festa in Osaka. Gackt's popularity was instrumental in promoting the game prior to its release, with the star personally demonstrating the gameplay during press events. The game even contains unlockable features including a costume that will change Lau's clothing to those worn by Gackt, as well as exclusive interviews with the star and the game's voice cast. \"Bujingai\" officially went to retail in Japan on December 25, 2003. Various pieces of related merchandise were sold alongside the game. They include an official guidebook published by Enterbrain, an art book published by Shinkigensha, and a soundtrack CD released by Zuntata Records. A manga series based on the game was written by screenwriter Kuroda, illustrated by Kenichi Rou, and serialized in Kodansha's \"Magazine Z\" starting May 26, 2004.\n\nBAM! Entertainment picked up the publishing rights for the game in January 2004. Taito's overseas division selected the publisher based on its knowledge of the North American market. The publisher added the subtitle \"The Forsaken City\" and planned to release the game in May of that year. However, this localized version saw a slight delay, making an appearance at the publisher's booth at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in early June. BAM! announced on June 10, 2004 that the game had been submitted for Sony approval. The game was finally made available at North American retailers on July 22, 2004. Sources including \"Computer and Video Games\" and GamesIndustry.biz issued news statements that \"Bujingai\" would be published by Atari in the United Kingdom in February 2005. The game was instead published throughout Europe by 505 Gamestreet under the title \"Bujingai: Swordmaster\".\n\nCritical reception for \"Bujingai\" has been generally above-average among both print and online sources. The game has accrued aggregate scores of 73% on GameRankings and 72 out of 100 on Metacritic. Critics have found the combat gameplay enjoyable and rewarding, positively comparing it to other titles in its genre including the \"Devil May Cry\" series, \"Shinobi\", \"Nightshade\", \"\", and \"Ninja Gaiden\". \"GamesTM\" summarized, \"Spend time mastering the fighting system, powering up your various attacks and revisiting stages to improve your combo scores and the game becomes so much more than just a basic hack-and-slash romp - it's a feast of replayable swordplay.\" \"GamePro\" stated the gameplay is \"both surprisingly deep and unfortunately simple\", lamenting that blocking, parrying, and counterattacking belies the ability to button mash one's way through most battles. IGN's Jeremy Dunham also noted \"Bujingai\" to have a simplistic gameplay model beneath its stylized visual presentation, but still celebrated it as \"challenging, fast, and easy to learn\". Reviewers have criticized the game's camera system and its jumping and gliding gameplay, referring to these mechanics as \"simplistic\", unresponsive, \"impossible\", \"awkward\", and \"purely frustrating\".\n\nAssessments on the visuals of \"Bujingai\" have been fairly consistent. Dunham stated the game's visuals as \"top of the line\" by virtue of its textures, character designs, pyrotechnic effects, and a \"silky smooth\" frame rate. Navarro equivalently touted the visuals as its \"strongest asset\". GameSpot contributor Alex Navarro argued that despite not being the most graphically-advanced game available for the PS2 during its release, the game will impress players with Kawamoto's character designs and the protagonist Lau's cinematic flair. Joe Juba of \"Game Informer\" similarly enjoyed the game's character designs and action sequences, discovering within it a \"unique sense of style, reminiscent of Hong Kong cinema, <nowiki>[permeating]</nowiki> every aspect\". The three writers' views somewhat differed for game's level designs. Dunham labeled the environments distinctly unique, boasting \"everything from blizzard-ridden mountaintops and dusty desert castles to abandoned city streets and misty bamboo forests\". Navarro found these environments appealing, but disliked their consistent lack of detail and a linearity that renders the directional radar useless. Juba simply called both the enemies and environments boring. Staff reviewers for \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\", and agreed on the environments being bland.\n\nThe sound design in \"Bujingai\" received mixed criticism. Dunham appreciated the game's soundtrack, describing it as an \"Asian fusion of traditional Chinese music with heavy metal\". Dunham was overall satisfied with the English voicework and sound effects. Navarro called sound component (in contrast to its visuals) the game's \"weakest asset\", designating it with standard dub work, typical Japanese music, and unremarkable sound effects. The plot of \"Bujingai\" has been almost universally criticized, with reviewers describing it as \"near nonexistent\", \"barely there\", \"weak\", and one that \"no one reads and characters no one gives a rip about to make it interesting\". Contrarily, Dunham stated that although the game's storyline is \"obviously entrenched in the same cookie cutter mold that powers just about every other action-oriented game and movie nowadays\", its completion \"should leave it viewers with at least some form of positive satisfaction\".\n\nMedia Create sales information shows that \"Bujingai\" ranked 19th among all video game releases in Japan during its debut week, selling 43,116 copies. The game sold an additional 51,549 copies in Japan throughout 2004. Prior to the game's North American launch, Taito had considered creating a sequel. Okumura explained, \"As long as the energy of the fans remains, \"Bujingai 2\" will see the light of day!! For sure!\" Despite the game's positive reception, \"Bujingai\" did not receive a console follow-up. According to a statement by Aoki in 2010, \"the company wanted to go in certain directions... I did want to make more, but anyway, it didn't really happen\". On March 31, 2006, South Korean film distributor SidusHQ announced that it had acquired the rights to publish a massively multiplayer online role-playing game based on \"Bujingai\", developed by Besttoday. Besttoday CEO Jeon Jun Woo announced at ChinaJoy in July of that year that the game was in full development with plans for release in the third quarter of 2007. However, no other news of the game has since been issued.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140793", "title": "Cofete", "text": "Cofete\n\nCofete is a small village in the western part of the Jandía peninsula in Fuerteventura, Canary Islands. It is part of the municipality Pájara. It is situated in a nature reserve (\"Parque Natural de Jandía\"). The Villa Winter is situated on a mountain slope near Cofete. \n\n"}
{"id": "2140794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140794", "title": "Nuanced voices on the Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill", "text": "Nuanced voices on the Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill\n\nIn the midst of the strident public statements both for and against the legislation to establish a Reconciliation and Unity Commission with the power, subject to presidential approval, to compensate victims and pardon persons involved in the coup d'état which deposed the elected government in May 2000, a number of voices took more nuanced positions, or called for moderation and mutual understanding.\n\nA number of religious groups were at the forefront of calls for restraint in the rhetoric on both sides of the debate. Others gave qualified approval, endorsing the bill's attempts to promote reconciliation but opposing its amnesty provisions. At various points, calls for restraint and dialogue came from Father Beniamino Kaloudau, the Vicar-General of the Roman Catholic Church in Fiji, the Prison Fellowship ministry, the Plymouth Brethren denomination, the Fiji Council of Churches, and the Indian Division of the Methodist Church. The Assemblies of God, for their part, endorsed the reconciliation proposals, but expressed deep reservations about the amnesty clauses. Rev. Ame Tugaue, General Secretary of the Methodist Church, the nation's largest denomination comprising some 36 percent of the total population, including 66 percent of indigenous Fijians, said on 9 July that the church was reserving judgement on the bill itself until it could finish consulting its members, but was emphatically opposed to discontinuing the process of law. On 19 October, however, he reversed this position, emphatically endorsed the bill, and criticized members of the church who opposed it.\n\n\n\nThe Asia Pacific League for Freedom and Democracy, a branch of the World League for Freedom and Democracy, said on 4 November that it hoped the legislation, and any amendments to it, would not undermine freedom, democracy, or the role of the judiciary. The UN-affiliated body, established in the early 1950s to counter communist expansion, had held its 51st conference in Nadi, Fiji, the previous week.\n"}
{"id": "2140795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140795", "title": "Raymond Herrera", "text": "Raymond Herrera\n\nRaymond Herrera (born December 18, 1972) is best known as the former drummer and founding member of the heavy metal band Fear Factory. He was also the drummer for his former band Brujeria and the drummer for industrial metal band Arkaea.\n\nHerrera is an award-winning composer and producer of music for video games, television, feature films and transmedia. An RIAA certified Platinum-Selling recording artist, Herrera recorded his commercial album debut with his former band Fear Factory in 1992. Soon after the album's release, Herrera began a nearly two decade long recording and touring schedule that included over twelve commercial album releases and numerous world tours.\nHerrera's drumming is considered to be a key part of Fear Factory's signature sound and their appeal to fans. He is also known for his high speed playing, particularly his double bass technique. Herrera's uses a \"stop go\" technique of drumming for his double bass rather than the usual \"flooring face\" style of double bass playing.\n\nIn 1996, Herrera started to secure music licensing of Fear Factory's music for dozens of video game titles. This allowed Herrera to branch out and create Herrera Productions (Became 3volution Productions in 2003 with videogame industry veteran Laddie Ervin) as cross-genre composer-producer working on numerous videogame projects. His experience writing and producing rock, metal, industrial and rap music combined with orchestral, techno and other genres lead him to work on projects for many top videogame publishers and developers in North America, Japan and Europe including Microsoft, SEGA, Sony, Electronic Arts, Ubisoft, THQ, Midway, Capcom, Namco, Atari, Majesco and others.\nSome of Herrera's notable game projects include: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (1 and 2), Rainbow Six: Lockdown, Scarface: The World is Yours, MX vs. ATV Reflex, NFL Gameday 2004, WWE Smakdown vs. Raw 2006, Alpha Protocol, Test Drive 4, Too Human and Iron Man 2. Projects he has worked on have sold more than 30 million units in combined sales and have been nominated for various awards including the BAFTA award for game of the year.\n\nHerrera has produced, composed or performed with notable recording artists including: Fear Factory, Arkaea, Cypress Hill, Shavo Odadjian (System of a Down), Billy Gould (Faith No More), Everlast, DJ Lethal, Frank Black (The Pixies), Stephen Carpenter (Deftones), Puddle of Mudd, Gary Numan, Wayne Static (Static-X), Pat Lachman (Damageplan), Doug Carrion (Circle Jerks), Megadeth, The Prague and Magik Magik Orchestras, Jeff Kendrick & Mike Spreitzer (Devildriver) and Junkie XL.\n\nIn 2006, Herrera created Temple Studios LLC, which is a recording studio located in Chatsworth, California. In the same year, he co-created a beverage company called Redux Beverages LLC. In 2008, Herrera played drums with Arkaea, along with former Fear Factory band member Christian Olde Wolbers and Jon Howard and Pat Kavanagh from Threat Signal. The band release an album entitled \"Years In The Darkness.\" In 2009, he started Alt-Strum Productions(ASP). In 2010, Herrera co-created Freedom To Rock, a 501c3 non-profit organization, and is on the board of directors. In 2011-2012, Herrera worked with Power A to help develop the FUS1ON Gaming controller. In 2013, Herrera joined Capital Source Network (CSN), a beverage broker he helped create.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPower Tower custom rack system, Tama hardware including Wide Rider drum throne, two DW5000 bass drum pedals, Attack drum heads, ddrum4 triggers, Korg D1200 studio and Pro-Mark 5A Oakwood nylon tip sticks. More details about his drum setup available.\n"}
{"id": "2140796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140796", "title": "Tibor Szemző", "text": "Tibor Szemző\n\nTibor Szemző (born 1955, Budapest, Hungary) is a Hungarian composer, performer, media artist. His pieces often include spoken texts, film and other media. He creates installations and composes music for his own and others’ films. Ever since the beginning of his career, he has been performing actively and widely in Hungary and abroad as well.\n\nSzemző was born in Budapest, into a middle-class family, declassed as a result of World War II and socialism. His family originates from former Upper Hungary. His musical training was conducted in accordance with the Kodály method. He attended an elementary school that specialised in music. Originally he studied fine mechanics at high school that he abandoned at the age of 17 to dedicate all of his time to instrumental studies. He completed the Bartók Béla Conservatory in two years and later studied at the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music (1976–79). He earned a Media Design degree at the Moholy-Nagy University of Art and Design (2014) and pursued a DLA from the Hungarian Academy of Fine Arts (2017).\n\nIn 1973, he founded the Szemző Quartet (originally a trio) playing improvised chamber music, which later merged into Group 180.\n\nGroup 180 was founded in 1979 and was active until 1989. It was started by Szemző and his fellow students, friends (László Melis, András Soós, László Gőz). Group 180 played a prominent role in the distribution of international contemporary repetitive music in Hungary and disseminated Hungarian contemporary music abroad. The group achieved a remarkable domestic and international career. (During the ten years of its existence, the Group worked with such major figures of the genre as Frederic Rzewski, Steve Reich, Terry Riley, Alvin Curran, Phill Niblock, Arnold Dreyblatt, Peter Kotik or László Vidovszky.)\n\nIn addition, Szemző began his solo career in 1983. Besides his pieces composed for Group 180 in this period, he created \"Water Wonder\", a piece involving live electronics.\n\nFrom 1987 to 2003, London-based Leo Records released his recordings, occasionally in co-operation with Hungary-based Bahia Records. His first solo release was \"Snapshot from the Island\" in 1987.\n\nHis interest in cinematography was inspired by his ever-lasting collaboration with media artist Péter Forgács (Group 180's former narrator) and started with the compositions written for Forgács's films. Szemző began to create individual, music-based films in 1985, which is constantly present in his activity.\n\nIn 1986/87 he founded Fodderbasis, an open music ensemble. The group's projects were partly multimedia events. They produced some publications, in connection with Forgács's films.\n\nIn 1996, Szemző launched the Gordian Knot Creative Music Laboratory, which operated until 2007.\n\nHis highly successful and award-winning film was made about the life of Sándor Kőrösi Csoma, pilgrim, linguist and tibetologist. The film, titled \"A Guest of Life – Alexander Csoma de Kőrös\" (1999-2006) is an intermix animation film and 8mm footage. Both the movie and its stage version are starred by actresses Susannah York and Mari Törőcsik. The direct antecedents of the film were the \"Invisible Story\" (1996-2000) based on Béla Hamvas’ prose and \"The Other Shore\" (Japan, 1996). Other prominent pieces in Szemző's oeuvre are \"Tractatus\" based on Ludwig Wittgenstein’s Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (1991-1995), the film \"Free Fall\" (1996), the \"Free Fall Oratorio\" (CD, 1999), and \"»K«Engravings\", a multimedia-series on Franz Kafka, covering the ten-year cycle between 2008 and 2018.\n\nHis regular co-operating partners include the Agon Orchestra from Prague, the Moyzes Quartet from Bratislava, Jenő Oláh's and János Sándor's Folk Ensemble, the Amadinda Percussion Group, the Moving House Company, the Moments Notice Trio, the Danubius Quartet, the Polish Teatr Ósmego Dnia association, the Opus Posth from Moscow and the Polish Camerata Vistula chamber music ensemble.\n\nSince the early 80s, according to the typical art practice of the era, Szemző's musical activity has been open to other arts (especially literature and fine arts, besides cinematography and theatre), often experimented with the boundaries of different art forms. He has taken part in or created numerous performances. He also creates installations. He regularly worked together with the members of the Vajda Lajos Studio of Szentendre, and with János Szirtes, with whom he was also a member of the New Modern Acrobatics performance group (1987-1991). Szemző often worked with fine and oboe artist Gábor Roskó, as well as with fine artist Tamás Waliczky in the early 90s. In his creations, verbality, speech sound, multilingualism, and motion picture play an essential role in a close unity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140799", "title": "Théâtre du Nouvel-Ontario", "text": "Théâtre du Nouvel-Ontario\n\nThéâtre du Nouvel-Ontario (\"Theatre of New-Ontario\") is a Canadian professional theatre company. Located in Sudbury, Ontario, the company produces French language stage productions.\n\nThe company was founded in 1971 by the Coopérative des artistes du Nouvel-Ontario, a group of artists that included André Paiement, Marcel Aymar and Robert Paquette. It evolved out of an informal association of students at Laurentian University who united to write and perform a Franco-Ontarian musical theatre show, \"Moé, j'viens du nord, 'stie!\", in 1970.\n\nOther artists later to be associated with the company included Jean-Marc Dalpé and Brigitte Haentjens.\n\nThe company originally staged theatre productions at Laurentian's Fraser Auditorium. It subsequently acquired a former bakery on King Street in the city's Flour Mill neighbourhood, and remained there until building a new theatre on the grounds of Collège Boréal in the late 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140810", "title": "Cory Rooney", "text": "Cory Rooney\n\nCory Rooney (born Mark Cory Rooney) is a Grammy Award winning American songwriter, record producer, and C.E.O. of Cory Rooney Group. He has written, produced, and developed many successful songs and careers for artists including Mariah Carey, Mary J. Blige, Jessica Simpson, Jennifer Lopez, Marc Anthony, Thalia, Michael Jackson, and Destiny's Child.\n\nRooney was raised in Jamaica, Queens, New York City and at an early age he was exposed to the music industry by his parents, Herb Rooney and Brenda Reid of The Exciters, who toured with The Beatles in the early 1960s. His father later branched out into production and was responsible for both the piano part and production on the Isley Brothers single, \"It's Your Thing\". When the original members disbanded, his mother, Brenda Reid, brought her children into the band to continue the group. As a teenager he was later a member of a band called The Exciters.\n\nIn the 1990s Rooney and Prince Markie Dee of the Fat Boys released two solo albums by Prince Markie Dee including Billboards No. 1 Rap Single \"Typical Reasons (Swing My Way)\" (written by EMI writer/producer and Rooney's brother-in-law Hasan Johnson). Rooney and Prince Markie Dee formed the group Soul Convention together, when they were signed by Sony Music. Rooney was approached by Sony to sign a solo artist deal but declined. He went on to produce singles including \"Real Love\" and \"Sweet Thing\" by Mary J. Blige and \"I'll Do 4 U\" by Father MC at Uptown Records. Tommy Mottola signed him as a producer and eventually promoted him to vice president of A&R at Epic Records in 1994. Two years later, Rooney became VP of A&R at Crave Records. Mottola subsequently named him Senior VP of Sony Music Entertainment in 1998. Maintaining his position both as senior executive and producer at Sony, he was offered another executive position at Casablanca Records where he also wrote Lindsay Lohan's single, \"Rumors\". He also produced the album and performed keyboards and provided background vocals. His albums have sold over 100 million copies and many of his albums have sold more than one million records.\n\nHe was executive producer on MTV's television series \"The Shop\" and VH1's series \"Born to Diva\". \"The Shop\" is based out of Rooney's barber shop, Mr. Rooney's, in Jamaica, Queens, New York. Artists including Busta Rhymes, Diddy, and Fabolous have appeared on the show for discussions on the music industry, their career, and to chat. VH1's \"Born to Diva\" featured Rooney as one of the panel judges, aside from his role as executive producer of the show.\n\nRooney formed his own company, Cory Rooney Group (CRG), which manages writers, producers, and two developing artists. The company focuses on music for television, fashion, and publishing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140827", "title": "Fatimah bint Asad", "text": "Fatimah bint Asad\n\nFatimah bint Asad ( \"\", 555–626 CE) was the mother of Ali bin Abi Talib.\nShe was the daughter of Asad ibn Hashim and Fatimah bint Qays, hence a member of the Hashim clan of the Quraysh.\n\nThe maternal grandfather of Muhammad's wife Khadija bint Khuwaylid, Za'ida ibn al-Asamm ibn Rawaha, was the cousin of Fatimah's mother.\n\nFatimah became a Muslim and is described as a \"righteous woman\". Following Abu Talib's death in 620, Fatimah emigrated to Medina with her son Ali in 622. Muhammad used to visit her and take siestas in her house there.\n\nShe died in the year 625/626. According to Anas bin Malik, when Muhammad learned that Fatimah had died, he went to her house to sit beside her body and pray for her, gave his shirt to be incorporated into her shroud, and personally placed her in her grave in the Jannatul Baqee cemetery in Medina.\n\nShe married her paternal cousin, Abu Talib ibn Abd al-Muttalib. Their marriage was notable for being the first between two members of the Banu Hashim. They had seven children:\nThe orphaned Muhammad, who was Abu Talib's nephew and Fatimah's cousin, came to live in their house in 579 (when he was eight years old).\n\n\nMahmood Ahmad Ghadanfar. \"Great Women of Islam\". Translated by Jamila Muhammad Qawi. Darussalam Publishers & Distributors, Riyadh. Online at kalamullah.com. pp. 163–167. Retrieved 2013-06-22.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140828", "title": "Dale F. Halton Arena", "text": "Dale F. Halton Arena\n\nDale F. Halton Arena at the James H. Barnhardt Student Activity Center (commonly shortened to Halton Arena) is an indoor sports venue located on the main campus of UNC Charlotte in Charlotte, North Carolina. It is the home venue of the Charlotte 49ers men's and women's basketball teams and volleyball team.\nHalton Arena was named for the former president and CEO of Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of Charlotte. She remains a benefactress to the university and has served on the university's board of trustees. The building was funded entirely through private donations and student fees.\n\nThe arena is located inside the James H. Barnhardt Student Activity Center (known commonly by students as \"The SAC\"). Its seating capacity for basketball and volleyball is listed as 9,105, though most of the upper level is curtained off for women's basketball and volleyball games, reducing seating capacity to around 4,000. The University holds its commencement ceremonies every December and May inside the arena.\n\nThe arena opened on December 2, 1996, when the 49ers men's basketball team defeated Appalachian State in a non-conference game. It was the fourth primary home court for the 49ers since they joined the NCAA's Division I in 1970; previously the 49ers played at the on-campus Belk Gymnasium, or \"The Mine Shaft\" (1970–76), Bojangles' Coliseum (1976–88, 1993–96), and the Charlotte Coliseum (1988–93). Even after the men's basketball team began playing its home games off campus, the women's basketball and volleyball teams remained at Belk Gym.\n\nHalton Arena has undergone several upgrades over the past several years. In 2002 the Miltimore-Wallis Athletics Training and Academics Center was opened providing a new weight room, The Charles Hayward Memorial Practice Court, Video Communications Center, new Media Relations Office and new coaches' offices for men and women's basketball and volleyball. In 2006, a new high-resolution video screen was added to the hanging scoreboard in the center of the arena. In 2008, the arena purchased the LED court-side displays/tables used at the 2008 Final Four from the NCAA and installed them for use at athletic events. The base of the clock tower contains the ticket office and ticket booths. The 2nd floor holds offices for athletics' marketing, game and facilities operations, and media relations departments. The 2nd floor clock tower and tower access hall hold the administration offices for Venue Management. The 3rd floor houses the athletic department administration offices and meeting spaces. The 3rd floor clock tower and tower access hall hold the offices for the athletic foundation. In 2016, a new $900,000 scoreboard was installed at the area, replacing the previous board.\n\nHalton Arena was the location for the 2005 Conference USA women's basketball tournament and the 2009 Atlantic 10 women's basketball tournament, as well as the 2007 Atlantic 10 volleyball tournament.\n\nThe facility features three Richard Hallier athletic statues depicting sports played at the Arena. The pavilion surrounding the clock tower features statues of male and female basketball players and a volleyball player. There are eleven more Hallier sports statues on the UNC Charlotte campus, all of which were donated by Charlotte businessman and philanthropist Irwin Belk.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140830", "title": "Yellow Ribbon campaign (Fiji)", "text": "Yellow Ribbon campaign (Fiji)\n\nIn the early 2000s, Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase's government proposed legislation to establish a Commission with the power, subject to presidential approval, to pardon perpetrators and compensate victims of the coup d'état against the elected government of Mahendra Chaudhry in 2000. Most Fijian politicians outside of the government came out against proposed legislation Along with many politicians, the Military and a number of business and professional organizations also came out against the bill. The campaign derived its name from the yellow ribbons promoted by the opposition United Peoples Party and worn by many citizens, as a sign of their opposition to the legislation.\n\nA coalition of organizations opposed to the bill announced on 21 July that they had collected more than five thousand signatures throughout the country. Ponipate Ravula of the Citizens Constitutional Forum said that the petition would be presented to the President and other \"\"institutions that can sway public opinion.\"\"\n\nOpposition Leader and former Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry, whose government was toppled in the putsch, alleged that the Commission would be a cover for pardoning members of the present government who were implicated in the coup. Chaudhry insisted that one set of rules should apply to everyone, regardless of their position in society, and regardless of their motives for having broken the law. Reacting to Prime Minister Qarase's assertion on 20 May that the government did not need to consult anybody about the legislation, Chaudhry said that the Prime Minister's attitude was arrogant and that he could expect little cooperation in return. He further stated that granting amnesty to the perpetrators of the 1987 coups was a mistake, which should not be repeated this time. \"\"The trust and confidence we showed then was sadly displaced. This time around, we must take a hard line attitude to those who think they can overthrow a democratically-elected government with impunity. We have to stamp out this coup-culture that has developed in Fiji.\"\" He accused the government of failing to pool the people's talents together in an effort to reconstruct their shattered dreams, trust and confidence.\n\nOn 24 June, Chaudhry called on Prime Minister Qarase to resign, following \"serious allegations\" from Roman Catholic Archbishop Petero Mataca that the Prime Minister had misled a delegation of church leaders on 2 May about the true contents of the legislation. \"\"It is disgraceful that the Prime Minister should deceive Church leaders to get their support for the Bill. He then had the audacity to mislead the nation by claiming that the Bill had the support of Christians,\"\" Chaudhry said.\n\nChaudhry issued a warning to the Fijian chiefs on 17 July, saying that the government could not be trusted to mislead them, having already deceived church leaders about the nature and purpose of the bill. He told them to be on their guard, and to listen to their people. Thousands of people in the provinces, chiefly support notwithstanding, had signed the petition against the legislation, he said.\n\nLabour Party Deputy Leader Poseci Bune said on 11 July that he would not participate in the consultations on the bill in his Province of Macuata. He said that petition signature tallies showed that a majority of his fellow ethnic Fijians opposed the legislation, and that they were being cynically manipulated by the Provincial Councils and by the government, which had chosen to consult the Provincial Councils ahead of the Great Council of Chiefs.\n\nKrishna Datt, a Labour Party parliamentarian and former minister, said that the government was ignoring the feelings of the people worst affected by the coup, and that \"\"any move forward would have to be founded on a solid foundation of understanding and a deeply and genuinely felt sense of forgiveness.\"\" Instead of trying to impose its will, the government should enter into a dialogue with the Opposition on this matter, he said.\n\nSenivalati Naitala, a Labour Party member and a Ra Fiji Cane Growers Councillor, said on 11 July that the bill was a recipe for terrorism and would be a direct threat to politicians and diplomats. He called for the amnesty clause to be struck from the legislation in order to honestly promote reconciliation and unity in Fiji.\n\nOn 28 July, Chaudhry strongly criticized the Great Council of Chiefs for endorsing the legislation, and said that his party would continue to oppose it. It was for the perpetrators of the coup to ask for forgiveness, he said, not for the government to initiate such a move. \"\"It is wrong for others to be asking for forgiveness on behalf of those who had committed the crime because it is not right,\"\" he said.\n\nOn 2 August, Chaudhry suggested that he and his party might be prepared to support the bill if it was substantially rewritten. He insisted that there could be no reconciliation without truth-telling, and that the bill as it was currently written did not require coup perpetrators seeking amnesty to tell all they knew about the coup or who was behind it. \"\"Without [the coup perpetrators] divulging the information they have, there can not really be any reconciliation. It will merely be a vehicle for them to escape justice as is the provision in the current Bill,\"\" Chaudhry said.\n\nChaudhry also renewed his criticism of the country's fourteen provincial councils and of the Great Council of Chiefs. He said that their decision to endorse the legislation had not done justice to the indigenous people, and that they should be held accountable.\n\nIn a Parliamentary debate on 5 August, Labour MP Pratap Chand revealed that his party had initially offered to cooperate in the drafting of the bill, but that Prime Minister Qarase had rebuffed their offer, saying that it would be \"too time consuming.\" The Opposition had wanted to negotiate the matter during the Tanaloa talks (a series of negotiations between the government and Opposition, held under the auspices of the University of Hawaii throughout 2004), Chand said, but the government had instead come up with its own version. The Opposition wanted a reconciliation bill that was victim-oriented, he said, rather than one that was perpetrator-oriented, and accused the government of violating its own principles.\n\nChaudhry followed Chand's line on 14 August when he confirmed a willingness to negotiate with the Prime Minister, but only through the venue of the Tanaloa talks. He said this in response to recent statements by the Prime Minister that the door was still open for the Leader of the Opposition to participate in the final drafting of the bill. Chaudhry said that if Prime Minister Qarase was serious about negotiation, he should withdraw the bill pending agreement on its clauses. He alleged that the government had had the bill drafted secretly by a law firm in Melbourne, Australia. \"\"He (the Prime Minister) should be genuine in his invitation and not play devious games as he did over the multi-party Cabinet issue,\"\" Chaudhry said, a reference to the three-year negotiations, punctuated by numerous legal appeals and counter-appeals, over the formation of a multi-party cabinet, negotiations which the Opposition claims the government conducted in bad faith.\n\nThe Prime Minister responded on 16 August that he was always willing to talk with the Leader of the Opposition, but that all preconditions must be dropped. Chaudhry's demands that the bill be withdrawn until a consensus version could be produced, and that it should be negotiated through the venue of the Tanaloa talks – which he wrote off as a \"failure\" – were unacceptable to him. \"\"Now this is not a trade union. We are running a government, and if he wants to come in engage the Government in discussion on this very important issue, he must come in without any pre-conditions,\"\" Qarase said.\n\nLabour Senator Anand Singh told the Senate on 26 August that the legislation was an attempt to amend the Constitution without following the proper procedures. The bill undermined the human rights provisions of the Constitution, he said, and also violated six international laws. These laws, according to him, were the Bill of Rights, Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Race Discrimination (CERD), International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and the Universal Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR).\n\nOn 6 September Chaudhry reiterated his view that there should be no forgiveness for anybody who was involved in the 2000 coup. He said that the Labour Party had been forcibly removed from office twice, and wanted justice.\n\nIn talks with Commonwealth Secretary General Don McKinnon the next day, Chaudhry called on the Commonwealth of Nations to suspend Fiji from membership if it passed the legislation. \"\"We cannot have a Bill that will be an endorsement for terrorism and lawlessness in this country,\"\" he said.\n\nLabour Party Senator Anand Singh said on 8 September that he had raised the bill at a workshop of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, which was holding its annual conference in Nadi. A delegate from Ghana had revealed that a similar bill had been introduced in his country, Singh said, but opposition from a majority of the population had forced its withdrawal.\n\nOn 30 September, Chaudhry said that the FLP would continue to campaign against the bill, both locally and internationally. Told by Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer that Prime Minister Qarase had assured him that the bill would be amended, Chaudhry said that he would wait and see, and would continue to oppose the bill in the meantime. He reiterated this stance on 7 October, rejecting a compromise mooted by Prime Minister Qarase two days earlier, but offering a bargain of his own: if the bill was withdrawn, the FLP would provide the government with the two-thirds parliamentary majority needed to amend the constitution and enact a number of land reforms. He repeated his stance yet again on 26 October, saying that a legal challenge to the legislation was in the pipeline.\n\nUnited Peoples Party leader Mick Beddoes called the proposal a recipe for disaster which would license any would-be political activist who wanted to engage in coups, to do so. He accused the government of kow-towing to its junior coalition partner, the Conservative Alliance, on which it depends for its parliamentary majority, in order to keep them on board until the next parliamentary election, expected for 2006. In a statement on 16 May, he said that the bill was not about reconciliation or restorative justice, but rather the creation of a \"legal framework\" to pardon, at will, anyone convicted of coup-related offence. This would lead, he said, to the law of the jungle prevailing. On 14 June, Beddoes announced the beginning of a Yellow Ribbon Campaign to promote a petition aimed at forcing the bill to be withdrawn, or at least significantly amended.\n\nOn 17 June, he accused Prime Minister Qarase of lying about widespread public support for the bill, which, Beddoes claimed, most people had not been given the chance to see. The \"small group of dissenters\" referred to by the Prime Minister were, according to Beddoes, the minority who knew what the bill contained. He said that asking the Fijian people to support the legislation without making them aware of its contents was \"\"a deliberate attempt to mislead the Fijian community.\"\" Beddoes was joined on 18 June by Bruce Rounds, the General Secretary of his party, who said that there were major differences not only between Fiji's two principal races, but also within them. This acrimony in the community, he said, was partly to blame for the high rate of emigration, particularly of highly skilled and highly qualified Indo-Fijians.\n\nFollowing a visit to cities and towns on the northern island of Vanua Levu, Beddoes said on 28 June that he had heard many complaints from locals about having been misled by the title of the bill. The copies of the bill that he had distributed were the first that most of them had seen, he said. Ignorant of what the bill really contained, many had wrongly assumed that it was a sincere effort on the part of the government to unify the country.\n\nOn 27 July, Beddoes strongly criticized the Great Council of Chiefs for its refusal to accept submissions from the Fiji Labour Party and the Fiji Council of Churches. He said that the government and the Methodist Church, whose submission was accepted by the Great Council, both had vested interests in the Unity Bill, and that by being selective in its acceptance of submissions, the Council would not be hearing balanced appraisal of the bill.\n\nBeddoes condemned what he saw as the hypocrisy of imprisoning a man for three years for the theft of six buns and F$200 cash, while legislating provisions to free men imprisoned for much more serious crimes including treason, murder, rioting and looting.\n\nBeddoes intensified his attack on the chiefs on 2 August, saying that history would judge them for their endorsement of the bill. He was not surprised by the decision, he said, as a vote against the bill would have amounted to a vote of no confidence in the government, but they could have recommended certain amendments. \"\"History will judge them once the impact of the Bill is discharged\", he said. \"\"There is no way anyone with a conscience can support the Government's attempt to legitimise and excuse the act of treason as being justified because it was politically motivated.\"\"\n\nSpeaking on Radio Sargam on 16 August, Beddoes declared that if the bill was passed without very significant amendments, he would challenge it in the courts.\n\nNational Alliance Party founder and former Great Council of Chiefs Chairman Ratu Epeli Ganilau said that the notion that politically motivated crimes could be justified was \"\"insulting to the intelligence of ordinary people,\"\" and that it represented a naive and uncaring attitude toward the hurt suffered by many during the 2000 coup. \"\"The intention to bring a closure to investigations and litigation regarding the 2000 coup would be a severe interference of politics into the work of law enforcement in this country,\"\" Ganilau said. On 18 May, he added that he saw \"\"nothing reconciliatory about the bill,\"\" which he believed to be aimed at legalizing the Muanikau Accord, which had been proposed by George Speight in 2000. \"\"To use the word reconciliation is a gross violation of the rights of everyone in this nation,\"\" he said.\n\nOn 16 June, Ganilau accused Prime Minister Qarase of contradicting himself, saying that his denial of a general amnesty in the Fiji Times (on 15 June) conflicted with comments that he had made in New Zealand the weak before. This would, he considered, undermine the Prime Minister's credibility. He also said that there was a widespread belief in Fiji that the legislation was designed to provide for the freeing of coup perpetrators, a belief by the \"Tui Vaturova,\" Ratu Ilisoni Rokotuibua who said early in June that it would allow members of the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit, who had been jailed for mutiny, to be released. Having built up such expectations, Ganilau said, the government had better be prepared for a strong backlash if they were not fulfilled. He criticized Qarase for expecting the people, as ordinary mortals, to do as only God could do by legislating forgiveness and freeing people from the consequences of their actions.\n\nOn 23 June, Ganilau condemned what he said was the Prime Minister's \"\"monumental deception\"\" in asking church leaders to support the legislation without honestly explaining its contents to them. He was reacting to revelations from Roman Catholic Archbishop Petero Mataca and other church leaders that at a meeting with the Prime Minister on 2 May, they had been told of the reconciliation and compensation provisions of the legislation, but not about its amnesty provisions. \"\"It does not say much about the credibility of the Prime Minister for him to be saying publicly that the Christian churches support the bill after these deliberate acts of deception.\"\" Ganilau said. He called on churches to join with other religions to put together an alternative blueprint to the government's reconciliation proposals.\n\nThe National Alliance Party's submission to Parliament on 27 June warned that if the legislation is passed, the first victim could be the government, as the army could use its legitimization of treason as a legal weapon to oust the government.\n\nGanilau reiterated his stand on 3 July that the legislation was motivated not by the goal reconciliation, but by ulterior motives, namely the freeing of lawbreakers. He called on the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General to come clean about the government's real reasons for promoting the legislation. The bill could not achieve its purported goal of reconciliation, he added, because it made no provision for offenders and victims to meet and ask forgiveness. He called on the government to remember that the 2000 coup happened because the perpetrators of the early 1987 coups had been granted immunity from prosecution.\n\nOn 18 July, Ganilau said he did not believe amendments promised by the government were to be taken seriously. He made the dismissive comment after the government said it would amend the legislation to protect the independence of the police and the judiciary. He said the government had a \"dismal\" record on keeping its promises, and believed this latest commitment would be no different. \"\"As it is, their record of political commitments have been dismal because they had not been genuine in nation building from the beginning and this includes the introduction of this Bill itself,\"\" Ganilau said. He also called on the government not to try to deceive the Great Council of Chiefs, which is due to meet to discuss the bill in the third week of July.\n\nReacting to the decision of the chiefs to support the bill on 27 July, Ganilau said that he would have expected the chiefs to have taken more time to consider and debate the matter, but that their decision would make no difference in the end because it was Parliament that would decide on the bill.\n\nOn 2 August, Ganilau said that Prime Minister Qarase was wrong to defend the decision of the provincial councils to endorse the legislation, saying that they had based their decision solely on information presented by the government, and had not been given the chance to hear alternative views.\n\nGanilau reiterated his opposition to the legislation on 7 October, along with his support of the right of the Military to speak out against government policies that it considered not conducive to national security. He considered that the country could not afford to give amnesty to people who had wronged others. \"\"In good times the military will not interfere in politics,\"\" he said, but added that the Military had a legitimate interest in opposing the Unity Bill because it could threaten national stability. \"\"Maybe it is going to be a cause of instability in future when we continue to provide amnesty for those who have done wrong and our society won’t tolerate that,\"\" Ganilau said.\n\nMeli Waqa, Secretary of the National Alliance Party of Fiji, said on 25 May that the amnesty provisions of the bill were \"\"repugnant to people's sense of justice.\"\" He said that it confused traditional reconciliation practices with legal remedies. \"\"While it is acceptable in Fijian custom to reconcile conflicts at a personal level, the rule of law must prevail – where reconciliation requires redress and recognition of our existing laws that protect society,\"\" Waqa said. He also expressed concern that the legislation would compromise the role of the President. Modelled on the British Monarchy, the role of the President is supposed to be a nonpolitical one, but this would be called into question, Waqa said, by the provisions in the legislation granting the President the final decision on whether to accept or reject all recommendations of the proposed commission.\n\nFormer Foreign Minister and current National Alliance Party spokesman Filipe Bole said on 31 May that he considered the legislation dangerous. It could, he feared, provide the Military with a legal mechanism to overthrow the government at any time in the future, as it rendered any politically motivated act excusable. \"\"The army is already on top of the situation and once the Bill is passed, it will then give the army the legal weapons to oust the Government,\"\" Bole said.\n\nAddressing the Lau Provincial Council meeting on 25 July, Bole spoke at length about the bill's amnesty clauses, and said that the failure of the bill to mention the word \"truth\" was a very significant omission.\n\nThe children of the late President Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, who was deposed during the upheaval, strongly opposed the legislation.\n\n\nGanilau said that the government's previous attempt at a national reconciliation, during Fiji Week (4–11 October 2004 had been a failure, and thought it \"ridiculous\" that the government was now trying another scheme to \"\"excuse people involved in the coup.\"\" This, she said, was \"\"not on.\"\" She also complained that the government had shown no interest in including the Mara family in the reconciliation process. \"\"The hurt is still with us, something we do not openly discuss but this government has not attempted to include us in any of their reconciliation process,\"\" Ganilau said.\n\nIn a statement on 24 July, Ganilau charged that the coup had not occurred spontaneously but had been \"\"premeditated, well planned with all the personal graffiti being churned out through government offices and business outlets, ludicrous paraphernalia designed to malign the former President's family and character.\"\" She accused some members of the 2000 and present Senate of openly telling the public then that the government would soon be changed. \"\"So what was the Fijian cause all about?\"\" she asked rhetorically.\n\nFollowing the decision of the Great Council of Chiefs on 27 July to support the bill, Ganilau said on 30 July that she and her family would continue to oppose it, as it amounted to legalizing the overthrow of her father.\n\n\nRenewing her attack on the legislation on 20 July, Nailatikau accused the government of neglecting \"\"urgent and realistic issues\"\" like squatters, unemployment, poverty, and road conditions, in order to concentrate on a bill which was biased towards the perpetrators of the coup rather than the victims. \"\"This Bill is lenient towards the perpetrators while the victims get nothing,\"\" she said. She confirmed that she would attend a meeting of the Lau Provincial Council, set for 25 July. The Council already knew her views, she said, and she would reiterate them in the presence of the Council members if asked to do so. She accused the government of misleading the Fijian people, who had been given to believe that the legislation would strengthen indigenous power, adding that she had personally confronted someone who was distributing leaflets, which she said promoted discrimination against other races.\n\nNailatikau also challenged the government to say why it could not function without the coup perpetrators. Joji Kotobalavu, a spokesman for the Prime Minister's office, reacted by asking, \"\"What kind of question is that?\"\"\n\nSpeaking on behalf of the family, Nailatikau again condemned the legislation on 24 July, saying that it was tantamount to supporting the overthrow of their father. Nailatikau said the bill went against everything her father had believed in. \"\"I recall what the late Tui Nayau said at his last Lau Provincial Council meeting on Ono, Lau, in October 2000: 'There can be no reconciliation or peace until the coup investigations are completed and the rule of law is upheld'\", she said. Her father had stood for the rule of law, unity, tolerance, and peaceful coexistence, she said. His policies had \"\"brought peace and unity to the different races of Fiji.\"\"\n\nNailatikau said that some government authorities were \"hell-bent\" on pursuing the amnesty clauses of the bill, thereby creating the impression that there was some connection between the coup perpetrators and themselves. She demanded to know what the connection was.\n\nIn the same statement, Nailatikau spoke highly of Military commander Frank Bainimarama (q.v.), another strident opponent of the legislation. \"\"The commander is doing a wonderful job because he is not only speaking in his personal capacity as Commander,\"\" she said. \"\"He is speaking as the Commander of the Fiji battalion in Fiji and those serving overseas, and he has the support of the silent majority,\"\" Nailatikau said.\n\nFollowing a vote of the Lau Provincial Council to endorse the bill on 25 July, Nailatikau was at first too disappointed to speak to the media. She later said that the decision was \"\"regretable and unfortunate\"\" given the seriousness of the crimes committed in 2000. She said that the release of coup perpetrators could not be condoned by right-thinking and law-abiding citizens. \"\"To put it in simple English, you break the law, you commit a crime, you do the time,\"\" she said. Nobody was above the law, she maintained, and it was the duty of the government and the people to uphold it. Nailatikau reiterated earlier statements that endorsing the bill amounted to approving the overthrow of her father, and expressed her belief that the Provincial Council members who had voted in favour of the legislation had not understood it – an assertion promptly rejected by Prime Minister Qarase, also a Lauan, who claimed that most people were well informed on the bill and supported it because they did understand it and agreed with it.\n\n\nOn 21 May, Fiji Law Society president Graeme Leung spoke out against the bill, which he said would empower politicians to overturn judicial decisions. Leung said that he and the Law Society supported the idea of reconciliation, tolerance, and unity, but were strongly opposed to pardoning perpetrators of the coup. The amnesty provisions of the legislation were, he said, \"repugnant\" and would hamstring the courts. \"\"It's likely to demoralise the judiciary and sap it of the will to continue its work.\"\" It would also encourage future generations to regard coups as something they could take part in with impunity.\n\nWhile opposing the legislation, however, he cautioned the military to show restraint, saying that Parliament had the constitutional right to pass laws, whether good or bad, and that it was up to the people to punish politicians for bad laws at election time. \"\"If the law is bad and unpopular, it is for the people through the ballot box, to show their displeasure. But in a democracy, it is not the business of the military, however well-intentioned, to interfere with the law-making process.\"\"\n\nIn a further hard-hitting letter to Prime Minister Qarase, Leung said on 23 May that the bill was \"\"not the answer to Fiji's problems,\"\" and would not achieve its purpose of reconciling Fiji's communities. Its provisions for amnesty and compensation of victims, he said, favoured the rich over the poor. He warned the government against assuming the support of a majority of the public. As Fijian culture did not encourage outspokenness, Leung said, it would be a mistake to interpret silence as support. \"\"It's the way we are – our people show their respect to their leaders by keeping quiet. It is considered rude to speak your mind,\"\" he told the Prime Minister. (Attorney General Qoriniasi Bale countered this the next day by saying that equally, the silence of the population should not be interpreted as meaning that they opposed the legislation).\n\nIn a parliamentary submission on 16 June, Leung called the bill a recipe for instability, terror and payback, and a retrograde step, which could threaten present and future governments. \"\"It would encourage the belief that if people think they have sufficiently good political reason to topple a government, politicians might consider granting them a pardon,\"\" Leung said. He expressed content that the decisions of the Commission and Amnesty Committee would not be required to state any reasons for their decisions, which would not be subject to appeal. He said it was \"\"abhorrent and unacceptable\"\" to create what amounted to retrospective legalization of a terrorist act.\n\nOn 3 July, Leung said that if the bill became law with its amnesty provisions intact, the Law Society would challenge it in the courts. He said that he had tried to schedule an appointment with the Prime Minister to discuss the whole matter, but that more than a week later, he had received no reply.\n\nLeung said on 4 July that he was seeing an audience with the Attorney-General to try to persuade him to rewrite the bill after Military Commander Frank Bainimarama called it \"ethnic cleansing.\" Calling ethnic cleansing a horrific idea, Leung said that every right thinking person would be alarmed that the debate had risen to that level, and that there was an urgent to hold talks to resolve the standoff.\n\nOn 2 August, Leung expressed disappointment, but not surprise, that the Great Council of Chiefs had decided on 27 July to support the bill. The Society would continue to look at a legal challenge to it, he said. Leung's latest comments drew a sharp response the next day from Cabinet Minister and Leader of the House Jonetani Kaukimoce, who said that he would have expected the Law Society, as the representative body of the legal profession, to behave in a more appropriate and dignified manner.\n\nRev. Akuila Yabaki of the Citizens Constitutional Forum said that \"\"the policy behind the bill should be offensive to right-thinking people,\"\" because it would be impossible to have reconciliation without including in the decision-making Indo-Fijians, who he said \"bore the brunt of the coup.\" He also opposed the possible appointment of former Chief Justice Tuivaga to chair the commission. Tuivaga played a controversial role in recognizing the Interim Military Government that took power during the 2000 coup, and in an extra-constitutional reorganizing of the judiciary, a move that was later reversed.\n\nYabaki was joined by fellow CCF spokesman Jone Dakuvula on 21 June, who accused the government's coalition parties (the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua and the Conservative Alliance) of violating their own election manifestos by sponsoring the legislation, which he said flew in the face of their election promises to uphold the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary.\n\nIn a parliamentary submission on 27 June, Dakuvula declared that the bill, having already become a cause of division and dissent, would not promote reconciliation. The secrecy with which the bill was drafted, and the haste with which it was being pushed through parliament, contradicted the government's assertions that it was an instrument of reconciliation, he considered. He said that the bill gave victims no incentive to forgive, and that it did not require wrongdoers to express remorse or apologise. The bill's compensation provisions, he said, were completely inadequate. Too few would qualify for compensation, and it would be much more limited than what an existing court might award.\n\nForum spokesman Ponipate Ravulo told a public rally on 21 July that the consultation process on Unity Bill was being manipulated by the government to keep the public uninformed, and that \"grassroots\" people had not been involved. He said that the country could not afford another coup and therefore the bill should not be passed.\n\nYabaki reiterated his opposition to the bill on 5 February 2006.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church, several Protestant churches, and numerous Hindu organizations were extremely critical of the bill and called on the government to withdraw it.\n\nArchbishop Petero Mataca of the Roman Catholic Church spoke out against the bill on 22 June, reversing earlier support for it – support that he claimed had been based on a misleading presentation from the Prime Minister before the legislation was made public. He called the overthrow of a democratically elected government a serious crime, and said that \"the coup cycle\" would continue unless those involved faced the consequences of their crimes.\n\nThe Shree Sanatan Dharm Pratindhi Sabha Fiji and the Arya Pratinidhi Sabha were among the numerous organizations representing Hindu faith, followed by some 76 percent of the Indo-Fijian community, to have strongly condemned the legislation, especially its amnesty provisions.\n\nOther religious groups to oppose the legislation include the Salvation Army, the Council of Interfaith Search Fiji, the Jesus Christ Apostolic Church, the Jehovah's Witnesses, and a dissident faction of the Methodist Church (as opposed to the official Methodist stance in support of the bill). Josateki Koroi, a former President of the Methodist Church of Fiji and Rotuma is one of the critical voices.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe disagreement between the government and the police escalated on 7 July, after the police made a submission to Parliament strongly opposing the bill, saying that it would create more division, encourage coups, threaten national peace and security, and undermine the powers vested in the Commissioner of Police by the Fijian Constitution. Home Affairs Minister Josefa Vosanibola ordered Commissioner Hughes to refrain from making any further public comments. As a government institution, Vosanibola said, the police must express their opinions through the proper channels.\n\n\"\"The Fiji police believes the primary purpose of the proposed Bill is to grant amnesty to those who committed serious criminal offences during and after the events of May 2000,\"\" the parliamentary submission said. \"\"Serious criminal offences that were committed during the designated period mentioned in the Bill include murder, serious injuries to people and damage to properties. \"To allow murderers and those who committed treason to go free is political expediency rather than promoting reconciliation, tolerance and unity in Fiji.\"\"\n\nThe Military of Fiji also opposed the bill. Commander Commodore Frank Bainimarama called it \"Reconciliation bull\" on 13 May 2005, and on 16 May, Army spokesman Captain Neumi Leweni said that a meeting of senior officers had resolved to try to prevent the passage of the legislation. \"\"We are not in favour of the Bill that proposes to offer amnesty for coup perpetrators in 2000, and will do all we can to oppose it,\"\" Leweni said. Among other objections, the Military claims that its integrity and discipline would be undermined if soldiers who mutinied in the 2000 upheaval were to be pardoned.\n"}
{"id": "2140832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140832", "title": "Stonecutters Bridge", "text": "Stonecutters Bridge\n\nStonecutters Bridge is a high level cable-stayed bridge spanning the Rambler Channel in Hong Kong, connecting Nam Wan Kok, Tsing Yi to Stonecutters Island. The bridge deck was completed on 7 April 2009, and opened to traffic on 20 December 2009. The bridge was the second-longest cable-stayed span in the world at the time of its completion.\n\nThe approaches at Tsing Yi and Stonecutters Island are located near Container Terminal 9 and Container Terminal 8, respectively.\n\nThe bridge is part of Hong Kong's Route 8, connecting Sha Tin, Cheung Sha Wan, Tsing Yi island, Ma Wan and Lantau Island. Other major constructions along the route are Nam Wan Tunnel (completed in 2008), Eagle's Nest Tunnel (completed in 2008), Sha Tin Heights Tunnel (completed in 2008), Tsing Ma Bridge (completed in 1997) and Kap Shui Mun Bridge (completed in 1997).\n\nThe Stonecutters Bridge won the 2010 \"Supreme Award\" at the annual Structural Awards presented by the Institution of Structural Engineers, United Kingdom.\n\nConstruction commenced on 27 April 2004 by Maeda-Hitachi-Yokogawa-Hsin Chong JV\n(a joint venture of Maeda Corporation, Hitachi Zosen Corporation, Yokogawa Bridge Corporation, and Hsin Chong). It cost HK$2.76 billion. It was reported to be over budget.\n\nThe bridge spans , with 3 lanes in each direction. It is a cable-stayed bridge with two bridge towers, one on Tsing Yi Island and the other on Stonecutters Island.\n\nWith a main span of , Stonecutters Bridge has the third-longest cable-stayed span in the world, after the Sutong Bridge and Bridge to Russky Island.\n\nIt was built at a cost of HK$2.76 billion.\n\nThe design concept for the bridge was procured by Highways Department in Hong Kong through an international design competition. The winning scheme was the one presented by a group consisting of bridge architect Dissing+Weitling together with engineering firms Halcrow Group, Flint & Neill and Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute.\nThe design was selected as the Reference Scheme for the further design development. A group led by Arup with COWI A/S as main sub-consultant has carried out the further design development of the Reference Scheme and the detailed design that followed.\n\nThe concept was for a cable-stayed bridge with a twin aerodynamic deck suspended from two 295m-high single pole towers. These towers have bases measuring 24m x 18m tapering to 7m diameter at the top, and the deck allows a navigation clearance of 73.5m over the full entrance to the Container Port.\n\nThe two towers are in concrete until level +175m and in composite construction consisting of an inner concrete ring with a stainless steel skin for the top 120m. The original concept had a conventional steel structure above level +175m but Arup found that this configuration would be too lively and lead to unacceptable vibrations of the stay cables. Using a heavier composite section instead of a pure steel structure solved this problem. For reasons of durability and to enhance the appearance, further studies concluded that the tower skin should be fabricated from a duplex stainless steel (grade 1.4462 to BSEN10088) with a shot peened surface finish. The deck itself is made of steel in the main span and of concrete in the side spans.\n\nThe tower foundations are located within 10m of the seawall on either side of the Rambler Channel, close to the back-up land next to CT8 and CT9. Their proximity to the channel necessitated ship impact testing and modelling. Geotechnical centrifuge testing was conducted using a 1:200 scale model of a vessel bow section and seawall within a container.\n\nThe Hong Kong region is susceptible to very strong typhoon winds, a fact that was taken into account in the design of the bridge. In October 2002 a mast was erected at the site to measure the speed, direction and turbulence of winds in the area. Readings, which continued until January 2004, were transmitted in real-time to an offsite location for further analysis. In particular, the stability of the long cantilevers during construction required special consideration in the design.\n\nPrior to its formal commissioning, a Community Chest Walk for Millions was held 15 November 2009 to allow the public to walk along Stonecutters Bridge and East Tsing Yi Viaduct and through Nam Wan Tunnel. Over 30,000 participants took part, raising more than HK$10 million for the charity's Children and Youth Services.\n\nAs a result of the interesting challenges and extreme difficulty in constructing this bridge, the project was featured on two of the Discovery Channel's \"Extreme Engineering\" series on 1 November 2006 and 27 April 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140840", "title": "Arlie Latham", "text": "Arlie Latham\n\nWalter Arlington Latham (March 15, 1860 – November 29, 1952) was an American third baseman in Major League Baseball. He played from through for the Buffalo Bisons, St. Louis Browns, Chicago Pirates, Cincinnati Reds, Washington Senators and New York Giants. He also served as player-manager of the Browns in 1896.\n\nLatham stole 129 bases during the 1887 season. His career total of 742 ranks seventh all-time in the majors. As a player-coach for the 1909 Giants, Latham at age 49 became the oldest MLB player to steal a base.\n\nAfter his retirement as a player, he became what is acknowledged as the first full-time base coach in baseball history. For years he served as a coach and manager in minor league baseball.\n\nAfter retiring from baseball, Latham traveled to Great Britain, where he organized baseball matches for soldiers during World War I, and taught baseball to the British. He later worked in baseball as a press box attendant.\n\nLatham's father served as a bugler for the Union Army in the American Civil War. Latham became interested in baseball when soldiers returning from the battlefield brought the game of baseball with them. At the age of fourteen, Latham played with a local team from Stoneham, Massachusetts as their catcher. He played in the field barehanded. In 1877, he played for a team in Pittsfield, Massachusetts as the third baseman.\n\nLatham made his professional debut in minor league baseball with Springfield of the National Association in 1879. Latham debuted in MLB with the Buffalo Bisons of the National League (NL) in 1880, becoming the first man from New Hampshire to play in MLB. He played for the Philadelphia Athletics of the National Association in 1881, and the Philadelphia Phillies of the League Alliance in 1882.\n\nLatham returned to MLB with the St. Louis Browns of the American Association (AA) in 1883. Latham was known as a very good base stealer in his day. He led the AA in runs scored (152) during the 1886 season. He also batted .316 and stole 142 bases, plus another 12 stolen bases in the playoffs. In , as a member of the Browns, he stole 129 bases. This record is not recognized by Major League Baseball, as stolen bases were defined differently prior to . He led the league in stolen bases with 109 during the 1888 season.\n\nIn 1890, he jumped to the Chicago Pirates of the Players' League. He returned to the NL with the Cincinnati Reds in July 1890 to serve as a utility player and coach. He played for Cincinnati through 1895, and was traded to the Browns after the 1895 season with Ed McFarland, Morgan Murphy, Tom Parrott and cash for Red Ehret and Heinie Peitz. The Browns released Latham after the 1896 season.\n\nLatham returned to minor league baseball. He played for the Columbus Buckeyes/Senators of the Western League and Scranton Miners of the Eastern League in 1896. He played for the Mansfield Haymakers of the Interstate League in 1897. In 1898, he applied to become a NL umpire; instead, he played for the New Britain Rangers of the Connecticut State League and Hartford Cooperatives of the Atlantic League in 1898. Latham returned to MLB with the Washington Senators in 1899. He played for the Denver Grizzlies of the Western League in 1902.\n\nHe played for the New York Giants of the NL in 1909, becoming the oldest man in Major League history to steal a base, at the age of 49, a record that still stands today. Latham ended his career with 742 stolen bases. Latham's baserunning expertise was apparently purely instinctive.\n\nHe holds the career record for errors at third base, with 822, more than 200 more than the next player on the list. Latham's arm had been injured in a throwing contest with a teammate, which led to Latham making weak or half-hearted attempts to field ground balls.\n\nLatham became an umpire in 1903 in the International League. In 1906, Latham managed the Jacksonville Jays of the Southern League. He also served as an umpire for the league and the South Atlantic League.\n\nLatham was major league baseball's first full-time coach. When he was a player, as at that time there were no coaches, he would stand on the third base line and yell insults at the other team's pitcher, attempting to distract him and give the Browns an advantage. One of his techniques was to scream while running up and down the third base line during the pitcher's delivery. The coach's box was introduced to prevent him from doing this.\n\nWhile Cy Seymour coached third base during a game against the Philadelphia Phillies, Seymour tackled Moose McCormick as he rounded third base and headed for home plate. When Giants' manager John McGraw asked why, Seymour made an excuse about having the sun in his eyes. This led McGraw, now realizing the need for a full-time coach, to hire Latham for the role, the first full-time coach in MLB. Latham tried to do the same things in New York as he had done years earlier in St. Louis, but times had changed and screaming obscenities was not looked well upon, as baseball was being changed into more of a family-friendly game by then. In the opinion of Fred Snodgrass he was \"probably the worst third base coach that ever lived\". After the 1910 season, Latham was let go by the Giants.\n\nIn 1914, Latham coached Lynn of the New England League; in July 1914, he resigned from the team. Latham announced his retirement from professional baseball in 1915. He wrote for The Pittsburgh Press in 1915. Latham lived in England during World War I, where he organized baseball for the soldiers, and taught King George V about baseball. He returned to the United States in 1923, and opened a delicatessen on Saint Nicholas Avenue in Manhattan. He also served as a press box attendant for the Giants at the Polo Grounds and New York Yankees at Yankee Stadium.\n\nLatham was considered one of the funniest players in baseball. Nicknamed \"The Freshest Man on Earth\", Latham was a colorful player known for playing practical jokes, including on Browns owner Chris von der Ahe and manager Charles Comiskey. In one famous stunt, he lit a firecracker under third base in an effort to \"wake himself up\", after Comiskey had been complaining about him falling asleep on the job. Also he would occasionally put on a clown's nose while walking behind von der Ahe.\n\nA practical joke Latham pulled on Seymour in March 1909 caused a fight between the two at the team's hotel, prompting McGraw to discharge Seymour from the team and seek a buyer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140843", "title": "Tissue microarray", "text": "Tissue microarray\n\nTissue microarrays (also TMAs) consist of paraffin blocks in which up to 1000 separate tissue cores are assembled in array fashion to allow multiplex histological analysis.\n\nThe major limitations in molecular clinical analysis of tissues include the cumbersome nature of procedures, limited availability of diagnostic reagents and limited patient sample size. The technique of tissue microarray was developed to address these issues.\n\nMulti-tissue blocks were first introduced by H. Battifora in 1986 with his so-called “multitumor (sausage) tissue block\" and modified in 1990 with its improvement, \"the checkerboard tissue block\" . In 1998, J. Kononen and collaborators developed the current technique, which uses a novel sampling approach to produce tissues of regular size and shape that can be more densely and precisely arrayed.\n\nIn the tissue microarray technique, a hollow needle is used to remove tissue cores as small as 0.6 mm in diameter from regions of interest in paraffin-embedded tissues such as clinical biopsies or tumor samples. These tissue cores are then inserted in a recipient paraffin block in a precisely spaced, array pattern. Sections from this block are cut using a microtome, mounted on a microscope slide and then analyzed by any method of standard histological analysis. Each microarray block can be cut into 100 – 500 sections, which can be subjected to independent tests. Tests commonly employed in tissue microarray include immunohistochemistry, and fluorescent in situ hybridization. Tissue microarrays are particularly useful in analysis of cancer samples.\n\nOne variation is a Frozen tissue array.\n\nThe use of tissue microarrays in combination with immunohistochemistry has been a preferred method to study and validate cancer biomarkers in various defined cancer patient cohorts. The possibility to assemble a large number of representative cancer samples from a defined patient cohort that also has a corresponding clinical database, provides a powerful resource to study how different protein expression patterns correlate with different clinical parameters. Since patient samples are assembled into the same block, sections can be stained with the same protocol to avoid experimental variability and technical artefacts. Clinical cancer patient cohorts and corresponding tissue microarray sets have been used to study diagnostic, prognostic and treatment predictive cancer biomarkers in most forms of cancer, including lung, breast, colorectal and renal cell cancer.\n\nImmunohistochemistry combined with tissue microarrays has also been used with success in large scale efforts to create a map of protein expression on a more global scale.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140845", "title": "Blue Ribbon campaign (Fiji)", "text": "Blue Ribbon campaign (Fiji)\n\nThe \"Blue Ribbon campaign\" was the name for the campaign promoting support for the controversial legislation introduced by the Fijian Government in 2005 to establish a Reconciliation and Unity Commission. The name specifically comes from the blue ribbons promoted by the ruling United Fiji Party as a sign of support for the bill. This campaign had the strong support of Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase, Attorney General Qoriniasi Bale, and other members of the ruling coalition and was warmly welcomed by imprisoned coup instigator George Speight. The proposed Commission was intended to have the power (subject to presidential approval) to grant compensation to victims, and amnesty to perpetrators, of the \"coup d'état\" which deposed the elected government in May 2000.\n\nThe following individuals and organizations declared their support for the legislation.\n\nDespite mounting controversy and passionate public pronouncements both for and against the legislation, Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase emphatically rejected calls for a national referendum, stating on 23 May 2005 that there is no legislation providing for a referendum to be held. He said that it was the government's prerogative to pass any legislation it wished, and that he did not want to comment further. He referred all questions to Attorney-General Qoriniasi Bale, who was out of the country at the time.\n\nOn 27 May, the Fiji Human Rights Commission agreed to hear a complaint filed by four Opposition parliamentarians – Poseci Bune and Daniel Urai of the Fiji Labour Party, Mick Beddoes of the United Peoples Party, and Ofa Swann of the New Labour Unity Party. This decision was criticized on 20 June by Joji Kotobalavu, a spokesman for the Prime Minister, who said that it was inappropriate for the Commission to accept complaints about bills before they were tabled and before the public had had a chance to express its views.\n\nSpeaking in Auckland, New Zealand on 11 June, Prime Minister Qarase said that his government detected strong support for the legislation from \"important and large sections of opinion\" – but that media coverage failed to reflect that. He said that the legislation would make it easier for people to come forward who might otherwise be unwilling or afraid to talk. \"Some of those already convicted, may be prepared to make a clean breast of things. Others may decide to keep their secrets and remain in custody, with no amnesty\", Qarase said.\n\nQarase reiterated on 14 June that there would be no general amnesty; the proposed Commission is intended to look at each case individually, and recommend amnesty only for those found to be deserving. He said there would be no general amnesty and every applicant would have to argue their case individually. He said that applicants would have to persuade the Commission that their \"motives\" for involvement in the coup were not criminal. They would also have to make full disclosure of everything they knew.\n\nQarase said that many people were opposed to the legislation because they misunderstood how its amnesty provisions would function. He also implied that they were mean-spirited: \"They favour the strict application of punishment as retribution or revenge. There is apparently no room in their thinking for amnesty, as an ingredient of restorative justice. The offenders are not deserving of any form of mercy and forgiveness.\"\n\nHe said that there was international precedent for the legislation. \"The sections of the Bill dealing with amnesty were not plucked out of thin air. They have been taken from legislation adopted and successfully used elsewhere. The principles of amnesty are well known and accepted internationally. We have done the research on this\", he declared.\n\nPrime Minister Qarase said on 8 July that he thought the legislation would end investigations into the 2000 coup. Speaking at a meeting in Kubulau in Bua Province, Qarase said that the legislation was necessary to prevent the investigations from dragging on endlessly. \"I mean, if 10,000 to 20,000 people are going to be investigated, God knows when it will end,\" he declared. \"Trial after trial and the list goes on. About 2500 people have been investigated. Those who turned up in Parliament was close to 20,000 people.\" He added, however, that litigation currently in progress will not be affected, except at the discretion of the courts.\n\nQarase said on 14 July that the debate on the legislation involved many issues of critical importance to the country. He acknowledged that sensitive questions of race and culture were at stake, but insisted that it was important to \"learn to respect each other's views and to differ without anger or ill will.\"\n\nOn 22 July, Qarase announced that if the legislation were passed, there would be an inquiry into the underlying causes of the 2000 coup, as well as the earlier 1987 coups. \"We need to concentrate more than ever on identifying the reasons for the upheavals of 1987 and 2000 and making sure that such tragedies never happen again,\" Qarase said at a meeting of the National Advisory Council, a think-tank representing Fiji's ethnic communities, which he chairs. He said there was a fundamental lack of trust between Fiji's two main racial groups, coupled with radically different understandings of the events of 2000. For most indigenous Fijians, he said, the coup was about indigenous rights, whereas for most Indo-Fijians, it was simply a lawless act of terrorism. He did not condone the acts, he said, but believed that it was time to bring closure to the painful aftermath of the coup, which had dragged on long enough. \"Wounds are reopened when cases go to court and convictions handed down. Racial tensions increased and there was further uncertainty and apprehension,\" he said. (The Prime Minister's comments were rejected the next day by Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry, who said that the principal reason behind the coups of both 1987 and 2000 was greed, and that it was a \"lie\" to say that they were carried out in the name of indigenous interests).\n\nAt an address to the Lautoka Chamber of Commerce on 23 July, Qarase spoke at length about the bill. He said there was \"no question\" of withdrawing it, as to do so would be a \"denial\" of democracy. He denied that the fundamental purpose of the bill was to pardon all who were imprisoned on coup charges. \"There is no free pass to amnesty for anyone,\" he insisted. He also said that while he recognized that expatriate businessmen working in Fiji had a right to comment on issues that were directly related to their commercial and professional undertakings, they \"should exercise care and discretion to avoid crossing the line into active politics.\" His admonition reinforced a warning to the Fiji Employers Federation from the Ministry of Home Affairs that foreign workers and businessmen who spoke against the government would risk forfeiting their permits. Conference participants were not allowed to question the Prime Minister about the parts of his speech related to the Unity Bill.\n\nOn 26 July, Qarase reacted angrily to remarks by Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry, who accused him of manipulating the country's Provincial Councils and using them as rubber stamps to gather support for the legislation, and that it was presumptuous for the councils to speak on behalf of all people in their respective provinces. Qarase said that indigenous Fijians were capable of making up their own minds. \"It is an insult for him to think Fijians cannot think and make decisions on their own,\" he said. Chaudhry should learn not to brush aside the remarks of Fijians, the Prime Minister said. He also rejected claims by Lauan Senator Adi Koila Nailatikau, the daughter of former Prime Minister, President, and Paramount Chief of Lau that most Provincial Council members who endorsed the bill had not understood it properly. Qarase said that on the contrary, most people were well informed about the legislation, and supported it because they did understand it and agreed with it.\n\nThe Prime Minister reiterated on 27 July that there would be no referendum. He claimed that he personally favoured one, but said the Constitution did not allow for it. \"It's a pity, a serious oversight but I personally am in favour of carrying out a referendum,\" he said.\n\nQarase said it would not be possible to investigate and charge all the individuals, estimated at over 30,000, who had converged at the parliamentary complex during the crisis of May 2000. He considered reconciliation to be the only way forward. He admitted, however, that the bill would be no guarantee against future coups. It would, however, create an atmosphere conducive to reconciliation, tolerance, and unity, he considered. \"However, with a resounding yes I say we can reconcile and that it really is a matter of the heart,\" he said.\n\nQarase also said that the government was fine-tuning the bill to ensure its compliance with the Constitution.\n\nOn 28 July, Qarase hailed the decision of the powerful Great Council of Chiefs and the Methodist Church to endorse the legislation. \"The decision was made in the best interest of the country and a significant milestone in the process of consultation,\" he said. Earlier, in an address to the Great Council, Qarase had reiterated a previous assertion that to withdraw the bill would be a denial of democracy. The government would not withdraw it, he said, but would adjust the details of it to accommodate the views of all sections of the community. He also said that a National Council of Reconciliation and Unity would soon be established, which would explore ways to foster reconciliation and cooperation among Fiji's diverse ethnic groups.\n\nFaced with continuing opposition to the bill, Qarase pleaded with opponents such as Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry and United Peoples Party leader Mick Beddoes to give the bill a chance, saying they had \"a rare opportunity to help bridge the obvious gulf between our people.\" Speaking on Fiji TV on 30 July, he insisted that the bill was not about the Fijian people as an ethnic group, but about the country as a whole. \"I think the overwhelming Fijian support for the Bill is saying we are offering a hand of reconciliation, a hand of forgiveness, a hand of friendship, a hand of repentance and unity. I were in Chaudhry's shoes I would grab the opportunity to try and establish dialogue through this Bill with the Fijian people to promote reconciliation and unity and I will do the same with Mr Beddoes as well,\" Qarase said.\n\nIn a statement on 4 August, the Prime Minister insisted that the bill was not just for the benefit of indigenous Fijians, but for all the country's citizens. It was his personal push for national reconciliation, he said, and it would be up to members of the public as to how to respond.\n\nOn 16 August, Prime Minister Qarase rebuffed an offer to negotiate the legislation, provided that it was withdrawn pending the reaching of a consensus and that it be referred to the Tanaloa talks, a University of Hawaii-mediated forum for government-opposition negotiations that took place during 2004. The Tanaloa talks had been a failure, Qarase said, and it was unacceptable for the opposition to set preconditions for negotiations. \"I welcome his willingness to discuss the Reconciliation and Unity Bill with the Government but he has put forward two ... quite impossible pre-conditions. One of those conditions is that the Reconciliation Bill must be referred to the Talanoa Dialogue and secondly we must withdraw the bill even before we discuss it. He wants to start afresh. Now this is not a trade union. We are running a government, and if he wants to come in engage the Government in discussion on this very important issue, he must come in without any pre-conditions\", the Prime Minister declared.\n\nOn 16 June, Attorney-General Qoriniasi Bale declared that the fate of the government was linked to the passage of the bill. \"\"If the Bill goes down, the Government goes down with it,\"\" Bale told a public meeting in Suva. At the same meeting, however, Jale Baba, National Director of the ruling United Fiji Party, denied that the legislation was being pushed for electoral reasons, saying that politically speaking, it was not advantageous to the government which was, he claimed, promoting it on principle, not for political gain.\n\nOn 29 June, Attorney-General Bale conceded that adjustments to the bill were possible, but criticism would be considered only if it was constructive. He was responding to concerns raised by Ratu Isaia Gonewai, Deputy Chairman of the Nadroga-Navosa Provincial Council, about the impact of criticism from foreign organizations and governments. Bale responded that while he was open to discussion about altering some of the details, the government would not be influenced by foreign intervention, and that if local and international opponents continued to lobby against the bill without making any constructive suggestions on how to improve it, parliament would probably pass it intact.\n\nBale claimed that the bill was essential for reconciliation between Fiji's two main ethnic groups. \"\"The Bill is important to overcome the differences in the country before it reaches the extreme of major bloodshed as experienced in other countries. We want to get rid of the huge distrust and racial hatred that is being harboured by some members of the country's two major races as a result of the May 2000 coup,\"\" he said.\n\nOn 21 July, Bale claimed that the bill had been in the pipeline for a long time. The aftermath of the 2000 crisis was negatively affecting the fabric of society, he said, and the government had long wanted to address that, but had delayed doing so until now because it could be misinterpreted as an attempt to cover up the actions of wrongdoers. But five years later, there was still no end in sight, and \"\"the government felt it was time to do something about it proactively,\"\" he said. He did not expect everybody to be happy with the government's moves. \"\"There will always be division in the views of our people, whether we are doing right or adequately.\"\"\n\nReacting to statements from Military Commander Commodore Frank Bainimarama that whatever amendments might be forthcoming, the Military was still opposed to the legislation, Bale declared on 26 October that the Military was entitled to its opinion, but it was not the government. The government and not the Military, he said, was the final arbiter on the bill. He denied claims that the bill was unconstitutional, saying that proposed amendments were to take account of public opinion, not to correct noncompliance with the Constitution.\n\nBale also said that the government would not require additional funding to set up the envisaged Commission.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Great Council of Chiefs endorsed the bill at a meeting on 27 July. The endorsement came after more than two months of reserving judgement in the light of vociferous public objections.\n\nOn 18 May, Ratu Ovini Bokini, Chairman said that the Great Council had not been consulted and was \"in the dark\" about the bill. He said that attempts to obtain a copy of the bill from the government had come to nothing. The government had not released its draft bill, but a copy was leaked to the media and was published by the Fiji Times.\n\nRatu Bokini's comments drew an immediate response from Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase, who said that he saw no need for prior consultation with anybody. \"\"Any Bill is drafted without consulting any party or stakeholders is because it contains what the Government wants to be included in the Bill,\"\" Qarase said.\n\nThe Great Council of Chiefs had the power to pass or block the bill by instructing its 14 Senators in the 32 Member Senate on how to vote. As they hold the balance of power between the 9 Senators appointed by the Prime Minister and the 8 appointed by the Leader of the Opposition, a block vote by the chiefly Senators would decide the outcome. On 19 July, however, Great Council secretary Asesela Sadole said that their Senators would not be instructed on how to vote, but would be left free to follow their consciences.\n\nIn a speech to mark Ratu Sukuna Day on 30 May, in honour of Fiji's first modern statesman, Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna, Bokini cautioned against a one-sided approach to reconciliation, saying that it was not something that could be forced. \"\"It must be allowed to grow through a shared understanding of what we all want and where we are all heading,\"\" he said. \"\"Only then can we negotiate seriously about what to give and what to take and this process takes time and patience,\"\" he said.\n\nGreat Council secretary Sadole announced on 17 July that the Council had translated the bill into Fijian for the perusal of its members, pending a meeting to be held in the third week of July. Sadole said that the Council would consider the bill on its own merits, without reference to what outsiders have been saying for or against it. \"\"Most people have not actually sat down to read the Bill. It seem that most of their opinions is formed by other opinions. We do not want outside consultations to influence the meeting and by taking out our own translation, it can really help,\"\" Sadole said.\n\nMeanwhile, Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry warned the chiefs against possible deception by the government. He said that the government had already misled church leaders about the bill, and could not be trusted not to similarly mislead the chiefs. National Alliance Party President Ratu Epeli Ganilau similarly called on the government not to try to \"fool\" the Great Council of Chiefs.\n\nA Great Council of Chiefs meeting to consider the bill, starting on 26 July, is now considered likely to approve it, as 45 of its 55 members are delegates from Fiji's fourteen Provinces and one Dependency (Rotuma), all of which have endorsed the legislation. The Fiji Military Forces and the Methodist Church are to make submissions at the meeting, but the secretariat of the Great Council had refused a request from the opposition Labour Party (FLP) to make one, ostensibly because of time constraints and on the ground that if they accepted a submission from the FLP, they would have to accept one from every political party.\n\nThe Great Council qualified its endorsement of the bill by urging the government to consider the concerns raised by its opponents, including the Military. The council supported the maintenance of law and order, but upheld the prerogative of the government to make whatever laws it considered fit, adding that there are legal channels that opponents may use to challenge such laws. They also affirmed that the nation's chiefs represent the entire population, not only indigenous Fijians.\n\nPrime Minister Qarase hailed the decision, saying that he had received the \"\"overwhelming support of the Fijian people,\"\" but Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry said that the chiefs had failed to address the issue properly, and that he would continue to fight the bill. Another opponent of the bill and former Great Council of Chiefs Chairman Ratu Epeli Ganilau said that he would have expected the chiefs to have taken more time to consider and debate the matter, but that their decision would make no difference in the end because it was Parliament that would decide on the bill.\n\nMilitary commander Commodore Frank Bainimarama, one of the most unyielding opponents of the legislation who had attacked it in an address to the Great Council lasting more than an hour, issued a statement on 29 July strongly critical of the decision. Bainimarama said that the Military accepted the decision of the Great Council to endorse the legislation, but said that the Military would continue to oppose it.\n\nGreat Council Chairman Bokini said on 30 July that the chiefs had endorsed the legislation on the basis of a number of reasons that the Military should consider. They had supported the bill on the basis of truth and justice, and of the Christian beliefs upheld by the great majority of their members. It was the norm in Fijian culture to resolve differences through dialogue and consensus, he maintained. He hoped that the Military would take these considerations into account.\n\nThe Methodist Church announced its support for the bill on 19 July, according to the Rev. Timoci Nawaciono, head of the church's Nasea circuit. The church reaffirmed this stance at its annual conference on 11 October, and on 19 October, the church's general secretary, Rev. Ame Tugaue, said that \"all Christians\" supported the bill. Methodist support was much coveted by the government, as almost two-thirds of indigenous Fijians are affiliated to the denomination.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140849", "title": "Stanley Edgar Hyman", "text": "Stanley Edgar Hyman\n\nStanley Edgar Hyman (June 11, 1919 - July 29, 1970) was an American literary critic who wrote primarily about critical methods: the distinct strategies critics use in approaching literary texts.\n\nHyman was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Moe Hyman, and raised as an Orthodox Jew. He graduated from Syracuse University in 1940, where he met Shirley Jackson. After reading one of Jackson's stories, Hyman declared that he was going to marry the author. They had four children together. He was a staff writer for \"The New Yorker\" for much of his life, and although he did not possess a graduate degree, taught at Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont. From 1961 to 1965, Hyman was the literary critic of \"The New Leader\". Although he admired his wife's writing, he did not believe in monogamy and had numerous affairs during their marriage, often with his students. Despite his flaws as a husband, Hyman was a consistent supporter of his wife's work and bitterly resented the lack of recognition she received during her lifetime. He wrote, \"I think that the future will find her powerful visions of suffering and inhumanity increasingly significant and meaningful, and that Shirley Jackson's work is among that small body of literature produced in our time that seems apt to survive.\" \n\nA year after Jackson's death in 1965, Hyman married Phoebe Pettingell, who had been a classmate of his daughter, Joanne, and his student at Bennington College. Three months after Hyman's death, she gave birth to his last child, a son named Malcolm (1970-2009), who became a research fellow in the Department of Classics at Harvard University and later at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science. \n\nAlthough more likely to be remembered today as the husband of writer Shirley Jackson (he edited a posthumous collection of her work), Hyman was influential in the development of literary theory during the 1940s and 1950s. Equally skeptical of every major critical methodology of his time, he worked out an early instance of a critical theory, exploring ways that critics can be foiled by their own methods. \"Each critic,\" Hyman wrote in \"The Armed Vision\", \"tends to have a master metaphor or series of metaphors in terms of which he sees the critical function ... this metaphor then shapes, informs, and sometimes limits his work.\" Hyman saw it as his own critical task to point out these overriding themes by which, tacitly, other critics organized their work and their thinking.\n\nHyman was also a noted jazz critic, who wrote hundreds of essays on the subject in addition to his career as a writer and teacher. He had an important influence on Ralph Ellison's career, but they had many disagreements.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140856", "title": "University of the East", "text": "University of the East\n\nThe University of the East () also known as UE, is a private university located in Manila, Philippines. It was founded in 1946. Business tycoon Lucio Tan acquired the university in 1990. UE was once labeled as the \"largest university in Asia\" when its enrollment in the past reached over 65,000 students.\n\nUE was granted the \"Autonomous Status\" by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) which has only been given to selected higher educational institutions with excellent quality education. Some of the programs offered by the university were accredited by CHED as Centers of Excellence and Centers of Development.\n\nUE offers degree programs in commerce and business administration, law, dentistry, engineering, arts and sciences, fine arts, education, computer technology, nursing, physical therapy, medicine, hospitality management and graduate studies. UE has two other campuses, one in Caloocan and its medical school, the UE Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center located in Aurora Blvd. Dona Imelda Quezon City.\n\nThe history of the University of the East starts in September 1946, in a rented room on Dasmariñas St., Manila, where 110 students enrolled in Certified Public Accountant (CPA) review classes. The group of business teachers led by Dr. Francisco T. Dalupan, Sr. that started the sessions made it their objective to help the country, which was still reeling from the war. Of the 110 students, four made it to top spots in the 1947 CPA board Examinations.\n\nOn September 11, 1946, five people—namely Dr. Francisco T. Dalupan Sr., Dr. Hermengildo B. Reyes, José L. Torres, Enid Mapa and Santiago de la Cruz—established the Philippine College of Commerce and Business Administration (PCCBA) along R. Papa St. in Sampaloc, Manila. The PCCBA admitted 350 students in the summer of 1947. The following year, more students enrolled and more academic units were organized, and the PCCBA moved to what is now UE's main campus on 2219 Claro M. Recto Avenue.\n\nPCCBA alumni performed successfully in the government's accountancy examinations. Because of this success, the government granted the PCCBA permission to establish other colleges, leading to the establishment of the Colleges of Liberal Arts, Business Administration, Dentistry, and the Graduate School of Business Administration.\n\nThe PCCBA was granted university status on July 4, 1951, and was renamed the University of the East. Dalupan became UE's first president and chairman of its Board of Trustees. The first members of the Board were Dr. Hermenegildo Balbino Reyes, a businessman, scholar, and former Vice President of the University of the Philippines; Santiago F. de la Cruz, a CPA and business executive who later succeeded Dalupan as UE president; José L. Torres, a soldier, businessman, and accountant; and Jaime Hernández, former Secretary of Finance.\n\nThe succeeding years saw the opening of the colleges of Law, Medicine, and Engineering, as well as the Graduate School of Education. The Graduate School later merged with the Graduate School of Business Administration.\n\nIn June 1954, UE opened a new campus, then known as UE Tech, on a 4.86-hectare lot along Samson Road in Caloocan. UE Caloocan, which is now academically autonomous, is headed by a chancellor. The new Tan Yan Kee Academic Building houses the colleges of Arts and Sciences, Business Administration, and Fine Arts, whereas the College of Engineering has its own building. The UE Caloocan grounds have been used for ROTC and CAT instruction since 1986.\n\nIn 1955, the UE purchased a one-hectare lot along Aurora Boulevard in Quezon City, where it established the College of Medicine. On May 17, 1957, the College was converted into a Foundation and named the UE Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center (UERMMMC).\n\nIn 1962 the University acquired a 5,850-square meter lot across UERMMMC. This became the Research Center for Sciences, Humanities and Culture, which is home to two buildings. One housed the School of Music and Arts and the Ballet School while the other housed the College of Dentistry and research laboratories. The School of Music and Arts, now the College of Fine Arts, moved to the Caloocan campus in 1981. On the mid 1960s Dalupan commissioned the National Artist Guillermo Tolentino to create the symbol of every UEian, the Lualhati from the figure of CBA student Ophelia Salas. The College of Dentistry moved to the Recto (Manila) campus in school year 1988–1989.\n\nIn 1967, the late President Diosdado Macapagal, father of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, decided to teach part-time in the College of Business Administration and branded UE as the \"People's University\".\n\nTogether with the expansion came rapid growth in enrollment. From the original 110 students in 1946, the student population steadily grew each year until 1960, when UE became the first Philippine university have an enrollment of over 60,000. The highest enrollment record was achieved during the first semester of school year 1975–1976, with 67,443 students registered. Today, the body of UE alumni is over 250,000 strong.\n\nThe economic crisis and recession that hit the Philippines in the 1980s did not spare UE. The devaluation of the peso, rising inflation, the high cost of wages, coupled with faculty, personnel and student strikes affected UE. Enrollment declined. This period intensified into a crisis that almost led to the school's being sold to a foreign religious group. Financial trouble and academic decline continued to burden UE throughout the 1980s. For a brief period in 1984, a controlling interest in the university was held by an entity of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's Transcendental Meditation movement. Students boycotted classes and held protests against the takeover, and in short time control was returned to stakeholders.\n\nDr. Isidro D. Cariño, who became UE president in 1984, began applying measures that included personnel reduction, cost-cutting measures, and renting out school premises and facilities on short- and long-term leases. UE began offering a ladderized curriculum, a special course for executives, programs from the Institute for Computer Studies and Systems, and scholarships for accounting and engineering students. The lease of facilities enabled UE to hold back tuition fee increases in 1986–1987 and 1987–1988.\n\nWhen Cariño was appointed Secretary of Education of the Philippines in 1990, Panfilo O. Domingo, former President of Philippine National Bank, took over as Chairman of the Board of Trustees and became Chief Executive Officer and Acting President of the University.\n\nDomingo immediately worked to cure the financial ills of the University by retiring its short-term debts and instituting fiscal and operational reforms. Within five years, the University's loans were substantially reduced and the long-accumulated operating deficit was eliminated from the books. At the same time, Domingo began a massive rehabilitation of UE's infrastructure and academics.\n\nUniversity of the East is one of the most financially stable universities in the Philippines in terms of assets. Realizing that education is the only way to escape poverty, Dr. Lucio C. Tan heavily invested in education. He bought the University of the East in 1990, which he considers his biggest feat in promoting education in the country.\n\nIn 1992, former Treasurer of the Philippines Rosalina S. Cajucom became UE President. After she retired in mid-1995, Domingo reassumed the presidency until the appointment of Dr. Josefina R. Cortes to the position in 1997. She was succeeded by Mr. Baltazar N. Endriga following her 2003 retirement.\n\nUE's programs have seen success from its inception up to the early 1980s, when UE graduates were among the topnotchers list of the CPA board exams. The University has likewise yielded topnotchers in other licensure board exams in Dentistry, Engineering, Education, Medicine, Nursing and Physical Therapy.\n\nTo date, UE Manila has been granted Autonomous Status by the Commission on Higher Education, while many of its Colleges have each been given Level II, III and IV accreditation by the Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Commission on Accreditation (PACUCOA). The UERMMMC Colleges, for their part, have been accredited by the Philippine Accrediting Agency of Schools, Colleges and University(PAASCU). Both the College of Medicine and Nursing has level IV accreditation.\n\nRecently the University was labeled as \"One of the Most Wired Universities in the Country\" by \"Computerworld\" and \"Enterprise Magazine\". Featured in the 2006 Computerworld Premier 100 of \"Computer World Magazine\", the university ranked 15 among the top 100 corporations and companies in the use of Information Technology and is the only educational institution on the list.\n\nThe University migrated from ATM to Gigabit Ethernet to support growing online requirements, expanding online learning capabilities and improving administrative functionality at its Manila campus with an Ethernet networking solution from Nortel Networks. The upgrade will significantly improve speed and performance of student and faculty access to online learning resources and academic records. The upgrade will also support the University's plan for a unified communications network ultimately linking the Manila facility with campuses in Caloocan and Quezon City.\n\nPresently the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) has identified the University of the East as a Center of Development in Information Technology Education. The Information Technology Department was identified as a Center of Development in Information Technology Education from March 1, 2007, to December 31, 2010.\n\nOn October 6, 2009, the Commission on Higher Education granted the Autonomous Status to the UE-Manila campus. This is CHED's highest recognition of UE's accomplishments, adherence to quality assurance and commitment to public responsibility and accountability.\n\nIn September 2011, the University of the East celebrated its 65th Foundation Anniversary. 65 years of Nurturing the minds and Touching the Lives of the Filipino Youth with a theme of RIZAL: Nasa Puso ng UE. Also on that year, The University of the East College of Computer Studies and System will offer the Bachelor of Science in Entertainment and Multimedia Computing, The UE CCSS' new course is expected to produce future, globally competitive generations of website developers, graphic designers, desktop publishers, role-playing games and other computer games developers, audio-visual editors and producers, digital imaging experts and others.\n\nTo maintain academic excellence, the UE Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center (UERMMMC). have sought voluntary accreditation in all its program offerings, with PAASCU. The College of Medicine is Level IV accredited, the College of Nursing has been recertified Level IV and the College of Allied Rehabilitation Sciences was also granted Level III accreditation.\n\nThe UE Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center (UERMMMC) is labeled as one of the highest passing percentage school in the Philippines in the recent 2015 licensure examinations.\nThe College of Medicine has 97.8% passing rate as of August 2015 Licensure Exam\nThe College of Nursing has 98.13% passing rate as of January 2011 Licensure Exam.\nThe College of Physical Therapy has 100% passing rate as of February 2014 licensure exam.\n\nAs of 2012 the University inaugurated the Dr. Lucio C. Tan Building is an eight-story building and the new home of UE Caloocan's Elementary and High School Department (EHSD) kindergarten and elementary pupils and high school students. It was inaugurated on September 25, 2012. The edifice, named after UE's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, features modern classrooms and laboratories, a 500-seater multipurpose hall, a spacious library complete with multi-media facilities, and many more.\n\nBy the second semester of SY 2014–2015, College of Dentistry moved to the new seven-storey building extension campus at the former Ever Gotesco Mall along Recto avenue near the UE Manila campus. and the Old Dentistry Building is now used mostly by Grades 11 and 12 students.\n\nThe UE Manila Campus also known as the UE Main Campus consists of twelve buildings, located on the heart of University Belt area, Sampaloc, Manila. The campus faces Claro M. Recto Avenue, nearby Mendiola Street and Legarda station. All of the campuses are fully integrated with the Smart ID System, designed for the interest and security of the whole UE community. One of the beautification project of the university is the construction of the Tan Yan Kee Garden.\n\nOn October 6, 2009, the Commission on Higher Education has granted the Autonomous status to the University of the East-Manila Campus. This is CHED's highest recognition of UE's accomplishments, adherence to quality assurance and commitment to public responsibility and accountability.\n\nOn September 12, 2012, the University inaugurated the Dr. Lucio C. Tan Building is an eight-story building and the new home of UE Caloocan's Elementary and High School Department (EHSD) kindergarten and elementary pupils and high school students. The edifice, named after UE's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, features modern classrooms and laboratories, a 500-seater multipurpose hall, a spacious library complete with multi-media facilities, and many more.\n\nIn 2013 UE Manila Annex was up at the former Ever Gotesco Mall along Recto avenue near the UE Manila. A seven-story Dr. Lucio C. Tan Building housed the brightest UE Dentistry and was open November 2014.\n\nOn April 2, 2016 a fire broke out in the second floor of the University of the East-College of Arts and Science Building, the Engineering Building together with the University Chapel caught fire. Leaving the newly renovated CAS building in ruins. The groundbreaking ceremony on May 22, 2017 for the new Lualhati Building would be erected at the footprint of these buildings.\n\n\nUniversity of the East has several colleges and degrees that are accredited by the Commission on Higher Education as Centers of Excellence and Centers of Development and also has level II, III and IV accreditation by the Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Commission on Accreditation (PACUCOA) and Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU).\n\nThe Commission on Higher Education (CHED) has identified the Information Technology Department as a Center of Excellence in Information Technology Education.\n\nThe College of Medicine was granted PAASCU Level IV Accreditation Status, the first private College of Medicine given this status, the College of Nursing was one of the first in the country that was granted Level IV accreditation by PAASCU. and Physical Therapy has level III accreditation by PAASCU, and is recognized as Center of Excellence by the Commission on Higher Education\n\n\nThe University of the East Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center (UERMMMC) Colleges, for their part, have been accredited in Level III, IV and Center of Excellence status by the PAASCU, Commission on Higher Education and other accrediting organizations.\n\n\nThe UE Graduate School resulted from the 1982 merging of the Graduate School of Business (established in 1948) and the Graduate School of Education (established in 1963)\n\nAt present, the UE Graduate School offers master's and doctorate programs in the fields of Business, Education, Public Administration, Sciences, Construction Management, Philosophy, Dentistry and Information Management.\n\nThe UERMMMC Graduate School or University of the East Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center Graduate School offers master's in the field of medicine, public health, nursing and physical therapy.\n\nUniversity of the East is an accredited member of various national and international organizations:\n\n\nThe University of the East has produced thousands of graduates from its over 70 years of existence. Prominents are Manuel \"Kabayan\" L. De Castro, former Vice President of the Philippines, former Senator and broadcaster. Other senators are Alfredo S. Lim and Robert \"Sonny\" Jaworski.\n\nThe university produced Justices from the Supreme Court of the Philippines, Court of Appeals and other legal luminaries, namely Chief Justice Lucas P. Bersamin, Justice Dante O. Tinga, Justice Normandie B. Pizzaro, Justice Japar B. Dimaampao, Justice Franchito N. Diamante and Arturo G. Tayag. Also UE has produced many government officials, such as members of the Congress of the Philippines, governors and mayors.\n\nFamous legal counsels, atty. Ferdinand Topacio, chief of the Public Attorney's Office Persida Rueda-Acosta\n\nFamous poets who spearheaded the second successful modernist movement in Filipino poetry, such as National Artist Virgilio S. Almario, Teo Antonio and Rogelio Mangahas.\n\nOther distinguished alumni are businessmen Andrew Tan and Rizalino S. Navarro. Broadcasters Peter Musñgi, Quinito Henson, Erwin Tulfo, Ramon Tulfo and Ricky Lo. Sports icons such as coach Baby Dalupan, Robert Jaworski, Jerry Codiñera, Allan Caidic, Derrick Pumaren, James Yap and Paul Lee.\n\nAlso showbiz stars like Xian Lim, Christopher de Leon, Charlie Davao and Claire de la Fuente.\n\n\"Further information: UE Red Warriors\"\nThe Red Warriors is the champion of the 2013 FilOil Flying V Hanes Premier Cup. These days, the Warriors are making heads turn as they quickly installed themselves as favorites for the coming UAAP wars with their victory in the preseason tournament.\n\nZamar, on his second tour of duty for UE after coaching the Warriors in the early 2000s when the team was bannered by now PBA star James Yap, refused to be carried away by the Warriors' victories, saying what matters will be their performance in the coming season.\n\nUniversity of the East is one of the schools in the University Athletic Association of the Philippines. UE hosted of the 2006–2007 season with the theme \"Achieving Excellence in Sports Through Unity, Harmony and Commitment.\" The Seniors basketball team is called the UE Red Warriors. The women's teams are called the Amazons, while the Juniors teams are the Pages. The University colors are Red and White.\n\nThe University fields teams and has won championships in athletics, basketball, chess, fencing, football, gymnastics, softball and weightlifting in UAAP tournaments. Some UE students have also participated in the Southeast Asian Games and other tournaments.\n\nUE is also a member of Shakey's V-League, Father Martin Cup, and the Home and Away Invitational League (HAIL), where it has won as champion in men's basketball.\n\nThe UE Red Warriors were crowned as the champions of the fourth 2006 Collegiate Champions League (CCL). Another Warriors' accomplishment was capturing the HAIL Championship again. The UE Red Warriors ruled the 2007 Home and Away Invitational League (HAIL) basketball tournament, capturing their 3rd straight championship in three years.\n\nThe men's basketball team is currently tied with the UST Growling Tigers as the second winningest team in UAAP history, with 18 titles, most of them coming from the time of Robert Jaworski and coach Baby Dalupan. The Red Warriors hold the longest senior basketball championship run with seven straight UAAP titles. They also hold the longest finals appearance streak, with sixteen straight from 1957 to 1972.\n\nLawrence Chongson, the Coach of the Cobra Energy Drink team in the Philippine Basketball League (PBL)\n\nThe University of the East (UE) Red Warriors finally closed the curtains for the Far Eastern University (FEU) Tamaraws on their way to the UAAP Season 72 Finals. The Warriors lost the crucial last game of the best-of-three finals with the Ateneo de Manila University Blue Eagles with honor. They thus lost their shot at the Season 72 UAAP crown. First year head coach, Lawrence Chongson lauded his boys for their efforts, especially for their will for not giving up.\n\nThe Red Warriors completed a rare 14 – 0 sweep of the elimination rounds, with winning margins above 16 points.\n\nAside from surpassing the 9 – 0 start of the 1986 UE squad bannered by Jerry Codiñera, the Warriors clinched an automatic finals berth and matching the 14 – 0 record accomplished 14 years ago by the UST Growling Tigers, which automatically claimed them the 1993 title.\n\nThe Red Warriors however lost to the De La Salle Green Archers, which swept the Warriors in their best-of-three Finals series in a score of 73–64 victory on Game 2, October 7, 2007 at the Big Dome.\n\nThe UE Red Warriors defeats NU Bulldogs to snatch the Filoil Flying V Preseason Hanes Cup title via an 81–68 win at The Arena in San Juan.\n\nRoi Sumang came through with a near triple-double effort with 18 points, nine rebounds and six assists to cap a sterling season with the league Master MVP trophy.\n\nIn 2014 UAAP Season 77 will be hosted by University of the East with Ms. Carmelita Mateo as President. Eight universities will be competing in fifteen sports to earn points for the general championship. Some of these sports are aired live or on a delayed telecast by ABS-CBN Sports+Action and ABS-CBN Channel 2. All the men's basketball games and the women's volleyball games are aired live by ABS-CBN Sports, the former for the fifteenth consecutive year following the renewal of the contract for the broadcast of the games and the latter since Season 69.\n\nIn July 1, 2019, Manila Mayor Isko Moreno Domagoso announced the suspension of classes in Manila at 9:49 a.m. But UE Manila only suspended its classes from Kinder up to Grade 12 an hour later as shown in its advisory posted in its Facebook page. Domagoso threatened to revoke the permit of the University of the East which did not suspend classes in defiance of his order. He said that if UE refuses to follow orders of the city government, it must move out of the capital city. According to Domagoso, he has received a number of complaints regarding the failure to comply of UE to the announcements class suspensions by the government. Shortly the issued warning, UE suspended its classes for all levels for both its Manila and Caloocan branches. UE is infamous for being the only university to not suspend classes in defiances of the government order stating that they are autonomous. However, they must comply to the said order to secure the safety of its students.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140866", "title": "1978 NBA draft", "text": "1978 NBA draft\n\nThe 1978 NBA draft was the 32nd annual draft of the National Basketball Association (NBA). The draft was held on June 9, 1978, before the 1978–79 season. In this draft, 22 NBA teams took turns selecting amateur U.S. college basketball players and other eligible players, including international players. The first two picks in the draft belonged to the teams that finished last in each conference, with the order determined by a coin flip. The Indiana Pacers won the coin flip and were awarded the first overall pick, while the Kansas City Kings, who obtained the New Jersey Nets' first-round pick in a trade, were awarded the second pick. The Pacers then traded the first pick to the Portland Trail Blazers before the draft. The remaining first-round picks and the subsequent rounds were assigned to teams in reverse order of their win–loss record in the previous season. A player who had finished his four-year college eligibility was eligible for selection. If a player left college early, he would not be eligible for selection until his college class graduated. Before the draft, five college underclassmen were declared eligible for selection under the \"hardship\" rule. These players had applied and gave evidence of financial hardship to the league, which granted them the right to start earning their living by starting their professional careers earlier. Prior to the start of the season, the Buffalo Braves relocated to San Diego and became the San Diego Clippers. The draft consisted of 10 rounds comprising the selection of 202 players.\n\nMychal Thompson from the University of Minnesota was selected first overall by the Portland Trail Blazers. Thompson, who was born in the Bahamas, became the first foreign-born player to be drafted first overall. Phil Ford from the University of North Carolina was selected second by the Kansas City Kings. He went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award and was also selected to the All-NBA Second Team in his rookie season. A college underclassman from Indiana State University, Larry Bird, was selected sixth by the Boston Celtics. However, he opted to return to Indiana State for his senior season before entering the league in 1979. He won the Rookie of the Year Award and was also selected to both the All-NBA First Team and the All Star Game in his rookie season. Bird spent his entire 13-year career with the Celtics and won three NBA championships. He also won three consecutive Most Valuable Player Awards and two Finals Most Valuable Player Awards. He was also selected to ten All-NBA Teams and thirteen consecutive All-Star Games. For his achievements, he has been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame. Bird was also named to the list of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History announced at the league's 50th anniversary in 1996. After retiring as a player, Bird went on to have a coaching career. He coached the Indiana Pacers for three seasons, leading them to an NBA Finals appearance. He also won the Coach of the Year Award in 1998.\n\nBefore the draft, Larry Bird had just finished his junior year at Indiana State. However, he was eligible to be drafted without applying for \"hardship\" because his original college class at Indiana University had graduated. He initially enrolled at Indiana University in 1974 but dropped out before the season began. After sitting out a year, he enrolled at Indiana State. Despite being eligible for the draft, he stated that he would return to college for his senior season. His hometown team, the Indiana Pacers, initially held the first overall pick. However, when they failed to persuade him to leave college early, they traded the first pick to the Blazers, who also failed to convince him into signing. Five teams, including the Pacers who held the third pick, passed on Bird until the Celtics used the sixth pick to draft him. They drafted him even though they knew that they might lose the exclusive rights to him if he didn't sign before the next draft. He could reenter the draft in 1979 and sign with the other team that drafted him, and in negotiations with Red Auerbach Bird's agent Bob Woolf bluntly dismissed Red's lowball salary offers (he said that he would not offer Bird a contract that paid him more than the $400,000 annual salary of the team's highest-paid player at the time, Dave Cowens) and made it clear that Bird would enter the 1979 Draft without any regrets if Boston didn't change its plans. Nevertheless, on April 1979, he signed a five-year, US$3.25-million contract with the Celtics, which made him the highest-paid rookie in the history of team sport at that time.\n\nMaurice Cheeks, the 36th pick, was selected to four All-Star Games and five consecutive All-Defensive Teams. After retiring as a player, he coached the Portland Trail Blazers and the Philadelphia 76ers for four and a half seasons each. He then coached the Detroit Pistons for the first portion of the 2013/14 NBA season but was fired before finishing his first season with the team. Micheal Ray Richardson, the fourth pick, Larry Bird, the sixth pick, Reggie Theus, the ninth pick, and Mike Mitchell, the fifteenth pick, are the only other players from this draft who were selected to an All-Star Game. Michael Cooper, the 60th pick, won the Defensive Player of the Year Award in 1987 and was selected to eight consecutive All-Defensive Teams. He spent his entire 12-year career with the Los Angeles Lakers and won five NBA championships. After retiring, he coached the Los Angeles Sparks of the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) for eight seasons, leading them to two consecutive WNBA championships in 2001 and 2002. He also served as an interim head coach of the Denver Nuggets in the . Four other players drafted also went on to have coaching careers in the NBA: Reggie Theus, 21st pick Mike Evans, 53rd pick Randy Ayers and 55th pick Marc Iavaroni.\n\nThe following list includes other draft picks who have appeared in at least one NBA game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140868", "title": "Gerald Green", "text": "Gerald Green\n\nGerald Green (born January 26, 1986) is an American professional basketball player. He was drafted by the Boston Celtics with the 18th overall pick in the 2005 NBA draft. Known for his dunking skill, he has performed well in many slam dunk competitions, having won the 2005 McDonald's All-American Slam Dunk Contest and the 2007 NBA Slam Dunk Contest, while finishing as the runner-up in the 2008 NBA Slam Dunk Contest.\n\nGreen was born in Houston, Texas. When he was in the 6th grade, he was involved in an accident that left a significant portion of his right ring finger cut off. He was wearing a ring on his right ring finger when he attempted a dunk on a makeshift basketball hoop. The ring caught onto a nail on the goal and his finger was ripped, with amputation being the only option.\n\nGreen did not play high school basketball until his sophomore year, when he played junior varsity for J. Frank Dobie High School. In his junior year, he made the varsity team, but his play was cut short because of academic issues.\n\nGreen transferred to a charter school, Gulf Shores Academy in Houston where he repeated his junior year. In his senior year at Gulf Shores, he averaged 33 points, 12 rebounds, 7 assists, and 3 blocked shots per game. He was named an All-American and was the high scorer with 24 points in the 2005 McDonald's All-American Game, which features two teams composed of the best high school basketball players in the United States. Green also won the McDonald's All-American Slam Dunk Contest that year, defeating future Duke player Josh McRoberts.\n\nConsidered a five-star recruit by Rivals.com, Green was listed as the No. 1 player in the nation in 2005.\n\nGreen originally committed to Oklahoma State University, but later decided to enter the NBA draft upon graduation. He hired an agent, thereby making himself ineligible to participate in NCAA athletics.\n\nGreen was expected by many analysts to be one of the top players chosen but he fell to the Celtics, who selected him with the 18th pick in the NBA draft. His fall is attributed to his decision to give individual workouts only for the teams with the top six picks prior to the draft.\n\nGreen drew comparisons to former Houston Rockets teammate and star Tracy McGrady in the period leading up to the 2005 NBA draft.\n\nGreen was one of the last players to enter the NBA directly from high school, as the collective bargaining agreement between NBA owners and the National Basketball Players Association now mandates that American players who enter the draft must be at least one year removed from the graduation of their high school class and reach age 19 no later than December 31 of the calendar year of the draft.\n\nDuring the pre-season, Green averaged 8 points and 1.3 rebounds per game for the Celtics in the 2005 Las Vegas Summer League.\n\nAfter seeing limited playing time during the first part of the season, Green was placed on the Fayetteville Patriots of the NBA D-League by the Celtics in January 2006. He was recalled and activated to an NBA roster position on February 3. He was reassigned to the NBDL, to the Florida Flame, on February 16. He was recalled and activated again on February 21, and saw his first significant NBA game action on the following night, scoring 13 points and grabbing 9 rebounds in 23 minutes.\n\nHe appeared in 32 games and averaged 11.8 minutes, 5.2 points, and 1.2 rebounds during these contests. Green left marks on the league with his highlight plays including a shot clock beating half court three against Indiana and two \"SportsCenter\" top play dunks in the closing seconds in two games against the Toronto Raptors.\n\nOver the off-season, Green aimed at improving all aspects of his game in order to gain playing time. He had shown flashes of his capability during the end of the 2005–06 season, but started off the 2006–07 season slowly, earning a somewhat limited role and playing time behind captain Paul Pierce, and swingman Wally Szczerbiak. With injuries to Szczerbiak and Pierce, his playing time increased, but he was unable to nail down a starting role. Green started his first-ever game early December against the Philadelphia 76ers, but then lost his job to a returning Szczerbiak. Green finished the 2006–07 season averaging 10.4 points, 2.6 rebounds and 1.0 assists per game.\n\nOn February 17, 2007, Green won the 2007 NBA Slam Dunk Contest, beating out Nate Robinson, Tyrus Thomas, and Dwight Howard.\n\nThe season was going very well for Green. On March 16, 2007, he scored a career-high 25 points in a Celtics loss to the Dallas Mavericks, and on April 10, 2007, Green topped that with 33 points (12-22 FG, 4-5 3FG) at Atlanta.\n\nOn July 31, 2007 it was made official that Green was to be traded along with Al Jefferson, Ryan Gomes, Theo Ratliff, Sebastian Telfair, and draft picks, to the Minnesota Timberwolves for Kevin Garnett.\n\nAt Minnesota, Green found himself stuck on the bench behind a number of players at his same position. In early January 2008, Green's agent asked the Timberwolves to trade his client.\n\nAt the 2008 NBA Slam Dunk Contest, Green opened the competition with a dunk he called \"The Birthday Cake\" in which he blew out a birthday candle on a cupcake set on the back of the rim while dunking. He followed that up with an alley-oop two-handed windmill. His first dunk of the second round was an alley-oop from behind the basket which he put between his legs before dunking. His final dunk of the night was a between-the-legs one-handed slam that he performed after taking off his shoes. He ended up finishing second to Dwight Howard, after Howard received seventy-eight percent of the votes cast by fans through text message.\n\nOn February 21, 2008, Green was traded to his hometown team Houston Rockets for Kirk Snyder, a 2010 second-round draft pick, and cash considerations. He was subsequently released by the Rockets on March 8 and became an unrestricted free agent in July.\n\nOn July 1, 2008, Green signed with the Dallas Mavericks. His agent Colin Bryant told Fox 26 Sports, \"We have a verbal agreement with Dallas on a one year contract, We talked to a number of teams and there is more money out there, but this is the best situation for Gerald at this point in his career.\"\n\nGreen was not supposed to go to the summer league, but chose to go to learn the plays and get a feeling of the Mavericks organization early and not let his chance slip away. In the Vegas Summer League he averaged an underwhelming 13.3 ppg and 3.8 rpg on 38% shooting from the field. On a bright note, he was 43% from beyond the arc. Following the Vegas Summer League, the Mavericks and Green participated in the Rocky Mountain Revue, a summer league held in Salt Lake City, Utah. There in just 25.8 mpg Green averaged 17.7 ppg to go with 2.7 rpg, 1.8 apg, 1 spg, .5 bpg, and a respectable 2.2 topg. This time around, Green shot a much more impressive 45%, including going 12 for 26 from behind the three point line (46%), and 28-31 from the free throw line (90%). His overall performance was enough to earn him All-Revue Team honors.\n\nGreen signed with PBC Lokomotiv Kuban of Russia on December 2009. The Lokomotiv Kuban waived him on June 2010. He then was named to the Los Angeles Lakers roster for the 2010 NBA Summer League. After the Summer League, Green signed with BC Krasnye Krylya, also a Russian team.\nIn October 2011 he moved to China, signing a one-year contract with the Foshan Dralions. On December 2, 2011, Green was released by Foshan.\n\nOn December 13, 2011, Green signed with the Los Angeles Lakers as an opportunity to return to the NBA. However, Green was waived by the Lakers on December 22 just days before the shortened regular season began.\n\nOn December 28, 2011, Green signed with the Los Angeles D-Fenders of the NBA Development League. He played at the NBA D-League All-Star Game and was awarded the NBA D-League All-Star Game Most Valuable Player. Over the season, he averaged 19.1 points, 2.6 rebounds and 1.6 assists per game. He recorded a season-high of 35 points against the Erie BayHawks.\n\nThe New Jersey Nets signed Green to a 10-day contract on February 27, 2012. He was signed to a second 10-day contract on March 8, 2012. His dunk against the Houston Rockets on March 11, 2012 was called \"one of the dirtiest in-game windmill alley-oops in NBA history\". On March 18, 2012, he was signed for the rest of the season. Through the season he averaged 12.9 points, 1.1 assists and 3.5 rebounds in 31 games played.\n\nOn July 12, 2012, Green signed with the Indiana Pacers. During the 2013 All-Star weekend, Green participated in his third NBA Slam Dunk Contest.\n\nOn July 27, 2013, Green was traded to the Phoenix Suns alongside Miles Plumlee and a future first-round pick for Luis Scola. Green started for the Suns when fellow guards Goran Dragić and Eric Bledsoe were injured during their respective periods in November 2013. He received more starting time with the Suns after Bledsoe had a major knee injury during January, February, and early March 2014. Throughout this period, Green would take over some games as being the team's leading scorer, including a 112–107 overtime victory against the Denver Nuggets, in which he'd record a then-career-high 36 points against them, which included making 8 of the team's 13 points in overtime.\n\nOn March 6, 2014, Green recorded a new career-high 41 points, including a career-high 8 made three-pointers, in a 128–122 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder. When Eric Bledsoe returned to action on March 12, 2014, Green returned to his bench role. Green finished the season with new career highs in points per game and free-throw percentage. As a result, he finished fourth in the NBA Most Improved Player Award behind Anthony Davis, Lance Stephenson, and Green's teammate Goran Dragić.\n\nOn April 8, 2015, Green scored a season-high 30 points on 10-of-19 shooting in a 104–107 loss to the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nOn July 9, 2015, Green signed with the Miami Heat. He made his debut for the Heat in the team's season opener against the Charlotte Hornets on October 28, scoring 19 points off the bench in a 104–94 win. On November 27, he scored a season-high 25 points while starting in place of the injured Luol Deng, helping the Heat defeat the New York Knicks 97–78. He topped that mark on April 1, 2016, scoring 30 points while starting in place of the injured Dwyane Wade, helping the Heat defeat the Sacramento Kings 112–106.\n\nOn July 27, 2016, Green signed with the Boston Celtics, returning to the franchise for a second stint. On December 27, 2016, he scored a season-high 19 points in a 113–103 win over the Memphis Grizzlies. On April 23, 2017, in Game 4 of the Celtics' first-round playoff series against the Chicago Bulls, Green had a postseason career-high 18 points, 16 of which were tallied before halftime.\n\nOn September 24, 2017, Green signed with the Milwaukee Bucks. He was waived on October 14, after appearing in four preseason games.\n\nOn December 28, 2017, Green returned with the Houston Rockets for a second stint. On January 3, 2018, he scored a season-high 27 points in a 116–98 win over the Orlando Magic. Two days later, Green came off the bench to score 29 and tie a career high with eight 3-pointers in a 124–114 loss to the Golden State Warriors. He became the first player in franchise history to make seven or more 3-pointers in consecutive games after he made seven against Orlando. On March 30, Green hit a buzzer-beating three-pointer to snatch a win against the Phoenix Suns.\n\nOn July 10, 2018, Green re-signed with the Houston Rockets.\n\nOn July 22, 2019, Green re-signed with the Houston Rockets. On October 28, the Rockets announced that Green had underwent surgery to repair a broken bone in his left foot and would be sidelined for approximately six months.\n\nOn February 5, 2020, the Rockets traded Green to the Denver Nuggets in a four-team trade. The Nuggets later announced via Twitter that they had waived Green.\n\nGreen's second cousin is Los Angeles Lakers shooting guard Danny Green. He also has a younger brother, Garlon, who is also a professional basketball player for Hapoel Tel Aviv in Israel. He formerly played for TCU before going to play in Europe.\n"}
{"id": "2140870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140870", "title": "Saburō Kurusu", "text": "Saburō Kurusu\n\nAs Imperial Japan's ambassador to Germany from 1939 to November 1941, he signed the Tripartite Pact along with the foreign ministers of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy on September 27, 1940.\n\nKurusu was born in Kanagawa Prefecture in 1886. He graduated from Tokyo Commercial College (now Hitotsubashi University) in 1909. The following year, he entered diplomatic service and, in 1914, first came to the United States as the Japanese Consul in Chicago. During his six-year service in Chicago, Kurusu married Alice Jay Little. He had three children, a son Ryō, and a daughter Jaye were both born in the United States; another daughter, Teruko Pia, was born in Italy in 1926. Both daughters married Americans and moved back to the United States. The only son, Captain Ryo Kurusu was killed in a freak accident in 1945. Kurusu did not have any other son although an American newspaper erroneously reported that \"his son, Captain Makoto \"Norman\" Kurusu, was killed in a dogfight over Chiba.\" After Saburo's death, Alice Kurusu adopted a girl.\n\nEarly foreign service experience included posts in Chile, Italy, Germany, and Peru. As Japanese Consul in Lima, Peru in 1930, he sought to defuse anti-Japanese violence by promoting Japanese immigrant settlements in the rural highlands, rather than in urban Lima. Kurusu was promoted to director of the Foreign Office Commerce Bureau to negotiate trade agreements. In 1937, he was made ambassador to Belgium, and two years later the ambassador to Germany. On September 27, 1940, Kurusu signed the Tripartite Pact in Berlin on behalf of the Japanese Empire, entering into a 10-year military and economic treaty between Germany, Italy, and Japan.\n\nAfter peace talks between the United States and Japan bogged down in 1941, Kurusu was dispatched as the Imperial government's \"special envoy.\" Arriving in Washington on November 15, Kurusu told newsmen \"I am indeed glad to be here in your nation's capital. I extend greetings to all from the bottom of my heart.\" Two days later, Secretary of State Cordell Hull brought Kurusu to the White House to meet with President Roosevelt. On November 20, Kurusu presented Japan's proposal that the United States cease aid to China and resume trade relations that had been frozen in December 1939. On November 26, Hull conveyed the Hull note, President Roosevelt's demands for Japan to withdraw its troops from China and to sever its Axis ties with Germany and Italy as a condition for peace. Kurusu reviewed the demand and replied, \"If this is the attitude of the American government, I don't see how an agreement is possible. Tokyo will throw up its hands at this.\"\n\nOver the next three weeks, Kurusu and Ambassador Kichisaburō Nomura continued to confer with Hull while awaited Japan's reply. On the afternoon of December 7 Kurusu delivered Japan's reply, breaking relations and closing, \"The Japanese Government regrets to have to notify hereby the American government that in view of the attitude of the American Government it cannot but consider that it is impossible to reach an agreement through further negotiations.\"\" At that moment, the bombing of Pearl Harbor had commenced. Unaware of what was happening, news reporters questioned Kurusu and Nomura as they left Hull's office. \"Is this your last conference?\" one asked, and an unsmiling Nomura had no answer. \"Will the embassy issue a statement later?\" asked another, and Kurusu replied, \"I don't know.\"\nIn addressing Congress the next day, President Roosevelt said, \"Indeed, one hour after Japanese squadrons had commenced bombing in Oahu, the Japanese ambassador to the United States and his colleague delivered to the Secretary of State a formal reply to a recent American message.\"\n\nAfter the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Kurusu was interned in the United States at Hot Springs, Virginia, until the United States and Japan negotiated an exchange of their diplomatic personnel and citizens. In June 1942, Kurusu sailed to Mozambique on board the ocean liner \"MS Gripsholm\", which then brought back American ambassador to Japan Joseph Grew and other Americans who had been interned in Japan. Following the Allied victory in Japan, the American military tribunal elected in February 1946 decided not to prosecute either Kurusu or Nomura. Kurusu was a visiting professor at Tokyo University and lived at a country estate in Karuizawa with his wife, Alice.\n\nLike Nomura, Kurusu maintained for the rest of his life that he had been unaware of the plans for Pearl Harbor. \"It must seem absurd to you,\" he told Frank Robertson of INS, \"but it's true. The militarists kept their secret extremely well.\" He died at the age of 68.\n\nActor Hisao Toake plays Kurusu in the 1970 film \"Tora! Tora! Tora!\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140872", "title": "Mill River (Connecticut)", "text": "Mill River (Connecticut)\n\nThe Mill River is a river in New Haven County, Connecticut.\n\nA mill for grinding corn was built on a Quinnipiack ford near East Rock in 1642. By 1780 there were eight mills. In time the river provided power for Eli Whitney's gun factory, now the Eli Whitney Museum.\n\nThe river starts in the town of Cheshire, flows through Hamden and New Haven, and discharges into New Haven Harbor on Long Island Sound. The river's length is . The river is dammed in southern Hamden to form Lake Whitney, which is operated as a reservoir by the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority.\n\nMill River passes through Sleeping Giant State Park in northern Hamden and East Rock Park below Lake Whitney in Hamden. These are among the river's reaches that remain undeveloped and are popular spots for fishing and hiking.\n\nThe USGS has maintained a gauge (01196620) near Sleeping Giant for the past 41 year to continuously monitor flow. Real time data are available here.\n\nA trail is under development that follows the course of the river, especially in the city of New Haven.\n\nThe lower portion of the river is a fresh tidal system because of the existence of tide gates that cyclically block flow near State Street in New Haven. This section of the river is the subject of research to determine how sediments, metals, and other substances cycle through the estuary.\nEnglish Station, an abandoned power plant, lies on Ball Island in the New Haven terminus of the river. There has been a study of PAHs in this section of the river.\n\nIn 2018 a plan for protecting and restoring the Mill River Watershed was developed through collaboration between Save the Sound and Connecticut DEEP.\n\nThe river and its watershed are stewarded by a volunteer group, the Mill River Watershed Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140876", "title": "André Paiement", "text": "André Paiement\n\nAndré Paiement (June 28, 1950 – January 23, 1978) was a Canadian playwright and musician. He was one of the most prominent Franco-Ontarian artists, playing a key role in developing many of the cultural institutions of the community.\n\nBorn in Sturgeon Falls, Ontario, Paiement studied translation at Laurentian University in Sudbury, and got involved in theatre. Paiement, with a group of artists that included Robert Paquette, wrote and staged the musical \"Moé, j'viens du Nord, s'tie!\" in 1970. The artists subsequently formed the \"Coopérative des artistes du Nouvel Ontario\", which evolved in a variety of directions. Some of the artists, including Paiement, established the professional theatre company Théâtre du Nouvel-Ontario. Others, including Paiement and his sister Rachel, formed the progressive rock band CANO-Musique.\n\nPaiement himself was active in both the theatre and band projects. His stage productions included \"Et le septième jour...\", \"À mes fils bien-aimés\", \"La vie et les temps de Médéric Boileau\", \"Lavalléville\" and an adaptation in Franco-Ontarian dialect (joual) of Molière's \"Malade imaginaire\". He was also a key organizer behind the music festivals La Nuit sur l'étang and Northern Lights Festival Boréal.\n\nPaiement committed suicide on January 23, 1978.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140879", "title": "Mark Hunter (musician)", "text": "Mark Hunter (musician)\n\nMark Hunter (born May 26, 1977) is an American musician and photographer and is the former vocalist for the heavy metal band Chimaira.\n\nMark Hunter was born in Parma Heights, Ohio on May 26, 1977. He grew up in Strongsville and attended culinary school at the Polaris Culinary Academy.\nHe currently lives as a photographer in Medina County, Ohio. He is also a co-host of Rawhead Reviews, a YouTube review series that features Shawn Isley as co-host. \n\nHunter practiced Muay Thai and was featured in the July 2008 edition of Fight! Magazine, and the April 2009 edition of MMA Weekly.\n\nChimaira and director Nick Cavalier has released the documentary Down Again in 2018, in which Hunter shares his struggle with bipolar disorder.\n\nHe has recently been diagnosed with thyroid cancer. \n\nHe is a proponent of isolation tanks.\n\nMark Hunter started Chimaira in 1998. The band has sold over a million albums worldwide and have debuted on the Billboard 200 Chart six times. 2013's \"Crown of Phantoms\" debuted at number 54 selling over 7,400 copies in its first week of release. Hunter was one of the main songwriters for Chimaira and considered the band leader. He is also credited in the album liner notes for assisting with guitars, artwork concepts and album production.\nHe was the only original member of Chimaira after departures in 2010 and 2011.\nCleveland Scene Magazine nicknamed Hunter \"Metal Moses\" in 2002 for his popularization of the Wall of Death\n\nHunter writes regular columns for Revolver Magazine and GunShyAssassin. Some of topics include meditation, travel, and nutrition. \nHe also penned the liner notes for \"The Best of Mercyful Fate\".\n\nContributed vocals to \"In Waves\" by Without Mercy\n\nIn 2011, Hunter took to his Twitter and Facebook accounts to discuss his frustration with the music industry resulting in praise from fellow musicians and journalists. \n\n\nHunter has cited Stanley Kubrick, Gaspar Noé, Trent Reznor, and Slayer to be among some of his top influences. Some inspiration for lyrical content was drawn from Hunter's well known love of movies. Beyond the Black Rainbow, Fire Walk With Me, and The Shining have been mentioned in numerous interviews.\n"}
{"id": "2140893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140893", "title": "Yod (astrology)", "text": "Yod (astrology)\n\nYod is the astrological formation of two astral bodies (luminaries, planets, asteroids, et cetera) or calculated points (such as midheaven) sextile (60°, 1/6 the zodiac compass) to each other and a third quincunx / inconjunct (150°, 5/12 the zodiac compass) to them both.\n\n[Because the third placement is around opposite the midpoint of the other two, connecting their placements on a single wheel with lines creates an isosceles triangle. However, it is inaccurate to assert that all isosceles triangles in astrological charts are yods. For example, the midpoint semi-sextile (30° separated) to both the sextile (60° separated) points would also form an isosceles triangle with it, but would be semi-sextile to the other two instead of quincunx/inconjunct to them.]\n\nA Yod is a name for an aspect which forms a triangle shape. The two sextile (60° apart) planets means that they are harmonious to each other but weak where as the quincunx (150° apart) planet is incompatible to that pairing as it shares neither gender (masculine/assertive or feminine/receptive), element (fire, water, air, or earth), or modality (cardinal, fixed, or mutable). This aspect activates a powerful conduit of energy, and/or a deeply felt block, in the direction of the third, separated planet.\n\nAstrology explains that raised or multi-aspected planets within the Yod can produce unusual situations and personalities, and should therefore be carefully examined. One possible approach is for an individual to view the yod as an exchange of positive forces around a mediating middle (though oppositional) planet. The quincunxed planet will act as a conduit of energy, or as a profound and deeply felt block. This aspect can produce a heightened direction of energy in the chart which may also oscillate between bifurcated states or situated personalities. A planetary opposition to the quincunxed planet of the Yod can be malefic, or can produce situations of dramatic reversal.\n\nThe \"midpoint\" of the sextile is a very sensitive point in the chart, as transiting planets, when conjunct with this midpoint, will then be in opposition to the quincunxed planet. This situation is said to trigger major events, thus revealing the true power of the Yod. Multiple sextiles and trines involving Yod planets can be extremely beneficial and thus spread the energy of this aspect in one side of the chart or produce a focal point for intense energies on the other side of the chart. Hence, the yod is the most difficult natal chart aspect to interpret and requires a great aptitude in astrological interpretation to divine accurately.\n\nA hypothetical example of a Yod would be with Jupiter at 11° Pisces in a quincunx angle to Mars at 11° Leo and the Sun at 11° Libra. The conflict arises between the worldly, sociable character of Leo and Libra, which tend to seek inspiration in the world, versus the introverted, unworldly character of Pisces, which is too sensitive to be able to cope with worldly life and aims to work in the background serving others. These energies do not interact and hence this hypothetical native would possess great difficulty making the choice between serving others and seeking inspiration on the social stage.\n\nJupiter is in a feminine sign, while the Sun and Mars are both in masculine signs. Jupiter is also in a mutable water sign, while the Sun is in a cardinal air sign and Mars in a fixed fire sign. Jupiter shares neither duality, element, nor mode with the two planets that aspect it in quincunx. This complete lack of commonality of Jupiter with the two sextile planets illustrates how the yod triggers an irritating situation that can be overcome only through adaptation and discovering new paths. If there is no other aspect outlet for Jupiter (as would be reflected in a trine or sextile angle to another planet), a transiting planet in opposition to Jupiter and conjunct the midpoint of the sextile planets can trigger major life events which are difficult to handle and take great creativity to overcome. This is why the yod is often called the \"Finger of God\", for it takes great initiative and fortitude to overcome the limitations created by the yod, but great rewards can result if the native does the necessary work.\n\nRelated to the yod, though much less inharmonious and more rarely noticed, is the \"golden yod\". A golden Yod occurs when one planet forms biquintiles (144° aspect) to two others separated by a quintile(72° aspect). Because these aspects are seen as beneficial, the golden yod is seen as beneficial and often as reflecting characteristics acquired by the person whose chart contains it. The few astrologers who have studied it regard it as an extremely creatively charged aspect good for artistic skill, especially as quintiles and biquintiles are frequently linked with Neptune. An alternate perspective is that a yod is always an aspect that indicates some kind of dramatic event, or 'fate'; Adolf Hitler had a \"golden yod,\" for example, and it could be said he misused his \"creativity,\" and that his purported artistic ability was ignored or under-appreciated by his examiners at art school, and so he channeled his extraordinary cleverness into other venues that were ultimately destructive rather than creative. Yods of every type represent extraordinary powers available for good or ill; it is largely a matter of how the individual uses the energy, and whether the planets forming the crucial aspects are in any way harmonious. \nAn example of a golden Yod would be with the Sun at 20° Cancer, Uranus at 8° Taurus and Jupiter at 14° Sagittarius.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140913", "title": "Germany–Japan relations", "text": "Germany–Japan relations\n\nThe relations between Germany and Japan (, ) were officially established in 1861 with the first ambassadorial visit to Japan from Prussia (which predated the formation of the German Empire in 1866/1870). Japan modernized rapidly after the Meiji Restoration of 1867, often using German models through intense intellectual and cultural exchange. After 1900 Japan aligned itself with Britain, and Germany and Japan were enemies in World War I. Japan declared war on the German Empire in 1914 and seized key German possessions in China and the Pacific.\n\nIn the 1930s, both countries adopted aggressive militaristic attitudes toward their respective regions. This led to a rapprochement and, eventually, a political and military alliance that included Italy: the \"Axis\". During World War II, however, the alliance was limited by the great distances between the Axis powers; for the most part, Japan and Germany fought separate wars, and eventually surrendered separately.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the economies of both nations experienced rapid recoveries; bilateral relations, now focused on economic issues, were soon re-established. Today, Japan and Germany are, respectively, the third and fourth largest economies in the world, and benefit greatly from many kinds of political, cultural, scientific and economic cooperation.\n\nAccording to a late 2012 Bertelsmann Foundation Poll, the Germans view Japan overwhelmingly positively, and regard that nation as less a competitor and more a partner. The Japanese views of Germany are positive as well, with 97% viewing Germany positively and only 3% viewing Germany negatively.\n\nRelations between Japan and Germany date from the Tokugawa shogunate (1603–1868), when Germans in Dutch service arrived in Japan to work for the Dutch East India Company (VOC). The first well-documented cases are those of the physicians Engelbert Kaempfer (1651–1716) and Philipp Franz Balthasar von Siebold (1796–1866) in the 1690s and 1820s, respectively. Both accompanied the director of the Dutch trading post at Dejima on the obligatory voyage to Edo to pay tribute to the \"shōgun\". Siebold became the author of \"Nippon, Archiv zur Beschreibung von Japan\" (Nippon, Archive for the Description of Japan), one of the most valuable sources of information on Japan well into the 20th century; since 1979 his achievements have been recognised with an annual German award in his honour, the \"Philipp Franz von Siebold-Preis\", granted to Japanese scientists. Von Siebold's second visit to Japan (1859–1862) became a disaster because he tried to influence Dutch politics in Japan and attempted to obtain a permanent post as a diplomat in that country.\n\nIn 1854 the United States pressured Japan into the Convention of Kanagawa, which ended Japan's isolation, but was considered an \"unequal treaty\" by the Japanese public, since the US did not reciprocate most of Japan's concessions with similar privileges. In many cases Japan was effectively forced into a system of extraterritoriality that provided for the subjugation of foreign residents to the laws of their own consular courts instead of the Japanese law system, open up ports for trade, and later even allow Christian missionaries to enter the country. Shortly after the end of Japan's seclusion, in a period called \"Bakumatsu\" (幕末, \"End of the Shogunate\"), the first German traders arrived in Japan. In 1860 Count Friedrich Albrecht zu Eulenburg led the Eulenburg Expedition to Japan as ambassador from Prussia, a leading regional state in the German Confederation at that time. After four months of negotiations, another \"unequal treaty\", officially dedicated to amity and commerce, was signed in January 1861 between Prussia and Japan.\n\nDespite being considered one of the numerous unjust negotiations pressed on Japan during that time, the Eulenburg Expedition, and both the short- and long-term consequences of the treaty of amity and commerce, are today honoured as the beginning of official Japanese-German relations. To commemorate its 150th anniversary, events were held in both Germany and Japan from autumn 2010 through autumn 2011 hoping \"to 'raise the treasures of [their] common past' in order to build a bridge to the future.\"\n\nIn 1863, three years after von Eulenburg's visit in Tokyo, a Shogunal legation arrived at the Prussian court of King Wilhelm I and was greeted with a grandiose ceremony in Berlin. After the treaty was signed, Max von Brandt became diplomatic representative in Japan – first representing Prussia, and after 1866 representing the North German Confederation, and by 1871 representing the newly established German Empire.\n\nIn 1868 the Tokugawa shogunate was overthrown and the Empire of Japan under Emperor Meiji was established. With the return of power to the Tennō dynasty, Japan demanded a revocation of the \"unequal treaties\" with the western powers and a civil war ensued. During the conflict, German weapons trader Henry Schnell counselled and supplied weapons to the \"daimyō\" of Nagaoka, a land lord loyal to the Shogunate. One year later, the war ended with the defeat of the Tokugawa and the renegotiation of the \"unequal treaties\".\n\nWith the start of the Meiji period (1868–1912), many Germans came to work in Japan as advisors to the new government as so-called \"oyatoi gaikokujin\" (, \"hired foreigners\") and contributed to the modernization of Japan, especially in the fields of medicine (Leopold Mueller, 1824–1894; Julius Scriba, 1848–1905; Erwin Bälz, 1849–1913), law (K. F. Hermann Roesler, 1834–1894; Albert Mosse, 1846–1925) and military affairs (K. W. Jacob Meckel, 1842–1906). Meckel had been invited by Japan's government in 1885 as an advisor to the Japanese general staff and as teacher at the Army War College. He spent three years in Japan, working with influential persons including Katsura Tarō and Kawakami Soroku, thereby decisively contributing to the modernization of the Imperial Japanese Army. Meckel left behind a loyal group of Japanese admirers, who, after his death, had a bronze statue of him erected in front of his former army college in Tokyo. Overall, the Imperial Japanese Army intensively oriented its organization along Prusso-German lines when building a modern fighting force during the 1880s.\n\nIn 1889 the Constitution of the Empire of Japan was promulgated, greatly influenced by German legal scholars Rudolf von Gneist and Lorenz von Stein, whom the Meiji oligarch and future Prime Minister of Japan Itō Hirobumi (1841–1909) visited in Berlin and Vienna in 1882. At the request of the German government, Albert Mosse also met with Hirobumi and his group of government officials and scholars and gave a series of lectures on constitutional law, which helped to convince Hirobumi that the Prussian-style monarchical constitution was best-suited for Japan. In 1886 Mosse was invited to Japan on a three-year contract as \"hired foreigner\" to the Japanese government to assist Hirobumi and Inoue Kowashi in drafting the Meiji Constitution. He later worked on other important legal drafts, international agreements, and contracts and served as a cabinet advisor in the Home Ministry, assisting Prime Minister Yamagata Aritomo in establishing the draft laws and systems for local government. Dozens of Japanese students and military officers also went to Germany in the late 19th century, to study the German military system and receive military training at German army educational facilities and within the ranks of the German, mostly the Prussian army. For example, later famous writer Mori Rintarô (Mori Ōgai), who originally was an army doctor, received tutoring in the German language between 1872 and 1874, which was the primary language for medical education at the time. From 1884 to 1888, Ōgai visited Germany and developed an interest in European literature producing the first translations of the works of Goethe, Schiller, and Gerhart Hauptmann.\nAt the end of the 19th century, Japanese–German relations cooled due to Germany's, and in general Europe's, imperialist aspirations in East Asia. After the conclusion of the First Sino-Japanese War in April 1895, the Treaty of Shimonoseki was signed, which included several territorial cessions from China to Japan, most importantly Taiwan and the eastern portion of the bay of the Liaodong Peninsula including Port Arthur. However, Russia, France and Germany grew wary of an ever-expanding Japanese sphere of influence and wanted to take advantage of China's bad situation by expanding their own colonial possessions instead. The frictions culminated in the so-called \"Triple Intervention\" on 23 April 1895, when the three powers \"urged\" Japan to refrain from acquiring its awarded possessions on the Liaodong Peninsula.\n\nAnother stress test for German–Japanese relations was the Russo-Japanese War of 1904/05, during which Germany strongly supported Russia. This circumstance triggered the Japanese foreign ministry to proclaim that any ship delivering coal to Russian vessels within the war zone would be sunk. After the Russo-Japanese War, Germany insisted on reciprocity in the exchange of military officers and students, and in the following years, several German military officers were sent to Japan to study the Japanese military, which, after its victory over the tsarist army became a promising organization to study. However, Japan's growing power and influence also caused increased distrust on the German side.\n\nThe onset of the First World War in Europe eventually showed how far German–Japanese relations had truly deteriorated. On 7 August 1914, only three days after Britain declared war on the German Empire, the Japanese government received an official request from the British government for assistance in destroying the German raiders of the Kaiserliche Marine in and around Chinese waters. Japan, eager to reduce the presence of European colonial powers in South-East Asia, especially on China's coast, sent Germany an ultimatum on 14 August 1914, which was left unanswered. Japan then formally declared war on the German Empire on 23 August 1914 thereby entering the First World War as an ally of Britain, France and the Russian Empire to seize the German-held Caroline, Marshall, and Mariana Islands in the Pacific.\n\nThe only major battle that took place between Japan and Germany was the siege of the German-controlled Chinese port of Tsingtao in Kiautschou Bay. The German forces held out from August until November 1914, under a total Japanese/British blockade, sustained artillery barrages and manpower odds of 6:1 – a fact that gave a morale boost during the siege as well as later in defeat. After Japanese troops stormed the city, the German dead were buried at Tsingtao and the remaining troops were transported to Japan where they were treated with respect at places like the Bandō Prisoner of War camp. In 1919, when the German Empire formally signed the Treaty of Versailles, all prisoners of war were set free and most returned to Europe.\n\nJapan was a signatory of the Treaty of Versailles, which stipulated harsh repercussions for Germany. In the Pacific, Japan gained Germany's islands north of the equator (the Marshall Islands, the Carolines, the Marianas, the Palau Islands) and Kiautschou/Tsingtao in China. Article 156 of the Treaty also transferred German concessions in Shandong to Japan rather than returning sovereign authority to the Republic of China, an issue soon to be known as Shandong Problem. Chinese outrage over this provision led to demonstrations, and a cultural movement known as the May Fourth Movement influenced China not to sign the treaty. China declared the end of its war against Germany in September 1919 and signed a separate treaty with Germany in 1921. This fact greatly contributed to Germany relying on China, and not Japan, as its strategic partner in East Asia for the coming years.\n\nAfter Germany had to cede most of its Pacific and Asian possessions to Japan and with an intensifying Sino-German cooperation, relations between Berlin and Tokyo were nearly dead. Under the initiative of Wilhelm Solf, who served as German ambassador to Japan from 1920 to 1928, cultural exchange was strengthened again. A cultural agreement was signed in 1926 that led to the re-establishment of the \"German-Japanese Society\" (1926), the founding of the \"Japan Institute\" in Berlin (1926), the establishment of the \"Japanese-German Cultural Society\" in Tokyo (1927), and later also the incorporation of the \"Japanese-German Research Institute\" in Kyoto (1934). Both, France and Germany, were also very attractive for Japanese wanting to study abroad, as both countries kept the franc and the Reichsmark undervalued in the 1920s. As German universities were considered superior to their French counterparts, 80% of Japanese students going abroad thus chose Germany. In fact, many of the men who emerged as leaders of the Pan-Asia movement in Japan in the 1930s studied at German universities in the 1920s, which led the Japanese historian Hotta Eri to note there was a strong German influence on the discourse of Japanese Pan-Asianism.\n\nOn 30 January 1933, the Nazi Party (NSDAP) under Adolf Hitler assumed power in Germany, essentially abolishing the democratic system of the Weimar Republic within the first two months of its reign. This political turning point proved to be far-reaching for the relations between Germany and Japan. In spring and again in fall of 1933, German-Japanese relations were damaged, when the Sturmabteilung (SA), a para-military branch of the NSDAP, took to beating up Asians studying at German universities. Japanese and Chinese officials complained about \"Yellow Peril\" propaganda in German newspapers, reports of German plans to ban interracial relationships, and ongoing violence against Asian students all over the country. In October 1933, the Japanese government warned its nationals not to visit Germany, saying the country was unsafe for Asians to be in, and in November 1933, the Chinese government issued a similar warning to its citizens. German foreign minister and head of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" Konstantin von Neurath persuaded Hitler to stop the SA violence against Asians, pointing out that Chinese head of state Chiang Kai-shek was threatening to expel the German military mission and replace it with a French one. In regards to Japan, Neurath noted it was advantageous to have so many scions of the Japanese elite studying at German universities, arguing that it was an incalculable advantage to Germany in the long run. At this time, however, Germany had much closer relations with China, which purchased an increasing amount of German arms and whose National Revolutionary Army received training by a German military mission. Not only did this happen against Japanese objections, but it also caused the original complaints from China, and not those from Japan, to eventually motivate Berlin's change of attitude.\n\nIn late 1933-early 1934, another strain was placed on German-Japanese relations when the new German ambassador to Japan and outspoken proponent of German-Japanese partnership, Herbert von Dirksen, backed the appointment of Ferdinand Heye, a member of the Nazi Party and disreputable businessman, the Special German Trade Commissioner for Japan's puppet state Manchukuo in northern China. Berlin's interaction with Manchukuo was delicate, as its official diplomatic recognition by Germany was sought after by Japan, but would greatly damage Sino-German relations. Hitler's interest to keep China as a partner for the time being became obvious, when he disavowed Heye, who had falsely promised German recognition of Manchukuo in order to monopolize German trading in the region under his name. In the summer of 1935, Joachim von Ribbentrop, a German foreign policy official operating independently from the \"Auswärtiges Amt\", together with his friend, the Japanese military attaché to Germany, General Hiroshi Ōshima, planned to relieve Germany of its China-or-Japan-dilemma by promoting an anti-Communist alliance that would unite all three countries together. However, the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" under Konsantin von Neurath vetoed this approach, as it deemed trade relations with China too important to be risked by a pact that Chiang Kai-shek was unlikely to join.\n\nAround the same time, von Rippentrop negotiated the Anglo-German Naval Agreement, which caused a temporary deterioration of German-Japanese relations when it was signed in June 1935. At the time, many Japanese politicians, including Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto (who was an outspoken critic of an alliance with Nazi Germany), were shocked by what was seen as Germany attempting to create an alliance with Great Britain. Nevertheless, the leaders of the military clique then in control in Tokyo concluded that it was a ruse designed to buy the Nazis time to match the British navy. After all, Hitler had already laid down his plans in \"Mein Kampf\", in which he identified England as a promising partner, but also defined Japan as a target of \"international Jewry\", and thus a possible ally:\n\nTokyo's military leaders proceeded to devise plans assuring the Empire's supply with resources by eventually creating a \"Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere\". In general, further expansion was envisioned – either northwards, attacking the Soviet Union, a plan which was called \"Hokushin-ron\", or by seizing French, Dutch and/or British colonies to the south, a concept dubbed \"Nanshin-ron\". Hitler, on the other hand, never desisted from his plan to conquer new territories in Eastern Europe for \"Lebensraum\"; thus, conflicts with Poland and later with the Soviet Union seemed inevitable.\n\nThe first legal consolidation of German-Japanese mutual interests occurred in 1936, when the two countries signed the Anti-Comintern Pact, which was directed against the Communist International (Comintern) in general and the Soviet Union in particular. After the signing, Nazi Germany's government also included the Japanese people in their concept of \"honorary Aryans\". Yasuhito, Prince Chichibu then attended the 1937 Nuremberg Rally in Germany and met Adolf Hitler, with whom he tried to boost personal relations. Fascist Italy, led by Benito Mussolini joined the Anti-Comintern Pact the same year, thereby taking the first steps towards the formation of the so-called Axis between Rome, Berlin, and Tokyo.\n\nOriginally, Germany had a very close relationship with the Chinese nationalist government, even providing military aid and assistance to the Republic of China. Relations soured after the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War on 7 July 1937, and when China shortly thereafter concluded the Sino-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact with the Soviet Union. Notwithstanding the superior Sino-German economic relationship, Hitler concluded that Japan would be a more reliable geostrategic partner and chose to end his alliance with the Chinese as the price of gaining an alignment with the more modern and militarily powerful Japan. In a May 1938 address to the \"Reichstag\", Hitler announced German recognition of Japan's puppet state Manchukuo and renounced the German claims to the former colonies in the Pacific now held by the Japanese Empire. Hitler ordered the end of arm shipments to China, as well as the recall of all German officers attached to the Chinese Army. Despite this move, however, Hitler retained his general perception of neither the Japanese nor the Chinese civilizations being inferior to the German one. In \"The Testament of Adolf Hitler\", he wrote:\n\nPride in one's own race – and that does not imply contempt for other races – is also a normal and healthy sentiment. I have never regarded the Chinese or the Japanese as being inferior to ourselves. They belong to ancient civilizations, and I admit freely that their past history is superior to our own. They have the right to be proud of their past, just as we have the right to be proud of the civilization to which we belong. Indeed, I believe the more steadfast the Chinese and the Japanese remain in their pride of race, the easier I shall find it to get on with them.\n\nThe relations between Japan and Germany continued to grow closer during the late 1930s and several cultural exchanges took place, albeit motivated by political and propaganda reasons. A focus was put on youth exchanges, and numerous mutual visits were conducted; for instance, in late 1938, the ship Gneisenau carried a delegation of 30 members of the Hitlerjugend to Tokyo for a study visit. In 1938, representative measures for embracing the German-Japanese partnership were sought and the construction of a new Japanese embassy building in Berlin was started. After the preceding embassy had to give way to Hitler's and Albert Speer's plans of re-modeling Berlin to the world capital city of Germania, a new and more pompous building was erected in a newly established diplomatic district next to the Tiergarten. It was conceived by Ludwig Moshamer under the supervision of Speer and was placed opposite the Italian embassy, thereby bestowing an architectural emphasis on the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo axis.\n\nAlthough tentative plans for a joint German-Japanese approach against the USSR were hinted on in the 1936 Anti-Comintern Pact, the years 1938 and 1939 were already decisive for Japan's decision to not expand northward (i.e., against the USSR) but to the south. The Empire decisively lost two border fights against the Soviets, the Battles of Lake Khasan and Khalkin Gol, thereby convincing itself that the Imperial Japanese Army, lacking heavy tanks and the like, would be in no position to challenge the Red Army at that time. Nevertheless, Hitler's anti-Soviet sentiment soon led to further rapprochements with Japan, since he still believed that Japan would join Germany in a future war against the Soviet Union, either actively by invading southeast Siberia, or passively by binding large parts of the Red Army, which was fearing an attack of Japan's Kwantung Army in Manchukuo, numbering ca. 700,000 men as of the late 1930s.\n\nIn contrast to his actual plans, Hitler's concept of stalling – in combination with his frustration with a Japan embroiled in seemingly endless negotiations with the United States, and tending against a war with the USSR – led to a temporary cooperation with the Soviets in the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, which was signed in August 1939. Neither Japan nor Italy had been informed beforehand of Germany's pact with the Soviets, demonstrating the constant subliminal mistrust between Nazi Germany and its partners. After all, the pact not only stipulated the division of Poland between both signatories in a secret protocol, but also rendered the Anti-Comintern Pact more or less irrelevant. In order to remove the strain that Hitler's move had put on German–Japanese relations, the \"Agreement for Cultural Cooperation between Japan and Germany\" was signed in November 1939, only a few weeks after Germany and the Soviet Union had concluded their invasion of Poland and Great Britain and France declared war on Nazi Germany.\n\nOver the following year, Japan also proceeded with its expansion plans. The Invasion of northern French Indochina on 22 September 1940 (which by then was controlled by the collaborating government of Vichy France), and Japan's ongoing bloody conflict with China, put a severe strain on Japan–United States relations. On 26 July 1940, the United States had passed the Export Control Act, cutting oil, iron and steel exports to Japan. This containment policy was Washington's warning to Japan that any further military expansion would result in further sanctions. However, such US moves were interpreted by Japan's militaristic leaders as signals that they needed to take radical measures to improve the Empire's situation, thereby driving Japan closer to Germany.\n\nWith Nazi Germany not only having conquered most of continental Europe including France, but also maintaining the impression of a Britain facing imminent defeat, Tokyo interpreted the situation in Europe as proof of a fundamental and fatal weakness in western democracies. Japan's leadership concluded that the current state of affairs had to be exploited and subsequently started to seek even closer cooperation with Berlin. Hitler, for his part, not only feared a lasting stalemate with Britain, but also had started planning an invasion of the Soviet Union. These circumstances, together with a shortage in raw materials and food, increased Berlin's interest in a stronger alliance with Japan. German foreign minister Joachim von Ribbentrop was sent to negotiate a new treaty with Japan, whose relationships with Germany and Italy, the three soon to be called \"Axis powers\", were cemented with the Tripartite Pact of 27 September 1940.\n\nThe purpose of the Pact, directed against an unnamed power presumed to be the United States, was to deter that power from supporting Britain, thereby not only strengthening Germany's and Italy's cause in the North African Campaign and the Mediterranean theatre, but also weakening British colonies in South-East Asia in advance of a Japanese invasion. The treaty stated that the three countries would respect each other's \"leadership\" in their respective spheres of influence, and would assist each other if attacked by an outside party. However, already-ongoing conflicts, as of the signing of the Pact, were explicitly excluded. With this defensive terminology, aggression on the part of a member state toward a non-member state would result in no obligations under the Pact. These limitations can be interpreted as a symptom of the German-Japanese relations of that time being driven by mutual self-interest, underpinned by the shared militarist, expansionist and nationalistic ideologies of their respective governments.\n\nAnother decisive limitation in the German-Japanese alliance were the fundamental differences between the two nation's policies towards Jews. With Nazi Germany's well-known attitude being extreme Antisemitism, Japan refrained from adopting any similar posture. On 31 December 1940, Japanese foreign minister Yōsuke Matsuoka, a strong proponent of the Tripartite Pact, told a group of Jewish businessmen:\n\nOn a similar note, both countries would continue to conceal any war crimes committed by the other side for the remainder of the war. The Holocaust was systematically concealed by the leadership in Tokyo, just as Japanese war crimes, e.g. the situation in China, were kept secret from the German public. An example would be the atrocities committed by the Japanese Army in Nanking in 1937, which were denounced by German industrialist John Rabe. Subsequently, the German leadership ordered Rabe back to Berlin, confiscating all his reports and prohibiting any further discussion of the topic.\n\nNevertheless, after the signing of the Tripartite Pact, mutual visits of political and military nature increased. After German ace and parachute expert Ernst Udet visited Japan in 1939 to inspect the Japanese aerial forces, reporting to Hermann Göring that \"Japanese flyers, though brave and willing, are no sky-beaters\", General Tomoyuki Yamashita was given the job of reorganizing the Japanese Air Arm in late 1940. For this purpose, Yamashita arrived in Berlin in January 1941, staying almost six months. He inspected the broken Maginot Line and German fortifications on the French coast, watched German flyers in training, and even flew in a raid over Britain after decorating Hermann Göring, head of the German Luftwaffe, with the Japanese \"Grand Cordon of the Rising Sun\". General Yamashita also met and talked with Hitler, on whom he commented,\n\nAccording to Yamashita, Hitler promised to remember Japan in his will, by instructing the Germans \"to bind themselves eternally to the Japanese spirit.\"\n\nOn 11 November 1940, German–Japanese relations, as well as Japan's plans to expand southwards into South-East Asia, were decisively bolstered when the crew of the German auxiliary cruiser \"Atlantis\" boarded the British cargo ship . Fifteen bags of Top Secret mail for the British Far East Command were found, including naval intelligence reports containing the latest assessment of the Japanese Empire's military strength in the Far East, along with details of Royal Air Force units, naval strength, and notes on Singapore's defences. It painted a gloomy picture of British land and naval capabilities in the Far East, and declared that Britain was too weak to risk war with Japan. The mail reached the German embassy in Tokyo on 5 December, and was then hand-carried to Berlin via the Trans-Siberian railway. On the initiative of the German naval attaché Paul Wenneker, a copy was given to the Japanese; it provided valuable intelligence prior to their commencing hostilities against the Western Powers. The captain of the \"Atlantis\", Bernhard Rogge, was rewarded for this with an ornate katana Samurai sword; the only other Germans honored in this manner were Hermann Göring and Field Marshal Erwin Rommel.\n\nAfter reading the captured documents, on 7 January 1941 Japanese Admiral Yamamoto wrote to the Naval Minister asking whether, if Japan knocked out America, the remaining British and Dutch forces would be suitably weakened for the Japanese to deliver a deathblow. Thereby, \"Nanshin-ron\", the concept of the Japanese Navy conducting a southern campaign quickly matured and gained further proponents.\n\nHitler, on the other hand, was concluding the preparations for \"Operation Barbarossa\", the invasion of the Soviet Union. In order to directly or indirectly support his imminent eastward strike, the Führer had repeatedly suggested to Japan that it reconsider plans for an attack on the Soviet Far East throughout 1940 and 1941. In February 1941, as a result of Hitler's insistence, General Oshima returned to Berlin as ambassador. On 5 March 1941, Wilhelm Keitel, chief of OKW issued \"Basic Order Number 24 regarding Collaboration with Japan\":\n\nOn 18 March 1941, at a conference attended by Hitler, Alfred Jodl, Wilhelm Keitel and Erich Raeder, Admiral Raeder stated:\nIn talks involving Hitler, his foreign minister Joachim von Ribbentrop, his Japanese counterpart at that time, Yōsuke Matsuoka, as well as Berlin's and Tokyo's respective ambassadors, Eugen Ott and Hiroshi Ōshima, the German side then broadly hinted at, but never openly asked for, either invading the Soviet Union from the east or attacking Britain's colonies in South-East Asia, thereby preoccupying and diverting the British Empire away from Europe and thus somewhat covering Germany's back. Although Germany would have clearly favored Japan's attacking the USSR, exchanges between the two allies were always kept overly formal and indirect, as shown in the following statement by Hitler to ambassador Ōshima (2 June 1941):\nMatsuoka, Ōshima and parts of the Japanese Imperial Army were proponents of \"Hokushin-ron\", Japan's go-north strategy aiming for a coordinated attack with Germany against the USSR and seizing East Siberia. But the Japanese army-dominated military leadership, namely persons like minister of war Hideki Tōjō, were constantly pressured by the Japanese Imperial Navy and, thus, a strong tendency towards \"Nanshin-ron\" existed already in 1940, meaning to go south and exploit the weakened European powers by occupying their resource-rich colonies in South-East Asia. In order to secure Japan's back while expanding southwards and as a Soviet effort to demonstrate peaceful intentions toward Germany, the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact was signed in Moscow on 13 April 1941 by Matsuoka on his return trip from a visit to Berlin. Joseph Stalin had little faith in Japan's commitment to neutrality, but he felt that the pact was important for its political symbolism, to reinforce a public affection for Germany. Hitler, who was not informed in advance by the Japanese and considering the pact a ruse to stall, misinterpreted the diplomatic situation and thought that his attack on the USSR would bring a tremendous relief for Japan in East Asia and thereby a much stronger threat to American activities through Japanese interventions. As a consequence, Nazi Germany pressed forward with Operation Barbarossa, its attack on the Soviet Union, which started two months later on 22 June without any specific warning to its Axis partners.\n\nFrom Japan's point of view the attack on Russia very nearly ruptured the Tripartite Pact, since the Empire had been depending on Germany to help in maintaining good relations with Moscow so as to preclude any threat from Siberia. Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe felt betrayed because the Germans clearly trusted their Axis allies too little to warn them about Barbarossa, even though he had feared the worst since receiving an April report from Ōshima in Berlin that \"Germany is confident she can defeat Russia and she is preparing to fight at any moment.\" Foreign minister Matsuoka on the other hand vividly tried to convince the Emperor, the cabinet as well as the army staff of an immediate attack on the Soviet Union. However, his colleagues rejected any such proposal, even regarding him as \"Hitler's office boy\" by now and pointed out to the fact that the Japanese army, with its light and medium tanks, had no intention of taking on Soviet tanks and aircraft until they could be certain that the Wehrmacht had smashed the Red Army to the brink of defeat.\n\nSubsequently, Konoe removed Matsuoka from his cabinet and stepped up Japan's negotiations with the US again, which still failed over the China and Indochina issues, however, and the American demand to Japan to withdraw from the Tripartite Pact in anticipation of any settlement. Without any perspective with respect to Washington, Matsuoka felt that his government had to reassure Germany of its loyalty to the pact. In Berlin, Ōshima was ordered to convey to the German foreign minister Ribbentrop that the \"Japanese government have decided to secure 'points d'appui' in French Indochina [i.e., also occupy its southern half] to enable further to strengthen her pressure on Great Britain and the United States of America,\" and to present this as a \"valuable contribution to the common front\" by promising that \"We Japanese are not going to sit on the fence while you Germans fight the Russians.\"\n\nOver the first months, Germany's advances in Soviet Russia were spectacular and Stalin's need to transfer troops currently protecting South-East Siberia from a potential Japanese attack to the future defense of Moscow grew. Japan's Kwantung Army in Manchukuo was constantly kept in manoeuvres and, in talks with German foreign minister Ribbentrop, ambassador Oshima in Berlin repeatedly hinted at an \"imminent Japanese attack\" against the USSR. In fact, however, the leadership in Tokyo at this time had in no way changed its mind and these actions were merely concerted to create the illusion of an eastern threat to the Soviet Union in an effort to bind its Siberian divisions. Unknown to Japan and Germany, however, Richard Sorge, a Soviet spy disguised as a German journalist working for Eugen Ott, the German ambassador in Tokyo, advised the Red Army on 14 September 1941, that the Japanese were not going to attack the Soviet Union until:\n\nToward the end of September 1941, Sorge transmitted information that Japan would not initiate hostilities against the USSR in the East, thereby freeing Red Army divisions stationed in Siberia for the defence of Moscow. In October 1941 Sorge was unmasked and arrested by the Japanese. Apparently, he was entirely trusted by the German ambassador Eugen Ott, and was allowed access to top secret cables from Berlin in the embassy in Tokyo. Eventually, this involvement would lead to Heinrich Georg Stahmer replacing Ott in January 1943. Sorge on the other hand would be executed in November 1944 and elevated to a national hero in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn September 1941, Japan began its southward expansion by expanding its military presence to southern Indochina (\"securing 'points d'appui'\") and decisively increased the number of stationed personnel and planes. This provoked the United States, the United Kingdom, and other Western governments to freeze Japanese assets, while the US (which supplied 80 percent of Japan's oil) responded by placing a complete oil embargo on the Japanese Empire. As a result, Japan was essentially forced to choose between abandoning its ambitions in South-East Asia and its prosecution of the war against China, or seizing the natural resources it needed by force. The Japanese military did not consider the former an option as attacking Soviet Russia instead of expanding into South Asia had become a more and more unpopular choice since Japan's humiliating defeat at the Battle of Khalkin Gol in 1939 and the final rejection of any near-term action in Siberia shortly after Germany began its invasion of the USSR. Moreover, many officers considered America's oil embargo an unspoken declaration of war. With the harsh oil sanctions imposed by the United States, the Japanese leadership was now even more determined to remain in China. Germany had refused to sell Japan the blueprints to make synthetic fuel, so Japan's only hope for oil was to invade the Dutch East Indies, which would result in war with the United States and Britain. To succeed the Japanese had to neutralize the powerful United States Pacific Fleet, so they could prevent it from interfering with future Japanese movements in South-East Asia and negotiate peace terms from a strong hand. Hitler and Ribbentrop agreed that Germany would almost certainly declare war when the Japanese first informed them of their intention to go to war with the United States on 17 November 1941.\n\nOn 25 November 1941, Germany tried to further solidify the alliance against Soviet Russia by officially reviving the Anti-Comintern Pact of 1936, now joined by additional signatories, Hungary and Romania. However, with the Soviet troops around Moscow now being reinforced by East Siberian divisions, Germany's offensive substantially slowed with the onset of the Russian winter in November and December 1941. In the face of his failing Blitzkrieg tactics, Hitler's confidence in a successful and swift conclusion of the war diminished, especially with a US-supported Britain being a constant threat in the Reich's western front. Furthermore, it was evident that the \"neutrality\" which the US had superficially maintained to that point would soon change to an open and unlimited support of Britain against Germany. Hitler thus welcomed Japan's sudden entry into the war with its air raid on the American naval base at Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941 and its subsequent declaration of war on the United States and Britain, just as the German army suffered its first military defeat at the gates of Moscow. Upon learning of Japan's successful attack, Hitler even became euphoric, stating: \"With such a capable ally we cannot lose this war.\" Preceding Japan's attack were numerous communiqués between Berlin and Tokyo. The respective ambassadors Ott and Ōshima tried to draft an amendment to the Tripartite Pact, in which Germany, Japan and Italy should pledge each other's allegiance in the case one signatory is attacked by – or attacks – the United States. Although the protocol was finished in time, it would not be formally signed by Germany until four days after the raid on Pearl Harbor. Also among the communiqués was another definitive Japanese rejection of any war plans against Russia:\n\nNevertheless, publicly the German leadership applauded their new ally and ambassador Ōshima became one of only eight recipients of the Grand Cross of the Order of the German Eagle in Gold, which was awarded by Hitler himself, who reportedly said:\n\nAlthough the amendment to the Tripartite Pact was not yet in force, Hitler chose to declare war on the United States and ordered the \"Reichstag\", along with Italy, to do so on 11 December 1941, three days after the United States' declaration of war on the Empire of Japan. Roosevelt's \"shoot on sight\" order had effectively declared naval war on Germany and Italy in September 1941, and Germany had learned of Rainbow Five in early December. Hitler could no longer ignore the amount of economic and military aid the US was giving Britain and the USSR. Hitler's hopes that, despite the previous rejections, Japan would reciprocally attack the Soviet Union, were not realized, as Japan stuck to its Nanshin strategy of going south, not north, and would continue to maintain an uneasy peace with the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, Germany's declaration of war further solidified German–Japanese relations and showed Germany's solidarity with Japan, which was now encouraged to cooperate against the British. To some degree, Japan's actions in South-East Asia and the Pacific in the months after Pearl Harbor, including the sinking of HMS \"Prince of Wales\" and HMS \"Repulse\", the occupation of the Crown Colonies of Singapore, Hong Kong, and British Burma, and the raids in the Indian Ocean as well as on Australia, were a tremendous blow to the United Kingdom's war effort and preoccupied the Allies, shifting British (including Australian) and American assets away from the Battle of the Atlantic and the North African Campaign against Germany to Asia and the Pacific against Japan. In this context, sizeable forces of the British Empire were withdrawn from North Africa to the Pacific theatre with their replacements being only relatively inexperienced and thinly spread divisions. Taking advantage of this situation, Erwin Rommel's Afrika Korps successfully attacked only six weeks after Pearl Harbor, eventually pushing the allied lines as far east as El Alamein.\n\nUntil the attack on the Soviet Union, Germany and Japan were able to exchange materials and personnel using the Trans-Siberian Railway. Afterwards, IJN submarines had to be sent on so-called \"Yanagi\" (Willow) – missions, since the American and British navies rendered the high seas too dangerous for Axis surface cargo ships. However, given the limited capacities of submarines, eyes were soon focused directly on the Mediterranean, the Middle East and British India, all vital to the British war effort. In the long run, Germany and Japan envisioned a partnered linkage running across the British-held Indian subcontinent that would allow for the transfer of weaponry and resources as well as potential joint military operations. After all, the choice of potential trading partners was very limited during the war and Germany was anxious for rubber and precious metals, while the Japanese sought industrial products, technical equipment, and chemical goods. By August 1942 the German advances in North Africa rendered an offensive against Alexandria and the Suez Canal feasible, which, in turn, had the potential of enabling maritime trade between Europe and Japan through the Indian Ocean. On the other hand, in the face of its defeat at the Battle of Midway in June 1942 with the loss of four aircraft carriers, the Japanese Navy decided to pursue all possibilities of gaining additional resources to quickly rebuild its forces. As a consequence, Ambassador Ōshima in Berlin was ordered to submit an extensive \"wish list\" requesting the purchase of vast amounts of steel and aluminium to be shipped from Germany to Japan. German Foreign Minister Ribbentrop quickly dismissed Tokyo's proposal, since those resources were vital for Germany's own industry. However, in order to gain Japanese backing for a new German-Japanese trade treaty, which should also secure the rights of German companies in South-East Asia, he asked Hitler to at least partially agree upon the Japanese demands. It took another five months of arguing over the Reichsmark-Yen-exchange rate and additional talks with the third signatory, the Italian government, until the \"Treaty on Economic Cooperation\" was signed on 20 January 1943.\n\nDespite this treaty, the envisioned German-Japanese economic relations were never able to grow beyond mostly propagandistic status. The British kept control of the Suez Canal and submarines with very small cargo capability remained the main method of contact. \nWith the loss of North Africa and the heavy defeat at Stalingrad, Germany was in a defensive posture by early 1943, and never regained the initiative.\n\nJapan was being outproduced in carriers and was unable to launch any offensives after its defeat at Midway in June 1942. It was overextended and could not even feed its garrisons on islands across the Pacific. Tokyo's plan of conquering the Solomons at Australia's doorstep turned into a continuous retreat for the Japanese of which the defeat on Guadalcanal in early 1943 marked the beginning. Japan's invasion of India had been halted at Imphal and Kohima, rendering impossible any joint operations against India.\n\nWith submarines remaining practically the only link between Nazi-controlled Europe and Japan, trade was soon focused on strategic goods such as technical plans and weapon templates. Only 20–40% of goods managed to reach either destination and merely 96 persons travelled by submarine from Europe to Japan and 89 vice versa during the war as only six submarines succeeded in their attempts of the trans-oceanic voyage: (August 1942), delivering drawings and examples of the torpedo bomber-deployed, aerial Type 91 torpedo used in the Attack on Pearl Harbor, (June 1943), (October 1943), (December 1943), (March 1944), and the (August 1943). Before \"I-29\" embarked on her voyage to German-occupied France in December 1943, she had rendezvoused with the during an earlier mission to the Indian Ocean. During this meeting on 28 April 1943, Indian freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose transferred to \"I-29\", thereby becoming the only civilian exchange between two submarines of two different navies in World War II. on the other hand is one of the most popular examples of an aborted Yanagi mission in May 1945. Amongst others, her cargo included examples of the newest electric torpedoes, one crated Me 262 jet aircraft, a Henschel Hs 293 glide bomb, and 560 kg of uranium oxide. Whether the uranium was weapons-grade material has not yet been clarified, however.\n\nOn rare occasions, German surface ships were able to reach Japan as well. These included auxiliary cruisers \"Michel\" and \"Thor\", which were brought to Yokohama after the Kriegsmarine chiefs realized in late 1942 that it would not be practical for them to return to Germany-controlled European ports.\nGerman supply ships (\"Uckermark\") and foreign ships captured by German merchant raiders would come to Japanese ports as well.\nIn the face of their failing war plans, Japanese and German representatives more and more began to deceive each other at tactical briefings by exaggerating minor victories and deemphasizing losses. In several talks in spring and summer 1943 between Generaloberst Alfred Jodl and the Japanese naval attaché in Berlin, Vice Admiral Naokuni Nomura, Jodl downplayed the afore described defeats of the German Army, e.g. by claiming the Soviet offensive would soon run out of steam and that \"anywhere the Wehrmacht can be sent on land, it is sure of its untertaking, but where it has to be taken over sea, it becomes somewhat more difficult.\" Japan, on the other hand, not only evaded any disclosure of its true strategic position in the Pacific, but also declined any interference in American shipments being unloaded at Vladivostok and large numbers of men and amounts of material being transported from East Siberia to the German front in the west. Being forced to watch the continued reinforcement of Soviet troops from the east without any Japanese intervention was a thorn in Hitler's flesh, especially considering Japan's apparent ignorance with respect to the recent Casablanca Conference at which the Allies declared only to accept the unconditional surrenders of the Axis nations. During a private briefing on 5 March 1943, Hitler remarked:\n\nAs the war progressed and Germany began to retreat further, Japanese ambassador Ōshima never wavered in his confidence that Germany would emerge victorious. However, in March 1945 he reported to Tokyo on the \"danger of Berlin becoming a battlefield\" and revealing a fear \"that the abandonment of Berlin may take place another month\". On 13 April, he met with Ribbentrop – for the last time, it turned out – and vowed to stand with the leaders of the Third Reich in their hour of crisis but had to leave Berlin at once by Hitler's direct order. On 7 and 8 May 1945, as the German government surrendered to the Allied powers, Ōshima and his staff were taken into custody and brought to the United States. Now fighting an even more hopeless war, the Japanese government immediately denounced the German surrender as an act of treason and interned the few German individuals as well as confiscated all German property (such as submarines) in Japanese territory at the time. Four months later, on 2 September, Japan had to sign its own surrender documents.\n\nAfter the Second World War was officially concluded with the capitulation of the Empire of Japan, plans for trying the major German and Japanese war criminals were quickly implemented in 1946. While Japanese officials had to face the Tokyo Trials, major German war crimes were dealt with at the Nuremberg Trials. Here it was the goal of the Allied prosecutors to portray the limited cooperation between the Third Reich and Imperial Japan as a long-planned conspiracy to divide the world among the two Axis-partners and thereby delivering just another demonstration of the common viciousness expressed by alleged joint long-term war plans. Although there was a limited and cautious military cooperation between Japan and Germany during the Second World War, no documents corroborating any long-term planning or real coordination of military operations of both powers exist.\n\nAfter their defeat in World War II, both Japan and Germany were occupied. Japan regained its sovereignty with the Treaty of San Francisco in 1952 and joined the United Nations in 1956. Germany was split into two states. It was agreed in 1951 to take up diplomatic relations between Japan and the Federal Republic of (West Germany) again. The bilateral diplomatic ties between West Germany and Japan were fully restored in 1955; between East Germany and Japan in 1973, the year both German states became UN-members.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, Japanese companies sought to acquire needed raw materials like steel and chemical products in the German Ruhr region, with a small Japanese business community in Düsseldorf. In 1974, West Germany and Japan signed an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in science and technology, re-intensifying joint scientific endeavours and technological exchange. The accord resulted in numerous projects, generally focused on marine research and geosciences, life sciences and environmental research. Additionally, youth exchange programs were launched, including a \"Youth Summit\" held annually since 1974.\nGerman-Japanese political dealings were enlarged with both countries taking part in the creation of the so-called Group of Six, or simply \"G6\", together with the US, the UK, France and Italy in 1975 as a response to the 1973 oil crisis. The G6 was soon expanded by Canada and later Russia, with G6-, G7-, and later G8-, summits being held annually since then.\n\nOver the following years, institutions, such as in 1985 the \"Japanese–German Center\" (JDZB) in Berlin and in 1988 the German Institute for Japanese Studies (DIJ) in Tokyo, were founded to further contribute to the academic and scientific exchange between Japan and Germany.\n\nAround the mid-1980s, German and Japanese representatives decided to rebuild the old Japanese embassy in Berlin from 1938. Its remains had remained unused after the building was largely destroyed during World War II. In addition to the original complex, several changes and additions were made until 2000, like moving the main entrance to the Hiroshima Street, which was named in honour of the Japanese city, and the creation of a traditional Japanese Garden.\n\nPost-war relations between Japan and both Germanies, as well as with unified Germany since 1990, have generally focused on economic and business questions. Germany, dedicated to free trade, continues to be Japan's largest trading partner within Europe. This general posture is also reflected in the so-called \"7 pillars of cooperation\" agreed on by Foreign Minister of Japan Yōhei Kōno and Foreign Minister of Germany Joschka Fischer on 30 October 2000:\n\nIn 2000, bilateral cultural exchange culminated in the \"Japan in Germany\" year, which was then followed by the \"Germany in Japan\" year in 2005/2006. Also in 2005, the annual German Film Festival in Tokyo was brought into being.\n\nIn 2004, German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi agreed upon cooperations in the assistance for reconstruction of Iraq and Afghanistan, the promotion of economic exchange activities, youth and sports exchanges as well as exchanges and cooperation in science, technology and academic fields.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, Germany and Japan, being the United Nations' second and third largest funders respectively, demanded a reform of the United Nations Security Council and an increase of the number of its permanent members. For this purpose both nations organized themselves together with Brazil and India to form the so-called \"G4 nations\". On 21 September 2004, the G4 issued a joint statement mutually backing each other's claim to permanent seats, together with two African countries. This proposal has found opposition in a group of countries called Uniting for Consensus. In January 2006, Japan announced that it would not support putting the G4 resolution back on the table and was working on a resolution of its own.\n\nCertain inefficiencies with respect to the bilateral cooperation between Germany and Japan were also reflected in 2005, when former Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa wrote in a commemoration to the 20th anniversary of the Japanese-German Center in Berlin that \nNevertheless, as of 2008, Japan still was Germany's second largest trading partner in Asia after China. In 2006, German imports from Japan totaled €15.6 billion and German exports to Japan €14.2 billion (15.4% and 9% more than the previous year, respectively). In 2008, however, Japanese exports and imports to and from the European Union fell by 7.8 and 4.8% after growing by 5.8% in 2007 due to the global financial crisis. Bilateral trade between Germany and Japan also shrank in 2008, with imports from Japan having dropped by 6.6% and German exports to Japan having declined by 5.5%. Despite Japan having remained Germany's principal trading partner in Asia after China in 2008, measured in terms of total German foreign trade, Japan's share of both exports and imports is relatively low and falls well short of the potential between the world's third- and fifth-largest economies.\nUnaffected by any stagnating German-Japanese trade relations, the Japanese community in Düsseldorf, home to Europe's largest Japantown, is growing again after a decline in the 1980s and 1990s. In 2008, over 8000 Japanese lived in the Düsseldorf area, which features a Japanese school, two kindergartens, three libraries and numerous Japanese clubs. Moreover, over 200 Japanese companies are active in that region, creating over 20,000 jobs. The Japanese community is widely considered a great asset for Düsseldorf.\n\nOn 14 and 15 January 2010, German foreign minister Guido Westerwelle conducted his personal inaugural visit to Japan, focusing the talks with his Japanese counterpart, Katsuya Okada, on both nation's bilateral relations and global issues. Westerwelle emphasized, that and both ministers instructed their Ministries to draw up disarmament initiatives and strategies which Berlin and Tokyo can present to the international community together. Especially with regard to Iran's nuclear program, it was also stressed that Japan and Germany, both technically capable of and yet refraining from possessing any ABC weapons, should assume a leading role in realizing a world free of nuclear weapons and that international sanctions are considered to be an appropriate instrument of pressure. Furthermore, Westerwelle and Okada agreed to enhance cooperation in Afghanistan and to step up the stagnating bilateral trade between both countries. The visit was concluded in talks with Japan's Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama, before which the German foreign minister visited the famous Meiji Shrine in the heart of Tokyo.\n\nOn Friday 11 March 2011, the Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the most powerful known earthquake to hit Japan at the time, and one of the five most powerful recorded earthquakes of which Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said, \"In the 65 years after the end of World War II, this is the toughest and the most difficult crisis for Japan.\" hit Honshu. The earthquake and the resulting tsunami not only devastated wide coastal areas in Miyagi Prefecture but also caused the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster triggering a widespread permanent evacuation surrounding the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant. German chancellor Angela Merkel immediately expressed her deepest sympathy to all those affected and promised Japan any assistance it would call for. As a consequence rescue specialists from the Technisches Hilfswerk as well as a scout team of I.S.A.R. Germany (International Search and Rescue) were sent to Japan, however parts of the German personnel had to be recalled due to radiation danger near the damaged power plant. Furthermore, the German Aerospace Center provided TerraSAR-X- and RapidEye-satellite imagery of the affected area. In the days after the disaster, numerous flowers, candles and paper cranes were placed in front of the Japanese embassy in Berlin by compassionates, including leading German politicians. Though never materialised, additional proposals for aid included sending special units of the German Bundeswehr to Japan, as the German Armed Forces' decontamination equipment is among the most sophisticated in the world.\n\nOn 2 April 2011, German Foreign Minister Westerwelle visited Tokyo on an Asia voyage, again offering Japan \"all help, where it is needed\" to recover from the tsunami and subsequent nuclear disaster of the previous month. Westerwelle also emphasised the importance of making progress with a free trade agreement between Japan and the European Union in order to accelerate the recovery of the Japanese economy. Together with his German counterpart, Japanese foreign minister Takeaki Matsumoto also addressed potential new fields of cooperation between Tokyo and Berlin with respect to a reform of the United Nations Security Council.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140923", "title": "McClelland's Single Malt", "text": "McClelland's Single Malt\n\nMcClelland's Single Malt is a range of Single Malt Scotch whiskies from four of Scotland's key whisky distilling regions—Highland, Islay, Speyside and Lowland.\n\nThere is no McClelland's distillery per se, with the scotch being supplied by McClelland's parent company Morrison Bowmore Distillers. The Highland, Islay, and Lowland bottlings were introduced in 1986, with Speyside added in 1999. While most of the McClelland's bottlings do not specify an age, the brand added a second Speyside bottling with a listed age of 12 years in 2008.\n\nThe packaging of McClelland's was updated in 2007 by Nevis Design of Edinburgh to support the expansion of the brand worldwide. It now features Scottish imagery by British artist Kathy Wyatt. Incorporated in the imagery is the character \"Mr. McClelland\", a fictional 1920s explorer making his way around Scotland taking in the sights, sounds and drams as he goes. He reports back in blog format on the McClelland's website.\n\nMcClelland's key markets include the United States of America, Canada, Japan, and France, with new markets in South Africa, the UK, Taiwan, South America, and Sweden.\n\nMcClelland's also sells their range as 5cl miniatures—both separately and in the \"McClelland's Journey Tin\", a gift pack of four 5cl miniatures with a tasting guide.\n\nT&A McClelland’s was a Glasgow based whisky blending and export firm established in 1818. The company was purchased in 1970 by what became Morrison Bowmore Distillers Ltd., now a division of Suntory. MBD Ltd. continues to produce a number of their original blends along with the newer single malt offerings.\n\nScotch distilleries owned by Morison Bowmore include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2140946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140946", "title": "Bloomer Shippers Connecting Railroad", "text": "Bloomer Shippers Connecting Railroad\n\nThe Bloomer Shippers Connecting Railroad (or Bloomer Line) , headquartered in Gibson City, Illinois, is a Class III railroad serving agricultural communities in east-central Illinois. \n\nIn June 1985, the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad (ICG) sold a portion of its circuitous route between Kankakee and Bloomington to a new spin-off railroad company which called itself \"The Bloomer Line\" (after the ex-Illinois Central Railroad division it had purchased). Specifically, the Bloomer Line purchased the right-of-way between Herscher and Barnes. The railroad has since taken the line between Herscher and Kempton and Barnes and Colfax out of service.\n\nAt Chatsworth, the Bloomer Line makes a connection with the Toledo, Peoria and Western Railway. In May 1990, the railroad purchased from the Norfolk and Western Railway its ex-Wabash Railway line from near Risk south to Gibson City. Connections to N&W successor Norfolk Southern and ICG successor Canadian National Railway are made at Gibson City.\n\nThe Bloomer Line is owned by Alliance Grain Company, which owns the eight grain elevators served by the railroad. It is primarily a grain transporter, shipping carloads of corn, soybeans and wheat from these silos to the connecting railroads, but also serves several other industries, including a soybean processing plant in Gibson City and a fertilizer distribution facility in Colfax.\n\nBloomer Line locomotives are painted bright red and labeled in a font which looks very similar to that used on the former Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad.\n\nLocomotive maintenance was conducted at Chatsworth until shops were constructed at Gibson City after that line was purchased.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140951", "title": "Willard Zerbe Park", "text": "Willard Zerbe Park\n\nWillard Zerbe Park (October 14, 1906 – April 15, 1965), anthropologist. Park was a former teaching colleague of Maurice Halperin at the University of Oklahoma. Both Park and Halperin actively sought out recruitment with Soviet intelligence, or the \"Communist East\" through the \"New Masses\" and Jacob Golos. Contacts were made with Elizabeth Bentley through Mary Price.\n\nHe was born in Silt, Colorado, received his A.B. degree in anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley and finished a year of graduate school also at Berkeley. At Berkeley he met his future wife, Susan Brandenstein (1908–1993), who was also an anthropology student.\n\nBeginning in 1942 Park was the Assistant Chief of the Economic Analysis Section of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (OCIAA), and later the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.\n\nIn 1943 Park was interviewed in connection with a Hatch Act investigation. Much of Parks FBI file is redacted, including his background material, which usually includes routine items like a date of birth, parentage, education, and personal information.\n\nHe died in Reno, Nevada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140954", "title": "Macocha Gorge", "text": "Macocha Gorge\n\nThe Macocha Abyss (Czech: \"Propast Macocha\", literally the \"Stepmother Abyss\"), also known as the Macocha Gorge, is a sinkhole in the Moravian Karst cave system of the Czech Republic located north of the city of Brno, near the town of Blansko. It is part of the Punkva Caves and the Punkva River flows through it. The sinkhole is about 138.7 meters deep, which makes it the deepest of its kind (light hole type) in Central Europe.\nIt is a popular tourist attraction for casual visitors to the region, in addition to cavers and advanced technical divers.\n\nAt the beginning of the Pustý Žleb (Desolate Canyon), below the town of Sloup, the waters of the Sloupský Brook, one of the tributaries of the subterranean river Punkva, helped to form an extensive system of underground passages, domes and abysses, measuring approximately 6,500 meters, known as the Sloupsko-šošůvské jeskyně (Sloup-Šošůvka Caves). At 3,000 meters long the viewing circuit is the longest underground trail open to the public in the Czech Republic.\n\nWhile the Sloupsko part features large domes and deep abysses, the Šošůvka caves section, on a somewhat smaller scale, is remarkable for its amazing fragile and colorful dripstone formations. One of the stalagmites, called \"Svícen\" (Candle), has a lace-like collar, an effect created by sinters. Part of the circuit includes the tunnel-like cave known as \"Kůlna\" (Shed), which has been the subject of much archeological work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140955", "title": "ENCODE", "text": "ENCODE\n\nThe Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) is a public research project which aims to identify functional elements in the human genome.\n\nEncode was launched by the US National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) in September 2003. Intended as a follow-up to the Human Genome Project, the ENCODE project aims to identify all functional elements in the human genome.\n\nThe project involves a worldwide consortium of research groups, and data generated from this project can be accessed through public databases. The project is beginning its fourth phase as of February 2017.\n\nHumans are estimated to have approximately 20,000 protein-coding genes, which account for about 1.5% of DNA in the human genome. The primary goal of the ENCODE project is to determine the role of the remaining component of the genome, much of which was traditionally regarded as \"junk.\" The activity and expression of protein-coding genes can be modulated by the regulome - a variety of DNA elements, such as promoters, transcriptional regulatory sequences, and regions of chromatin structure and histone modification. It is thought that changes in the regulation of gene activity can disrupt protein production and cell processes and result in disease. Determining the location of these regulatory elements and how they influence gene transcription could reveal links between variations in the expression of certain genes and the development of disease.\n\nENCODE is also intended as a comprehensive resource to allow the scientific community to better understand how the genome can affect human health, and to \"stimulate the development of new therapies to prevent and treat these diseases\".\n\nThe ENCODE Consortium is composed primarily of scientists who were funded by US National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI). Other participants contributing to the project are brought up into the Consortium or Analysis Working Group.\n\nThe pilot phase consisted of eight research groups and twelve groups participating in the ENCODE Technology Development Phase. After 2007, the number of participants grew up to 440 scientists from 32 laboratories worldwide as the pilot phase was officially over. At the moment the consortium consists of different centers which perform different tasks.\n\nENCODE is a member of the International Human Epigenome Consortium (IHEC).\n\nENCODE is currently implemented in four phases: the pilot phase and the technology development phase, which were initiated simultaneously; and the production phase. The fourth phase is a continuation of the third, and includes functional characterization and further integrative analysis for the encyclopedia.\n\nThe goal of the pilot phase was to identify a set of procedures that, in combination, could be applied cost-effectively and at high-throughput to accurately and comprehensively characterize large regions of the human genome. The pilot phase had to reveal gaps in the current set of tools for detecting functional sequences, and was also thought to reveal whether some methods used by that time were inefficient or unsuitable for large-scale utilization. Some of these problems had to be addressed in the ENCODE technology development phase, which aimed to devise new laboratory and computational methods that would improve our ability to identify known functional sequences or to discover new functional genomic elements. The results of the first two phases determined the best path forward for analyzing the remaining 99% of the human genome in a cost-effective and comprehensive production phase.\n\nThe pilot phase tested and compared existing methods to rigorously analyze a defined portion of the human genome sequence. It was organized as an open consortium and brought together investigators with diverse backgrounds and expertise to evaluate the relative merits of each of a diverse set of techniques, technologies and strategies. The concurrent technology development phase of the project aimed to develop new high throughput methods to identify functional elements. The goal of these efforts was to identify a suite of approaches that would allow the comprehensive identification of all the functional elements in the human genome. Through the ENCODE pilot project, National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) assessed the abilities of different approaches to be scaled up for an effort to analyse the entire human genome and to find gaps in the ability to identify functional elements in genomic sequence.\n\nThe ENCODE pilot project process involved close interactions between computational and experimental scientists to evaluate a number of methods for annotating the human genome. A set of regions representing approximately 1% (30 Mb) of the human genome was selected as the target for the pilot project and was analyzed by all ENCODE pilot project investigators. All data generated by ENCODE participants on these regions was rapidly released into public databases.\n\nFor use in the ENCODE pilot project, defined regions of the human genome - corresponding to 30Mb, roughly 1% of the total human genome - were selected. These regions served as the foundation on which to test and evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of a diverse set of methods and technologies for finding various functional elements in human DNA.\n\nPrior to embarking upon the target selection, it was decided that 50% of the 30Mb of sequence would be selected manually while the remaining sequence would be selected randomly. The two main criteria for manually selected regions were: 1) the presence of well-studied genes or other known sequence elements, and 2) the existence of a substantial amount of comparative sequence data. A total of 14.82Mb of sequence was manually selected using this approach, consisting of 14 targets that range in size from 500kb to 2Mb.\n\nThe remaining 50% of the 30Mb of sequence were composed of thirty, 500kb regions selected according to a stratified random-sampling strategy based on gene density and level of non-exonic conservation. The decision to use these particular criteria was made in order to ensure a good sampling of genomic regions varying widely in their content of genes and other functional elements. The human genome was divided into three parts - top 20%, middle 30%, and bottom 50% - along each of two axes: 1) gene density and 2) level of non-exonic conservation with respect to the orthologous mouse genomic sequence (see below), for a total of nine strata. From each stratum, three random regions were chosen for the pilot project. For those strata underrepresented by the manual picks, a fourth region was chosen, resulting in a total of 30 regions. For all strata, a \"backup\" region was designated for use in the event of unforeseen technical problems.\n\nIn greater detail, the stratification criteria were as follows:\n\nThe above scores were computed within non-overlapping 500 kb windows of finished sequence across the genome, and used to assign each window to a stratum.\n\nThe pilot phase was successfully finished and the results were published in June 2007 in \"Nature\" and in a special issue of \"Genome Research\"; the results published in the first paper mentioned advanced the collective knowledge about human genome function in several major areas, included in the following highlights:\n\nIn September 2007, National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) began funding the production phase of the ENCODE project. In this phase, the goal was to analyze the entire genome and to conduct \"additional pilot-scale studies\".\n\nAs in the pilot project, the production effort is organized as an open consortium. In October 2007, NHGRI awarded grants totaling more than $80 million over four years. The production phase also includes a Data Coordination Center, a Data Analysis Center, and a Technology Development Effort. At that time the project evolved into a truly global enterprise, involving 440 scientists from 32 laboratories worldwide. Once the pilot phase was completed, the project “scaled up” in 2007, profiting immensely from new-generation sequencing machines. And the data was, indeed, big; researchers generated around 15 terabytes of raw data.\n\nBy 2010, over 1,000 genome-wide data sets had been produced by the ENCODE project. Taken together, these data sets show which regions are transcribed into RNA, which regions are likely to control the genes that are used in a particular type of cell, and which regions are associated with a wide variety of proteins. The primary assays used in ENCODE are ChIP-seq, DNase I Hypersensitivity, RNA-seq, and assays of DNA methylation.\n\nIn September 2012, the project released a much more extensive set of results, in 30 papers published simultaneously in several journals, including six in \"Nature\", six in \"Genome Biology\" and a special issue with 18 publications of \"Genome Research\".\n\nThe authors described the production and the initial analysis of 1,640 data sets designed to annotate functional elements in the entire human genome, integrating results from diverse experiments within cell types, related experiments involving 147 different cell types, and all ENCODE data with other resources, such as candidate regions from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and evolutionary constrained regions. Together, these efforts revealed important features about the organization and function of the human genome, which were summarized in an overview paper as follows:\n\n\nThe most striking finding was that the fraction of human DNA that is biologically active is considerably higher than even the most optimistic previous estimates. In an overview paper, the ENCODE Consortium reported that its members were able to assign biochemical functions to over 80% of the genome. Much of this was found to be involved in controlling the expression levels of coding DNA, which makes up less than 1% of the genome.\n\nThe most important new elements of the \"encyclopedia\" include:\n\n\nCapturing, storing, integrating, and displaying the diverse data generated is challenging. The ENCODE Data Coordination Center (DCC) organizes and displays the data generated by the labs in the consortium, and ensures that the data meets specific quality standards when it is released to the public. Before a lab submits any data, the DCC and the lab draft a data agreement that defines the experimental parameters and associated metadata. The DCC validates incoming data to ensure consistency with the agreement. It also ensures that all data is annotated using appropriate Ontologies. It then loads the data onto a test server for preliminary inspection, and coordinates with the labs to organize the data into a consistent set of tracks. When the tracks are ready, the DCC Quality Assurance team performs a series of integrity checks, verifies that the data is presented in a manner consistent with other browser data, and perhaps most importantly, verifies that the metadata and accompanying descriptive text are presented in a way that is useful to our users. The data is released on the public UCSC Genome Browser website only after all of these checks have been satisfied. In parallel, data is analyzed by the ENCODE Data Analysis Center, a consortium of analysis teams from the various production labs plus other researchers. These teams develop standardized protocols to analyze data from novel assays, determine best practices, and produce a consistent set of analytic methods such as standardized peak callers and signal generation from alignment pile-ups.\n\nThe National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) has identified ENCODE as a \"community resource project\". This important concept was defined at an international meeting held in Ft. Lauderdale in January 2003 as a research project specifically devised and implemented to create a set of data, reagents, or other material whose primary utility will be as a resource for the broad scientific community. Accordingly, the ENCODE data release policy stipulates that data, once verified, will be deposited into public databases and made available for all to use without restriction.\n\nWith the continuation of the third phase, the ENCODE Consortium has become involved with additional projects whose goals run parallel to the ENCODE project. Some of these projects were part of the second phase of ENCODE.\n\nThe MODel organism ENCyclopedia Of DNA Elements (modENCODE) project is a continuation of the original ENCODE project targeting the identification of functional elements in selected model organism genomes, specifically \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and \"Caenorhabditis elegans\". The extension to model organisms permits biological validation of the computational and experimental findings of the ENCODE project, something that is difficult or impossible to do in humans. Funding for the modENCODE project was announced by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 2007 and included several different research institutions in the US. The project completed its work in 2012.\n\nIn late 2010, the modENCODE consortium unveiled its first set of results with publications on annotation and integrative analysis of the worm and fly genomes in \"Science\". Data from these publications is available from the modENCODE web site.\n\nmodENCODE was run as a Research Network and the consortium was formed by 11 primary projects, divided between worm and fly. The projects spanned the following:\n\nmodERN, short for the model organism encyclopedia of regulatory networks, branched from the modENCODE project. The project has merged the C. elegans and Drosophila groups and focuses on the identification of additional transcription factor binding sites of the respective organisms. \nThe project began at the same time as Phase III of ENCODE, and plans to end in 2017. To date, the project has released 198 experiments, with around 500 other experiments submitted and currently being processed by the DCC.\n\nIn early 2015, the NIH launched the Genomics of Gene Regulation (GGR) program. The goal of the program, which will last for three years, is to study gene networks and pathways in different systems of the body, with the hopes to further understand the mechanisms controlling gene expressions. Although the ENCODE project is separate from GGR, the ENCODE DCC has been hosting GGR data in the ENCODE portal.\n\nIn 2008, NIH began the Roadmap Epigenomics Mapping Consortium, whose goal was to produce “a public resource of human epigenomic data to catalyze basic biology and disease-oriented research”. On February 2015, the consortium released an article titled “Integrative analysis of 111 reference human epigenomes” that fulfilled the consortium’s goal. The consortium integrated information and annotated regulatory elements across 127 reference epigenomes, 16 of which were part of the ENCODE project. Data for the Roadmap project can either be found in the Roadmap portal or ENCODE portal.\n\nThe fruitENCODE: an encyclopedia of DNA elements for fruit ripening is a plant ENCODE project that aims to generate DNA methylation, histone modifications, DHS, gene expression, transcription factor binding datasets for all fleshy fruit species at different developmental stages. Prerelease data can be found in the fruitENCODE portal.\n\nAlthough the consortium claims they are far from finished with the ENCODE project, many reactions to the published papers and the news coverage that accompanied the release were favorable. The Nature editors and ENCODE authors \"... collaborated over many months to make the biggest splash possible and capture the attention of not only the research community but also of the public at large\". The ENCODE project's claim that 80% of the human genome has biochemical function was rapidly picked up by the popular press who described the results of the project as leading to the death of junk DNA.\n\nHowever the conclusion that most of the genome is \"functional\" has been criticized on the grounds that ENCODE project used a liberal definition of \"functional\", namely anything that is transcribed must be functional. This conclusion was arrived at despite the widely accepted view, based on genomic conservation estimates from comparative genomics, that many DNA elements such as pseudogenes that are transcribed are nevertheless non-functional. Furthermore, the ENCODE project has emphasized sensitivity over specificity leading possibly to the detection of many false positives. Somewhat arbitrary choice of cell lines and transcription factors as well as lack of appropriate control experiments were additional major criticisms of ENCODE as random DNA mimics ENCODE-like 'functional' behavior.\n\nIn response to some of the criticisms, other scientists argued that the wide spread transcription and splicing that is observed in the human genome directly by biochemical testing is a more accurate indicator of genetic function than genomic conservation estimates because conservation estimates are all relative and difficult to align due to incredible variations in genome sizes of even closely related species, it is partially tautological, and these estimates are not based on direct testing for functionality on the genome. Conservation estimates may be used to provide clues to identify possible functional elements in the genome, but it does not limit or cap the total amount of functional elements that could possibly exist in the genome. Furthermore, much of the genome that is being disputed by critics seems to be involved in epigenetic regulation such as gene expression and appears to be necessary for the development of complex organisms. The ENCODE results were not necessarily unexpected since increases in attributions of functionality were foreshadowed by previous decades of research. Additionally, others have noted that the ENCODE project from the very beginning had a scope that was based on seeking biomedically relevant functional elements in the genome not evolutionary functional elements, which are not necessarily the same thing since evolutionary selection is neither sufficient nor necessary to establish a function. It is a very useful proxy to relevant functions, but an imperfect one and not the only one.\n\nIn response to the complaints about the definition of the word \"function\" some have noted that ENCODE did define what it meant and since the scope of ENCODE was seeking biomedically relevant functional elements in the genome, then the conclusion of the project should be interpreted \"\"as saying that 80 % of the genome is engaging in relevant biochemical activities that are very likely to have causal roles in phenomena deemed relevant to biomedical research.\"\" The issue of function is more about definitional differences than about the strength of the project, which was in providing data for further research on biochemical activity of non-protein coding parts of DNA. Though definitions are important and science is bounded by the limits of language, it seems that ENCODE has been well received for its purpose since there are now more research papers using ENCODE data than there are papers arguing over the definition of function, as of March 2013. Ewan Birney, one of the ENCODE researchers, commented that \"function\" was used pragmatically to mean \"specific biochemical activity\" which included different classes of assays: RNA, \"broad\" histone modifications, \"narrow\" histone modifications, DNaseI hypersensitive sites, Transcription Factor ChIP-seq peaks, DNaseI Footprints, Transcription Factor bound motifs, and Exons.\n\nIn 2014, ENCODE researchers noted that in the literature, functional parts of the genome have been identified differently in previous studies depending on the approaches used. There have been three general approaches used to identify functional parts of the human genome: genetic approaches (which rely on changes in phenotype), evolutionary approaches (which rely on conservation) and biochemical approaches (which rely on biochemical testing and was used by ENCODE). All three have limitations: genetic approaches may miss functional elements that do not manifest physically on the organism, evolutionary approaches have difficulties using accurate multispecies sequence alignments since genomes of even closely related species vary considerably, and with biochemical approaches, though having high reproducibility, the biochemical signatures do not always automatically signify a function. They concluded that in contrast to evolutionary and genetic evidence, biochemical data offer clues about both the molecular function served by underlying DNA elements and the cell types in which they act and ultimately all three approaches can be used in a complementary way to identify regions that may be functional in human biology and disease. Furthermore, they noted that the biochemical maps provided by ENCODE were the most valuable things from the project since they provide a starting point for testing how these signatures relate to molecular, cellular, and organismal function.\n\nThe project has also been criticized for its high cost (~$400 million in total) and favoring big science which takes money away from highly productive investigator-initiated research. The pilot ENCODE project cost an estimated $55 million; the scale-up was about $130 million and the US National Human Genome Research Institute NHGRI could award up to $123 million for the next phase. Some researchers argue that a solid return on that investment has yet to be seen. There have been attempts to scour the literature for the papers in which ENCODE plays a significant part and since 2012 there have been 300 papers, 110 of which come from labs without ENCODE funding. An additional problem is that ENCODE is not a unique name dedicated to the ENCODE project exclusively, so the word 'encode' comes up in many genetics and genomics literature.\n\nAnother major critique is that the results do not justify the amount of time spent on the project and that the project itself is essentially unfinishable. Although often compared to Human Genome Project (HGP) and even termed as the HGP next step, the HGP had a clear endpoint which ENCODE currently lacks.\nThe authors seem to sympathize with the scientific concerns and at the same time try to justify their efforts by giving interviews and explaining ENCODE details not just to the scientific public, but also to mass media. They also claim that it took more than half a century from the realization that DNA is the hereditary material of life to the human genome sequence, so that their plan for the next century would be to really understand the sequence itself.\n\nThe analysis of transcription factor binding data generated by the ENCODE project is currently available in the web-accessible repository FactorBook. Essentially, Factorbook.org is a Wiki-based database for transcription factor-binding data generated by the ENCODE consortium. In the first release, Factorbook contains:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140956", "title": "Robert Paquette", "text": "Robert Paquette\n\nRobert Paquette (born July 2, 1949 in Sudbury, Ontario) is a Canadian folk singer-songwriter.\n\nIn 1970, he worked with the theatre group at Laurentian University, composing songs for the franco-ontarian stage musical \"Moé, j'viens du nord, 'stie!\". The troupe eventually evolved into the city's Théâtre du Nouvel-Ontario. He released his first album as a solo musical artist in 1974, and toured Quebec, Canada, and the United States. He performed at the National Arts Centre in Ottawa in 1975.\n\nIn 1978, Paquette represented Canada at the Festival de Spa in Belgium.\n\nFollowing his 1984 album \"Gare à vous\", Paquette concentrated on television and stage work for TVOntario's Chaîne française, SRC and the Théâtre du Nouvel-Ontario. He released a compilation of his songs in 1995. He also frequently tours with Chuck Labelle, and toured with Marcel Aymar and Paul Demers in the 1990s as the performing group Paquette-Aymar-Demers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2140957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140957", "title": "Huggies Pull-Ups", "text": "Huggies Pull-Ups\n\nPull-Ups is a brand of disposable training pants made under the Huggies brand of baby products. The product was first introduced in 1989 and became popular with the phrase \"I'm a big kid now!\" which is the product's slogan. The training pants are marketed with purple packaging: boys' designs are blue and currently feature characters from the Disney Junior show \"Mickey Mouse Mixed-Up Adventures\"; girls' designs are purple with the Disney Junior show \"Minnie's Bow-Toons\" characters.\n\nHuggies Pull-Ups have been distributed in 4 different types which have been intact since 2011. (not counting the renaming of Wetness Liner.)\n\nOn March 2005, the original Huggies Pull-Ups were renamed Learning Designs after the small pictures that fade when they become wet. \nWetness Liner Pull-Ups Training Pants were first distributed in 2005 as a competitor to the now defunct Pampers Feel 'N Learn. These Pull-Ups were much like Learning Designs Pull-Ups, except they added special liner to the Wetness Liner ones. This liner is placed on the inside of the Pull-up, where the wearer is most likely to wet, and is sensitive to urine. When the Wetness Liner is exposed to urine, it causes the wearer to feel uncomfortable, and learn that (s)he should not wet oneself and use the toilet instead. Wetness Liner Pull-Ups also have the Learning Designs, which also fade when the wearer wets the pull-up.\n\nIn 2006, the Wetness Liner Pull-Ups were replaced by Cool-Alert. This variation has since been intact since.\n\nGoodNites are used to control bedwetting. In 2008, The Goodnites disposable underwear split up from the Pull Ups brand merging with the Huggies brand, Then in 2011, Goodnites split up from the Huggies brand and formed their own brand which is the same name as the product.\n\nAt the same time that Wetness Liner was renamed Cool Alert, Pull-Ups introduced Night Time Pull-Ups. The Night Time Pull-Ups were very much like a regular Pull-Ups pant, except it has more absorbency, and they have bedtime designs featuring Disney's Princesses Belle and Cinderella characters for girls and Toy Story characters for boys. The Night Time Pull-Ups are not available in the 12M-24M or 4T-5T sizes.\n\nThe main use for Pull-Ups Training Pants is as an aid for toilet training toddlers and to help them learn not to wet. Although up until 2000 Pull-Ups Training Pants were nothing more than diapers that go off and on like underwear, since 2000, there have been several changes to them. The first one was the addition of magic stars/flowers (now known as Learning Designs on March 2nd, 2005) on the inside only in 2005-2007 and front of the pant that fade when the wearer wets it as a way of discouraging wetting, and as a motivation to stay dry in time to make it to the potty, and if the wearer stays dry, the stars/flowers will stay on the Pull-Up. Next was the addition of Easy-Open sides. These made it so that the sides of the Pull-Up still go off and on like underwear, but enable parents to easily open the Pull-Up to check to see if the wearer soiled the Pull-Up, or to quickly change a messy Pull-Up. Though many enjoy this feature, some parents have criticized this feature for causing the Pull-Up to rip too easily.\n\n1989-91 season\n1991-92 season\n1992-94 season\n1994-95 season\n1995 season\n1996 season\n1997 season\n1999 season\n2000 seaosn\n2003 season\n2004 season\n2005 season\n2006 season\n2008 season\n2009 season\n2010 season\n2011 season\n2012 season\n2013 season\nMarch 31, 2013 episode\n2014 season\n2015 season\n2016 season\n2017 season\n2018 season\n2019 season\n2020-now season\n\nThe Cool-Alert Pull-Ups had a controversial issue regarding that the wearer likely will either get a rash or not feel the cooling effect when (s)he wets the pant. The 2009 Potty Dance commercial had aggravated parents due to its suggestive dancing, mainly, when the toddlers put their hands on their genitalia and make circular motions with their hips. This has been pulled from airwaves and replaced with a more appropriate version by Ralph's World, which replaces the offensive movements with sidesteps.\n\nEver since Huggies Pull-Ups became popular, several other brands tried to copy their product. The first competitor besides store brand training pants were Pampers Trainers made from 1993 until 1995. In 2002, Pampers introduced \"Easy Ups\" training pants. The Pampers brand also had training pants with a wetness liner called \"Feel 'N Learn\" which were made from 2004 until 2007. Luvs also had a line of training pants made in the 1990s.\n\nPull-Ups are the official sponsor of ESPN Radio's coverage of Major League Baseball, as well as Westwood One's coverage of Sunday Night Football.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140961", "title": "Shinzo", "text": "Shinzo\n\nShinzo, known as in Japan, is an anime television series produced by Toei Animation. In the series, genetically-altered creatures known as Enterrans take over Earth and rename it in their own image called Enterra. Now three Enterrans have to protect the last human in order to find the hidden sanctuary called Shinzo and restore the human race. The anime focuses primarily on the adventures they undergo while working to accomplish this task. The series was licensed and dubbed by Saban Entertainment & Buena Vista Television.\n\nIn the distant past, the Guardian of the Milky Way galaxy named Lanancuras began to harbor a desire for more power. Because of his connection to the galaxy, he was able to absorb parts of planets and add them to his strength. As a result, he began invading the worlds he was assigned to protect. In the wake of his destruction, a following of creatures from across the galaxy pledged allegiance to Lanancuras and became known as the Kadrians. Taking notice of his ever-growing power and followers, the other Celestial Guardians confronted him; however, he had become too powerful, and they were defeated. Unable to subdue Lanancuras, the Celestial Guardians each gave up a part of their power and combined it into a single new Guardian, Mushra. In a final desperate attempt, they used Mushra's core by transforming it into a powerful card with which to seal Lanancuras in a prison. The prison was created from the remains of planets that had suffered under Lanancuras' tyranny. Because planets are themselves large beings, their combined strength- along with the power of the card- was able to restrain him. Thus Lanancuras was successfully sealed in a large meteorite.\n\nThe meteorite was sent off into the galaxy to be sealed forever. Meanwhile, the way Lanancuras had increased his strength had consequences on the planets of the Milky Way. On Earth, it was in the shape of a virus that merged with human DNA and destroyed the humans that way. In order to eliminate the virus, scientists worked on combining human DNA with the DNA of animals and other creatures immune to the effects. They succeeded and created a sentient race known as Enterrans (a race of engineered Earthlings) which are based on humans, insects, reptiles, birds, sea creatures, wild beasts, and phantom beasts. Eventually, a cure was found and the human race survived. This all took place around the 22nd century.\n\nThanks to Lanancuras' influence, the Enterrans fought their human creators as well as the humans robotic creations, driving the human race to a near extinction state. Luckily, a scientist named Dr. Daigo Tatsuro placed his 4-year-old daughter Yakumo in a sleep chamber in hopes that she would save the human race and find the human sanctuary Shinzo and bring peace back to Earth which was then renamed to Enterra. When the meteor that Lanancuras was imprisoned in struck Earth during the earlier parts of the Human-Enterran War, it's fragment had struck an infant Yakumo giving her abilities that she would later discover.\n\nUpon waking up 300 years later at the age of 17, Yakumo Tatsuro stumbled upon her soon to be companion Mushra while he is strung above a waterfall for impersonating a king. After Yakumo rescues Mushra, they soon run into their other companions Sago and Kutal.\n\nMushra, Sago. and Kutal are then shown to be Hyper-Enterrans, Enterrans who can transform into stronger powered-up versions of themselves, these forms allow them to fight the various creatures that come after them. Throughout the first season the main characters fight a collection of Enterrans known as the Seven Enterran Generals, and various independent Enterrans where these Enterrans were either minions of the Seven Enterran Generals or bounty hunters. Each of these Generals rules a region that the gang travels through, which have different types of Enterrans, such as King Daku's land having a majority insect based Enterrans. The defeated Enterrans become En-Cards, which are card-like structures that can be used to increase power in both Enterrans and several machines such as Yakumo's vehicle Hakuba.\n\nWhen the timeline was altered due to events caused by Yakumo eventually finding Shinzo. The Human-Enterran war never occurred with the two species eventually settling their differences and peacefully coexisting. The ultimate cause of the Enterran genocide during the war, in the original timeline, was revealed. The Kadrians had devised a plan to free their master: they believed that crashing the meteor into Earth would destroy the seal, thus allowing Lanancuras to escape. The Guardians eventually discovered this plan, but it was too late. With the meteorite already redirected and heading towards Earth, the Guardians held a vow that they would not directly intervene. They reasoned it was the duty of the planet and its inhabitants to defeat Lanancuras. In a stroke of luck, the Kadrians' plan was not a complete success. At impact, the seal holding Lanancuras merely ripped due to the impact; therefore, the Kadrian King was still trapped by the planetary pieces.\n\nThis meant that, in the second timeline, Lanancuras never used up a lot of energy to influence the Human-Enterran War when his meteor struck Earth and while he was completely dormant in the first timeline, he was about to break free from his imprisonment in the second.\n\nThe series is an adaptation of the 16th-century Chinese novel \"Journey to the West\" by Wu Cheng'en, transplanting the events to a far-future science fiction setting. Tang Sanzang becomes Yakumo, a girl tasked with reviving the human race rather than retrieving sacred scriptures. Sha Wujing becomes Sago, Zhu Bajie becomes Kutal (who transforms into a lion), and Sun Wukong becomes Mushra (retaining the character's golden headband and telescoping staff).\n\n"}
{"id": "2140966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140966", "title": "Executives of Construction Party", "text": "Executives of Construction Party\n\nThe Executives of Construction of Iran Party () is a reformist political party in Iran, founded by 16 members of the cabinet of the then President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in 1996. The party is a member of Council for coordinating the Reforms Front.\n\nEconomically, the party supports free markets and industrialization; with a high emphasis on the progress and development. The party takes the view that economic freedom is fundamentally linked to cultural and political freedom, but it should not be allowed to conflict with development. The party is divided into two factions in constant struggle, the more conservative \"Kermani faction\" led by Mohammad Hashemi Rafsanjani and Hossein Marashi and the more liberal \"Esfahani faction\" led by Mohammad Atrianfar and Gholamhossein Karbaschi.\n\nThe party was formed in 1996. The following sixteen people were its founders; they signed the declaration of its formation and founding board members registering the party in Ministry of Interior in 1999 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2140979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140979", "title": "Ron Hansen (novelist)", "text": "Ron Hansen (novelist)\n\nRon Hansen (born December 8, 1947) is an American novelist, essayist, and professor. He is known for writing literary westerns exploring the people and history of the American heartland, notably \"The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford\" (1983), which was adapted into an acclaimed film.\n\nRon Hansen was born in Omaha, Nebraska and reared as Catholic. He attended a Jesuit high school, Creighton Preparatory School, and earned a Bachelor's degree in English from Creighton University in Omaha in 1970.\n\nFollowing military service, he earned an M.F.A. from the Iowa Writers' Workshop in 1974 and held a Wallace Stegner Creative Writing Fellowship at Stanford University. He later earned an M.A. in Spirituality from Santa Clara University.\n\nHansen is the Gerard Manley Hopkins, S.J. Professor in the Arts and Humanities at Santa Clara University, where he teaches courses in writing and literature. He is married to the writer Bo Caldwell.\n\nIn January 2007, Hansen was ordained as a permanent deacon of the Catholic Church.\n\nIn May 2009, Hansen was inducted to the college of fellows at Dominican School of Philosophy and Theology.\n\nHansen has received fellowships from the Michigan Society of Fellows, the National Endowment for the Arts, the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation, and the Lyndhurst Foundation, as well as an Award in Literature from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.\n\nHansen frequently writes novels about the Old West, mixing history with morality and drama. Hansen's first novel, \"Desperadoes\" (1979), reimagines the story of the Dalton Gang. \"The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford\", a 1983 novel chronicling the life and death of the iconic outlaw, was Hansen's most popular work. It also brought him wide critical acclaim, and was nominated to the short list for the PEN/Faulkner Award. Most recently (2016), Hansen has explored the life of Billy the Kid in a novel titled simply \"The Kid\".\n\nCatholic themes of love, redemption and resurrection recur in Hansen's novels and stories. \"Mariette in Ecstasy\" (1991), his novel of the faith and religious experience in the context of a cloistered Catholic nun who apparently bears the stigmata, earned him near universal critical praise. He won the fiction prize from the Bay Area Reviewers Association and the Gold Medal for Excellence in Fiction from the Commonwealth Club of California. Hansen's novel, \"Exiles\" (2008), tells in parallel the story of the shipwreck of the SS \"Deutschland\", which cost the lives of five young nuns, and the story of poet Gerard Manley Hopkins who was inspired by the tragedy to write \"The Wreck of the Deutschland\".\n\nHansen's 1996 novel, \"Atticus\", about the bond of love between a father and a son who has died under mysterious circumstances in a dusty Mexican town, was a finalist for both the National Book Award and the PEN/Faulkner Award. \"Hitler's Niece\" (1999) is a historical novel that offers a view of Hitler as seen through the eyes of Geli Raubal, the daughter of his half-sister. \"Isn't It Romantic?\" (2003) is a comic novel about two sophisticated Parisians stranded in small-town Nebraska.\n\nHansen has published numerous short stories in literary magazines nationwide. His short story collection, \"Nebraska\", was published in 1989. Hansen also edited the anthology \"You Don't Know What Love Is: Contemporary American Stories\" (1987) and co-edited with Jim Shepard \"You've Got to Read This: Contemporary American Writers Introduce Stories That Held Them in Awe\" (1994).\n\nIn addition to his novels and short stories, Hansen has published a compilation of essays on faith and fiction (\"A Stay Against Confusion\") and a children's book (\"The Shadowmaker\"). Hansen also wrote the screenplay for the 1996 film adaptation of \"Mariette in Ecstasy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140982", "title": "The Code Is Red...Long Live the Code", "text": "The Code Is Red...Long Live the Code\n\nThe Code Is Red...Long Live the Code is Napalm Death's eleventh studio album and was recorded at Foel Studio, Llanfair Caerinion with producer Russ Russell. It was released on 25 April 2005. A music video for \"Silence Is Deafening\", directed by Roger Johansson, was released later that year.\n\nSome editions of the album were released with a bonus disc that contains material from a variety of death metal bands, such as Aborted. The Napalm Death song \"Silence Is Deafening\" is the first track on the compilation.\n\nThe album features guest appearances by Jello Biafra of Dead Kennedys, Jamey Jasta of Hatebreed, and Jeffrey Walker of Carcass.\n\nIn 2017, Decibel released a special magazine issue relating to the 30th Anniversary of Napalm Death. This issue included a \"Decibel Magazine Hall of Fame\" induction for \"The Code Is Red... Long Live the Code\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140991", "title": "Edmonton, London", "text": "Edmonton, London\n\nEdmonton is a district in North London in the London Borough of Enfield, England, north-northeast of Charing Cross. The population of all of Edmonton was 82,472 as of 2011.\n\nEdmonton is north-northeast of Charing Cross and stretches from just south of the North Circular Road where it borders Tottenham to its boundary with Ponders End to the north. Bush Hill Park, Winchmore Hill and Palmers Green adjoin the western boundary while the River Lee Diversion forms Edmonton's eastern boundary with Chingford. The northern part of Edmonton, N9 postal area is known as Lower Edmonton and the southern part as Upper Edmonton, N18 postal area.\n\nThe old highway Ermine Street passed through what is today Edmonton. Ermine Street was the main Roman road from London to Lincoln and on to York.\nEdmonton appears in the Domesday Book of 1086, where it is recorded as Adelmetone- 'a farmstead or estate of a man called Ēadhelm' from an Old English personal name and \"tūn\".\n\nEdmonton Hundred was a division of the historic county of Middlesex from Saxon times, an area of some 31,000 acres (125 km) stretching up the west bank of the Lea from Tottenham to the county boundary south of Waltham Cross, and west into what is now Hertfordshire as far as South Mimms. Local government in the modern sense began in 1837 with the Edmonton Union, set up under the Poor Law Amendment Act 1834. This also covered a wide district of 47,102 acres (191 km), including the modern boroughs of Haringey and Enfield, plus Cheshunt, Waltham Abbey and Waltham Cross. The town hall was built in 1884 and extended in 1903. The crenelated perpendicular Edmonton Town Hall was built in 1884 to the designs of George Eedes Eachus. The building was enlarged in 1902-3 by W. Gilbee Scott, who added public swimming baths. The baths were replaced by the Edmonton Green Swimming Pool in 1970. The Town Hall was demolished in 1989.\n\nThe population of this area grew rapidly, reaching 445,875 by 1911 and would today be about 615,000. As the population mushroomed Middlesex was subdivided into many small local government areas, a much smaller Edmonton of 3,894 acres (16 km) eventually achieving the status of borough (main article Municipal Borough of Edmonton) in 1937. At the 1961 census the borough had a population of 91,956. This was absorbed into the London Borough of Enfield in 1965, and the former town hall and civic buildings were controversially demolished by Enfield Council in 1989.\n\nPymmes Park with its historic walled garden is Upper Edmonton's park.\nPymmes Park originated as a private estate. In the late 16th century it was owned by the powerful Cecil family. In 1589 Robert Cecil, later 1st Earl of Salisbury, spent his honeymoon at Pymmes. Cecil was a protege of Francis Walsingham, Elizabeth I's chief spymaster and he succeeded him as Secretary of State in 1590. The estate was eventually acquired by Edmonton Council and opened as a public park in 1906. Pymmes House was destroyed by fire during the Second World War and the remains were demolished.\n\nIn the 17th century the then rural Edmonton had a reputation for supernatural activities. In approximately 1600, a play entitled \"The Merry Devil of Edmonton\" was performed in London about a wizard who lived there. In 1621 the villagers accused an old woman, Elizabeth Sawyer, of witchcraft and she was subsequently executed at Tyburn; her story was told in a pamphlet by Henry Goodcole, and in a 1621 play entitled \"The Witch of Edmonton\".\n\nThe historic All Saints' Church is situated in Church Street as is Lamb's Cottage, which was home to writers Charles Lamb and Mary Lamb.\n\nJohn Keats, the poet, was apprenticed to surgeon Dr. Hammond in Church Street between 1810–1816. The house was demolished in 1931 to be replaced by Keats Parade. An extant shop carries a blue plaque in commemoration.\n\nEdmonton was the home town of Sir James Winter Lake, director of the Hudson's Bay Company. The company's trading outpost named after Edmonton is now the capital of the Canadian province of Alberta.\n\nIn his 1782 poem, \"The Diverting History of John Gilpin\", William Cowper relates the comic tale of John Gilpin a linen draper of Cheapside London, who was probably based on a Mr Beyer, a linen draper of the Cheapside corner of Paternoster Row.\n\nGilpin's spouse decides she and her husband should spend their twentieth wedding anniversary at \"The Bell Inn\", Fore Street, Edmonton. The journey is beset with misfortune from start to finish. Gilpin loses control of his horse which carries him on to the town of Ware ten miles (16 km) distant. On the return journey, Gilpin is still unable to handle his steed, as he once again he fails to stop at \"The Bell\". The horse gallops back to Cheapside much to the dismay of his concerned spouse.\n\nGilpin is remembered in Edmonton by the statue at Fore Street, the ex-Wetherspoons outlet the \"Gilpin's Bell\" public house opposite the site of the original inn and the 1950s council housing Gilpin House in Upper Fore Street.\n\nEdmonton was home to many industries which included manufacturing of gas appliances, electrical components and furniture. Most of this was lost in the latter part of the twentieth century. Household names that produced goods here included MK electric, Ever Ready batteries, British Oxygen, Glover and Main gas appliances.\n\nEley Industrial Estate was named after Eley Brothers the firearms cartridge manufacturer. Its shot tower was a distinctive landmark on the skyline until being demolished the late twentieth century. Due to its close proximity to the River Lee Navigation, timber was transported by barge from the London Docks and stored in riverside wharves. As a result, many furniture makers including Nathans, Beautility and Homeworthy established factories. Today, Parker-Knoll products are manufactured at the former B&I Nathan factory on the Eley Industrial Estate. As of 2013, the area is dominated by the 100 metre Edmonton Incinerator chimney which was built in 1971. Other major employers include Coca-Cola.\n\nThe railway arrived in 1840 with the opening of the first section of the Lea Valley Line from Stratford to Broxbourne. A station was provided in Water Lane (Angel Road). As the station was badly sited and the trains were slow and expensive, few people used the railway in the early days, preferring the horse buses. In 1845 there were buses every 15 minutes along Fore Street, travelling alternately to Bishopsgate and Holborn.\n\nThe single-track line from a junction just north of Angel Road to Enfield Town opened on 1 March 1849, with an intermediate single-platform station at Lower Edmonton, located at the edge of the village green. The service was infrequent and often required a change of train at the junction. This, coupled with the train taking the long way round through Stratford to get to the terminus at Bishopsgate, meant that the railway offered little competition to the existing horse coaches and buses.\n\nEdmonton's population grew with the opening of the high level railway at Edmonton Green station in 1872. The traffic produced by the railway and by a tramway opened by the North London Tramways Company in 1881, brought a working class population to Lower Edmonton and encouraged housing development and the development of Edmonton Green's outdoor market. This had always been the major centre for the village, but by the early 20th century its character had changed to a busy, raucous Cockney centre, alive with costermongers barrows and food stalls, the venue for travelling circuses and fairs. On several occasions the local council tried unsuccessfully to close down the market .\n\nThe direct line from London to Enfield Town was opened in four stages, from Bethnal Green to Stoke Newington on 27 May 1872; from Stoke Newington through to Lower Edmonton High Level on 22 July 1872, with stations in Edmonton at Silver Street and a new High Level station at Lower Edmonton, which was renamed Edmonton Green in 1992; the short section from Lower Edmonton High Level to Edmonton Junction (where the new line met the original Eastern Counties Railway route from Angel Road to Enfield Town via Lower Edmonton Low Level) on 1 August 1872; and the suburban platforms on the west side of Liverpool Street station on 2 February 1874.\n\nThe stations were well sited and offered exceptionally cheap workmen's fares of just 2d on trains arriving at Liverpool Street prior to 07:00, 3d on those arriving between 07:00 and 07:30, and half-price returns on those arriving between 07:30 and 08:00. A horse tramway along Fore Street opened in 1881. The tramway was re-constructed and electrified during 1905, lasting until 1938 when trolley buses took over.\n\nBy the 1930s the area had become a major shopping destination drawing visitors from a wide catchment area. The early post war years saw much of the area in a run down state. There was also an acute housing shortage. Comprehensive redevelopment of the area was agreed in 1960, to a plan by Frederick Gibberd & Partners for a radically transformed urban centre with a pedestrian shopping area, car parking for 3000, 750 flats including three tower blocks and new civic and amenity buildings to replace the old town hall and baths. When Edmonton was incorporated within the new London Borough of Enfield (1965) plans for the civic buildings were abandoned. Only the leisure centre (demolished 2007) set in a car park was completed. Building began on the redevelopment in 1965 and completed in 1974.\n\nSince the 1960s, Edmonton has been transformed from a predominantly white, working class industrial suburb into a multicultural area by commonwealth immigration, asylum seekers and with the expansion of the European Union in May 2004.\n\nThe Edmonton Green area is currently being redeveloped by St. Modwen Properties. The £100 million project will include new housing, bus station, clinic and refurbishment of the shopping centre. In addition, a 73-room Travelodge hotel will be opened on the development. Edmonton Green area is currently being regenerated by St. Modwen Properties, who bought the property from the London Borough of Enfield in 1999. Phase 1 was completed in 2007 and includes a Primary health care centre, 176 affordable residential units, bus station, hotel, leisure centre, new retail outlets and the refurbishment of the existing multi-storey car park. Demolition of the original 1970's leisure centre has been completed, that enabled construction to commence of a new Asda supermarket which opened in November 2008.\n\nThe then Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, visited Edmonton in November 2008 to release his Time For Action plan. He claimed his proposals would help stop young people becoming repeat offenders.\n\nEdmonton currently has some of the highest levels of unemployment in Britain, with the recession of the late 2000s pushing unemployment to nearly 14% by 2009.\n\nOn 18 June 2011 over 400 people marched through Edmonton to make a stand against gun and knife crime.\n\nAs part of the 2012 Summer Olympics preparations, the Olympic torch relay passed through Edmonton on 25 July 2012 at Fore Street \"en route\" to Haringey.\n\nUp to 5000 new homes and 3000 new jobs will be created by the £1.5 billion Meridian Water redevelopment on former industrial land by 2026.\n\nThe Edmonton constituency had a population of 96,493 in the 2001 census.\n\nThe white groups made up 66.1% of the population and thirteen other ethnic groups the remainder.\n\nEdmonton has a young, ethnically diverse population. Satisfaction with the area is as high as for Enfield as a whole with environmental concerns ranking highest.\n\n\nThe most spoken foreign language in all three wards is Turkish.\n\nThe median house price as of 2014 in the Edmonton Green ward was £210,000. This is the 15th lowest out of the 628 wards of Greater London.\n\nIn 2013, Bountagu Big Local was awarded £1m over 10 years from the Big Lottery Fund as part of an initiative managed by Local Trust. It is one of 150 Big Local community development areas in England, set up to help local people work together, to make a difference to their area by investing in the community.\n\nThe name 'Bountagu' was given to the area on the eastern fringe of the Lower Edmonton Ward, to reflect the two main streets Bounces Road and Montagu Road which run through the locality. See Bountagu Area Map.\n\nDecisions and activities are led by the Bountagu Partnership, which is made up of volunteer residents..\n\nUntil 2018 Bountagu was supported by Enfield Children and Young People's Services (ECYPS). Since then, Community Voluntary Service for Broxbourne and East Herts (CVSBEH) has supported Bountagu.\n\nAll Saints' Church\nThe mostly 15th-century church is located in Church Street. It is the oldest building in Edmonton.\n\nA circa 1730 terrace of linked Grade II* Listed Buildings which were altered in the middle of the 19th century. 185, 187 and 189 were extensively restored in the 1980s to include the formation of an arch at 187 Angel Place with prize-winning gardens behind. Set back from Fore Street, the A1010 road, and standing close to the junction with the A406 road, the buildings were adjacent to\" The Angel\" public house demolished to widen the North Circular Road.\n\nThe Grade II listed building is located in Church Street. Designed by J. S. Alder and opened in 1908. The building today is used as a church.\n\nThe former public library (closed 1991) opened in 1897 at Fore Street. Designed by Maurice B. Adams with bequests provided by the John Passmore Edwards foundation. Today the Grade II listed building is used as a religious and community centre. (Inside the library by the main entrance were two portrait plaques of Charles Lamb and John Keats by George Frampton, 1908. The plaques can be viewed at Community House, 313 Fore Street, Edmonton).\n\nThe roughly triangular shaped Jewish cemetery was founded in 1889 with land given by Samuel Montagu. The walled cemetery is bordered by Salmons Brook which forms part of the Pymmes Brook Trail and a footpath which follows the course of the disused Lower Edmonton low level railway. Rabbi Eliezer Gordon is buried here. The cemetery contains the war graves of 7 Commonwealth service personnel of the First World War and 23 of the Second World War. The entrance is in Montagu Road B137 road. The site also incorporates the Western Synagogue Cemetery founded in 1884 (containing 3 Commonwealth service war graves of World War II) and adjoins the Tottenham Park Cemetery.\n\nThe simple yellow brick structure with red brick dressings is located on the south side of Church Street. Initially the school, founded in 1784, had been on a different site. However the benefactor, Obadiah Legrew, grew tired of the children close to his home. He had the original school demolished, drew £170 from the trust, and purchased another plot of land. In 1793 the new school was built afresh, away from his delicate ears. Pupils aged between 7 and 14 were clothed and educated, although the main purpose was to fit them for domestic service. The facade carries a figure of a charity girl and the words \"A structure of Hope founded in Faith on the basis of Charity\". The school closed in 1904.\n\nFormerly known as Bay Cottage. The cottage is believed to have been built in the 1680s and is located in the Church Street conservation area. Writers\nCharles and Mary Lamb occupied the house from 1833 to 1834, when Charles Lamb died there. The cottage was sold to its new owners in June 2008.\n\nThe late-18th-century house has been used as a workhouse school, hospital and a refugee centre before closing in 1971. The house re-opened as an arts centre in 1979 in a complex which encompasses the Millfield Theatre, Millfield Arts Centre and the former Weir Hall Library (closed 2008).\n\nThe hospital is located in Sterling Way, Upper Edmonton. Built in 1842 by the Edmonton Board of Guardians as the Edmonton Union Workhouse. A separate infirmary block was opened in 1910. Much of the building was taken over for use as a military hospital in 1915, during the First World War, was returned to civilian use in 1920 and renamed the North Middlesex Hospital.\n\nThe house dates to the late 16th/early 17th century, and is the oldest building in Edmonton apart from All Saints' Church. The house which is located in Bury Street West, Lower Edmonton has been a private residence and a school before it was bought by Edmonton council in 1936. The building was established as an arts centre in 1957 (the first to be provided by a local authority in London). In 1992 it underwent a major restoration. The house is Grade II listed along with some of the surrounding walls.\n\nA terrace of twenty-five Georgian houses, located in the Hertford Road, built between 1826 and 1851 by a London solicitor. By the late 19th century the properties in the Crescent had been largely split into flats.\n\n\n\nThe main retail centre of Edmonton is the Edmonton Green Shopping Centre which has a market, and the other retail centre is at the \"Angel\" Edmonton which is a high street containing a wide range of retail outlets.\n\nThe Member of Parliament for Edmonton is Kate Osamor, Labour Co-op who was elected at the General Election held on 5 May 2015.\n\nThe Boundary Commission review of 2011 proposes merging three Edmonton wards with most of the existing Chingford wards to create a new cross-Borough constituency of Chingford and Edmonton.\n\n\n\"For further details see article\" Enfield parks and open spaces\n\nEdmonton is the home of the Millfield Arts Centre and Face Front Inclusive Theatre Company.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe local newspapers are as of 2011–\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2140996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2140996", "title": "Adele Megann", "text": "Adele Megann\n\nAdele Megann (born September 3, 1962) is a Canadian writer. She is a recipient of the Bronwen Wallace Memorial Award.\n\nMegann attended Concordia University, received an MA from the University of Notre Dame in 1985 and a BEd from the University of Calgary 1998.\n\nMegann is a Newfoundlander based in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Her short fiction has been published in many Canadian and United States reviews and anthologies. As an active member of the writing community, Megann has won several awards, emceed readings, and taught creative writing. She has given over thirty readings and interviews. Megann lived several years in Calgary, where she was part of the Pack of Liars writing workshop, and was a fiction editor of \"Dandelion\" magazine. Since moving to Nova Scotia in 1999, Megann has participated in Writers in the Schools throughout the province.\n\nMegann's plays have been read at the Exodus Tuesday Reading Series. She has performed twice in the Playwrights in Performance Cabaret. She has written curriculum guides for Exodus Theatre Society and coordinated their school matinees. In the summer of 2005, she was awarded a grant by the Province of Nova Scotia to write a play.\n\nMegann has taught diverse subjects to children and adults, including those with disabilities. In the present day, she mostly teaches music. She once owned a candle-making business called Beesworks Chandlery.\n\nShe was fiction editor of \"Dandelion\" magazine.\nHer work has appeared in a number of literary journals and anthologies including \"Boundless Alberta\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141000", "title": "Justin Chatwin", "text": "Justin Chatwin\n\nJustin Chatwin (born October 31, 1982) is a Canadian actor. He appeared in both studio feature films like \"War of the Worlds\" (2005), \"The Invisible\" (2007), and \" Dragonball Evolution\" (2009), as well in independent films such as \"Bang Bang Baby\" (2014), for which he received a nomination at the Canadian Screen Awards for Best actor in a supporting role, \"Unleashed\" (2016), and \"Summer Night\" (2019).\n\nChatwin is also a TV actor, best known for his work in the Showtime comedy-drama \"Shameless\". He starred in the CBS mystery series \"American Gothic\" and was the principal guest-star in the 2016 Christmas special of the BBC One series Doctor Who in \"The Return of Doctor Mysterio\".\n\nIn his most recent role, he stars opposite Katee Sackhoff and Tyler Hoechlin in the new Netflix original show \"Another Life\", which premiered worldwide in 2019.\n\nChatwin was born in Nanaimo, British Columbia. His mother, Suzanne (née Halsall), is an artist, and his father, Brian, is an engineer who started in 1982 Chatwin Engineering in Canada, activating as President and CEO. His late grandfather was of French-Canadian ancestry. Chatwin's parents divorced in 2010. He has a younger sister named Brianna, who works as a professional tattoo artist. They were raised Catholic. \n\nAfter graduating from high school, Chatwin followed in his father's footsteps and began to study engineering at the University of British Columbia, but after one week he switched to commerce. He dropped out after one semester. In 2001, he made the first step for breaking into the movie business, auditioning for a Canadian TV show on a dare, ultimately being called back and hired: \"I was dared by a friend to go on an audition for a TV show in Canada. I took the dare, not knowing what I was getting into.\"\n\nChatwin moved to Los Angeles in 2005, renting an apartment with Noel Fisher. Briefly before this, he lived for a month in a travel trailer with a friend, stating, \"We didn't have girlfriends; we were reading Kerouac and Ginsberg, driving up to the desert, walking in the dunes, and showering at 24 Hour Fitness. It was an exciting time, but would I do it again? No.\"\n\nChatwin began his career in 2001, at the age of 19, his film debut being in the musical comedy \"Josie and the Pussycats\". After that, he had guest appearances in television series such as \"Smallville\", \"Just Cause\", \"Glory Days\", and \"Mysterious Ways\". He had supporting roles in the films \"Taking Lives\" and \"\". Chatwin gained recognition in 2004 for his role as Tyler McKay in the miniseries \"Traffic\". Next, he portrayed Tom Cruise's son in the blockbuster \"War of the Worlds\", directed by Steven Spielberg. His performance in the film earned him a 'Breakthrough Award' from Hollywood Life Magazine. In 2005 he was seen also in the independent black comedy \"The Chumscrubber\", alongside Camilla Belle, Jamie Bell and Carrie-Anne Moss. Additionally, he played the son of Kevin Nealon's character in the Showtime series \"Weeds\", appearing only in the pilot episode and the series finale. The following year he had a guest appearance in the ABC drama series \"Lost\".\n\nIn 2007, \"The Invisible\" was released, a remake of the Swedish film \"Den Osynlige\", which marked his first lead role. Then he played a supporting role in \"Middle of Nowhere\", a coming-of-age drama directed by John Stockwell, also starring Anton Yelchin, Eva Amurri and Susan Sarandon. In 2009, Chatwin portrayed Goku in \"Dragonball Evolution\", a big screen adaptation based on the Japanese \"Dragon Ball\" manga by Akira Toriyama. He was set to reprise his role in a sequel, but due to the film's poor critical and financial performance, it was canceled.\n\nIn December 2009, Chatwin shot the Showtime pilot \"Shameless\", starring opposite William H. Macy and Emmy Rossum (with whom he also starred in 2009's \"Dragonball Evolution\"). In April 2010, the network green-lit the show with a 12-episode order. For three years, Chatwin was a series regular, playing Jimmy Lishman, Rossum's love interest. He returned for a cameo in the fourth season finale, and appeared in the fifth season as a special guest star in the 6th and 7th episodes. In 2013, Chatwin had a guest appearance in the third season of \"The Listener\" opposite Craig Olejnik. \n\nIn 2015, he was cast as the lead in the TNT pilot \"Breed\", about a young detective who hunts down a rare breed of flesh eating criminals. The pilot did not get picked up to series. After that, he secured a recurring role in the third season of \"Orphan Black\", opposite Tatiana Maslany and Kristian Bruun. Next year, Chatwin landed the role of Cameron Hawthorne in the CBS summer series \"American Gothic\", starring alongside Antony Starr, Virginia Madsen and Megan Ketch. By the end of the year, he was seen in the BBC science fiction series \"Doctor Who\" in 2016 Christmas special \"The Return of Doctor Mysterio\". \n\nIn 2017, Chatwin signed on for an ABC pilot entitled \"The Doomsday Project\", about a group of brilliant people who are asked to dream up man-made disaster scenarios and their possible solutions. The pilot, directed by Joachim Rønning, was not picked up, but shortly after, it was announced that Sony Pictures Television was considering a series order for the project. Couple of months later, VJ Boyd, the co-writer of the screenplay, confirmed the idea was dropped too.\n\nSince 2019, Chatwin has starred as Erik Wallace in the ongoing television series \"Another Life\".\n\nIn 2011, Chatwin starred in the canadian film \"Funkytown\", alongside Patrick Huard and Paul Doucet. He also made a short film, \"Brink\", written and directed by Shawn Christensen, who was accepted at the Tribeca Film Festival.\n\nChatwin subsequently appeared in the sci-fi musical \"Bang Bang Baby\" (2014), opposite Peter Stormare and Jane Levy. His performance in the movie earned him a nomination for Best actor in a supporting role at the Canadian Screen Awards. The romantic comedy \"No Stranger Than Love\" (2015), with Alison Brie and Colin Hanks, closed the 16th annual Newport Beach Film Festival. Next, he played a troubled man in searching for his bike in \"The Cycle\". Written and directed by Joey Indrieri, the short film has Addison Timlin playing the female lead. \n\nIn 2016, Chatwin had appearances in four indie films: the drug thriller \"Urge\", alongside Pierce Brosnan and Ashley Greene, the comedy \"Unleashed\", who won the Audience Award at the Mill Valley Film Festival, the romantic drama \"One Night\", and \"Poor Boy\", Robert Scott Wildes' western, in which he teamed up again with Lou Taylor Pucci, after they worked on \"The Chumscrubber\".\n\nIn 2017, he portrayed Hugh Jay Linder in the film adaptation of Nancy Pickard's novel \"The Scent of Rain and Lightning\", and played a supporting role in indie drama \"We Don’t Belong Here\", sharing the screen with Riley Keough, and again with Anton Yelchin. He also had a cameo role in the action-comedy \"CHiPs\".\n\nMore recently, Chatwin starred in Crackle’s original movie \"In the Cloud\" alongside Gabriel Byrne, and in the dramatic thriller \"The Assassin's Code\" with Peter Stormare, as well in the coming-of-age drama \"Summer Night\", directed by Joseph Cross in his directorial debut. In 2020, he will appear in the romantic crime film \"Die in a Gunfight\", co-starring opposite Diego Boneta, Alexandra Daddario and Travis Fimmel. In addition, Chatwin is attached to star in the upcoming \"In the Lost Lands\", a fantasy-adventure film based on three short stories by \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" author George R.R. Martin. \n\nChatwin's off-Broadway debut occurred in 2006 in Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa's play \"Dark Matters\" at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater. Directed by Trip Cullman, the story centers on the dysfunctional Cleary family, whose limits are pushed even further when the mother goes missing and suddenly reappears, talking about strange visions and extraterrestrial life. He starred as Jeremy, the eccentric, but intelligent 16-year-old son of Michael (Reed Birney) and Bridget (Elizabeth Marvel). The play ran from November 10 to December 22.\n\nThe following year, Chatwin acted in Elizabeth Meriwether’s \"The Mistakes Madeline Made\" at the Dairy Arts Center in Boulder, Colorado. Directed by Jamie Wollrab, the cast includes Johnny Lewis, Zach Shields and Greta Seacat. The story is about a young woman, Edna (Shannon Woodward), who works as a personal assistant. After the death of her brother, she begins to develop ablutophobia, a fear of bathing. He plays Wilson, Edna’s co-worker, \"with lots of nervous energy, and generates laughs along the way.\"\n\nIn 2009, Chatwin teamed up again with Jamie Wollrab to star in Adam Rapp's three-person play \"Red Light Winter\" at the Dairy Arts Center, during Boulder International Fringe Festival. John Markland directed the story about two friends, Matt (Wollrab) and Davis (Chatwin), who are caught in a strange love triangle with Christina (Anna Rose Hopkins), a young prostitute they encounter in Amsterdam.\n\nChatwin appeared in the music videos for David Vertesi's \"Learn to Run\", Brad Carter's \"Doin' Wrong with You\", and Hayley Taylor's \"Slow Motion\".\n\nChatwin featured in the 2013 documentary \"Isolated\", written and directed by Justin Le Pera, about a group of surfers in search of untouched waves. Ryan Phillippe served as narrator and executive producer. He will appear in the upcoming docuseries \"Freedom is a Full Tank\", which is currently in post-production. Directed by Drew Burbridge, the project recounts his journey from Vancouver to South America on motorcycle.\n\nIn 2015, he recorded alongside Jake Abel and Alexandra Daddario, the audio version of Celeritas, a screenplay who featured on 2014 Black List.\n\nChatwin said many times that his biggest passion are motorcycles. He owns a Harley-Davidson Night Train which he named it Charlie Crowe. Talking about the beginnings, he said: \"I had bought my first motorcycle after riding a scooter on the Amalfi Coast in 2009. Five years later, and a full blown obsession under my belt, I’m back in Italy standing at the epic Ducati factory, the size of a football field, in Bologna, Italy.\" He adds, \"A perfect day for me is when I wake up and know that all I have to do is ride my motorcycle for the next ten hours in a particular direction.\"\n\nChatwin has been in many trips with his former \"Shameless\" co-stars, William H. Macy and Steve Howey. They have been riding from Los Angeles to Colorado, San Francisco and Aspen, sponsored by Harley-Davidson. In 2014, he embarked on a trip across Europe with producer Ford Smith and actor Martin Henderson, testing the new Ducati motorcycles.\n\nIn order to learn more and improve his skills, in november 2016, over the course of one weekend, Chatwin attended the Keith Code's California Superbike School, alongside actor Nicholas Hoult, motorcycle journalist Sean MacDonald, singer and music producer Albert Hammond Jr. and entrepreneur Jesse Waits. From there, he was invited to test the new AGV Corsa R helmets at Buttonwillow Raceway Park.\n\nIn 2017, Chatwin was invited at the inaugural edition of Moto Beach Classic Festival in Southern California. The one-day event was established to promote the moto culture, bringing together artists, bike builders and fans. He took part at the BMX Boxer Cup challenge against former professional freestyle motocross racer Andy Bell, custom builder Maxwell Hazan and seasoned photographer Preston Burroughs. \n\nChatwin is also part of WLF Enduro, a community of people from different backgrounds of work, such as teachers, salesmen or construction workers, brought together to ride 200 miles in 2 days every year, throughout Southern California. Their mission is \"Unifying riders around the globe with the common passion of two wheels and a throttle.\" About his decision to join the crew, he said, \"This is my hobby. This is my community. This is how I stay happy in a work oriented world. These things are important to me. Because when we die these will be the memories that remain.\"\n\nIn 2011, Chatwin took part on a charitable motorcycle ride for amfAR, an american foundation for AIDS research, and was one of the celebrities who attended at \"Stand Up To Cancer\", a special event and auction established in order to raise money in the fight against cancer, hosted by Jaime King and Nicky Hilton Rothschild.\n\nIn 2013, Chatwin joined Beau Garrett, Mark Foster and Kenna on the new edition of Summit on the Summit project, climbing Kilimanjaro. The purpose was to bring attention on the global water crisis and raise money for the people in need. Regarding the cause, he said, \"We just need government will to change these things. It’s something I really responded to... everyone in the world should have access to water.\"\n\nChatwin was also one of the celebrities who protested against the controversial Keystone XL pipeline. In order to show how the future could be for the environment, he starred alongside Amy Smart in \"Keystone Horror\" trailer.\n\nIn 2017, Chatwin teamed up for a special ride with Vancouver-based motorcycle company \"Lords of Gastown\", and charitable organization \"Waves for Water\", which is dedicated to provide clean water for everyone who needs it. Riding across Central America, the goal was raising money in order to purchase and install clean water filters for the communities living in Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua. He is also one of the Canadian ambassadors for Operation Smile.\n\nChatwin still resides in Los Angeles, California, although he has considered moving many times in the past.\n\nChatwin is an advocate of the nomadic lifestyle. When not working on a film or a television show, he is always on the road, stating, \"The anatomy of restlessness is what my fascination is. The nomadic instinct I will call it. And the need of constant movement.\" In these trips, he is joined usually by Ombú, a uruguayan street dog which he adopted in 2016.\n\nChatwin describes himself as being a shy person and having difficulties living in U.S.: \"I've always been shy speaking in front of people maybe because I've never felt like I cared about show business or other things I had to talk about. Or maybe I'm shy because I don't really feel comfortable in my own skin in America.\"\nHaving a passion for extreme sports, he used to snowboard when he lived in Canada, during the high school years. One of Chatwin's favourite activities is spearfishing, stating, \"For me spearfishing is two things: it’s hunting - which is a basic necessity that we’ve always done - and then it’s diving, which is a baptism in the water. You’re forced to be present and you’re in the elements, you’re underwater.\"\nHe is also a traveller and film photography lover.\n\nChatwin dated \"Fallen\" actress Addison Timlin in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2141003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141003", "title": "Indium gallium phosphide", "text": "Indium gallium phosphide\n\nIndium gallium phosphide (InGaP), also called gallium indium phosphide (GaInP), is a semiconductor composed of indium, gallium and phosphorus. It is used in high-power and high-frequency electronics because of its superior electron velocity with respect to the more common semiconductors silicon and gallium arsenide.\n\nIt is used mainly in HEMT and HBT structures, but also for the fabrication of high efficiency solar cells used for space applications and, in combination with aluminium (AlGaInP alloy) to make high brightness LEDs with orange-red, orange, yellow, and green colors. Some semiconductor devices such as EFluor Nanocrystal use InGaP as their core particle.\n\nIndium gallium phosphide is a solid solution of indium phosphide and gallium phosphide.\n\nGaInP is a solid solution of special importance, which is almost lattice matched to GaAs. This allows, in combination with (AlGa)In, the growth of lattice matched quantum wells for red emitting semiconductor lasers, e.g. red emitting (650nm) RCLEDs or VCSELs for PMMA plastic optical fibers.\n\nGaInP is used as the high energy junction on double and triple junction photovoltaic cells grown on GaAs. Recent years have shown GaInP/GaAs tandem solar cells with AM0 (sunlight incidence in space=1.35 kW/m) efficiencies in excess of 25%.\n\nA different composition of GaInP, lattice matched to the underlying GaInAs, is utilized as the high energy junction GaInP/GaInAs/Ge triple junction photovoltaic cells.\n\nGrowth of GaInP by epitaxy can be complicated by the tendency of GaInP to grow as an ordered material, rather than a truly random solid solution (i.e., a mixture). This changes the bandgap and the electronic and optical properties of the material.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141015", "title": "Indium gallium arsenide", "text": "Indium gallium arsenide\n\nIndium gallium arsenide (InGaAs) (alternatively gallium indium arsenide, GaInAs) is a ternary alloy (chemical compound) of indium arsenide (InAs) and gallium arsenide (GaAs). Indium and gallium are (group III) elements of the periodic table while arsenic is a (group V) element. Alloys made of these chemical groups are referred to as \"III-V\" compounds. InGaAs has properties intermediate between those of GaAs and InAs. InGaAs is a room-temperature semiconductor with applications in electronics and photonics.\n\nThe principal importance of GaInAs is its application as a high-speed, high sensitivity photodetector of choice for optical fiber telecommunications.\n\nIndium gallium arsenide (InGaAs) and gallium-indium arsenide (GaInAs) are used interchangeably. According to IUPAC standards the preferred nomenclature for the alloy is GaInAs where the group-III elements appear in order of increasing atomic number, as in the related alloy system AlGaAs. \nBy far, the most important alloy composition from technological and commercial standpoints is GaInAs, which can be deposited in single crystal form on indium phosphide (InP).\n\nGaInAs is not a naturally-occurring material. Single crystal material is required for electronic and photonic device applications. Pearsall and co-workers were the first to describe single-crystal epitaxial growth of InGaAs on (111)-oriented and on (100)-oriented InP substrates.\nSingle crystal material in thin-film form can be grown by epitaxy from the liquid-phase (LPE), vapour-phase (VPE), by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE), and by metalorganic chemical vapour deposition (MO-CVD). Today, most commercial devices are produced by MO-CVD or by MBE.\n\nThe optical and mechanical properties of InGaAs can be varied by changing the ratio of InAs and GaAs, . Most InGaAs devices are grown on indium phosphide (InP) substrates. In order to match the lattice constant of InP and avoid mechanical strain, is used. This composition has an optical absorption edge at 0.75 eV, corresponding to a cut-off wavelength of λ=1.68 μm at 295 K.\n\nBy increasing the mole fraction of InAs further compared to GaAs, it is possible to extend the cut-off wavelength up to about λ=2.6 µm. In that case special measures have to be taken to avoid mechanical strain from differences in lattice constants.\n\nGaAs is lattice-mismatched to germanium (Ge) by 0.08%. With the addition of 1.5% InAs to the alloy, InGaAs becomes latticed-matched to the Ge substrate, reducing stress in subsequent deposition of GaAs.\n\nInGaAs has a lattice parameter that increases linearly with the concentration of InAs in the alloy. The liquid-solid phase diagram shows that during solidification from a solution containing GaAs and InAs, GaAs is taken up at a much higher rate than InAs, depleting the solution of GaAs. During growth from solution, the composition of first material to solidify is rich in GaAs while the last material to solidify is richer in InAs. This feature has been exploited to produce ingots of InGaAs with graded composition along the length of the ingot. However, the strain introduced by the changing lattice constant causes the ingot to be polycrystalline and limits the characterization to a few parameters, such as bandgap and lattice constant with uncertainty due to the continuous compositional grading in these samples.\n\nSingle crystal epitaxial films of GaInAs can be deposited on a single crystal substrate of III-V semiconductor having a lattice parameter close to that of the specific gallium indium arsenide alloy to be synthesized. Three substrates can be used: GaAs, InAs and InP. A good match between the lattice constants of the film and substrate is required to maintain single crystal properties and this limitation permits small variations in composition on the order of a few per cent. Therefore, the properties of epitaxial films of GaInAs alloys grown on GaAs are very similar to GaAs and those grown on InAs are very similar to InAs, because lattice mismatch strain does not generally permit significant deviation of the composition from the pure binary substrate.\n\nLike most materials, the lattice parameter of GaInAs is a function of temperature. The measured coefficient of thermal expansion is  K. This is significantly larger than the coefficient for InP which is  K. A film that is exactly lattice-matched to InP at room temperature is typically grown at 650 °C with a lattice mismatch of +. Such a film has a mole fraction of GaAs = 0.47. To obtain lattice matching at the growth temperature, it is necessary to increase the GaAs mole fraction to 0.48.\n\nThe bandgap energy of GaInAs can be determined from the peak in the photoluminescence spectrum, provided that the total impurity and defect concentration is less than  cm. The bandgap energy depends on temperature and increases as the temperature decreases, as can be seen in Fig. 3 for both n-type and p-type samples. The bandgap energy at room temperature is 0.75 eV and lies between that of Ge and Si. By coincidence the bandgap of GaInAs is perfectly placed for photodetector and laser applications for the long-wavelength transmission window, (the C-band and L-band) for fiber-optic communications.\n\nThe electron effective mass of GaInAs m/m° = 0.041 is the smallest for any semiconductor material with an energy bandgap greater than 0.5 eV. The effective mass is determined from the curvature of the energy-momentum relationship: stronger curvature translates into lower effective mass and a larger radius of delocalization. In practical terms, a low effective mass leads directly to high carrier mobility, favoring higher speed of transport and current carrying capacity. A lower carrier effective mass also favors increased tunneling current, a direct result of delocalization.\n\nThe valence band has two types of charge carriers: light holes: m/m° = 0.051 and heavy holes: m/m° = 0.2.\nThe electrical and optical properties of the valence band are dominated by the heavy holes, because the density of these states is much greater than that for light holes. This is also reflected in the mobility of holes at 295 K, which is a factor of 40 lower than that for electrons.\n\nElectron mobility and hole mobility are key parameters for design and performance of electronic devices. Takeda and co-workers were the first to measure electron mobility in epitaxial films of InGaAs on InP substrates. Measured carrier mobilities for electrons and holes are shown in Figure 4.\n\nThe mobility of carriers in is unusual in two regards:\n\n\nThe room temperature electron mobility for reasonably pure samples of approaches ·V·s, which is the largest of any technologically important semiconductor, although significantly less than that for graphene.\n\nThe mobility is proportional to the carrier conductivity. As mobility increases, so does the current-carrying capacity of transistors. A higher mobility shortens the response time of photodetectors. A larger mobility reduces series resistance, and this improves device efficiency and reduces noise and power consumption.\n\nThe minority carrier diffusion constant is directly proportional to carrier mobility. The room temperature diffusion constant for electrons at ·s is significantly larger than that of Si, GaAs, Ge or InP, and determines the ultra-fast response of photodetectors.\n\nThe ratio of electron to hole mobility is the largest of currently-used semiconductors.\n\nThe principal application of GaInAs is as an infrared detector. The spectral response of a GaInAs photodiode is shown in Figure 5. GaInAs photodiodes are the preferred choice in the wavelength range of 1.1 µm < λ < 1.7 µm. For example, compared to photodiodes made from Ge, GaInAs photodiodes have faster time response, higher quantum efficiency and lower dark current for the same sensor area. GaInAs photodiodes were invented in 1977 by Pearsall.\n\nAvalanche photodiodes offer the advantage of additional gain at the expense of response time. These devices are especially useful for detection of single photons in applications such as quantum key distribution where response time is not critical. Avalanche photodetectors require a special structure to reduce reverse leakage current due to tunnelling. The first practical avalanche photodiodes were designed and demonstrated in 1979.\n\nIn 1980, Pearsall developed a photodiode design that exploits the uniquely short diffusion time of high mobility of electrons in GaInAs, leading to an ultrafast response time. This structure was further developed and subsequently named the UTC, or uni-travelling carrier photodiode. In 1989, Wey and co-workers designed and demonstrated a p-i-n GaInAs/InP photodiodes with a response time shorter than 5 picoseconds for a detector surface measuring 5 µm x 5 µm.\n\nOther important innovations include the integrated photodiode – FET receiver and the engineering of GaInAs focal-plane arrays.\n\nSemiconductor lasers are an important application for GaInAs, following photodetectors. GaInAs can be used as a laser medium. Devices have been constructed that operate at wavelengths of 905 nm, 980 nm, 1060 nm, and 1300 nm. InGaAs quantum dots on GaAs have also been studied as lasers. GaInAs/InAlAs quantum-well lasers can be tuned to operate at the λ = 1500 nm low-loss, low-dispersion window for optical fiber telecommunications \nIn 1994, GaInAs/AlInAs quantum wells were used by Jérôme Faist and co-workers who invented and demonstrated a new kind of semiconductor laser based on photon emission by an electron making an optical transition between subbands in the quantum well. They showed that the photon emission regions can be cascaded in series, creating the quantum cascade laser (QCL). The energy of photon emission is a fraction of the bandgap energy. For example, GaInAs/AlInAs QCL operates at room temperature in the wavelength range 3 µm < λ < 8 µm. The wavelength can be changed by modifying the width of the GaInAs quantum well. These lasers are widely used for chemical sensing and pollution control.\n\nGaInAs is used in triple-junction photovoltaics and also for thermophotovoltaicpower generation.\n\nHEMT devices using InGaAs channels are one of the fastest types of transistor\n\nIn 2012 MIT researchers announced the smallest transistor ever built from a material other than silicon. The Metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) is 22 nanometers long. This is a promising accomplishment, but more work is needed to show that the reduced size results in improved electronic performance relative to that of silicon or GaAs-based transistors.\n\nIn 2014, Researchers at Penn State University developed a novel device prototype designed to test nanowires made of compound semiconductors such as InGaAs. The goal of this device was to see if a compound material would retain its superior mobility at nanoscale dimensions in a FinFET device configuration. The results of this test sparked more research, by the same research team, into transistors made of InGaAs which showed that in terms of on current at lower supply voltage, InGaAs performed very well compared to existing silicon devices.\n\nIn Feb 2015 Intel indicated it may use InGaAs for its 7 nanometer CMOS process in 2017.\n\nThe synthesis of GaInAs, like that of GaAs, most often involves the use of arsine (), an extremely toxic gas. Synthesis of InP likewise most often involves phosphine (). Inhalation of these gases neutralizes oxygen absorption by the bloodstream and can be fatal within a few minutes if toxic dose levels are exceeded. Safe handling involves using a sensitive toxic gas detection system and self-contained breathing apparatus.\n\nOnce GaInAs is deposited as a thin film on a substrate, it is basically inert and is resistant to abrasion, sublimation or dissolution by common solvents such as water, alcohols or acetones. In device form the volume of the GaInAs is usually less than , and can be neglected compared to the volume of the supporting substrate, InP or GaAs.\n\nThe National Institutes of Health studied these materials and found:\n\nThe World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer's review of the NIH toxicology study concluded:\n\nREACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) is a European initiative to classify and regulate materials that are used, or produced (even as waste) in manufacturing. REACH considers three toxic classes: carcinogenic, reproductive, and mutagenic capacities.\n\nThe REACH classification procedure consists of two basic phases. In phase one the hazards intrinsic to the material are determined, without any consideration of how the material might be used or encountered in the work place or by a consumer. In phase two the risk of harmful exposure is considered along with procedures that can mitigate exposure. Both GaAs and InP are in phase 1 evaluation. The principal exposure risk occurs during substrate preparation where grinding and polishing generate micron-size particles of GaAs and InP. Similar concerns apply to wafer dicing to make individual devices. This particle dust can be absorbed by breathing or ingestion. The increased ratio of surface area to volume for such particles increases their chemical reactivity.\n\nToxicology studies are based on rat and mice experiments. No comparable studies test the effects of ingesting GaAs or InP dust in a liquid slurry.\n\nThe REACH procedure, acting under the precautionary principle, interprets \"inadequate evidence for carcenogenicity\" as \"possible carcinogen\". As a result, the European Chemicals Agency classified InP in 2010 as a carcinogen and reproductive toxin:\n\n\nand ECHA classified GaAs in 2010 as a carcinogen and reproductive toxin:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141016", "title": "Peter Michael Hamel", "text": "Peter Michael Hamel\n\nPeter Michael Hamel (born 15 July 1947 in Munich) is a German composer. His works have been associated with the minimalist style of composition, and in the late 1970s with the New Simplicity movement.\n\nHe is the son of the film director Peter Hamel. Hamel studied musical composition, psychology and sociology in Munich and Berlin with teachers including Günter Bialas and Carl Dahlhaus. He then continued his education abroad, spending several extensive periods in Asia .\n\nIn 1970, he founded \"Between\", an international group dedicated to improvisational music with whom he made 6 records on the intuition/WERGO label and in 1978 in Munich, he founded the Freies Musikzentrum, an institute for musical education and therapy. In 1978, his book \"Through Music to the Self\" was published in English translation, obtaining wide circulation in Europe and the U.S.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2012, he was professor for composition at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater in Hamburg . His orchestral and chamber music is published by Schott, Bärenreiter and E.R.P./Celestial Harmonies. He composed four operas, many orchestral works (e.g., \"Gestalt\"), violin and piano concertos, sacred works for soprano, choirs and orchestra (e.g., \"Missa\"); \"Shoah\" (a radio-composition about the Holocaust), chamber-music compositions (including four string quartets). He is in demand as a performing artist (piano, prepared piano, pipe organ, voice and live-electronics). His First Symphony was premiered by Sergiu Celibidache in 1988; his Second Symphony had its first performance in Munich on April 29, 2008 with the Munich Philharmonic. In 2007 Hamel's \"Of the Sound of Life\" for pianist Roger Woodward was published by Celestial Harmonies. In 2009 parts of his music theatre \"last minute\" on Near Death Experiences has been premiered in .\n\nAmerican minimalist composer Terry Riley has said: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141041", "title": "Hyphen War", "text": "Hyphen War\n\nThe Hyphen war (; ) was the conflict over what to call Czechoslovakia after the fall of the Communist government in 1989.\n\nThe official name of the country during the last 30 years of Communist rule was \"Czechoslovak Socialist Republic\" (in Czech and in Slovak , or \"ČSSR\"). In December 1989—a month after the Velvet Revolution—President Václav Havel announced that the word \"Socialist\" would be dropped from the country's official name. Conventional wisdom suggested that it would be known as simply the \"Czechoslovak Republic\"—its official name from 1920 to 1938 and from 1945 to 1960. However, Slovak politicians felt this diminished Slovakia's equal stature, and demanded that the country's name be spelled with a hyphen (i.e. \"Czecho-Slovak Republic\"), as it was spelled from Czecho-slovak independence in 1918 until 1920, and again in 1938 and 1939. President Havel then changed his proposal to \"Republic of Czecho-Slovakia\" — a proposal that did not sit well with Czech politicians who saw reminders of the 1938 Munich Agreement, in which Nazi Germany annexed a part of that territory.\n\nAs a compromise, on 29 March 1990 the Czechoslovak parliament resolved that the country's long name was to be the \"Czechoslovak Federative Republic,\" explicitly acknowledging that the country was a federation. The name was to be spelled without a hyphen in Czech (), but with a hyphen in Slovak (). An informal agreement on the Slovak long-form name was to be codified in a future law on state symbols.\n\nThis solution was found to be unsatisfactory, and less than a month later, on 20 April 1990, the parliament changed the name again, to the \"Czech and Slovak Federative Republic\" (, , or \"ČSFR\"). This law explicitly listed the long-form names in both languages and stated they were equal.\n\nThe compromise required even more linguistic wrangling than first appears. Generally, only the first word of a country's name is capitalized in Czech and Slovak. Capitalizing all of the words eliminated issues of prestige around the capitalization of \"\".\n\nAlthough the Slovaks were demanding a hyphen (Czech, Slovak: ), the Czechs called it a dash (Czech, Slovak: ). Although there is a clear difference between a hyphen and a dash in Czech and Slovak spelling (a hyphen is used to mark a connection between two words, while a dash is used in other cases), both Czechs and Slovaks usually use the term for both. Nonetheless, English language media generally refer to the conflict as the \"Hyphen War\".\n\nWhile the Hyphen War was not really deserving of the name \"war\", it demonstrated that there were differences between Czechs and Slovaks regarding the identity of their shared country. Over the following two years, more substantial disputes arose between the two halves of the federation. In 1992, Czech and Slovak politicians agreed to split the country into the two states of the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic—the so-called Velvet Divorce—which became effective on 1 January 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141046", "title": "Memphis Area Transit Authority", "text": "Memphis Area Transit Authority\n\nThe Memphis Area Transit Authority (MATA) is the public transportation provider for Memphis, Tennessee. It is the largest transit agency in Tennessee, operating 42 bus routes, the MATA Trolley system, and other transit services. The system is managed by a seven-member policy board appointed by the mayor and approved by the Memphis City Council.\n\nThe system was formed in 1975 to service the greater Memphis and Shelby County Tennessee area and nearby West Memphis, Arkansas. MATA is run by a general manager and a nine-member board of commissioners, appointed by the Mayor of Memphis and approved by the Memphis City Council. \nThe transit agency operates 240 buses, mostly Gillig Advantage low-floors (both diesel and diesel/electric hybrids) on 42 routes. In the past, its roster included GM TDH-5300 and TDH-4500 \"New Looks\" and Flxible 40-102 New Look series (carryovers from its predecessor prior to MATA's formation), AM General 40 ft., MAN articulateds, the RTS series from GM, TMC and NovaBus, Neoplan artics, and NovaBus LFS low floors buses. The RTS series were MATA's preferred fleet of choice, having been used in its lineup from February 1980 until its retirement in April 2010, when the six remaining 1994 NovaBus versions were replaced with the Gillig Advantage Hybrids. MATA hopes to shift to a hybrid fleet in the future.\n\nMATA also operates a trolley service. Initially opened in 1993, the Main Street Trolley Line uses classic streetcars on a system that has grown to three routes: one along the riverfront, another serving Main Street in the heart of downtown Memphis, and an extension on Madison Avenue. The Madison Avenue line opened in 2004, as the initial stage of a light rail system that would connect downtown Memphis with the Memphis International Airport and eventually to regional transit service beyond the MATA service boundaries.\n\n"}
