{"id": "2087248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087248", "title": "Master of Orion II: Battle at Antares", "text": "Master of Orion II: Battle at Antares\n\nMaster of Orion II: Battle at Antares is a 4X turn-based strategy game set in space, designed by Steve Barcia and Ken Burd, and developed by Simtex, who developed its predecessor \"Master of Orion\". The PC version was published by MicroProse in 1996, and the Apple Macintosh version a year later by MacSoft, in partnership with MicroProse. The game has retained a large fan base, and is still played online.\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" won the Origins Award for Best Fantasy or Science Fiction Computer Game of 1996, and was well received by critics, although reviewers differed about which aspects they liked and disliked. It is used as a yardstick in reviews of more recent space-based 4X games.\n\nLong before the time in which the game is set, two extremely powerful races, the Orions and the Antarans, fought a war that devastated most of the galaxy. The victorious Orions, rather than exterminate the Antarans, imprisoned them in a pocket dimension before departing the galaxy, leaving behind a very powerful robotic warship, the Guardian, to protect their homeworld.\n\nSome time after the game starts, the Antarans, having broken out of their prison dimension, begin to send increasingly powerful fleets against the players' colonies, to destroy them rather than to invade. The only way they can be stopped is to carry the battle to their home universe through a Dimensional Portal.\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" is more complex than the original game, providing more gameplay options for the player. Three new alien races have been added, and the option for players to design their own race. Instead of the one planet per star system found in the original there are now multiplanet star systems that can be shared with opponents. Spaceships can now engage in combat, marines can board enemy ships, and planets can be blown up. Multiplayer mode includes one-on-one matches and games with up to eight players.\n\nVictory can be gained by military or diplomatic means. Major elements of the game's strategy include the design of custom races and the need to balance the requirements for food, production, cash and research. The user interface provides a central screen for most economic management and other screens that control research, diplomacy, ship movement, combat and warship design.\n\nConquering the Orion star system does not automatically win the game; it merely provides the powerful Avenger starship and some non-researchable Antaran technologies. There are three routes to victory: conquer all opponents; be elected as the supreme leader of the galaxy; or make a successful assault against the Antaran homeworld. To be elected, a player needs two-thirds of the total votes, and each empire's votes are based on the population under its control.\n\nStar systems have at most five colonizable planets, and a few have none. Players can colonize all solid planet types, while gas giants and asteroids can be made habitable with the planet construction technology. Colonizable planets vary in several ways, making some more desirable than others:\n\nThe most desirable systems are usually guarded by space monsters, much less powerful than Orion's Guardian but still a challenge in the early game, when fleets are small and low-technology.\n\nWithout food, a colony will starve to death. If an empire has an overall food surplus, it can prevent localized starvation by sending food in freighters, which are produced in groups of five and require a small amount of upkeep when in use. However, a single hostile warship of any size can blockade an entire system, preventing the delivery of food.\n\nEach player can change each of its colonies' outputs by moving colonists between farming, industry and research, except that natives can only farm. All normal colonists pay a standard tax to the imperial treasury, and an additional imperial tax may be set causing a corresponding reduction of industrial output on all colonies. Players can use surplus money to accelerate industrial production at specified colonies, but not to increase agricultural or research output. The maintenance of buildings costs money, as does maintaining an excessively large fleet. Ships of different sizes require different numbers of \"command points\". These are provided by orbital bases, which are major construction projects for small colonies, and communications technology. This severely limits the size of empires' fleets in the early game, where one can have only one frigate (smallest type of ship) per starbase \"or\" one battleship (largest type of ship in the early game) per four starbases without having to \"buy\" command points, which is very expensive.\n\nResearch, usually followed by construction of appropriate buildings, can improve all types of productivity, including cashflow and command points, and can reduce or eliminate pollution, Falling behind in technology is likely to be fatal. There are eight research areas divided into several levels, each of which contains one to four technologies. To research a higher-level technology, players must first have researched the previous level. Players can also acquire technologies by exchange or diplomatic threats, spying, hiring colonial leaders or ship commanders with knowledge of certain technologies, planetary conquest, capturing and dismantling enemy ships, random events, or by stumbling upon it in a derelict craft orbiting a newly discovered planet. All weapons and most other combat-related components benefit from miniaturization, in which further advances in the technology area that provides them will reduce the size and production cost of those components. Technological advancements also make available modifications for most weapons, which usually entail a significant increase in their cost and size but can greatly improve their effectiveness in the right situations.\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" provides a wide range of diplomatic negotiations: gifts of money or technology or even all the colonies in a star system; opportunities to demand such concessions from other players; technology trades; trade, non-aggression and alliance treaties. The diplomacy menu, called \"Races\" in the game, also enables the player to allocate spies between defensive duties and spying or sabotage against other empires, and to check opponents' technological progress and diplomatic relationships.\n\nThe designs of colony ships, outpost ships and troop transports are fixed. These three ship types can be destroyed instantly by even the weakest combat ship if they travel unescorted. Colony ships, outpost ships, troop transports and warships may benefit from technological advances that increase the range and speed of all of an empire's ships free of charge. Players can design warships, provided they choose the \"tactical combat\" option in game set-up. A maximum of five classes can be designed at a time, but an indefinite number may be in operation. Players can also refit ships to take advantage of technological improvements not available through free upgrades.\n\nShips can travel to any star system within their range, unlike games such as \"Space Empires\" or \"Master of Orion III\", in which interstellar travel is possible only or mainly via \"wormholes\" and it is possible to set up easily defended choke points.\n\nIn \"Master of Orion II\", space combat occurs only within star systems, either over a planet one side is attacking or on the outskirts of a system, if one side is driving away the other's blockaders or trying to prevent an enemy build-up. If the defending side has warships and several colonies in a system, they automatically scramble to defend whichever colony is attacked. In general, enemy colonies can be taken over only after all orbital and planet-based defenses have been destroyed and all defending ships have been destroyed or forced to retreat. However, a fleet including telepaths will mind-control the colony, unless the defenders also include telepaths. In other cases the only way to seize control of an enemy colony is by invading. In order to do this, the attacking fleet must include some troop transports, which will be lost if the invasion fails, and at least transports will be permanently deployed on the planet if the invasion succeeds. A player cannot control ground combat: the result depends on numbers, ground combat technologies, racial ground combat bonuses, and some Leaders if present. However the game displays the progress of the combat and the ground combat technologies and bonuses used by each side. Mind-controlled colonies are instantly loyal to their new owners. Other recently occupied colonies on the other hand are disaffected, have poor productivity, and may rebel and rejoin the empire which founded them. Productivity slowly improves and the risk of rebellion slowly recedes, and there is a way to speed up these improvements. Instead of invading, a victorious attacker may destroy an enemy colony by various means.\n\nFrom time to time players are presented with the opportunity to hire leaders, for a hiring fee and usually an annual salary. Colony leaders improve the farming and/or industrial and/or research and/or financial productivity of all colonies in the system to which they are assigned, and some improve the efficiency of defensive or offensive spies. Ship leaders improve the combat effectiveness of their fleet and some improve the fleets' travel speed. A few leaders of both types also improve the performance ground troops under their command, or contribute directly to a player's finances, or attract other leaders for a reduced hiring fee.\n\nFrom time to time there are lucky breaks, disasters or emergencies which are not caused by any player's actions. These can be disabled in the game start-up menu.\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" provides 13 pre-defined playable races, three of which are additions to those available in \"Master of Orion\". The game also allows players to create custom races, and a group of enthusiasts regard race design as a crucial element of strategy. Each player starts with ten \"picks\" (race design points). Choosing advantageous traits reduces the number of picks available, while choosing disadvantages increases them, but players cannot choose more than ten picks' worth of disadvantages. Most of the options are major or minor advantages and minor disadvantages in farming, industry, research, population growth, money, space combat, espionage and ground combat. The race design system also offers \"special abilities\" that have various effects on various aspects of their effectiveness.\n\nThe player chooses the empire's form of government, which has almost as much influence on how it performs as the choices described above, but the \"best\" governments cost a lot of picks. Dictatorships are the most common governments for the pre-defined races, costing no picks while providing appropriately minor bonuses and penalties. Democracy provides major advantages in research and wealth generation, but is the most vulnerable to spying and sabotage. Democracies also cannot annihilate conquered aliens, but do have the fastest assimilation rate. Unification governments provide advantages in farming and industrial output and defense against espionage, but do not benefit from morale and assimilate conquered aliens at the slowest rate. Feudalism provides a large reduction in spaceship construction costs, but suffers from very slow research. The race design menu treats Feudalism as a significant disadvantage. Each government can be upgraded once by research.\n\nPlayers can manage their economies almost entirely from the Colony List. The Colony List allows the player to access any colony's Build Menu, and to change a colony's output by moving colonists between Farmers, Workers and Scientists. The Build Menu allows the player to queue up to seven items for construction at a colony, to refit ships in that colony's system and to design ships that may then be built at any colony. At the end of each turn, \"Master of Orion II\" shows a report in which items link to the appropriate display, usually to a colony's Build Menu when a construction project has been completed.\n\nThe game was designed by Steve Barcia and Ken Burd, and developed by Barcia's company Simtex, which had previously developed \"Master of Orion\", published in 1993 by MicroProse. For \"Master of Orion II\", Simtex provided additional pre-defined races, the option to create custom races, and multiplayer options. The first \"Orion\" game's graphics had also been heavily criticized, and the second included higher-quality artwork displayed at a higher resolution.\n\nThe main contributions were: design by Steve Barcia (lead designer), programming by Ken Burd (lead programmer) and five others; art by Dave Lawell (lead artist) and eight others; music by Laura Barratt; sound by John Henke.\n\nIn June 1995, MicroProse agreed to buy Simtex, and turned it into an internal development division. The acquisition continued to be known as \"Simtex Software\", and the Simtex logo appears briefly before MicroProse's while \"MOO II\" is loading. MicroProse released \"Master of Orion II: Battle at Antares\" for IBM-compatible PCs in 1996, and an Apple Macintosh version was published a year later by MicroProse in partnership with MacSoft.\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" secured 10th place on PC Data's computer game sales chart for the month of November 1996. It remained in the top 20 for the next two months, in positions 17 and 20, respectively. By mid-January 1997, its global sales has surpassed 200,000 copies.\n\nReviews were generally favorable, and the game won the Origins Award for Best Fantasy or Science Fiction Computer Game of 1996. However, reviewers differed in regard to the new gameplay features and micromanagement. B. Geryk preferred the simpler approach of \"Master of Orion\", while Tom Chick found the gameplay easy to manage and much more engaging than \"Master of Orion\". Robert Mayer of \"Strategy Plus\" argued that the concepts are good but the interface makes it needlessly difficult to access information vital to managing them. \"GameSpot\"s Trent Ward said the game's micromanagement is \"everything that the hard-core veteran dreams of\", but noted that strategy game novices would find it inaccessible. Offering yet another opinion, \"Next Generation\" found the difference from \"Master of Orion\" to be minor, concluding that \"perhaps the biggest problem is that the game is a little too stagnant, and doesn't really break new ground in the now-crowded galactic conquest genre.\"\n\nReviewers criticized that the race traits are unbalanced, with \"creative\" in particular being overpowered, but praised the replay value provided by the wide range of galaxies, races and other options. \"Macworld\"s Michael Gowan wrote that \"Master of Orion II\"s \"countless strategy options will keep you coming back for more.\"\n\nComplaints that the loading of artwork from CD made the game run slowly led to recommendations to download the entire CD onto hard disk before play. Cale Corbett, reviewing the Mac version, complained that the user interface was \"clunky\", as it lacked features common in programs originally developed for the Mac.\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" was a finalist for the Computer Game Developers Conference's 1996 \"Best Strategy/War Game\" Spotlight Award, but lost the prize to \"\". It was also nominated as \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\"s 1996 turn-based strategy game of the year, although it lost to \"Civilization II\". The game was a finalist for \"Computer Gaming World\"s 1996 \"Strategy Game of the Year\" award, again losing to \"Civilization II\".\n\n\"Master of Orion II\" was named the 39th best computer game ever by \"PC Gamer UK\" in 1997.\n\nThe \"Master of Orion\" series set a new standard for space-based 4X games, with a retrospective review describing it as \"a towering monolith in the genre that has cast an eight-year-long shadow over everything that's followed... Master of Orion is still the definitive name in space opera games\". In the same review, Chick added that \"Master of Orion II\" and its predecessor \"Master of Orion\" \"loom large\" in any discussion of science fiction strategy games. \"Master of Orion II\" has both influenced the subsequent development of such games and invited comparisons in reviews, with a 2006 GameSpot review describing it as \"the pinnacle of the genre\".\n\nOther games have been noted for their similarities and differences with \"Master of Orion II\". One review of \"Space Empires IV\" made several comparisons with \"Master of Orion II\", commenting favorably on the complex tactical combat, while criticizing the relatively \"sparse graphics and sound\", concluding that it was the most sophisticated game available in the genre, but that it built \"on the basic foundation of Master of Orion\" instead of \"breaking new ground\". Other games which have been compared with \"Master of Orion II\" include \"Galactic Civilizations II\", which James Lombardi praised as standing \"proudly next to its famed predecessor\" (although it \"did not include the tactical battle option like Masters of Orion II\"), and \"Lost Empire: Immortals\", whose scale was criticised as \"soulless\" (relative to \"Masters of Orion\") by Jason Ocampo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087249", "title": "Joan Baez in Concert", "text": "Joan Baez in Concert\n\nJoan Baez in Concert (later reissued as Joan Baez in Concert, Part 1) is a live album taken from Joan Baez's 1962 concert tours. It peaked at #10 on the \"Billboard\" Pop Albums chart.\n\nIt was Baez's version of \"Babe, I'm Gonna Leave You\" that brought the song to Jimmy Page and Robert Plant's attention; the song is now more commonly associated with Page and Plant's band Led Zeppelin. Malvina Reynolds' \"What Have They Done to the Rain\" (about nuclear fallout) was the first \"topical\" song Baez ever recorded. \"Até Amanhã\" is a Brazilian love song and is sung entirely in Portuguese.\n\nVanguard released most of this album plus its subsequent companion album \"Joan Baez in Concert, Part 2\" on CD in 1988 under this same title, \"Joan Baez in Concert\". Length constraints required dropping some tracks; the CD reissue includes just 20 of the 28 tracks on the two vinyl releases. Dropped from the single CD release were \"Babe, I'm Gonna Leave You\", \"Pretty Boy Floyd\", \"Lady Mary\", \"Até Amanhã\", \"Matty Groves\", \"Three Fishers\", \"Hush Little Baby\" and \"Battle Hymn of the Republic\".\n\nA 2002 Vanguard reissue includes the original Part 1 vinyl tracklist plus three previously unreleased tracks, \"Streets of Laredo\", \"My Good Old Man\" and \"My Lord What A Morning.\"\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Tom Semioli wrote the album's reissue \"captures the undisputed queen of folk music at the onset of her fabled career. Featuring 20-bit remastering from the original analog tapes, exact replicas of the original artwork and liner notes, previously unreleased cuts, and additional liner notes, this installment of Vanguard's Original Master Series is a historic collection of contemporary and traditional folk.\"\n\nAll songs traditional, except where noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087253", "title": "Joan Baez in Concert, Part 2", "text": "Joan Baez in Concert, Part 2\n\nJoan Baez in Concert, Part 2 was a second installment of live material, recorded during Joan Baez' concert tours of early 1963. It peaked at number 7 on the Billboard Pop Albums chart.\n\n\"In Concert, Part 2\" is the first Baez album to feature Bob Dylan covers: \"Don't Think Twice It's Alright\" and \"With God on Our Side\" (according to Baez, the first Dylan song she ever learned). Her recording of \"We Shall Overcome\" was made at Miles College in Birmingham, Alabama, on the same day of the mass arrest of Civil Rights demonstrators in May 1963.\n\nThe jacket notes contain an untitled poem by Bob Dylan with the recurring theme \"An' I walked my road an' sung my song\", which makes reference to Baez and the relationship between the two.\n\nOn the original vinyl Vanguard releases, the stereo and mono releases had different track lists; the track \"With God on Our Side\" from the stereo release is dropped; in its place on the mono release are the tracks \"Railroad Bill\" and \"Rambler Gambler\".\n\nIn 1988, Vanguard released most of the Part 2 release along with most of Part 1 in a combined CD called Joan Baez in Concert (both albums in full would not fit onto a single CD).\n\nA Vanguard reissue in 2002 contains all of the tracks from the stereo and mono releases, as well as three previously unreleased tracks: \"Death of Emmett Till,\" \"Tomorrow is a Long Time\" and \"When First Unto This Country A Stranger I Came.\"\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Richie Unterberger wrote of the album \"Her repertoire was evolving from purely traditional folk to encompass significant work by contemporary folksinger/songwriters... Baez's growth was not so radical as to alienate any of her folk followers, and the album still featured several traditional folk songs of the sort that had launched her career... The introduction of less-hidebound excursions, though, did much to lighten her approach and keep her from falling into too much of a maiden-of-constant-sorrow rut.\"\n\nAll songs are traditional except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087262", "title": "Antoine Winfield Sr.", "text": "Antoine Winfield Sr.\n\nAntoine Duane Winfield Sr. (born June 24, 1977) is a former American football cornerback who played 14 years in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for Ohio State University, earning consensus All-American honors and winning the Jim Thorpe Award. He was drafted by the Buffalo Bills in the first round of the 1999 NFL Draft. He played five seasons for the Bills and nine seasons for the Minnesota Vikings. He was a three-time Pro Bowl selection as a member of the Vikings.\n\nWinfield was born in Akron, Ohio. He attended Garfield High School in his hometown of Akron.\n\nWinfield received an athletic scholarship to attend Ohio State University, where he played for the Ohio State Buckeyes football team from 1995 to 1998. As a senior in 1998, he was a consensus first-team All-American, and won the Jim Thorpe Award as the nation's top defensive back.\n\nThe Buffalo Bills selected Winfield in the first round (23rd overall pick) of the 1999 NFL Draft, and he played for the Bills from to .\n\nOn July 30, 1999, the Buffalo signed Winfield to a five-year, $7.98 million contract. Head coach Wade Phillips named Winfield the third cornerback in the depth chart to begin the regular season, behind veterans Thomas Smith and Ken Irvin.\n\nWinfield made his professional regular season debut in the Buffalo Bills’ season-opener at the Indianapolis Colts and recorded three combined tackles and made his first career interception during their 31–14 loss. Winfield made his first career interception off a pass attempt by Colts’ quarterback Peyton Manning, that was originally intended for the wide receiver Jerome Pathon, and returned it for a three-yard gain in the fourth quarter. On December 26, 1999, Winfield earned his first career start in place of Ken Irvin who was placed on injured reserve due to a foot injury he sustained the previous week. He finished his first career start with one tackle during their 13–10 victory at the New England Patriots in a Week 16. In Week 17, Winfield collected a season-high 11 combined tackles as the Bills defeated the Indianapolis Colts 31–6. He finished his rookie season in 1999 with 40 combined tackles and two interceptions in 16 games and two starts.\n\nThe Buffalo Bills finished second in the AFC East with an 11–5 record and earned a wildcard berth. On January 8, 2000, Winfield started in his first career playoff game and recorded three combined tackles and intercepted a pass by Titans’ quarterback Steve McNair during their 22–16 loss at the Tennessee Titans in the AFC Wildcard Game.\n\nWinfield entered training camp slated as a starting cornerback after Thomas Smith departed during free agency and signed with the Chicago Bears. Head coach Wade Phillips named Winfield and Ken Irvin the starting cornerbacks to begin the regular season. In Week 9, Winfield collected a season-high nine combined tackles during a 23–20 victory against the New York Jets. On November 5, 2000, Winfield sustained a shoulder injury during a 16–13 win at the New England Patriots. On November 19, 2000, Winfield further aggravated his shoulder injury during a 21–17 victory at the Kansas City Chiefs. On November 24, 2000, the Buffalo Bills placed Winfield on injured reserve after it was discovered he had a torn labrum cartilage in his right shoulder that would require surgery.\n\nOn January 8, 2001, the Buffalo Bills fired head coach Wade Phillips after they finished with an 8–8 record in 2000. Head coach Gregg Williams retained Winfield and Ken Irvin as the starting cornerbacks to begin the regular season. On September 23, 2001, Winfield recorded three combined tackles, a pass deflection, forced a fumble, and intercepted a pass by Colts’ quarterback Peyton Manning during a 42–26 loss at the Indianapolis Colts in Week 2. In Week 14, he collected a season-high eight solo tackles as the Bills loss 12–9 to the New England Patriots. He started in all 16 games in 2001 and recorded 80 combined tackles (68 solo), nine pass deflections, and two interceptions.\n\nWinfield returned as a starting cornerback in 2002. He started alongside his former Ohio State teammate Nate Clements. In Week 3, Winfield collected a season-high nine combined tackles during a 28–23 loss at the Denver Broncos in Week 3. Winfield missed three games (Weeks 7–9) due to a knee injury. On October 18, 2002, Winfield underwent arthroscopic surgery on his knee. He finished the season with 56 combined tackles (51 solo) and seven pass deflections in 13 games and 13 starts.\n\nDefensive coordinator Jerry Gray retained Winfield and Nate Clements the starting cornerback duo in 2003. On October 5, 2003, Winfield collected a season-high 12 combined tackles (11 solo) as the Bills defeated the Cincinnati Bengals 22–16. On November 23, 2003, Winfield recorded ten combined tackles (seven solo) and made his first career sack during a 17–14 loss against the Indianapolis Colts in Week 12. Winfield sacked Colts’ quarterback Peyton Manning for a six-yard loss during the first quarter. Winfield started in all 16 games in 2003 and recorded a career-high 107 combined tackles (92 solo), 11 pass deflections, two forced fumbles, one sack, and an interception.\n\nWinfield became an unrestricted free agent in 2004 and was considered by many analysts to be the top free agent cornerback on the market. He was heavily pursued by multiple teams, including the New York Jets, Miami Dolphins, Houston Texans, and Minnesota Vikings. On March 4, 2004, it was reported that the New York Jets and Winfield has agreed, in principle, to a six-year, $30 million contract with $10 million guaranteed. Winfield attended a visit with the Minnesota Vikings and officially signed with them the following day.\n\nOn March 5, 2004, the Minnesota Vikings signed Winfield to a six-year, $34.8 million contract that includes a signing bonus of $10.8 million. Head coach Mike Tice named Winfield and Brian Williams the starting cornerbacks to start the regular season.\n\nOn October 17, 2004, Winfield recorded seven combined tackles, deflected a pass, and made his first interception as a member of the Vikings during a 38–31 win at the New Orleans Saints. Winfield intercepted a pass by Saints’ quarterback Aaron Brooks, that was intended for wide receiver Ernie Conwell, and returned it for a 56-yard gain during the first quarter. The following week, Winfield made eight solo tackles, two pass deflections, and intercepted a pass attempt by Titans’ quarterback Billy Volek during a 20–3 victory against the Tennessee Titans in Week 7. In Week 9, he collected a season-high 13 combined tackles (ten solo) and broke up two passes during a 31–28 loss at the Indianapolis Colts. Winfield was inactive for two games (Weeks 14–15) due to an ankle injury. Winfield finished the 2004 NFL season with 85 combined tackles (70 solo), five passes defenses, three interceptions, and two forced fumbles in 14 games and 14 starts.\n\nHead coach Mike Tice named Winfield and newly acquired free agent Fred Smoot the starting cornerbacks to begin 2005. They started alongside safeties Corey Chavous and Darren Sharper. On November 6, 2005, Winfield collected a season-high 14 combined tackles (11 solo), deflected two passes, and made an interception off Lions’ quarterback Joey Harrington during a 27–14 win against the Detroit Lions in Week 9. In Week 12, Winfield made nine combined tackles, a season-high three pass deflections, and intercepted a pass by Trent Dilfer as the Vikings defeated the Cleveland Browns 24–12.\n\nIn the Vikings' 30–27 win over the New Orleans Saints on Week 5 (October 6) of 2008, a \"Monday Night Football\" game, Winfield returned a blocked field goal attempt by Martin Gramatica 59 yards for a touchdown. Additionally, Winfield had 8 tackles and one deflected pass that game. Winfield finished 2008 with 95 total tackles, 2 sacks, 5 passes defended, and one interception. He made his first Pro Bowl in 2008.\n\nOn July 23, 2009 the Vikings signed Winfield to a new five-year, $36 million contract. The deal includes $16.1 million in guarantees. He made his second straight Pro Bowl in 2010 after replacing injured Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie. After making the 2010 Pro Bowl squad, he made an interception that led to a touchdown in an NFC 55–41 victory. He is regarded as one of the most physical corners in the league, known for his bone-jarring hits, and was ranked by Peter King of \"Sports Illustrated\" as the 31st best player in the NFL.\n\nWinfield was the only player on the Vikings' active 2012 roster who played during the 1990s.\n\nWinfield was released by the Minnesota Vikings on March 12, 2013 in a move to clear $7.25 million in salary cap space.\n\nWinfield signed with the Seattle Seahawks on April 17, 2013 to a one-year, $3 million contract. He was assigned number 21 due to starting fullback Michael Robinson having already been assigned 26 in 2010. He was released from the team during final cuts on August 31, 2013.\n\nSeattle Seahawks coach Pete Carroll announced on Twitter on August 31, 2013 Winfield was retiring.\n\nHis son, Antoine Winfield Jr., is a defensive back for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.\n"}
{"id": "2087264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087264", "title": "WTHR", "text": "WTHR\n\nWTHR, virtual and VHF digital channel 13, is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. Owned by Tegna Inc., it is a sister station to low-powered, Class A MeTV affiliate WALV-CD, channel 46 (which WTHR simulcasts on its third digital subchannel). The two stations share studios on North Meridian Street (south of I-65) in downtown Indianapolis and transmitter facilities near Ditch Road and West 96th Street in Carmel. On cable, WTHR is available on Charter Spectrum channel 12, and Comcast Xfinity and AT&T U-verse channel 13.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on October 30, 1957, as WLWI. Founded by the Crosley Broadcasting Corporation, it originally operated as an ABC affiliate, taking the affiliation from Bloomington-licensed WTTV (channel 4, formerly a CW affiliate, now a CBS affiliate), which had affiliated with the network one year earlier. WLWI was one of four Crosley stations that made up the \"WLW Television Network\", alongside the company's television and the regional network's flagship WLWT in Cincinnati, WLWC (now WCMH-TV) in Columbus and WLWD (now WDTN) in Dayton, Ohio. Crosley also owned WLW radio in Cincinnati, WLWA (now WXIA-TV) in Atlanta and WOAI-TV in San Antonio. Channel 13 and its sister stations in Ohio shared common programming (such as \"The Ruth Lyons 50-50 Club\", \"The Bob Braun Show\", \"The Paul Dixon Show\", \"Midwestern Hayride\", \"The Phil Donahue Show\", and Cincinnati Reds baseball game telecasts) and similar on-air branding which reflected their connection to each other. Channel 13 called itself \"WLW-I\" to trade on its association with WLW radio, which can be heard in most of the market during the day with a good radio.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1962, the station was tied up in one of the most heated licensing disputes in early television history. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) originally awarded the construction permit to build a television station on channel 13 to a group headed by Union Federal Savings and Loan president George Sadlier. However, after an appeal, the FCC reversed its decision and awarded the permit to Crosley. One of the other competitors, Richard Fairbanks, owner of WIBC, then sued to force new license hearings. Fairbanks contended that the FCC had erred in awarding the last VHF channel allocation in Indianapolis to a company based in Cincinnati when there were viable applicants based in Indiana. The suit, however, was filed too late to prevent WLWI from signing on under Crosley ownership.\n\nThe District of Columbia Court of Appeals overturned the FCC's decision in 1958, but allowed Crosley to continue running the station pending further action by the FCC. In 1961, the FCC awarded Fairbanks the channel 13 license, but Crosley appealed. The following year, Crosley and Fairbanks reached a deal in which Crosley traded WLWA to Fairbanks in return for being allowed to keep WLWI.\n\nAmid this instability in ownership, WLWI found the going rather difficult. It was also dogged by a weaker network affiliation; ABC would not be on an equal footing with CBS and NBC in the ratings until the 1970s. WLWI spent most of its first 17 years of operation languishing as a third place also-ran behind NBC affiliate WFBM-TV (channel 6, now ABC affiliate WRTV) and then-CBS affiliate WISH-TV (channel 8, now a CW affiliate). In some cases, it even fell to fourth place in the local ratings behind then-independent station WTTV.\n\nIn late 1974, Avco Broadcasting Corporation (which Crosley Broadcasting was renamed as in 1968) announced it was exiting the broadcasting business in an effort to raise cash. The Wolfe family, owners of the \"Columbus Dispatch\" and WBNS-AM-FM-TV in Columbus, bought WLWI from Avco in August 1975; the Wolfes changed the station's call letters to WTHR on January 29, 1976. With new ownership in place, the quality of the station's programming began to improve, but WTHR remained stuck at third place in the ratings behind WISH and WRTV.\n\nMeanwhile, ABC gradually rose to first place during the decade and was seeking out stronger affiliates in many markets. At the same time, NBC tumbled to last place among the \"Big Three\" networks. Under the circumstances, long-dominant WRTV was very receptive to an offer from ABC. WTHR and WRTV swapped networks on June 1, 1979, with channel 13 becoming the market's NBC affiliate and channel 6 becoming an ABC affiliate. The switch to NBC eventually provided a major windfall for WTHR starting when the NFL's Indianapolis Colts moved from Baltimore in 1984; until NBC lost the rights to the NFL to CBS in 1998 (effectively moving the games to WISH-TV and later WTTV in 2015), WTHR aired the bulk of the team's regular season games under the AFC package. Ratings gradually improved in the 1980s with NBC's powerful prime time lineup, but not enough to get the station out of third place.\n\nOn April 7, 1991, WTHR participated in an experiment in which it moved NBC prime time programming one hour earlier (mirroring the scheduling of the network's prime time lineup in the Central and Mountain time zones); the half-hour late evening newscast also moved from 11:00 to 10:00 p.m. as a result. (The experiment, which lasted until the fall of 1992, was succeeded by similar efforts by KRON-TV and KPIX-TV in San Francisco, and KOVR in Sacramento later in the decade.)\n\nChannel 13 first saw a significant ratings boost in the mid-1990s, buoyed by NBC's stronger programming as well as improvements in its news department. It has long since left its ratings-challenged past behind, and is now one of the strongest NBC affiliates in the nation.\n\nOn September 2, 2007, WTHR celebrated its 50th anniversary; the station used the song \"Carousels (Dreaming of Tomorrow)\" by Columbus-based rock band Alamoth Lane in an image campaign to promote the event (the song was also used in a market campaign by Columbus sister station WBNS to promote its upgrade to high definition newscasts).\n\nWTHR shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 13, at 12:37 a.m. on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition UHF channel 46 to VHF channel 13 for post-transition operations.\n\nIn February 2009, WTHR began affiliating its third sub-channel with Universal Sports. Starting in August 2009, WTHR preempted regular program on this sub-channel for a high school football or basketball game under the titles, \"Operation Football Live\" and \"Operation Basketball Live\", with marketing support from VYPE High School Sports Magazine. These Operation had been a long time franchises for WTHR. WTHR formerly operated the SkyTrak Weather Network, which was carried on WALV-CD (channel 50, now on channel 46, where the service first launched in 2000) and simulcast on digital subchannel 13.2.\n\nOn December 14, 2011, the Dispatch Broadcast Group signed an agreement with MeTV to affiliate with WTHR; the station began carrying the classic television network on its second digital subchannel (which is also carried on Xfinity channel 248, and Spectrum channels 93 and 358) on January 1, 2012, replacing Universal Sports (which converted into a cable- and satellite-only network on that date). As January 25, 2013, WALV-CD/WTHR .2 affiliated with the classic television and lifestyle network Cozi TV replacing SkyTrak Weather Network. \n\nFor the 2016 Olympics from August 8 to 19, some of WTHR's syndicated programming was moved to WALV and its other subchannel. By May 26, 2017, WALV-CD began broadcasting MeTV, which stayed on WTHR 13.3, dropping Cozi TV programming. However, Cozi was retained by WTHR.2.\n\nDue to reception problems in parts of Central Indiana with its VHF digital signal (including in areas on the fringe of its Grade B coverage such as Bainbridge and Crawfordsville) that did not occur with stations broadcasting on the UHF band following the transition, WTHR filed a request with the FCC in June 2013 to increase its transmitter power to 77,000 watts, which would exceed the Commission's maximum power limit in effect at the time.\n\nOn June 11, 2019, Dispatch announced it would sell its broadcasting assets, including WTHR and WALV-CD, to Tegna Inc. for $535 million in cash. It would make WTHR and WALV-CD sister stations to ABC affiliate WHAS-TV in adjacent Louisville and would also result in Tegna owning its first station in Indiana since its predecessor company, Gannett, sold off Fort Wayne's WPTA to the now-defunct Pulitzer, Inc. in May 1983. The sale was approved by the FCC on July 29, and was completed on August 8.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nFrom the arrival of the Indianapolis Colts in 1984 until 1997, WTHR (through NBC's rights to AFC games) aired regular season games televised locally with WISH (channel 8) from 1984 until 1993 (for select games televised by CBS in which the Colts play against an NFC opponent), with WRTV—until 2005—carrying non-preseason games via ABC's \"Monday Night Football\" on occasions when a game involving the Colts was scheduled.\n\nSince 2006, regular season games currently televised over-the-air locally are split between WISH (from 1998 to 2014), and since 2015 WTTV (channel 4, through CBS' rights to the team's AFC affiliation), WXIN (channel 59, for select games televised by Fox in which the Colts play host to an NFC opponent at home since 1994, or since 2014, any games moved from WTTV via the new 'cross-flex' broadcast rules), with WTHR carrying non-preseason games and select Colts NFL games broadcast by NBC as part of the network's \"Sunday Night Football\" package. The station also acquired the local rights to two Colts regular season games during the 2013 season between the San Diego Chargers (on October 14, which aired on ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\"—whose Colts broadcasts are normally carried over-the-air by WNDY-TV (channel 23)) and the Tennessee Titans (on November 14, which aired on NFL Network's \"Thursday Night Football\"). WTHR also provided local coverage of Super Bowl XLVI, which was hosted at Lucas Oil Stadium.\n\nFrom 2013 until 2016, WTHR served as an official sponsor of the Indiana Pacers and the Indiana Fever; the station displayed its on-court advertisements during all of the NBA and WNBA franchises' home games held at the Bankers Life Fieldhouse; these marked the only NBA and WNBA teams to be sponsored by an NBC-affiliated station following the loss of NBC's rights to the NBA for ABC and ESPN, and locally, WRTV in 2002; WTHR first carried Pacers games in 1990 when NBC acquired the NBA broadcast package. WTHR occasionally runs special editions of its newscasts or its highlight program \"Sports Jam\" to cover Pacers or Fever games.\n\nWith the transition of broadcast television rights to the IndyCar Series to NBC in 2019, WTHR replaced WRTV (which had carried the race since 1980) as the local broadcaster of the Indianapolis 500, returning the race to WTHR for the first time since 1979 (when it was an ABC station). As per longstanding policies, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway will require WTHR to black out the live broadcast locally to encourage residents and tourists to attend the race, though it will allow WTHR to air the race on tape delay that night. When ABC held the rights, it allowed WRTV to air the ABC prime time schedule in the race's live time slot under special dispensation; it is not known if NBC will follow a similar practice. However, speedway officials have stated they would allow a live broadcast on WTHR if the race sells out before race day.\n\nWTHR presently broadcasts nearly 37 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with six hours each weekday, three hours on Saturdays and four hours on Sundays).\n\nFor most of its first four decades in the air, channel 13's newscasts had placed third in the ratings behind WISH and WRTV. The Wolfes made a large investment in the news department after taking over the station. Combined with NBC's prime time lineup as a lead-in, WTHR's ratings saw a modest uptick in the 1980s and early 1990s, but not enough to get it out of third place. \n\nWTHR's newscasts surged to second place in 1996 after it hired former CBS News correspondent John Stehr as anchor of its evening newscasts around the same time that WRTV saw its ratings plummet following a botched format change. For the next three years, the station waged a pitched battle with then-dominant WISH for first place. In 1999, the station's \"Eyewitness News\" broadcasts surged past then-dominant WISH in several key timeslots, finishing in first place for the first time in its history. It eventually overtook WISH-TV for first in all news timeslots in 2002. The station's ratings lead—which WTHR emphasizes in the slogan it adopted upon taking first place full-time, \"Indiana's News Leader\"—began to narrow in 2010 as WISH-TV and Fox affiliate WXIN (channel 59) saw viewership gains that year as WTHR’s ratings steadily decreased in certain timeslots, especially on weekday mornings. Despite decreased ratings for NBC's prime time schedule since the 2004-05 season, WTHR remains in a close battle with WISH for the #1 slot in the 11:00 p.m. timeslot.\n\nAs NBC affiliates in several larger markets switched network affiliations and/or dropped the \"Eyewitness News\" format over the past three decades, WTHR was the largest NBC affiliate to use the \"Eyewitness News\" brand continuously until March 25, 2020 (only KOB in Albuquerque, WRCB in Chattanooga and WBRE-TV in Wilkes-Barre–Scranton are the only remaining NBC affiliates to use the brand). This is based on the fact that the branding was originally synonymous with most ABC owned-and-operated stations, as well as stations owned by Westinghouse Broadcasting (or Group W) that were later acquired by CBS. The station first used the \"Eyewitness News\" format from 1969 to 1979 as an ABC affiliate (combining it with the \"NewsCenter\" format historically used by NBC stations) as \"Eyewitness NewsCenter 13\" from 1976 to 1979, which utilized a format similar to that originated by CITY-TV in Toronto for its \"CityPulse\" newscasts) and was restored in 1995. The station debuted a weekday morning newscast titled \"Sunrise\" in September 1985; this was followed by the addition of two-hour weekend morning newscasts in 1993 (which were later retitled under the \"Weekend Sunrise\" banner), becoming the first station in the Indianapolis market to expand its morning newscasts to Saturdays and Sundays.\n\nOn March 16, 1996, WTHR began producing a nightly half-hour 10:00 p.m. newscast for UPN affiliate WNDY-TV (now a MyNetworkTV affiliate). The news share agreement with WNDY was terminated after that station was acquired by WISH-TV owner LIN TV Corporation in February 2005; on February 28 of that year, when WISH assumed production responsibilities for the WNDY newscast, WTHR began producing a 10:00 p.m. newscast for Pax TV owned-and-operated station WIPX-TV (channel 63, now an Ion Television O&O), which was cancelled five months later on June 30. In May 2005, the station added a 4:30 a.m. half-hour to the weekday edition of its \"Sunrise\" newscast (this predated morning news expansions into that timeslot by many other American television stations by a few years).\n\nOn November 12, 2006, beginning with the 11:00 p.m. newscast, WTHR became the first television station in Indiana to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition. The station's news set at the time, which was built in 1997 with an eventual conversion to HD broadcasts in mind, underwent a refresh as part of the upgrade. Much of WTHR's field video continued to be shot in pillarboxed standard definition until October 2, 2007 when all video recorded and broadcast live outside the studio began to be broadcast in widescreen; video recorded by the station's news crews is shot, edited and broadcast in the 1080i resolution.\n\nIn June 2011, WTHR began offering newscast segments for free streaming on the Roku digital video player. On February 24, 2014, the station expanded its weekday morning newscast by a half-hour to 4:00 a.m. On June 23, 2014, \"The Indianapolis Star\" announced that it would end its content partnership with WTHR, and enter into a new content agreement with Fox affiliate WXIN beginning on August 1.\nOn March 25, 2020, WTHR adopted Tegna's standardized news graphics and \"C Clarity\" theme, seven months after Tegna acquired the station, now as \"13 News.\"\n\nWTHR has received national honors for its news reporting over the years, including Peabody Awards for two 2006 reports, \"Cause for Alarm\" (an investigation into faulty tornado sirens in Indiana) and \"Prescription Privacy\" (an investigation of improper disposal of personal pharmacy records); WTHR also earned a third Peabody for 2010's \"Reality Check: Where Are the Jobs?\", which revealed grossly exaggerated job creation claims made by the Indiana Economic Development Corporation. \"Investigating the IRS\", an investigative series which exposed how illegal immigrants fraudulently received billions of dollars in tax refunds and the IRS's failure to stop it once the fraud was discovered, earned WTHR a fourth national Peabody Award in 2013. \"Charity Caught on Camera\", a report on corruption at a local nonprofit, and \"Dangerous Exposure\", a report on how lax agency oversight allowed companies to leak poison into groundwater in residential areas, won the station two Peabody awards in 2016.\n\nThe station earned two national Edward R. Murrow Awards from the Radio and Television News Directors Association (RTNDA) in 2011, in the \"Overall Excellence\" and \"Investigative Series\" categories. In 2012, WTHR earned two Murrow Awards for its breaking news coverage of the Indiana State Fair stage collapse and in the spot news category, which was given to WTHR videographer Steve Rhodes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087269", "title": "History of Las Vegas", "text": "History of Las Vegas\n\nThis history of Las Vegas covers both the city of Las Vegas, Nevada and the Las Vegas Valley.\n\nThe name \"Las Vegas\" was given to the city in 1829 by Rafael Rivera, a member of the Spanish explorer Antonio Armijo trading party that was traveling to Los Angeles, and stopped for water there on the Old Spanish Trail from New Mexico. At that time, several parts of the valley contained artesian wells surrounded by extensive green areas; \"Las Vegas\" means \"the meadows\" in Spanish. The flows from the wells fed the Las Vegas Wash, which runs to the Colorado River.\n\nThe settlement of Las Vegas was founded in 1905 after opening of a railroad that linked Los Angeles and Salt Lake City. The stopover attracted some farmers (mostly from Utah) to the area, and fresh water was piped in to the settlement. In 1911, the town was incorporated as part of the newly founded Clark County. Urbanization took off in 1931 when work started on the Boulder Dam (now the Hoover Dam), bringing a huge influx of young male workers, for whom theaters and casinos were built, largely by the Mafia. Electricity from the dam also enabled the building of many new hotels along the Strip. The arrival of Howard Hughes in 1966 did much to offset mob influence, and helped turn Las Vegas into more of a family tourist center, now classified as a Mega resort.\n\nThe prehistoric landscape of the Las Vegas Valley and most of Southern Nevada was once a marsh with water and vegetation. The rivers that created the marsh eventually went underground, and the marsh receded. The valley then evolved into a parched, arid landscape that only supported the hardiest animals and plants.\n\nAt some point in the valley's early geologic history, the water resurfaced and flowed into what is now the Colorado River. This created a luxurious plant life, forming a wetland oasis in the Mojave Desert landscape.\n\nEvidence of prehistoric life in Las Vegas Valley has been found at the Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument. An abundance of Late Pleistocene fossils have been discovered from this locality, including Columbian mammoths and Camelops hesternus.\n\nNative Americans lived in the Las Vegas Valley, beginning over 10,000 years ago. Archaeologists have discovered baskets, petroglyphs, pictographs and other evidence in diverse locations, including Gypsum Cave and Tule Springs. Paiutes moved into the area as early as AD 700, migrating between nearby mountains in the summer and spending winter in the valley, near Big Springs.\n\nA trade caravan of 60 men led by the Spanish merchant Antonio Armijo was charged with establishing a trade route to Los Angeles. By following the Pike and Smith routes through a tributary of Colorado River they came upon the Las Vegas Valley, described by Smith as the best point to re-supply before going onto California. The travelers named the area \"Las Vegas\" which is Spanish for \"The Meadows\". or 'Fertile Plains.'\n\nJohn C. Frémont traveled into the Las Vegas Valley on May 3, 1844, while it was still part of Mexico. He was appointed by President John Tyler to lead a group of scientists, scouts, and spies for the United States Army Corps of Engineers who were preparing for a possible war with Mexico. Upon arriving in the valley they made camp at the Las Vegas Springs, establishing a clandestine fort there. A war with Mexico did occur, resulting in the region becoming United States territory. The fort was used in later years by travelers, mountain men, hunters, and traders seeking shelter, but was never permanently inhabited.\n\nIn 1855, William Bringhurst led a group of 29 Mormon missionaries from Utah to the Las Vegas Valley. The missionaries built a adobe fort near a creek and used flood irrigation to water their crops, a process still used at the park. However, because of tensions rising between leaders of the small Mormon community, the summer heat and difficulty growing crops, the missionaries returned to Utah in 1857, abandoning the fort.\n\nFor the next few years the area remained unoccupied by Americans except for travelers and traders. Then the U.S. Army, in an attempt to deceive Confederate spies active in southern California in 1864, falsely publicized that it reclaimed the fort and had renamed it Fort Baker, briefly recalling the area to national attention. After the end of the war in 1865, Octavius Gass, with a commission from the federal government, re-occupied the fort. The Paiute nation had declined in numbers and negotiated a new treaty with the United States, ceding the area around the fort to the United States in return for relocation and supplies of food and farming equipment. Consequently, Gass started irrigating the old fields and renamed the area 'Las Vegas Rancho.' Gass made wine at his ranch and Las Vegas became known as the best stop on the Old Spanish Trail. In 1881, because of mismanagement and intrigue with a Mormon syndicate, Gass lost his ranch to Archibald Stewart to pay off a lien Stewart had on the property. In 1884, Archibald's wife, Helen J. Stewart became the Las Vegas Postmaster.\n\nThe property (increased to ), stayed with the family (despite Archibald Stewart's murder in July 1884) until it was purchased in 1902 by the San Pedro, Los Angeles, and Salt Lake Railroad, then being built across southern Nevada. The railroad was a project of Montana Senator William Andrews Clark. Clark enlisted Utah's U.S. Senator and mining magnate Thomas Kearns to ensure the line's completion through Utah to Las Vegas. The State Land Act of 1885 offered land at $1.25 per acre ($3.09/hectare). Clark and Kearns promoted the area to American farmers who quickly expanded the farming plots of the areas. Not until 1895 did the first large-scale migration of Mormons begin in the area, at long last fulfilling Brigham Young's early dream. Through wells and arid irrigation, agriculture became the primary industry for the next 20 years and in return for his development, the farmers named the area Clark County in honor of the railroad tycoon and Senator.\n\nBy the early 20th century, wells piped water into the town, providing both a reliable source of fresh water and the means for additional growth. The increased availability of water in the area allowed Las Vegas to become a water stop, first for wagon trains and later railroads, on the trail between Los Angeles, California, and points east such as Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\nThe San Pedro, Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad was completed in 1905, linking Salt Lake City to southern California. U.S. Senator William Andrews Clark was the majority owner of the railroad, which was a corporation based in Utah. Among its original incorporators were Utah's U.S. Senator Thomas Kearns and his business partner David Keith. Kearns, one of the richest and most powerful men in Utah, and Keith were the owners of Utah's Silver King Coalition Mine, several mines in Nevada and \"The Salt Lake Tribune\" newspaper. Kearns and Keith helped Clark ensure the success of the new railroad across Utah and into Nevada to California. Curiously, for a time there were two towns named Las Vegas. The east-side of Las Vegas (which encompassed the modern Main Street and Las Vegas Boulevard) was owned by Clark, and the west-side Las Vegas (which encompassed the area north of modern-day Bonanza Road) was owned by J.T. McWilliams, who was hired by the Stewart family during the sale of the Las Vegas Rancho and bought available land west of the ranch. It was from their property that Las Vegas took form.\n\nClark subsequently built another railroad branching off from Las Vegas to the boom town of Bullfrog called the Las Vegas and Tonopah Railroad. With the revenue coming down both railways that intersected there, the area of Las Vegas was quickly growing. On May 15, 1905, Las Vegas officially was founded as a city, when , in what would later become downtown, were auctioned to ready buyers. Las Vegas was the driving force in the creation of Clark County, Nevada in 1909 and the city was incorporated in 1911 as a part of the county. The first mayor of Las Vegas was Peter Buol who served from 1911–1913.\n\nShortly after the city's incorporation, the State of Nevada reluctantly became the last western state to outlaw gaming. This occurred at midnight, October 1, 1910, when a strict anti-gambling law became effective in Nevada. It even forbade the western custom of flipping a coin for the price of a drink. Nonetheless, Las Vegas had a diversified economy and a stable and prosperous business community, and therefore continued to grow until 1917. In that year, a combination of economic influences and the redirection of resources by the federal government in support of the war effort forced the Las Vegas and Tonopah Railroad to declare bankruptcy. Although William Clark sold the remains of the company to the Union Pacific Railroad, a nationwide strike in 1922 left Las Vegas in a desperate state.\n\nOn July 3, 1930, President Herbert Hoover signed the appropriation bill for the Boulder Dam. The dam was later renamed the Hoover Dam during the Truman administration. Work started on the dam in 1931 and Las Vegas' population swelled from around 5,000 citizens to 25,000, with most of the newcomers looking for a job building the dam. However, the demographic of the work force consisting of males from across the country with no attachment to the area created a market for large-scale entertainment. A combination of local Las Vegas business owners and Mafia crime lords helped develop the casinos and showgirl theaters to entertain the largely male dam construction workers.\n\nDespite the influx of known crime figures, the local business community tried to cast Las Vegas in a respectable light when the Secretary of the Interior Ray Lyman Wilbur visited in 1929 to inspect the dam site. However a subordinate was found with alcohol on his breath (this was during the time of Prohibition) after a visit to Block 16 in Las Vegas. The government ultimately decided that a federally controlled town, Boulder City, would be erected for the dam workers.\n\nRealizing that gambling would be profitable for local business, the Nevada state legislature legalized gambling at the local level in 1931. Las Vegas, with a small but already well-established illegal gambling industry, was poised to begin its rise as the gaming capital of the world. \nThe county issued the first gambling license in 1931 to the Northern Club, and soon other casinos were licensed on Fremont Street like the Las Vegas Club and the Hotel Apache. Fremont Street became the first paved street in Las Vegas and received the city's first traffic light in 1931.\n\nIn reply, the federal government restricted movement of the dam workers to Las Vegas. Smuggling and circuitous routes then were developed. In 1934, to curtail these activities and the resulting growth of criminal figures in the gambling industry, the city's leading figures purged gambling dens and started an effort to stem the flow of workers from the dam. This only emboldened some dam workers who still contrived to visit Las Vegas. A celebration of this era has become known as Helldorado Days.\n\nAlthough the suppression efforts resulted in declines at gambling venues and resulted in a business downturn, the city was recharged—both literally and figuratively—when the dam was completed in 1935. In 1937, Southern Nevada Power became the first utility to supply power from the dam, and Las Vegas was its first customer. Electricity flowed into Las Vegas and Fremont Street became known as Glitter Gulch due to the many bright lights powered by electricity from Hoover Dam. Meanwhile, although the dam worker population disappeared, Hoover Dam and its reservoir, Lake Mead, turned into tourist attractions on their own and the need for additional higher-class hotels became clear.\n\nIn 1940, U.S. Route 95 was finally extended south into Las Vegas, giving the city two major access roads. Also in 1940 Las Vegas's first permanent radio station, KENO, began broadcasting replacing the niche occupied earlier by transient broadcasters.\n\nOn January 25, 1941 the U.S. Army established a flexible gunnery school for the United States Army Air Corps in Las Vegas. Mayor John L. Russell signed over land to the U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps for this development. The gunnery school later would become Nellis Air Force Base. The U.S. Army was not pleased with the legal prostitution in Las Vegas and in 1942 forced Las Vegas to outlaw the practice, putting Block 16, the local red light district permanently out of business.\n\nOn April 3, 1941, hotel owner Thomas Hull opened the El Rancho Vegas. It was the first resort on what would become the Las Vegas Strip. The hotel gained much of its fame from the gourmet buffet that it offered. On October 30, 1942, Texas cinema magnate R. E. Griffith rebuilt on the site of a nightclub called Pair-O-Dice, that first opened in 1930, and renamed it Hotel Last Frontier. A few more resorts were built on and around Fremont Street, but it was the next hotel on the Strip that publicly demonstrated the influence of organized crime on Las Vegas.\n\nAlthough ethnic organized crime figures had been involved in some of the operations at the hotels, the Mafia bosses never owned or controlled the hotels and clubs which remained monopolized by hard-bitten local Las Vegas families who were unwilling to cede ground to the crime bosses and proved strong enough to push back. This changed in post-war Las Vegas when Jewish gangster Bugsy Siegel, with help from friend and fellow mob boss Meyer Lansky, poured money through locally-owned banks for cover of legitimacy and built The Flamingo in 1946. Siegel modeled his enterprises on the long-running gambling empire in Galveston, Texas, which had pioneered the high-class casino concepts that became mainstays on the Strip.\n\nThe Flamingo initially lost money and Siegel died in a hail of gunfire in Beverly Hills, California in the summer of 1947. Additionally, local police and Clark County Sheriff deputies were notorious for their heavy-handed tactics toward mobsters who \"grew too big for their pants.\" However, many mobsters saw the potential that gambling offered in Las Vegas. After gambling was legalized, the Bank of Las Vegas, led by E. Parry Thomas, became the first bank to lend money to the casinos, which Thomas regarded as the most important businesses in Las Vegas. At the same time, Allen Dorfman, a close associate of longtime IBT President Jimmy Hoffa and a known associate of the Chicago Outfit, took over the Teamsters Central States Pension Fund which began lending money to Las Vegas casino owners and developers. They provided funding to build the Sahara, the Sands, the New Frontier, the Royal Nevada, the Showboat, The Riviera, The Fremont, Binion's Horseshoe (which was the Apache Hotel), and finally The Tropicana.\n\nEven with the general knowledge that some of the owners of these casino resorts had dubious backgrounds, by 1954, over 8 million people were visiting Las Vegas yearly pumping $200 million into casinos. Gambling was no longer the only attraction; the biggest stars of films and music like Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Andy Williams, Liberace, Bing Crosby, Carol Channing, and others performed in intimate settings. After coming to see these stars, the tourists would resume gambling, and then eat at the gourmet buffets that have become a staple of the casino industry.\n\nOn November 15, 1950, the United States Senate Special Committee to Investigate Crime in Interstate Commerce (known at the Kefauver Hearings) met in Las Vegas. It was the seventh of 14 hearings held by the commission. Moe Sedway, manager of the Flamingo Hotel and a friend of mobster Bugsy Siegel, Wilbur Clark representing the Desert Inn, and Nevada Lieutenant Governor Clifford Jones were all called to testify. The hearings established that Las Vegas interests were required to pay Siegel to get the race wire transmitting the results of horse and dog races, prizefight results and other sports action into their casinos. \n\nThe hearing concluded that organized crime money was incontrovertibly tied to the Las Vegas casinos and was becoming the controlling interest in the city, earning the organized crime groups vast amounts of income, strengthening their influence in the country. This led to a proposal by the Senate to institute federal gambling control. Nevada's Senator Pat McCarran was instrumental in defeating the measure in committee.\n\nAlong with their connections in Hollywood and New York City, these interests in Las Vegas were able to use publicity provided by these media capitals to steer the rapid growth of tourism into Las Vegas, thereby dooming Galveston, Texas; Hot Springs, Arkansas; and other illegal gaming centers around the nation. Nevada's legal gaming as well as the paradoxical increased scrutiny by local and federal law enforcement in these other locales during the 1950s made their demise inevitable.\n\nWhile the Strip was booming, the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission on January 27, 1951 detonated the first of over a hundred atmospheric explosions at the Nevada Test Site. Despite the dangers and risks of radiation exposure from the fallout, which were greatly underestimated at the time, Las Vegas advertised the explosions as another tourist attraction and offered Atomic Cocktails in the \"Sky Room\" restaurant at the Desert Inn that provided the highest view of the mushroom clouds. During this time the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce successfully pushed for Vegas to become nicknamed the \"Atomic City\". Several Miss Atomic pageants were also held to help display the city's modernity and to continue spinning messages on the nearby testing to tourists.\n\nThe influx of government employees for the Atomic Energy Commission and from the Mormon-controlled Bank of Las Vegas spearheaded by E. Parry Thomas during those years funded the growing boom in casinos. But Las Vegas was doing more than growing casinos. In 1948, McCarran Field was established for commercial air traffic. In 1957 the University of Nevada, Las Vegas was first established, initially as a branch of the University of Nevada, Reno and becoming independent in 1969. In 1959 the Clark County Commission built the Las Vegas Convention Center, which would become a vital part of the area's economy. A new utility company, Southwest Gas expanded into Las Vegas in 1954.\n\nThese atmospheric tests would continue until enactment of the Partial Test Ban Treaty in 1963 when the tests moved underground. The last test explosion was in 1992.\n\nIn 1966, Howard Hughes, the eccentric hero of the American aviation industry, and noted American entrepreneurial financier with vast connections to long established networks in the country, moved to Las Vegas. Initially staying in the Desert Inn, he refused to vacate his room and instead decided to purchase the entire hotel. Hughes extended his financial empire to include Las Vegas real estate, hotels and media outlets, spending an estimated $300 million and using his considerable powers to take over many of the well-known hotels, especially the venues connected with organized crime, and he quickly became one of the most powerful men in Las Vegas. He was instrumental in changing the image of Las Vegas from its Wild West roots into a more refined cosmopolitan city.\n\nThe local newspaper \"Las Vegas Sun\" and its editor Hank Greenspun led a crusade in those days to expose all the criminal ties, activities, and government corruption in Las Vegas. His investigative reporting and editorials led to the exposure of Clark County Sheriff Glen Jones' ownership of a brothel and the resignation of Lieutenant Governor Clifford A. Jones as the state's national committeeman for the Democratic Party. Before his death in 1989, Hank Greenspun founded The Greenspun Corporation to manage his family's assets, and it remains a major influence in Las Vegas, with media holdings in print, television and the Internet; substantial real estate holdings; and ownership stakes in a number of casinos.\n\nOne problem for the City of Las Vegas was that the Strip did not reside in Las Vegas. Because of this, the city lost tax revenue. There was a push to annex the Strip by the City of Las Vegas, but The Syndicate used the Clark County Commissioners to pull a legal maneuver by organizing the Las Vegas Strip properties into an unincorporated township called Paradise. Under Nevada Law, an incorporated town, Las Vegas, cannot annex an unincorporated township. To this day, virtually all of the Strip remains outside the City of Las Vegas.\n\nMuch like in other American settled counties and towns throughout the United States, entertainment venues were segregated between black- and white-owned businesses. With almost all of the businesses owned and operated by whites, Black Americans were barred from entering the venues which remained focused, regardless of their legitimacy or criminality, on entertaining a white-only clientele. As a result of property deeds, businesses owned by or mainly serving non-whites were confined to clubs on the \"west side\" of the tracks. This also was enforced in many of the work positions. Thus, African Americans (except those who provided the labor for low-paying menial positions or entertainment) and Hispanics were limited in employment occupations at the white-owned clubs. However, because of employment deals with black worker groups, many clubs favored black workers, and the Hispanic population actually decreased ninety percent from 2,275 to just 236 by the mid-1950s.\n\nOrganized crime-owned businesses saw an opportunity in not dividing their clientele by race and, despite property deeds and city and county codes barring such activities, made several attempts at desegregating their businesses in the hopes of putting out of operation the non-white owned clubs and expanding their own market share. An attempt was made at forming an all-integrated night-club modeled on the Harlem Clubs of New York City during the 1920s and 1930s, like those owned by German-Jewish gangster Dutch Schultz. On May 24, 1955, Jewish crime boss Will Max Schwartz, along with other investors, opened the Moulin Rouge. It was a very upscale and racially integrated casino that actually competed against the resorts on the Strip, especially the non-white owned strips on the west side. By the end of the year, the casino closed as Schwartz and his partners had a falling out, but the seeds for racial integration were sown.\n\nMany sources have credited Frank Sinatra and the Rat Pack as a significant driving force behind desegregation in the casinos. One famous story tells of Sinatra's refusal to perform at the Sands Hotel unless the hotel provided Sammy Davis Jr. with a room. The famed performing group made similar demands at other venues, forcing owners to amend their policies over time.\n\nHowever, it took political action for racial desegregation to occur. In 1960, the NAACP threatened a protest of the city's casinos for their policies. A meeting between the NAACP, the mayor and local businessmen resulted in citywide casino desegregation, starting with the employees. Many whites were attritioned from positions and their jobs given to the black unions. Along with the rest of the country, Las Vegas experienced the struggle for civil rights. Activists like James B. McMillan, Grant Sawyer, Bob Bailey, and Charles Keller dragged Las Vegas to racial integration.\n\nAside from seeing no business advantage to excluding non-white customers from casinos and clubs, the organized crime groups themselves were composed of people of ethnicities (Jewish and Italian) that faced discrimination from WASP America and thus could understand the plight of blacks. This was also a driving force behind the integration advocated by ethnic performers such as Sinatra and Martin.\n\nAnother big force for equality was Mayor Oran Gragson. Spurred into local politics by a vigilante ring of cops who repeatedly broke into his appliance store, he implemented infrastructure improvements for the minority neighborhoods in Las Vegas, backed the NAACP in its actions, and promoted black workers for jobs. He also championed the cause of the Paiute tribe that owned a small portion of Las Vegas. Gragson stopped the U.S. government from evicting the tribe and actually made infrastructure improvements for them. His work helped reverse the decrease of minority populations in Las Vegas.\n\nLocal legislation kept up with the national legislation and integration was finally established. The only real violence came as a result of school integration, with violent riots and fights occurring in Clark High School when black gangs and youths began attacking the whites. Integration sparked white flight from the school district from 1965 to 1971.\n\nOn a percentage basis, Las Vegas and Clark County experienced incredibly high growth rates starting in the 1930s and lasting until the late 2000s recession. During that period, the population of the city more than doubled in most decades. The rate slowed down in the 1970s with the decrease of the white birth rate, but never dropped below 60% (1980–1990), and even accelerated after 1990 due to immigration. By 2000, Las Vegas was the largest city founded in the 20th century, and by 2006 it was the 28th largest city in the US, with a population of 552,000 in the city and nearly 1.8 million in Clark County. The explosive growth resulted in rapid development of commercial and residential areas throughout the Las Vegas Valley. The strong boom in the resort business led to many new condominium developments all along the Strip and downtown area. Also urban sprawl development of single-family homes continued across the valley, building the areas of Henderson, North Las Vegas, Centennial Hills, and Summerlin. The rapid development and population growth both halted abruptly in the late 2000s recession.\n\nDuring this period of time, American author and journalist Hunter S. Thompson wrote and published his seminal novel, \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\", detailing the experience of his 1971 trip to the city.\n\nOn November 21, 1980 the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, suffered a devastating fire. A total of 85 people died and 785 were injured in what remains the worst disaster in Nevada history. The property was eventually sold and reopened as Bally's Las Vegas, while MGM moved south to Tropicana Avenue.\n\nThe \"Mafia/Rat Pack\" Las Vegas of the mid-20th century came to a gradual end in the 1980s with the aging out of the World War II generation, the decline of organized crime elements, and the rise of baby boomer entrepreneurs who began a new chapter in the city's history, the so-called megaresort era. Las Vegas began to become a more commercialized, family-oriented place with large corporations coming to own the hotels, casinos, and nightclubs in place of Mafia bosses. The megaresort era kicked off in 1989 with the construction of The Mirage. Built by developer Steve Wynn, it was the first resort built with money from Wall Street, selling $630 million in junk bonds. Its 3,044 rooms, each with gold tinted windows, set a new standard for Vegas luxury and attracted tourists in droves, leading to additional financing and rapid growth on the Las Vegas Strip. More landmark hotels and other structures were razed to make way for ever-larger and more opulent resorts including:\n\n\nThe Helldorado Days festival was resumed in 2005 for the City of Las Vegas' centennial celebration.\n\nThe home mortgage crisis (2007-2010) and the late 2000s recession affected Las Vegas' economic success. New home construction was stalled, and construction projects were either canceled, postponed, or continued with financial troubles. Some of these projects included the MGM Mirage property of CityCenter, Fontainebleau, Echelon, and The Plaza. The global financial situation also had a negative effect on gaming and tourism revenue, causing many of the companies to report net loss.\n\nNevertheless, new landmark hotels and resorts were still to arise, including:\n\nMany analysts agree that the Las Vegas economy is recovering, with improving conditions in tourism and the housing market for 2013. Prices are rising and there has been a large increase in the million dollar home market, with many new custom homes being built. January 2013 marks the 19th consecutive month with home sales higher than the same month in the previous year. In addition, Las Vegas was named America's Top Turn Around Market for 2012 by Trulia.\n\nIn June 2017, a heat wave grounded more than 40 airline flights of small aircraft, with American Airlines reducing sales on certain flights to prevent the vehicles from being over the maximum weight permitted for safe takeoff and Las Vegas tying its record high at 117 degrees Fahrenheit.\n\nDuring the late evening of October 1, 2017, Las Vegas became the scene of the deadliest mass shooting committed by a single gunman in the history of the United States. A gunman opened fire on Route 91 Harvest festival-goers from the Mandalay Bay resort, killing 58 and injuring 869.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087273", "title": "Coriaria", "text": "Coriaria\n\nCoriaria is the sole genus in the family Coriariaceae, which was described by Linnaeus in 1753. It includes 14 species of small trees, shrubs and subshrubs, with a widespread but disjunct distribution across warm temperate regions of the world, occurring as far apart as the Mediterranean region, southern and eastern Asia, New Zealand (where some are alpine species), the Pacific Ocean islands, and Central and South America.\n\nThe leaves are opposite or in whorls, simple, 2–9 cm long, without stipules. The flowers are borne in racemes 2–30 cm long, each flower small, greenish, with five small petals. The fruit is a small and shiny black (occasionally yellow or red) berry-like swollen corolla, highly poisonous in several species, though those of \"C. terminalis\" are edible. At least a few members of this genus are non-legume nitrogen fixers.\n\nThe Mediterranean species \"C. myrtifolia\" is known as redoul, and the several New Zealand species are known by the Māori name of tutu.\n\nThe South American species \"C. ruscifolia\" is an evergreen climber known as deu or huique, and its fruits are used in Southern Chile to make rat poison.\n\nCoriariaceae fossils as pollen and seeds, are known from the Miocene of Europe.\n"}
{"id": "2087277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087277", "title": "Shahrazad (crater)", "text": "Shahrazad (crater)\n\nShahrazad is a large crater on Saturn's moon Enceladus first discovered by the \"Voyager 2\" spacecraft. It is located at 47.3° North Latitude, 199.7° West Longitude and is approximately 20 kilometers across. Shahrazad is the middle crater of a prominent crater triplet on Enceladus' anti-Saturnian hemisphere (there is no evidence that the impacts are related or were formed from break-up of a single body, like Shoemaker-Levy 9). \"Voyager\" images revealed very little about this crater, however, higher resolution views of Shahrazad taken by the \"Cassini\" Spacecraft during a close flyby on March 9, 2005 reveal significant north-south fracturing that runs through all three craters of the triplet. Deep canyons mark the northern and eastern portions of Shahrazad's rim. Some evidence for viscous relaxation can be seen, but it is not nearly as significant as at Dunyazad to its immediate south or at Aladdin elsewhere on the satellite.\n\nShahrazad is named after the Persian story-teller Scheherazade from \"One Thousand and One Nights\", the Heroine who told 1001 tales over as many nights to Shahryar in order to secure her freedom.\n"}
{"id": "2087279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087279", "title": "Villanovan culture", "text": "Villanovan culture\n\nThe Villanovan culture (c. 900–700 BC), regarded as the oldest phase of Etruscan civilization, was the earliest Iron Age culture of Central Italy and Northern Italy. It directly followed the Bronze Age Proto-Villanovan culture which branched off from the Urnfield culture of Central Europe. This gave way in the 7th century BC to an increasingly orientalizing culture influenced by Greek traders and colonists who settled in South Italy. \n\nThe Villanovans introduced iron-working to the Italian Peninsula. They practiced cremation and buried the ashes of their dead in pottery urns of distinctive double-cone shape.\n\nThe name \"Villanovan\" of the early phases of the Etruscan civilization comes from the site of the first archaeological finds relating to this advanced culture, which were remnants of a cemetery found near \"Villanova\" (Castenaso, 12 kilometres south-east of Bologna) in northern Italy. The excavation lasting from 1853 to 1855 was done by the scholar and site owner, count Giovanni Gozzadini, and involved 193 tombs, six of which were separated from the rest as if to signify a special social status. The \"well tomb\" pit graves lined with stones contained funerary urns. These had been only sporadically plundered and most were untouched. In 1893, a chance discovery unearthed another distinctive Villanovan necropolis at Verucchio overlooking the Adriatic coastal plain.\n\nThe burial characteristics relate the Villanovan culture to the Central European Urnfield culture (c. 1300–750 BC) and Celtic Hallstatt culture that succeeded the Urnfield culture. It is not possible to tell these apart in their earlier stages. Cremated remains were placed in cinerary urns, specifically in biconical urns and then buried. The urns were a form of Villanovan pottery known as \"impasto.\" A custom believed to originate with the Villanovan culture is the usage of hut-shaped urns, which were cinerary urns fashioned like the huts in which the villagers lived. Typical \"sgraffito\" decorations of swastikas, meanders, and squares were scratched with a comb-like tool. Urns were accompanied by simple bronze fibulae, razors and rings.\n\nThe Villanovan culture is broadly divided into Villanovan I from c. 960 BC to c. 801 BC and the Villanovan II from c. 800 BC to 720 BC. The later phase (Villanovan II) saw radical changes, evidence of contact with Hellenic civilization and trade with the north along the Amber Road. This evidence takes the form glass and amber necklaces for women, armor and horse harness fittings of bronze, and the development of elite graves in contrast to the earlier egalitarian culture. Chamber tombs and inhumation (burial) practices were developed side-by-side with the earlier cremation practices. With the last phase of Villanovan II the Etruscans, in particular Southern Etruria, entered the Orientalizing period. The northernmost areas of the Etruscan world, such as Etruria Padana, continued in their development as Villanovan III (750–680 BC) and Villanovan IV (680–540 BC).\n\nThe metalwork quality found in bronze and pottery demonstrate the skill of the Villanovan artisans. Some grave goods from burial sites display an even higher quality, suggesting the development of societal elites within Villanovan culture. Tools and items were placed in graves suggesting a belief in an afterlife. Men's graves contained weapons, armor, while those for women included weaving tools. A few graves switched or mixed these, indicating the possibility that some women employed tools and that some men made clothing. \n\nDuring the Villanovan period Etruscans traded with other states from the Mediterranean such as Greeks, Balkans, and Sardinia. Trade brought about advancement in metallurgy, and Greek presence influenced Villanovan pottery.\n\nBuildings were rectangular in shape. The people lived in small huts, made of wattle and daub with wooden poles for support. Within the huts, cooking stands, utensils and charred animal bones give evidence about the family life of early inhabitants in Italy. Some huts contained large pottery jars for food storage sunk into their floors. There was also a rock cut drain to channel rainwater to communal reservoirs. \n\nGenerally speaking, Villanovan settlements were centered in the Adriatic Etruria, in Emilia Romagna (in particular, in Bologna and in Verucchio, near Rimini), in Marche (Fermo), and in the Tyrrhenian Etruria, in Tuscany and Lazio. Further south, Villanovan cremation burials are to be found in Campania, at Capua, at the \"princely tombs\" of Pontecagnano near Salerno, at Capo di Fiume, at Vallo di Diano and at Sala Consilina. \n\nSmall scattered Villanovan settlements have left few traces other than their more permanent burial sites, which were set somewhat apart from the settlements—largely because the settlement sites were built over in Etruscan times. Modern opinion generally follows Massimo Pallottino in regarding the Villanovan culture as ancestral to the Etruscan civilization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087294", "title": "Stagecoach in Hull", "text": "Stagecoach in Hull\n\nStagecoach in Hull is a bus operator providing services in Kingston upon Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England. It is a subsidiary of Stagecoach.\n\nStagecoach in Hull's origins can be traced back to the Hull City Council owned Hull Corporation Transport, which in addition to buses, also operated trams and trolleybuses in the city.\n\nIn the late 1970s/early 1980s, Hull Corporation Transport was renamed Kingston-upon-Hull City Transport (KHCT) and, as had been the case for decades, KHCT shared Hull's bus network with National Bus Company subsidiary East Yorkshire Motor Services (EYMS). To comply with the Transport Act 1985, in 1986 the assets of KHCT were transferred to a new legal entity.\n\nAt this stage co-ordination/co-operation of the Hull bus network between KHCT and EYMS, which was now owned by its management, was deemed illegal and the two operators became engaged in fierce competition from the late 1980s to the early/mid 1990s.\n\nEYMS began to operate on much of KHCT's network of services and KHCT's position was compounded by smaller-sized competitors entering Hull's bus network, including \"City Traveller\", \"Connor & Graham\", \"Metro Citybus\" and \"Pride of the Road/North Bank Travel\". These operators focused on the more profitable corridors of Hull's bus network, with elderly second-hand vehicles and in some, not all, cases a low-fare down-market image.\n\nThese operators would eventually fade away, either going bankrupt or being taken over. in particular by EYMS. As a consequence KHCT was making losses and was itself subject to a hostile takeover bid from EYMS. The bid was rejected but, faced with escalating losses and increased competition, in December 1993 Hull City Council sold KHCT to Stockton-on-Tees based Cleveland Transit. This deal saw KHCT's employees a 49% stake in the business. At the time Cleveland Transit was considered one of the emerging 'groups' within the British bus industry, with acquisitions in County Durham, Teesside, Yorkshire.\n\nIn November 1994 Cleveland Transit including KHCT was sold to Stagecoach.\n\nKHCT's blue and white livery, a modified version based on Cleveland Transit's green livery, was maintained by Stagecoach. However, by December 1995 KHCT been renamed \"Stagecoach Kingston Upon Hull\", later \"Stagecoach in Hull\", with the Stagecoach corporate livery being introduced by spring of 1996.\n\nUntil April 2013 Stagecoach in Hull operated services on the Cleveland Transit when they were transferred to the Lincolnshire Road Car licence.\n\nAs at February 2012 the fleet consisted of 137 buses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087306", "title": "Barnett Shale", "text": "Barnett Shale\n\nThe Barnett Shale is a geological formation located in the Bend Arch-Fort Worth Basin. It consists of sedimentary rocks dating from the Mississippian period (354–323 million years ago) in Texas. The formation underlies the city of Fort Worth and underlies 5,000 mi² (13,000 km²) and at least 17 counties.\n\nAs of 2007, some experts suggested that the Barnett Shale might have the largest producible reserves of any onshore natural gas field in the United States. The field is thought to have of recoverable natural gas, and of natural gas in place. Oil also has been found in lesser quantities, but sufficient (with high oil prices) to be commercially viable.\n\nThe Barnett Shale is known as a \"tight\" gas reservoir, indicating that the gas is not easily extracted. The shale is very impermeable, and it was virtually impossible to produce gas in commercial quantities from this formation until oil and gas companies learned how to effectively use massive hydraulic fracturing in the formation. The use of horizontal drilling further improved the economics, and made it easier to extract gas from under developed areas.\n\nFuture development of the field will be hampered in part by the fact that major portions of the field are in urban areas, including the rapidly growing Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. Some local governments are researching means by which they can drill on existing public land (e.g., parks) without disrupting other activities so they may obtain royalties on any minerals found, whereas others are seeking compensation from drilling companies for damage to roads caused by overweight vehicles (many of the roads are rural and not designed for use by heavy equipment). In addition, drilling and exploration have generated significant controversy because of environmental damage including contamination to the ground water sources.\n\nThe formation is named after John W. Barnett, who settled in San Saba County during the late 19th century, where he named a local stream the Barnett Stream. In the early 20th century during a geological mapping expedition, scientists noted a thick black organic-rich shale in an outcrop close to the stream. The shale was consequently named the Barnett Shale.\n\nThe Barnett shale has acted as a source and sealing cap rock for more conventional oil and gas reservoirs in the area.\n\nGas wells producing from the Barnett Shale of the Fort Worth basin are designated as the Newark, East Gas Field by the Texas Railroad Commission. From 2002 to 2010 the Barnett was the most productive source of shale gas in the US; it is now third, behind the Marcellus Formation and the Haynesville Shale. In January 2013, the Barnett produced 4.56 billion cubic feet per day, which made up 6.8% of all the natural gas produced in the US.\n\nThe field was discovered in 1981 when Mitchell Energy drilled and completed the C. W. Slay #1 near Newark, Texas, in Wise County. The well was drilled vertically, completed with a nitrogen foam frac, and did not produce enough gas to cause any excitement.\n\nDespite the low production rate, Mitchell Energy owner George P. Mitchell was convinced that he could find a better way to produce gas from the Barnett. Mitchell persevered for years in the face of low production rates in his initial wells, low gas prices, and low profitability. Industry commentators have written that few, if any, other companies would have continued drilling well after well in the Barnett Shale. Mitchell is widely credited with personally making a success of the Barnett Shale, and thus creating the gas production boom in the Barnett, and, when other companies imitated his techniques, many other shale-gas and tight-oil successes in the US and other countries.\n\nIncrementally, Mitchell Energy found ways to increase production. Early on, Mitchell abandoned the foam frac, which had been used with some success in Appalachian Basin shales, and found that gel fracs worked better in the Barnett. In 1986, Mitchell Energy applied the first massive hydraulic frac, a gel frac, to the Barnett Shale.\n\nIn 1991, Mitchell Energy, with a subsidy from the federal government, drilled the first horizontal well in the Barnett, but the experiment was not considered a success. It was not until 1998 that Mitchell drilled two more horizontal wells; they were technical successes, but economic failures. Mitchell's fourth and last horizontal attempt was made in 2000, but ran into drilling problems and was abandoned.\n\nThe largest breakthrough in the Barnett came in 1997, when Mitchell Energy petroleum engineer Nick Steinsberger suggested that a slickwater frac, which was being successfully used by other companies in wells to the Cotton Valley Sandstone of east Texas, might work better in the Barnett Shale than the gel fracs. By going against conventional wisdom and switching to the slickwater frac, Mitchell Energy not only lowered the cost of completing wells by $75,000 to $100,000, but also dramatically increased the recovery of gas. Mitchell tried to buy more leases in the area before word spread, but soon many other operators started buying leases and drilling Barnett wells, in what had been until then essentially a Mitchell Energy play.\n\nMitchell Energy had a near-monopoly in drilling Barnett Shale wells in the early years of the field. In 1995, for instance, Mitchell completed 70 Barnett wells, while all other operators combined completed three. This was largely because the Barnett was marginal economically: according to a former CEO, Mitchell had invested about $250 million in the Barnett from 1981 to 1997, and had not recouped its costs. But after 1997, competitors realized that Mitchell had discovered how to extract gas profitably, they, too started buying leases and drilling Barnett wells, at a pace that Mitchell could not match. In 2001, for the first time, Mitchell completed fewer than half the Barnett Shale wells (258 wells, versus 260 by other operators).\n\nGeorge Mitchell sold Mitchell Energy to Devon Energy in 2002.\n\nHelped by better drilling technology, the difficulties of drilling near populated areas, and higher gas prices in the 2000s, horizontal wells became more economic and practical, and in 2005 new horizontal wells outnumbered new vertical wells in the Barnett for the first time. In 2008, 2901 horizontal wells were completed in the Barnett, versus just 183 vertical wells.\n\nIt was thought that only a few of the thicker sections close to Fort Worth would be able to support economic drilling, until new advances in horizontal drilling were developed in the 1980s. Techniques such as fracturing, or \"fracking\", wells, used by Mitchell Energy, opened the possibility of more large scale production. Even with new techniques, significant drilling did not begin until gas prices increased in the late 1990s.\n\nAs of 2012, the Newark, East Field extended into 24 counties, with permits issued for wells in a 25th county, Hamilton. The field had more than 16,000 producing wells. Gas production in 2011 was 2.0 trillion cubic feet. The field was the largest gas producer in Texas, and made up 31% of Texas gas production. Proved reserves as of the end of 2011 were 32.6 trillion cubic feet of gas and 118 million barrels of oil or condensate.\n\nTwo key developments in well design and completions have fostered development of the Barnett Shale. These are horizontal drilling, and hydraulic fracturing.\n\nHorizontal drilling has increased the potential of the Barnett Shale as a major source of natural gas. Horizontal drilling has changed the way oil and gas drilling is done by allowing producers access to reservoirs which were otherwise too thin to be economically viable through vertical drilling. Much of the gas in the Barnett Shale is beneath the City of Fort Worth. The new technology has attracted a number of gas-production companies.\n\nIn addition to extended reach, horizontal drilling drastically increases production. In \"tight\" rock (low permeability) like the Barnett Shale, the gas uses fractures to move out of the rock and into the wellbore. The fractures may be natural or induced (see below). A horizontal well exposes more rock (and therefore more fractures) to the wellbore because it is usually designed with the horizontal portion of the well in the productive formation.\n\nIn 2005–2007 horizontal drilling in the Barnett Shale extended south into Johnson, Hill, and Bosque counties, with a 100% success rate on completed wells. An experimental vertical well is being drilled in McLennan County (near Waco) to assess the potential for drilling along the Ouachita Fold, a geological barrier which defines the southern limit of the Barnett Shale.\n\nAlthough horizontal wells are now the norm, as of early 2013, some vertical wells were still being drilled in the Barnett.\n\nHydraulic fracturing carried out in the Barnett Shale is done by pumping a mixture of water, sand, and various chemical additives (to affect viscosity, flow rates, etc.) into the well bore at a sufficient pressure to create and propagate a fracture in the surrounding rock formation down hole. This is crucial in low permeability rock as it exposes more of the formation to the well bore and greater volumes of gas can be produced by the increased surface area. Without hydraulic fracturing, the wells would not produce at an economically feasible rate.\n\nIn 1997, Nick Steinsberger, an engineer of Mitchell Energy (now part of Devon Energy), applied the slickwater fracturing technique, using more water and higher pump pressure than previous fracturing techniques, which was used in East Texas in the Barnett Shale of north Texas. In 1998, the new technique proved to be successful when the first 90 days gas production from the well called S.H. Griffin No. 3 exceeded production of any of the company's previous wells. \n\nScientists at the Jackson School of Geosciences at the University of Texas at Austin, who have worked closely with producing companies to develop the Barnett play, also see potential for conflict in some parts of the Barnett where water use for hydraulic fracturing could compete with other uses such as drinking and agriculture.\n\nThe process of hydraulic fracturing generates significant criticism. Opponents allege that it is inadequately monitored and poses significant threats to water and air quality in surrounding areas, and cite a growing number of incidents of methane in nearby water wells.\n\nAs of September 2008, gas producers said that bonuses paid to landowners in the southern counties ranged from $200 to $28,000 per acre ($500–69,000/ha), the higher prices being paid by Vantage Energy in the fall of 2008. Royalty payments in the 18–25% range. One lease in Johnson County now has 19 wells permitted.\n\nA \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\" article reported more than 100,000 new leases were recorded in Tarrant County in 2007. Terms of recent leases have included and a 25% royalty for homeowners in Ryan Place, Mistletoe Heights, and Berkley on Fort Worth's south side, and $22,500 per acre and a 25% royalty for a group of homeowners in south Arlington. More recent articles in the Fort Worth Weekly report that many signed lease agreements have not been honored, with lessors alleging that they were paid significantly less than promised or were not paid at all.\n\nOil industry advocates claim that by 2015 the Barnett Shale may be responsible for more than 108,000 jobs. Critics say that tax revenues may be offset by cleanup costs for toxic byproducts of gas drilling, such as benzene and naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM). Environmental groups have pressured state regulators to begin forcing cleanups. The San Juan Citizens Alliance has sued to force the EPA to tighten regulations. Ed Ireland, of the Barnett Shale Energy Council (an industry advocacy group) has said that he believes regulation will increase under the Obama administration; as of 2012, this has not been the case.\n\nA 2011 study for the Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce concluded that the Barnett Shale development was responsible for 119,000 jobs in Texas, 100,000 of them in the Fort Worth region.\n\nAn expanded gas pipeline network for transporting the gas to market is being sought. The completion of a natural gas transmission pipeline through Hill County may open up new areas for drilling.\n\n\nAccording to the Texas Railroad Commission, as of 2012 there were 235 operators (companies which manage producing wells) in the Barnett Shale. In terms of gas volumes produced, the top ten operators, in order of decreasing gas production, were:\n\n\nThe Barnett Shale has been classified into \"Core\" and \"Non-Core\" areas of production. To date production has concentrated in the Core area where the shale is thicker and the uncertainty is reduced. This allows for the wells to be drilled at slightly lower gas prices than those in Non-core areas.\n\n\n\nOperators, such as EOG Resources, Gulftex Operating, Inc, and Devon Energy, stated in public reports in mid-2005 that they estimate that one third to one half of the land in the counties that contain the Barnett Shale, including the most heavily prospected counties like Johnson and Tarrant, will get wells. There have been few dry holes drilled, because technology like 3D Seismic allows operators to identify potential hazards before they drill and avoid bad areas. Some of the hazards include faults and karst features (sinkholes). Faults may divert hydraulic fracturing, reducing its effectiveness, and karst features may contain abundant water that limits the production of gas.\n\nSeveral groups in communities in which gas wells have been located have complained of high risk of catastrophic accidents, and some allege that accidents have already occurred, including several resulting in fatalities.\n\nSome environmental groups and north Texas residents have expressed concern about the effects of drilling on air and water quality in the areas surrounding the wells and pipelines.\n\nIn 2010, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued an emergency order against Range Resources, stating that the company's drilling activities in Parker County, Texas had contaminated at least two residential drinking water wells. The company denied the allegations, and said the presence of methane was a result of naturally occurring migration, and had shown up in nearby water wells long before Range drilled its gas wells. However, after a January 2011 Texas Railroad Commission (TRRC) hearing, TRRC staff concluded that, based on chemical composition, the gas in the water wells came from the shallow Strawn Formation, rather than the deeper Barnett Shale, in which the Range wells were completed. They also concluded that pressure tests by Range showed mechanical integrity of the casing. EPA and the two homeowners were invited to present evidence at the TRRC hearing, but did not. In March 2012, the EPA dropped its order against Range.\n\nThe mayor of Dish, Texas complained that air pollution from a natural gas compressor station was sickening his family. However, in May 2010, The Texas Department of State Health Services released air quality results for DISH, including tests of blood and urine samples from 28 DISH residents that were tested for volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The agency concluded: “The information obtained from this investigation did not indicate that community-wide exposures from gas wells or compressor stations were occurring in the sample population. This conclusion was based on the pattern of VOC values found in the samples. Other sources of exposure such as cigarette smoking, the presence of disinfectant by-products in drinking water, and consumer or occupational/hobby related products could explain many of the findings.”\n\nTexas environmental regulators and the EPA have ordered the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality to begin investigating drilling complaints on-site within 12 hours of reception.\n\nNumerous lawsuits against companies operating in the Barnett Shale allege that companies have reneged on promised lease payments, altered agreements after the fact, or failed to meet their commitments to lessors of land in the shale.\n\nThe profit potential of the Barnett Shale gas play has spurred companies to search for other sources of shale gas across the United States. Other shale gas prospects in the United States include the Antrim Shale in Michigan, the Fayetteville Shale in Arkansas, the Marcellus Shale in Appalachia, the Woodford Shale in Oklahoma, the Ohio Shale in Kentucky and West Virginia and the Haynesville Shale in Louisiana and East Texas.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087319", "title": "Jerry Narron", "text": "Jerry Narron\n\nJerry Austin Narron (born January 15, 1956) is an American professional baseball manager, coach, and former player. He is currently the bench coach for the Boston Red Sox of Major League Baseball (MLB). Narron played in MLB, primarily as a catcher, for three teams during 1979–1987. He has served as manager for the Texas Rangers (2001–2002) and the Cincinnati Reds (2005–2007). He was the third base coach for Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic.\n\nNarron was born in Goldsboro, North Carolina. He is a Christian Zionist. His father John was employed as a salesman and floor layer for the Isaacs-Kahn Furniture Company in Goldsboro. He is a nephew of former major league catcher and longtime coach Sam Narron.\n\nThrough his childhood he played baseball at the Wayne County Boys Club. He attended Goldsboro High School, where he played baseball, basketball, and football, and graduated in 1974. He went to college at East Carolina University.\n\nNarron played in the major leagues for eight seasons with the New York Yankees (1979), Seattle Mariners (1980–81, 1987), and California Angels (1983–86).\n\nHe was drafted out of high school by the New York Yankees in the sixth round of the 1974 Major League Baseball Draft. He played alongside brother Johnny for the Johnson City Cardinals in the Rookie Appalachian League during his first professional season in 1974, batting .301. In 1977, playing for the West Haven Yankees of the AA Eastern League, he batted .299 (8th best in the league) with 28 home runs (2nd in the league) and 93 RBIs (3rd in the league) in 438 at bats.\n\nHe made his major league debut on April 13, 1979. Narron played for the Yankees as the backup catcher to Thurman Munson, who died in a plane crash in August 1979. He was the Yankees' starting catcher the day after Munson's death, and remained in the dugout during the pregame ceremonies, leaving the catcher's position empty, out of respect for Munson.\n\nIn November 1979 Narron was traded by the Yankees to the Seattle Mariners with Juan Beniquez, Rick Anderson, and Jim Beattie for Jim Lewis and Ruppert Jones.\n\nHe was released by the Mariners in March 1982, and signed two days later as a free agent by the California Angels, for whom he played. Playing for the Spokane Indians in the AAA Pacific Coast League (PCL) in 1982, he batted .311 in 408 at bats. In 1983, playing for the Edmonton Trappers of the PCL, he batted .301 with 27 home runs (4th in the league) and 102 RBIs (6th in the league) in 539 at bats, while leading the league with 15 intentional walks. He was released by the Angels in April 1987, and signed later that month by the Seattle Mariners, who in turn released him the following November. He retired as a player in 1989.\n\nNarron was a manager in the Baltimore Orioles farm system from 1989 through 1992; of the Class A Frederick Keys (1989), AA Hagerstown Suns (1990-91), and AAA Rochester Red Wings (1992), with a record of 291-269 (.520). He was then hired as a coach for the Orioles by skipper Johnny Oates. After two seasons in Baltimore, he moved with Oates to the Texas Rangers.\n\nNarron was third-base coach for the Rangers from 1995 until he was named interim manager on May 4, 2001, after the firing of manager Johnny Oates. He had the interim tag removed and managed the team during the 2002 season. He was replaced in Texas by Buck Showalter in December 2002.\nNarron then served as bench coach for the Boston Red Sox during their 2003 run to the American League Championship Series, and performed the same role for Cincinnati in 2004–05.\n\nNarron was named as the Reds' interim manager on June 20, 2005. On September 29 of that year, his contract was extended to cover the 2006 season with a mutual option for 2007. Narron was fired as manager of the Reds on July 1, 2007. The Reds named advance scout Pete Mackanin as the interim manager. Narron's record with the Reds was 157–179.\n\nOn February 25, 2008, Narron was named a special assignments scout and front-office consultant with the Rangers.\n\nNarron served as bench coach for the Milwaukee Brewers from 2011 to 2015.\n\nNarron was hired to be the 2017 manager of the Reno Aces on December 30, 2016.\n\nAfter the first seven games of the 2017 season, Narron took over as interim bench coach of the major league Arizona Diamondbacks, when bench coach Ron Gardenhire left the team on a leave of absence to have and recover from prostate cancer surgery. Narron stepped down from his position as bench coach of the Diamondbacks following the 2019 season.\n\nNarron was hired as bench coach for the Boston Red Sox on February 22, 2020.\n\nNarron was the third base coach for Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic qualifier. Narron, whose daughter Callie lives in the Arnona neighborhood of Jerusalem, Israel, with her husband and two children, said: \"I love the game, I love the Jewish people and I love Israel\".\n\nNarron is married to Donna Narron. He has seven children, five of his own and two stepchildren. His son Connor was the fourth-ranked prospect for the high school class of 2010 by ESPN's Perfect Game. The Orioles selected Connor in the fifth round of the 2010 MLB draft; he played in Minor League Baseball during the 2010 to 2014 seasons. Narron's brother Johnny was the hitting coach for the Milwaukee Brewers from 2012 to 2014. Narron is the nephew of former major league catcher and coach Sam W. Narron and cousin of pitcher Sam F. Narron.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2087327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087327", "title": "Moira Harris", "text": "Moira Harris\n\nMoira Jane Harris Sinise (born April 19, 1954) is a retired American actress.\n\nHarris was born in Pontiac, Illinois and is a Roman Catholic convert. She graduated from Illinois State University in Normal, Illinois. During her college years, she met her husband, Gary Sinise, and they have been married since 1981. They have 3 children.\n\nHarris has starred in such films as \"One More Saturday Night\", \"Of Mice and Men\" (directed by and co-starring her husband), and \"\". She also played the evil trucker's wife in the Kurt Russell movie \"Breakdown\". She has made a guest appearances on the TV shows \"Karen Sisco\", \"The Equalizer\", and \"Crime Story\". At one time, she was a member of the Steppenwolf Theatre Company that Gary Sinise was instrumental in establishing. In 1987 she won a Chicago / Midwest Emmy Award for her role in \"Murder in Green Meadows\". She also starred in Disney's \"Tall Tale\" in 1995. Harris retired in 2003, although she briefly returned to the stage in 2013, appearing in Harold Pinter's \"The Birthday Party\" at Steppenwolf.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087332", "title": "The Evaporators", "text": "The Evaporators\n\nThe Evaporators is a Canadian garage rock band formed in 1986 in Vancouver, British Columbia. Nardwuar, its founding member, is also known for interviewing musicians and celebrities. As of 2007, the band consists of vocalist/keyboardist Nardwuar the Human Serviette, guitarist David Carswell, bassist John Collins, and drummer Scott Livingstone.\n\nAs well as recording and performing as a separate group, The Evaporators often collaborate with other musicians, including Rodney Graham and Andrew W.K. John Collins is a member of the band The New Pornographers and David Carswell is in The Smugglers.\n\nThe band members also perform as Thee Goblins and sometimes under other names. Lisa Marr, formerly of Cub, was also formerly a member of The Evaporators.\n\nBy 2008, the band had released four albums. The Evaporators were featured on a compilation album, \"Busy Doing Nothing\", in 2013, and in 2016 the band released an album \"Ogopogo Punk\". Most of their releases have been available on compact disc, vinyl, and 8-track.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087347", "title": "Quinua", "text": "Quinua\n\nQuinua may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087350", "title": "Arundinoideae", "text": "Arundinoideae\n\nThe Arundinoideae are a subfamily of the true grass family Poaceae with around 40 species, including giant reed and common reed. Unlike many other members of the PACMAD clade of grasses, the Arundinoideae all use C photosynthesis. Their sister group is the subfamily Micrairoideae.\n\nArundinoideae used to be quite large in older taxonomic systems, with over 700 species, but most of them have been moved to other subfamilies following phylogenetic analyses. Currently, species are placed in 16 genera and two tribes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087351", "title": "Married Life (TV series)", "text": "Married Life (TV series)\n\nMarried Life was a Canadian television comedy-drama series, which aired in 1995. Created by Ken Finkleman as a parody of early 1990s reality television shows such as \"The Real World\" and \"Cops\", the series stars Robert Cait and Karen Hines as Frank and Ivy, a young engaged couple who agree to have their first months of marriage documented by television producer George Britton (Finkleman) for a television reality show, only to have Britton manipulate them into decisions, including having extramarital affairs, designed to boost the show's ratings with sensationalism.\n\nThe cast also includes Mark Farrell, Jeremy Hotz, Wayne Flemming, Rosemary Radcliffe, Claire Cellucci, Angela Asher, Brad Brackenridge and Tony Ning.\n\nThe series aired on The Movie Network in Canada, and on Comedy Central in the United States.\n\nThe series was a Gemini Award nominee for Best Comedy Series at the 10th Gemini Awards. Finkleman also received nominations for Best Direction in a Comedy Series and Best Writing in a Comedy Series, Joan Hutton was nominated for Best Photography in a Comedy Series, and the cast were collectively nominated for Best Performance in a Comedy Program or Series (Individual or Ensemble). \n\nFinkleman went on to produce \"The Newsroom\" for CBC Television in 1996; that show, and virtually all of Finkleman's subsequent series, included Finkleman playing a television producer similar in character to George Britton, but renamed George Findlay. \n"}
{"id": "2087356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087356", "title": "Chenopodium pallidicaule", "text": "Chenopodium pallidicaule\n\nChenopodium pallidicaule, known as cañihua, canihua or cañahua (from Quechua \"qañiwa, qañawa or qañawi\") and also kaniwa, is a species of goosefoot, similar in character and uses to the closely related \"quinoa\" \"(Chenopodium quinoa)\".\n\nCañihua is native to the Andean region, with more than 200 varieties, and it has been farmed in the Altiplano for millennia. As a crop, cañihua has distinct characteristics, including tolerance of high mountain conditions, high content of protein and dietary fiber, and rich phenolic content.\n\nCañihua is a herbaceous and annual plant. This species is diploid with a chromosome number of 2n = 18. There are two types of this species, which differ in their branching. The \"lasta\" type shows high branching, whereas the \"saguia\" type is characterized by few branching and its more erected growth. The plant grows to 20–60 cm high and is therefore shorter than its close relative quinoa.\n\nCañihua also vary from quinoa in its inflorescence and its flower traits. The inflorescences are situated on\nthe terminal and axillar cimas. The flowers are small and without petals. There are\nthree different types of flower. Hermaphrodite consists of both the stamen and the pistils. Another flower type are the pistillate flowers, which have pistils, but no stamens. The third type of flower are male sterile flowers.\n\nThe fruits are small and dark, which contain brown or black seed with a diameter of 0.5 to 1.5 mm. The fruits are deciduous, which means that the seeds are lost spontaneously and are then dispersed. Once maturation is reached, the plant stem and leaves change in colour to yellow, red, green or purple.\n\nCañihua can easily be milled to flour and can be prepared further as a toasted cañihua flour called \"cañihuaco\". Cañihuaco has a nutty taste and can be mixed with water and milk for a breakfast meal. Since it is rich in calories and proteins, local people take it on long travels. Additionally, cañihua flour can be used for a lot of other purposes such as bread-making, pastry-making and noodle-making. Some varieties of cañihua can even be included in sweets, snacks and weaning food mixtures.\n\nThe cooking and extrusion technology tests have already shown successful results in several countries. This technology present numerous advantages such as low cost, simple operation, moderate production volume, minimum auxiliary equipment, versatility, good sanitary conditions and easy management. Results from a study demonstrated that the initial moisture content of 12% was optimal to obtain an extrudate with good physicochemical characteristics (e.g. degree of gelatinization, sectional expansion index, water absorption index, water solubility index and density). Additionally, roasting does not significantly affect the dialyzability of nutritionally valuable minerals in qañiwa. Boiling, however, was found to increase zinc, iron and calcium dialyzability.\n\nCañihua is an important crop for food security in the Andean region where there are nutritional problems. The most affected group are rural families having limited access to commodities due to poverty and droughts. Cañihua is both easily accessible and drought-resistant, offering potential food and income for highland farmers.\n\nIn order to alleviate problems of food security, new food-processing technologies and products are being developed to encourage companies to process native Andean crops and to increase their consumption as well as open market opportunities using cañihua.\n\nThe indigenous Andean food crops, \"quinoa\" (\"Chenopodium quinoa\"), \"kiwicha\" (\"Amaranthus caudatus\") and \"cañihua\" have high nutritional value based mainly on their considerable protein content and dietary fiber value. Their protein, calcium, zinc and iron content is higher than that of more widely commercialized cereals.\n\nThe protein content (15.3%) of cañihua grain is higher than that of quinoa and kiwicha, and similar to wheat (12.6%) and oats (16.9%). The lipids consist mainly of unsaturated fatty acids. Unlike quinoa, cañihua contains a lower amount of the bitter tasting saponins which affect taste and texture.\n\nCañihua is a half-domesticated plant from the highlands of Bolivia and Peru, cultivated as a pseudocereal crop for its seeds.\nBoth seeds and leaves are edible.\n\nThe plant was often cultivated in South America in the past. More than 200 varieties are known in Bolivia, but only twenty are still in use, with a majority of farmers cultivating just one.\n\nCañihua is well-adapted to the Andean climate and therefore cold-resistant in all growth stages. Adult plants are also resistant to night frosts. In vegetative stage, the plant may survive until –10 °C, flowers until –3 °C and is growing until temperatures up to 28 °C at sufficient humidity.\n\nCañihua can be grown from 1500 m up to 4400 m, but is rarely cultivated below 3800 m. The plant has resistance to strong winds, heavy rainfalls, most pests and diseases, and even prolonged drought periods. Rainfall from 500 to 800 mm during the growing season makes irrigation unnecessary. The plant does not grow well in shade, maritime exposure or excess humidity. Cañihua can be grown on any kind of moderately fertile soil, including shallow, acid, alkaline or saline soils.\n\nAs an annual crop, cañihua reaches maturity in 95 to 150 days, depending on variety. Germinating starts at soil temperatures of 5 °C. Flowering happens from July to October at temperatures around 10 °C and ripening from August to October at 15 °C.\n\nCañihua has to be harvested at colour change, before full maturation, to prevent high yield losses due to seed scattering. The crop has to be cut, dried and threshed by hand or using a wheat thresher. Papery husks enclose the seeds and have to be washed and rubbed away. Average seed yield is 400 – 900 kg/ha in traditional cropping systems. In intensive systems, yields of 2–3 t can be obtained. 1000–kernel weight is only 480 mg, compared to 1900 mg - 4000 mg of quinoa.\n\nCañihua is often considered as a forgotten crop once widely used in the Andes, but now replaced by other crops such as millet. Today, cañihua has significance only at higher altitudes, where neither quinoa nor millet can grow. In analogy to the success of quinoa and the increasing demand for it in western countries, cañihua has growing market potential. The crop was experimentally produced in Finland and showed good results. The risk of outcrossing is very small, as cañihua is self-pollinating. The risk of becoming invasive remains. The most important breeding aims are the reduction of seed scattering and increased seed size.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087368", "title": "The First Ten Years (boxed set)", "text": "The First Ten Years (boxed set)\n\nThe First Ten Years is a series of 10 CDs and double 12\" singles by British heavy metal band Iron Maiden, released between 24 February and 28 April 1990, in commemoration of the band's ten-year recording anniversary.\n\nEach CD/double 12\" contains two singles, complete with original B-sides and artwork, as well as an edition of \"Listen with Nicko\", a spoken-word track in which drummer Nicko McBrain would recount the history behind each song specific to that release. Each part in the series included a special voucher, all ten of which could be exchanged by mail order for a limited edition storage box.\n\nIron Maiden also released \"\" on VHS videotape and laserdisc, containing all 16 of the band's promotional music videos up to and including 1990's \"Holy Smoke\".\n"}
{"id": "2087379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087379", "title": "Stomatogastric nervous system", "text": "Stomatogastric nervous system\n\nThe Stomatogastric Nervous System (STNS) is a commonly studied neural network composed of several ganglia in arthropods that controls the motion of the gut and foregut. The network of neurons acts as a central pattern generator. It is a model system for motor pattern generation because of the small number of cells, which are comparatively large and can be reliably identified. The system is composed of the stomatogastric ganglion (STG), oesophageal ganglion and the paired commissural ganglia.\n\nBecause of the many similarities between vertebrate and invertebrate systems, especially with regards to basic principles of neuronal function, invertebrate model systems such as the crustacean \"stomatogastric nervous system\" continue to provide key insight into how neural circuits operate in the numerically larger and less accessible vertebrate CNS.\n\nUnderstanding how neuronal networks enable animals and humans to make coordinated movements is a continuing goal of neuroscience research. The stomatogastric nervous system of decapod crustaceans, which controls aspects of feeding, has contributed significantly to the general principles guiding our present understanding of how rhythmic motor circuits operate at the cellular level.\n\nRhythmic behaviors include all motor acts that at their core involve a rhythmic repeating set of movements. The circuits underlying such rhythmic behaviors, central pattern generators (CPGs), all operate on the same general principles. These networks remain rhythmic in the completely isolated nervous system, even in the absence of all rhythmic neuronal input, including feedback from sensory systems. Although the details differ in each circuit, all CPGs use the same set of cellular-level mechanisms for circuit construction. More importantly, CPG circuits are usually not dedicated to producing a single neuronal activity pattern. This flexibility results largely from the ability of different neuromodulators to change the cellular and synaptic properties of individual circuit neurons. When the properties of circuit components are changed, the output of the circuit itself is modified. These aspects of CPG operation are often shared by other circuits, enabling a general understanding of neuronal circuit operation.\n\nThe STNS contains a set of distinct but interacting motor circuits. The understanding of this multifunctional network contributed importantly to the general understanding of neural circuit operation. The value of this system has resulted from its accessibility, the use of several innovative techniques, and the combined research effort of around 15 laboratories over the past ~30 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087381", "title": "The Joan Baez Ballad Book", "text": "The Joan Baez Ballad Book\n\nThe Joan Baez Ballad Book was a 1972 compilation of traditional folk material, culled from Joan Baez' first five Vanguard albums. Initially issued as a two-record set, the two records were subsequently re-released separately a few years later as \"Volume 1\" and \"Volume 2\". Cover painting was by folk musician and painter Eric Von Schmidt. Though \"Ballad Book\" has since been supplanted by the reissue of most of Baez' original Vanguard catalog, for a number of years, it remained the only source to obtain a number of these cuts, as most of her early Vanguard albums temporarily went out of print in the early 1980s. \n\n"}
{"id": "2087384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087384", "title": "Towers Department Stores", "text": "Towers Department Stores\n\nTowers, operating as Bonimart in Quebec, was a Canadian discount department store chain owned by the Oshawa Group, a now-defunct grocery retailer and distributor. \n\nTowers Marts began as a New York-based chain. The first Canadian store was opened in November 1960 in Scarborough, Toronto (at the corner of Lawrence Ave. East and Midland Ave.). After the chain went bankrupt in 1963, a group of Towers concessionaires, incorporated as Allied Towers Merchants Ltd., purchased the 13 Canadian stores and began operating as a Canada-only chain.\n\nIn Quebec, the chain traded as Towers in the 1960s but the name was changed to Bonimart in April 20, 1971, starting with the stores in the Greater Montreal, as part of a program by owner Oshawa Group to promote the French character among its subsidiaries in the province.\n\nEach selling department within a Towers store was operated as a licensed concession. Some Towers/Bonimart stores offered services such as restaurants, photo labs, and pharmacies within the store. Some stores were also paired with an IGA or Food City grocery store.\n\nOn October 22, 1990, Towers/Bonimart's 51 stores were purchased by Hudson's Bay Company which intended to merge them with its Zellers subsidiary. The transaction was met with strong opposition from the New York-based F. W. Woolworth Company (owner of the Woolco stores in Canada) which also wanted to purchase the chain.\n\nOn April 15, 1991, 46 of the Towers/Bonimart stores were rebranded into the Zellers banner. The remaining stores held closeout sales under their original name, some of them lasting until the fall of 1991. While ownership to the Towers name is unclear, the Bonimart trademark is the property of Sobeys, the successor of the Oshawa Group.\n\n\nTowers' mascot was an animated squirrel named Sparky. At the time of the Zellers buyout, print ads featured Sparky arm-in-arm with Zellers' bear mascot, Zeddy.\n\nCharlottetown, PEI \nSummerside, PEI\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087387", "title": "Centotheceae", "text": "Centotheceae\n\nCentotheceae is a small tribe of grasses with six species in two genera, distributed in Africa and Asia. It belongs to a basal lineage in subfamily Panicoideae, sometimes referred to as \"centothecoid clade\". Unlike many other clades in the subfamily Panicoideae, they use the C photosynthetic pathway.\n"}
{"id": "2087392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087392", "title": "Boeing XF8B", "text": "Boeing XF8B\n\nThe Boeing XF8B (Model 400) was a single-engine aircraft developed by Boeing during World War II to provide the United States Navy with a long-range shipboard fighter aircraft. The XF8B was intended for operation against the Japanese home islands from aircraft carriers outside the range of Japanese land-based aircraft. Designed for various roles including interceptor, long-range escort fighter, dive-bomber, and torpedo bomber, the final design embodied a number of innovative features in order to accomplish the various roles. Despite its formidable capabilities, the XF8B-1 never entered series production.\n\nThe XF8B-1 was, at the time, the largest and heaviest single-seat, single-engine fighter developed in the United States. Boeing called the XF8B-1 optimistically, the \"five-in-one fighter\" (fighter, interceptor, dive bomber, torpedo bomber, or level bomber). It was powered by a single 3,000 hp (2,200 kW) Pratt & Whitney XR-4360-10 four-row 28-cylinder radial engine, driving two three-bladed contra-rotating propellers. It would be the largest single-seat piston fighter to fly in the U.S. to date. The large wings featured outer sections which could fold vertically, while the fuselage incorporated an internal bomb bay and large fuel tanks; more fuel could be carried externally. The proposed armament included six 0.50 inch (12.7 mm) machine guns or six 20 mm wing-mounted cannons, and a 6,400 lb (2,900 kg) bomb load or two 2,000 lb (900 kg) torpedoes. The final configuration was a large but streamlined design, featuring a bubble canopy, sturdy main undercarriage that folded into the wings, and topped by a variation on the B-29 vertical tail.\n\nThe contract for three prototypes (BuNos \"57984\"–\"57986\") was awarded 4 May 1943, although only one was completed before the war ended. It first flew in November 1944. The two remaining prototypes were completed after the war, with the third (BuNo \"57986\") evaluated at Eglin Air Force Base by the United States Army Air Forces.\n\nTo expedite testing and evaluation, a second cockpit was fitted to the first two prototypes to allow a flight engineer to help monitor the test flights. The second seat was easily accommodated in the roomy cockpit.\n\nAlthough testing of the promising XF8B concept continued into 1946 by the USAAF and 1947 by the US Navy, the end of the war in the Pacific and changing postwar strategy required that Boeing concentrate on building large land-based bombers and transports. The advent of jet fighters led to the cancellation of many wartime piston-engined projects; consequently, since the USAF lost interest in pursuing the project and the U.S. Navy was only prepared to offer a small contract, Boeing chose to wind down the XF8B program. Tests at Boeing Field were marred by an accident in which a test pilot accidentally retracted his landing gear on final approach. Investigation later found this to have been caused by a faulty micro switch. This occurred just as first shift was ending, and as many workers watched from the Plant 2 steps, the XF8B-1 bellied onto the concrete of Boeing Field. As the test program was concluded, the prototypes were scrapped one by one, with \"57986\" lingering on into 1950.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087394", "title": "FC Kairat", "text": "FC Kairat\n\nFootball Club Kairat () is a professional football club based in Almaty, which plays in the Kazakhstan Premier League, the highest level of Kazakh football. Founded in 1954 as Lokomotiv Alma-Ata, they became Urozhay in 1955 and Kairat in 1956. The club's home ground is the Central Stadium which has a capacity of 23,804. The club's home kit colours are yellow and black striped shirts, black shorts and black socks.\n\nKairat was the leading Kazakh club during the Soviet period and the only representative of the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic in the Soviet Top League. For this, Kairat became nicknamed \"The Nation's Team\", and remain widely supported all over the country. All in all, the club spent 24 seasons in the Soviet highest level. They also won Soviet First League titles twice in 1976 and 1983. During this period, Kairat was a part of the Voluntary Sports Societies of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn modern history, Kairat won two league titles, eight Kazakhstan Cups and two Kazakhstan Super Cups. The club's strongest rivalry is FC Astana, among fans their matches are considered as the Two Capitals Derby.\n\nThe club was founded in 1954 as \"Lokomotiv Alma-Ata\" on the basis of the football club Dinamo Alma-Ata. Heretofore, Dinamo was developed by Nikolai Starostin, who is mostly known as \"the father of Soviet football\" and founder of the Spartak Moscow. His assistant Arkady Khokhman became the first head coach of the club. Lokomotiv joined Zone I of the Class B, the second tier of Soviet football. In their debut season, they finished 4th with 11 wins, 7 draws and 4 defeats. In 1955, they were reformed as \"Urozhay Sports Society\", which united sportsmen of agricultural sphere. In 1955, Urozhay competed in Zone II of the Class B, finishing season in 10th place. On 1 June 1956, the Council of Ministers of the Kazakh SSR signed a decree about merger of the Urozhay Sports Society and Republican Sports Society of Collective Farmers to found new Republican Rural Voluntary Sports Society. Thereafter, Kazakh sports governing body proposed to adopt new name in recognition of the merger. Suggested names included Yeginshi (Cultivator), Tulpar (Phoenix), Onim (Harvest), Altyn Dan (Golden Grain), Kuresshi (Fighter), Dala Burkiti (Steppe Eagle) and Zhastar (The Youth). On 18 June 1956, plenary session of the Council of Ministers unanimously voted for \"Kairat\" (Power), the name missing in proposals, apparently promoted by then the leader of Kazakh SSR Dinmukhamed Kunayev. In July 1956, Pyotr Zenkin appointed as a new head coach. Under Zenkin, Kairat spent four consecutive seasons in the Class B, showing average results on final tables.\n\nOn 21 December 1959, Soviet sports governing body adopted a resolution on expansion of Soviet Top League teams number from 12 to 22. Ten Soviet republics were able to enter by one team without competition, permission which was aimed to make league status more \"All-Union\". Kazakh side gave a spot to Kairat, who had strong lobbying from the country administration. On 10 April 1960, they played their first competitive match in the league against Admiralteyets Leningrad, with a score of 0–0. On 13 May 1960, Kairat registered their first Top League victory defeating Dinamo Minsk 2–1 in away match. During the season, tactical scheme of Kairat caused a lot of discussion among football specialists. Team manager Nikolay Glebov adopted 4–2–4 and 4–3–3 formations, so-called Brazilian schemes, previously not used by Soviet teams. As a result, team playing style became strictly defensive. For this, Soviet press and fans nicknamed team defense \"Kairat Concrete\", an epithet which was associated with the club for the next decades. In spite of this, weaknesses in the offensive part and a poor goal scoring rate led only to 18th place in their inaugural season in the top level.\n\nKairat stayed at the top level for another three seasons. In 1963, Kairat did their best result in the Soviet Cup, reaching semi-final against Shakhtar Stalino. For this accomplishment, all team members were equated the Master of Sport of the USSR rank. After failure season in 1964, they relegated to the Soviet First League. On 25 November 1965, they played the decisive match against Ararat Yerevan for only spot in the Top League. Kairat lost the game 1–2. However, this day teams managers took a telegram from Football Federation of USSR about decision on promotion of both clubs, an information hidden from players until the end of the match. Kairat dropped once again to the First League at the end of the 1969 season under the management of Andrey Chen Ir Son. Chen Ir Son was replaced by Aleksandr Sevidov. He steered Kairat back to the Top League, finishing as runners-up in the 1970 Soviet First League season. Next season, Sevidov left the team to head Dynamo Kiev.\n\nThe 1971 season was highly successful for the club. Under Viktor Korolkov rule, Kairat finished 8th in the Top League, a significant increase compared to previous seasons. On 12 November 1971, Kairat won the European Railworks Cup, defeating Rapid Bucharest 2–1 in the final. This achievement made Kairat the first Soviet team to win a European tournament. In subsequent two seasons, the club kept its registry in the Top League. In 1974, under Artyom Falyan Kairat finished the season in 15th place and they were relegated once more. Next year, new head coach Vsevolod Bobrov could not get a promotion, finishing season 4th. In 1976, under the dual management of Timur Segizbayev and Stanislav Kaminskiy, the club won the Soviet First League and returned to top level. The deuce of head coaches managed the team for the next two years. In the 1977 and 1978 Top League seasons, Kairat finished 8th and 12th respectively. In the 1979 season, Karat headed by the deuce of Segizbayev and Igor Volchok led the club to 13th place in the league.\n\nIn 1980, Igor Volchok, already as a sole head coach, built up the team dominantly consisted of young players. Among them were Yevstafi Pekhlevanidi,\nVakhid Masudov, Anton Shokh, Sergei Volgin, Sergei Ledovskikh and Kurban Berdyev, who became the key players of the club in the 80s. Kairat finished the 1980 season in 12th place with 10 wins, 11 draws and 13 defeats. For the most wins with a comeback, the team won the For the Will of Victory Prize, awarded by the Soviet Russia newspaper. In the 1982 season, under Yozhef Betsa coaching, team results had been sharply declined. Towards the end of the season Betsa was replaced by Leonid Ostroushko. However, he didn't have a time to rectify the situation and they were relegated to the First League. In the 1986 season, Ostroushko led the club to 7th place, the best result of Kairat in the Soviet Top League. In the 1988 season, under Segizbayev rule, Kairat relegated to the First League once more. Despite this failure the team ended the season with success. On 22 November 1988, Kairat won the USSR Federation Cup. In the final in Kishinev, the club beat Neftchi Baku 4–1, where all four goal scored by Kairat's forward Viktor Karachun. Until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the end of 1991, Kairat was a member of the First League, season-by-season showing decline.\n\nAs a result of the subsequent independence of Kazakhstan, Kairat joined the newly formed Kazakhstan Premier League. Being the strongest Kazakh club at that time, Kairat was chosen as a base club to form the Kazakhstan national football team. Therefore, the club manager Bakhtiyar Baiseitov also headed the national team. In the inaugural season of the league, the club became champion. They also reached their first double, winning Fosfor Taraz in the 1992 Kazakhstan Cup Final.\n\nNext season, Kairat records deteriorated sharply. The 11th place in the 1993 season led to dismissal of Baiseitov. Following two seasons, under management of former Kairat player Kurban Berdyev Kairat finished 11th and 9th. In 1997, another Kairat veteran Vakhid Masudov led the team to their second Kazakhstan Cup success. In the end of the season, Kairat had financial troubles due to financial crisis in the country. The Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan decided to become a main sponsor and take the team under its wing. However, the half of the team did not agree with the decision to be under military control. As a result of disagreement, Kairat was divided into two teams, Kairat Sports and Health Professional Football Club, shortly Kairat SHPFC, and Kairat-CSKA, who took sponsorship of the state military body. The last got a right to Premier League register, while Kairat SHPFC went to Kazakhstan First Division. In the 1998 season, Kairat SHPFC found a sponsorship from Kazakh businessman Bulat Abilov, whose support led to Kazakhstan First Division win and promotion to Premier League. Next two seasons marked the participation of both Kairats in the league. The fully crowded Central Stadium hosted their matches against each other and caused great interest but also contradictions among the fans. In 2000, Kairat SHPFC won the Kazakhstan Cup, beating 5–0 Access-Golden Grain in the final.\n\nOn 1 March 2001, Almaty Deputy Mayor Kairat Bukenov announced the reunification of two clubs. Already as unified Kairat, they won two Kazakhstan Cups, in 2001 and 2003. In 2004, under the Aleksei Petrushin rule the club won their second domestic title.\n\nAt the end of the 2006 season, the main sponsor of the club Kazakhstan Temir Zholy, withdrew. This precipitated a financial troubles which lasted until the start of 2007 season. Consequently, most of the club's players switched to other teams. The club entered the 2007 season with an inexperienced, young team. In July 2007, a group of private investors took over the club and invested around 4 million US dollars in it. At the beginning of 2009, the club declared itself bankrupt and was relegated to the First Division. In November 2009, Kairat became the champion of the First Division and returned to top-flight.\n\nOn 15 October 2018, Carlos Alós left Kairat by mutual consent, with Andrei Karpovich being appointed as Caretaker manager.\nOn 25 November 2018, Kairat presented Aleksey Shpilevsky as their new manager.\n\nIn their earlier years, Kairat played their home games at the Spartak Stadium. Building of the club's present ground Almaty Central Stadium started in 1956. The initiator of the building was the then leader of the Kazakh SSR Leonid Brezhnev. The location for the stadium in the square surrounded by Abay, Baitursynov, Satpayev streets and the Yesentai River was chosen by Brezhnev himself. Architect Adambay Kapanov took the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow as a model for the new stadium. For this and being much less than Luzhniki, the stadium later was nicknamed as the Small Luzhniki. The arena was also projected with running track and the number of elements for athletic events. The Central Stadium was commissioned in 1958. However, the first official match was held here on 10 April 1960. On this day, Kairat played their debut match in the Soviet Top League against Admiralteyets Leningrad, which ended with a score of 0–0. Initially, the stadium benches seated around 35,000 people. In 1997, the stadium was renovated. As a result of old wood benches being replaced by individual plastic chairs, the capacity was reduced to 23,804 seats.\n\nDuring the Soviet period, the Central stadium was a state property. After independence of Kazakhstan, the stadium was owned by the City Council of Almaty. In 2015, the stadium was transferred to the ownership of Kairat for exchange of 30% of shares of the club.\n\n\"For recent transfers, see 2020 FC Kairat season.\"\n\nThe following managers won at least one trophy when in charge of Kairat:\n\n\nThe season-by-season performance of the club over the last ten years:\n\nUntil the Football Union of Kazakhstan joined UEFA in 2002, the club took part in the Asian Cup Winners' Cup twice in 1997–98 and 2000–01. On the last occasion, they had their best result reaching the quarterfinal, which was lost to the Iranian Esteghlal by the aggregate score of 0–3.\n\nLegend: GF = Goals For. GA = Goals Against. GD = Goal Difference.\nThe following list ranks the current position of Kairat in UEFA club ranking:\nAs of 1 June 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087407", "title": "The Smugglers (band)", "text": "The Smugglers (band)\n\nThe Smugglers are a Canadian indie rock band from Vancouver, British Columbia. The band consists of vocalist Grant Lawrence, guitarists Nick Thomas and David Carswell, bassist Kevin \"Beez\" Beesley and drummer Graham Watson. Past members include Paul Preminger (drums, 1988-1991), Adam Woodall (harmonica and guitar, 1988-1990), Bryce Dunn (drums, 1991-1998), Danny Fazio (drums, 1997) and John Collins (bass, 1997).\n\nThe Smugglers formed in 1988 when Lawrence, Carswell, Thomas, Woodall and Preminger were students at Vancouver's Hillside Secondary School. They started by playing covers of then popular songs at local events and venues, and went on a short tour to Alberta and Saskatchewan during March Break week.\n\nOver the course of their career, the band released material on a variety of record labels, including PopLlama, Radiation, Mint and Lookout.\n\nIn 1998 the band released an album of live recordings, \"Growing Up Smuggler\". Soon after, Dunn left the band, and was replaced as drummer by Watson.\n\nIn 1999 the band performed in Toronto in support of their album \"Rosie\". Lawrence was also a frequent contributor to the CBC Radio 2 programs \"Night Lines\" and \"RadioSonic\", recording audio diaries of his experiences on tour with the band; he became the host of \"RadioSonic\" in 2001.\n\nThe band continued performing their high energy live shows, and in 2004 released a CD, \"Mutiny in Stereo\".\n\nAfter 2004 the band went into hiatus. Lawrence remains with the CBC as a host on CBC Radio 3, Beesley is currently a co-owner of Mint Records, and Carswell and Collins are partners in JCDC, a recording studio in Vancouver.\n\nIn 2017, Lawrence published a memoir, \"Dirty Windshields\", based on the diaries he kept of the band's activities. The Smugglers reformed for a series of reunion shows, including one in Saskatoon at the Amigos, where they performed on their first tour.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087413", "title": "Hits: Greatest and Others", "text": "Hits: Greatest and Others\n\nHits: Greatest and Others was a 1973 compilation Vanguard put together at the end of Joan Baez' association with their label. In addition to her hit cover of The Band's \"The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down\", songs by the Beatles and Kris Kristofferson were also included. Unlike previous compilations, this one skipped over most of Baez' earlier traditional material almost entirely, in favor of her more recent singer-songwriter material and covers.\n\n\n\"Heaven Help Us All\" is a 1970 soul single composed by Ron Miller and first performed by Motown singer Stevie Wonder.\n"}
{"id": "2087414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087414", "title": "TransAlta", "text": "TransAlta\n\nTransAlta Corporation (formerly Calgary Power) is an electricity power generator and wholesale marketing company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It is a privately owned corporation and its shares are traded publicly. It operates over 70 power plants in Canada, the United States, and Australia. TransAlta operates geothermal, wind, hydro, natural gas, and coal power generation facilities. The company has been recognized for its leadership in sustainability by the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, the FTSE4Good Index, and the Jantzi Social Index. TransAlta is Canada's largest investor-owned renewable energy provider, and is simultaneously one of Canada's largest corporate carbon polluters. The company has on several occasions illegally manipulated the energy market to drive up power prices.\n\nIn 1909, TransAlta began the planning and construction of the Horseshoe Falls Hydro Plant in Seebe, Alberta. Two years later, Calgary Power Company, Ltd. was born.\n\nThat first dam was built by a crew of about 200 with primitive tools such as picks and wheelbarrows. It initially had a 10 MW capacity (13,500 horsepower). A second dam was commissioned in 1913 at Kananaskis Falls and was built by close to 500 workers.\n\nAt the time, streetcars were responsible for a significant share of Calgary’s electrical load. Residential power was just being introduced, and many homes were lit for the first time with electrical lamps because of Calgary Power. Calgary Power's cheap energy is credited with Canadian Pacific Railway's decision to locate its regional engine repair shop in Ogden, Calgary, spurring the city's economic development.\n\nNotable leaders from the company’s early years included W. Max Aitken (eventually Lord Beaverbrook) and R.B. Bennett, who went on to become Canada’s Prime Minister from 1930 to 1935.\n\nThe company's monopoly position and behaviour made its status as a private corporation unpopular among rural customers and some Calgary residents, and a move to nationalize it was converted to a province-wide referendum in 1948, which came down very narrowly on the side of maintaining its private ownership.\n\nIn 1981, the company changed its name to its current name of TransAlta Corporation.\n\nAt the end of 2010, TransAlta became the first company to own and operate more than 1,000 MW of installed wind capacity in Canada—almost 30 per cent of the country's total.\n\nTransAlta has gradually been transitioning its energy-generating facilities away from coal, due to adverse environmental effects, towards natural gas. Its last remaining operational coal mine, in Highvale, AB, has been laying off workers as it undergoes this transition.\n\nSince the 2013 Alberta floods, as a temporary partial solution to mitigate flood damage during those months when there is a greater risk of rising water that might cause flooding, the government of Canada has been paying TransAlta Corporation $2 million to lower the level of water in its Ghost Reservoir.\n\nIn 2010 and 2011, TransAlta timed their power outages so as to drive up prices of electricity and increase their revenues. The Alberta Utilities Commission declared these acts illegal in their review, concluded on July 27, 2015. The commission has yet to determine penalties for this manipulation of energy markets.\n\nUpper Mamquam, built by Canadian Hydro Developers and operational since 2005, is a run-of-the-river hydroelectric plant 5 km northeast of Squamish, BC. The penstock is 1.6 km long, dropping 120 meters to the powerhouse containing two 12.5 MW Pelton wheel generators.\n\nBone Creek a hydroelectric plant constructed in 2011, has a 5 km penstock dropping 148 meters to a powerhouse with two 9.6MW Francis turbines. It is located 90 km south of Valemount, BC and operated by Valisa Energy Inc. Approximately 72 GWh of power annually is sold to BC Hydro.\n\nAkolkolex, built by Canadian Hydro Developers and operational since 1995, uses two Francis turbines in a 10 MW run-of-river hydroelectric plant discharging into Arrow Lakes. It is located 25 km SE of Revelstoke, B.C. The plant produces approximately 37 GWh of electricity annually.\n\nPingston Creek has a 12 meter high sheetpile rock-fill dam which diverts water to the western shore of Arrow Lakes. It was built by Canadian Hydro Developers and Brascan Power and began operation as Pingston Power Inc. in 2003. A 4 km tunnel achieves a huge drop of 557 meters to three 15 MW Pelton wheels to generate about 200 GWh annually. The project is 53 km south of Revelstoke, BC.\n\n\nNet Capacity Owned by Fuel Type\nNet Capacity Owned by Geography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087425", "title": "List of digital camera brands", "text": "List of digital camera brands\n\nThis is a list of digital camera brands. Former and current brands are included in this list. With some of the brands, the name is licensed from another company, or acquired after the bankruptcy of an older photographic equipment company. The actual manufacture of a camera model is performed by a different company in many cases. In many cases brands are limited to certain countries. Not all brands of devices that can take digital images are listed here, including many industrial digital camera brands, some webcam brands, brands of cell phones that feature cameras, and brands of video cameras that can take digital stills. Defunct brands are listed separately.\n\n, these brands offer some combination of compact digital cameras, bridge camera, digital single-lens reflex cameras (DSLRs), and mirrorless interchangeable lens cameras (MILCs):\n\nThese brands offer only non-camera digital imaging devices, or non-consumer digital cameras:\n\n\nThese brands no longer produce digital imaging products:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087431", "title": "Francisco Gómez (El Salvador President)", "text": "Francisco Gómez (El Salvador President)\n\nFrancisco Gómez de Altamirano y de Elizondo (August 5, 1796 in Cartago, Costa Rica – May 17, 1838 in Guatemala) was a Central American licenciado, military officer and Liberal politician. From November 15, 1835 to February 1, 1836 he was chief of state of the state of El Salvador within the Central American Federation.\n\nGómez's parents were José Luis Goméz de Altamirano y Gazo, a Peninsular, and Bartola de Elizondo, a native of Cartago. He was sent to Metapán, El Salvador as a child.\n\nLater he studied law in Guatemala, becoming a licenciado. Having accumulated some money, he moved back to Metapán, where he married Catalina Rodríguez. He also brought his father, now widowed, to live with him. He was part of the city council of Metapán in November 1811, when the first independence revolt broke out. He joined with the other council members in opposing this, although he was secretly a supporter of independence.\n\nHe moved to San Salvador, where he also became a member of the city council. He edited the \"Instrucciones\", in which he expressed very liberal ideas.\n\nUpon the proclamation of independence, he joined the patriot cause and fought in the war against Imperial Mexico (1822–23). He attained the rank of captain.\n\nHe was elected a deputy in the Legislature in 1826. Later he returned to the army of the state, when El Salvador and Honduras withdrew recognition of the federal authorities. He served under General Francisco Morazán, whose confidence he gained. He was promoted to colonel. On October 10, 1827 in Izalco he presented to federal President Manuel José Arce El Salvador's peace proposals.\n\nOn November 15, 1835, Morazán made him chief of state of El Salvador state, replacing Nicolás Espinoza. He served on an interim basis, until he was replaced by Diego Vigil on February 1, 1836.\n\nFrancisco Gómez was assassinated in Guatemala on May 17, 1838.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087438", "title": "Emperor Shenzong of Western Xia", "text": "Emperor Shenzong of Western Xia\n\nEmperor Shenzong (1163–1226), born Li Zunxu 李遵頊, was the 8th emperor of the Western Xia (reigned 1211–1223).\nShenzong took power after a \"coup d'état\" and continued Xiangzong's policy of invading Jin Empire. He started many campaigns against Jin before the Jin Emperor counterattacked, killing many Western Xia soldiers. However, Shenzong continued to attack Jin despite the poor economy, causing high discontent among his people complaining of high taxes. He did not listen to those who advised peace with Jin Empire, and Western Xia sped up its decline. He passed power onto his son Lǐ Déwàng in 1223, and died in 1226.\n"}
{"id": "2087439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087439", "title": "Brooke Adams (actress)", "text": "Brooke Adams (actress)\n\nBrooke Adams (born February 8, 1949) is an American actress. She is best known for her film roles as Abby in \"Days of Heaven\" (1978), Elizabeth Driscoll in \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1978) and Sarah Bracknell in \"The Dead Zone\" (1983).\n\nAdams was born in New York City, to Rosalind Adams (née Gould), an actress, and Robert K. Adams, who was a producer, actor, and former vice president of CBS, as well as an unverified descendant of presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams. Her sister is actress Lynne Adams. She attended the High School of Performing Arts and the School of American Ballet, and in her youth took dance classes at her aunt's studio in Montague, Michigan.\n\nAfter playing roles in television and low-budget films such as \"Shock Waves\", Adams appeared in \"Days of Heaven\" (1978) and the remake of \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1978). She has also starred in the films \"Cuba\" (1979), \"The Dead Zone\" (1983), \"Key Exchange\" (1985), and \"Gas Food Lodging\" (1992).\n\nIn 2002, she appeared in the romantic comedy \"Made-Up\", which was written by her sister, actress Lynne Adams, and directed by her husband, Tony Shalhoub. Adams also appeared in the films \"At Last\" and \"The Legend of Lucy Keyes\" (both 2005), starred on Broadway in \"The Cherry Orchard\", \"Lend Me a Tenor\", Wendy Wasserstein's \"The Heidi Chronicles\" (1990), and guest-starred on five different episodes, in four different roles, of the series starring her husband, \"Monk\".\n\nIn 2009, she served as an official judge for the 3rd annual Noor Iranian Film Festival in Los Angeles.\n\nAdams married actor Tony Shalhoub in 1992. They have two children. The couple purchased a home in Los Angeles in 1993. In 2016, they listed the home for sale.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087441", "title": "World Cube Association", "text": "World Cube Association\n\nThe World Cube Association (WCA) is the worldwide organization that regulates and holds competitions for mechanical puzzles that are operated by twisting groups of pieces, commonly known as \" twisty puzzles\" (a subcategory of combination puzzles). The most famous of those puzzles is the Rubik's Cube. The WCA was founded by Ron van Bruchem of the Netherlands and Tyson Mao of the United States. The goal of the World Cube Association is to have \"more competitions in more countries with more people and more fun, under fair conditions.\" In 2017, they started work to become a non-profit organization and on November 20, 2017 the state of California accepted the initial registration of the World Cube Association.\n\nThe organization is run by the board members. It assigns different teams and committees as well as delegates who can organize official competitions. The presence of a delegate is required to make the competition official. , more than 138,000 people from around the world have participated in WCA competitions.\n\nThe WCA Board of Directors (or simply WCA Board) is the leadership team of the WCA and its highest authority. WCA Directors are Officers of the WCA and also, have the role of Full Delegate. The WCA Board is responsible for the WCA organization as a whole. As part of their day-to-day work, they discuss issues that affect the WCA and advise the committees. The WCA Board oversees that the applications to hold WCA Competitions meet fair conditions to give all the world similar chances to compete, and finally approves and announces the competitions accordingly. After competitions, they read reports from the WCA delegates about competitions to be up to date on the WCA activity worldwide and take part in the discussion of any incidents that occur.\n\nThe Board is also responsible for helping WCA fulfill its mission: “more competitions in more countries with more people and more fun, under fair and equal conditions.” This means spreading cubing to new communities and countries and working together with the Senior Delegates to open up cubing to even more people.\n\nThe WCA Communications Team (WCT) is in charge of overseeing and supporting communications of the WCA with the community and the general public. This includes answering general requests that are submitted via the WCA website and maintaining the social media accounts of the WCA. The team responds to multiple emails a day from all around the world regarding starting cubing competitions in new areas, what to do for your first competition, big media requests about competitive speedcubing, and many other issues. Many requests are also forwarded to the appropriate WCA team or delegate if they are regarding a particular competition or specialization.\n\nThe WCA Competition Announcement Team (WCAT) is responsible for approving and announcing WCA Competitions and ensure such announcements adhere to WCA quality standards. They Review and announce competition submissions in WCA. They train Delegates to properly utilize the tools that WCA has for them.\n\nThe WCA Disciplinary Committee (WDC) investigates a variety of situations and proposes solutions including punishments when necessary. Among other topics, these situations could be serious violations of WCA regulations or community issues. They deal with many instances of cheating, general conduct, or disputes in the way that delegates and organizers run events. They are also responsible for issues that may occur in the WCA internally.\n\nThey can be contacted by WCA officials or community members to be made aware of possible violations at WCA competitions. Initial contact with the team is usually through emails or directly from any competitor or delegate. If the Team Leader agrees that this case falls under the WDC’s jurisdiction, a WDC case is initiated. The team attempts to correspond with everyone involved, to get all sides of the story, and to provide an independent report for the investigation. Once the case is closed and the decision made, they inform all relevant persons of any actions and make a public announcement, if necessary.\n\nThe WCA Financial Committee (WFC) is responsible for everything regarding finances within the WCA. As an Advisory Committee, they manage the finances and accounts of the WCA by an approved annual budget proposal, which is also their work to provide regularly. Similarly, the Financial Committee pays invoices and taxes that are directed to the WCA, after consultation and with permission of the WCA Board. Every quarter, they report and advise the WCA Board on all finances of the WCA, to give them a summary of the scope of financial possibilities and options that the WCA has.\n\nThe WCA Regulations Committee (WRC) was founded to support the WCA Board in maintaining the WCA Regulations in 2011. Over the years, their area of responsibility has been broadened, so that they handle all issues which are related to the application, the improvement, and the development of the WCA Regulations today. They support delegates on any kind of procedural matters happening at competitions and decide on unresolved and uncovered incidents. The WRC regularly publishes WCA internal reports to help all delegates and improve their knowledge of the Regulations.\nThis includes regulation changes based on feedback from the WCA staff and the community, while also taking into account their insights and reports of incidents that occur during WCA competitions. New versions of the Regulations are published periodically. Another part of their work is to encourage members of the WCA community to create and maintain translations of the Regulations.\n\nThe WCA Results Team (WRT) is responsible for managing all data in the databases of the WCA, most importantly competition results and personal data.\n\nThe most time-consuming regular task of the WCA Results Team is posting results of WCA competitions to the WCA website, once the delegate of the competition has sent them in. They rigorously check if the results were submitted correctly and if so, transfer them into the WCA results database. This work of the Results Team assures the data quality of the databases of the WCA. Each such posting procedure is ended by creating a public post on the WCA website – these are the posts that you can see on the front page of the WCA website!\nApart from posting competition results, the WCA Results Team is also responsible for making corrections to competition results if necessary and they are in charge of administering all WCA profile pages. This includes for example changing user data, like dates of birth, according to verified requests and managing profile picture requests.\n\nThe WCA website is a huge open source project on GitHub. They bring continuous improvements to the website very frequently, to allow all of the community members to easily access and enjoy WCA content. Recently internationalization was implemented, so now people can use the WCA website in their native language. Other important milestones are the development of the registration system, and especially payments. The team keeps an eye on the website all the time to ensure it's permanently available and they react as fast as possible whenever something is wrong.\n\nThe Software Team develops new software for various tasks within the WCA whenever needed. Thus, they created an app simplifying translating the website, to engage more people translating into their language. On 21 August 2012 the WCA Workbook assistant has released , which is used by all delegates to submit the competition results to the WCA Results Team. The Software Team also updates the official WCA Scrambler, TNoodle, according to data provided by the WCA Regulations Committee if changes are needed. Additionally, they maintain and develop administrative tools for various Delegates, Committees, and Board members on the WCA website.\n\nWCA Delegates are members of the WCA who are responsible for making sure that all WCA competitions are run according to the mission, regulations, and spirit of the WCA. This means that at every competition a WCA Delegate needs to be present to be considered official. The WCA has three different types of delegates: WCA Senior Delegates, WCA Delegates, and WCA Candidate Delegates. Beyond the duties of a WCA Delegate, a WCA Senior Delegate is responsible for managing the delegates in their area and should also be contacted by the community for regional matters. They are available to mentor the delegates in their area – especially when new communities are being developed. New delegates are listed as WCA Candidate Delegates at first and need to show their ability to manage competitions successfully before being listed as WCA Delegates. If possible they may delegate their first competitions alongside more experienced delegates to get the hang of all responsibilities connected to delegate a WCA competition.\n\nAll acknowledged WCA Delegates, Candidate Delegates and Senior Delegates can be found on their official Website.\n\nIn 1999, the first modern age speedcubers found each other on the Internet via Rubik's Games, a computer game with an electronic version of the Rubik's Cube. Chris Hardwick from Raleigh, NC founded the Yahoo! Group \"Speedsolvingrubikscube\" and the Unofficial World Records, a place where cubers could post their personal best times. Ron van Bruchem started speedcubing.com together with his friend Ton Dennenbroek, an avid puzzle collector.\n\nBecause the cubers were living all over the world, they wanted to organize a competition at which they could all meet. In 2003, under the guidance of Dan Gosbee, they organized the Rubik's Cube World Championship in Toronto. This first modern-age Rubik's Cube competition was a huge success, but there were lots of issues, largely due to the lack of any regulations. After the World Championship, van Bruchem and Tyson Mao started organizing competitions in the Netherlands and Germany, as well as at Caltech in the United States. In 2004, they started the World Cube Association, which today has held competitions in more than 90 countries.\n\nCurrently, the WCA offers competitions in 17 events. Not all of them are offered at every competition, but they are usually all offered at national, continental, and global championships. The events are:\n\nAdditionally, some events have had their official WCA event status removed. They are:\n\nEvery two years starting from 2003, the WCA holds the Rubik's Cube World Championships. The Championship ultimately determines the world champion. Every official event is held at the Championship. The Rubik's Cube World Championship requires extremely careful planning by several volunteers, as well as a large financial commitment to reserve the venue and make necessary preparations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087450", "title": "Macky", "text": "Macky\n\nMacky is both a given name and a surname. It may refer to:\n\nSurname:\n\nGiven name:\n"}
{"id": "2087454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087454", "title": "Marshall Carter", "text": "Marshall Carter\n\nMarshall Sylvester Carter (September 16, 1909 – February 18, 1993) was a lieutenant general in the United States Army. From 1965 to 1969, he served as Director of the National Security Agency.\n\nCarter was born on September 16, 1909 at Fort Monroe, Virginia, the son of future Brigadier general Clifton C. Carter. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1931 and took an M.S. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1936.\n\nCarter served as an aide to General George C. Marshall during Marshall's time as Chief of Staff of the United States Army, Secretary of State, and Secretary of Defense.\n\nCarter, then a lieutenant general, served as Deputy Director of Central Intelligence from April 3, 1962, to April 28, 1965. From 1965 to 1969, he served as Director of the National Security Agency. Upon retirement from the military, he served as President of the George C. Marshall Research Foundation until retiring from that position in 1985.\n\nCarter was inducted into the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame. He was portrayed by Ed Lauter in the film \"Thirteen Days\" (2000), based on events occurring during the Cuban Missile Crisis. Carter is buried in Arlington National Cemetery with his wife, Preot Nichols Carter (1912–1997).\n"}
{"id": "2087455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087455", "title": "The Peel Sessions (The Ruts album)", "text": "The Peel Sessions (The Ruts album)\n\nThe Peel Sessions was the 1986 album release of the sessions The Ruts recorded in May 1979 for Radio 1's John Peel Show. Although released as a 12 inch vinyl platter the record was designed to be played at (the same) 45 rpm (as a 7 inch single). [tmi.]\n\n"}
{"id": "2087468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087468", "title": "Can't Repeat", "text": "Can't Repeat\n\n\"Can't Repeat\" is a single by American punk rock band The Offspring. \"Can't Repeat\" was released to radio on May 10, 2005. It is the first track on their compilation album, \"Greatest Hits\", and the only original track on the album (not including the hidden track, \"Next to You\"). It was released on June 20, 2005.\n\nThe music video for the song simply featured the band playing in a derelict room, and it received little airtime on MTV. An alternate version was made showing actors looking back on photographs and memories, reflecting the song's subject matter, though this was very rarely shown. It was the second and final video to feature Atom Willard playing the drums.\n\nThe original music video starts with Kriesel playing the opening melody with his special, \"k-covered\" bass, hence to his nickname of Greg K., then Willard comes in, and finally Holland and Noodles. The melody stays about the same throughout the song.\n\nThe music video also appears on the \"Complete Music Video Collection\" DVD. It was released in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "2087477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087477", "title": "Kent, Texas", "text": "Kent, Texas\n\nKent is an unincorporated community in Culberson County, Texas, United States. It lies just north of Interstate 10 at Exit 176, 10 mi west of the beginning of Interstate 20 and 4 mi west of the eastern Culberson County boundary. It is sandwiched between the railroad, immediately to its north, and the interstate. As of 2005, its population was estimated at 60 residents, with three small businesses, a general store, a service station, and a post office, as well as ruins of a public school and other businesses that flourished until the 1960s. As of 2014, only the general store remained in operation; the nearest service station is in Plateau, 18 mi west along the interstate. It, therefore, has had no medical, pharmaceutical, public educational, legal, police, fire, or other governmental services beyond the post office within its boundaries; the nearest source of these is in Van Horn, 37 mi west. No motels, hotels, or trailer/RV parks, restaurants, or other tourist services are available, either. The surrounding county area it serves contains semidesert land supporting large cattle ranches.\n\nAccording to the Köppen climate classification, Kent has a semiarid climate, \"BSk\" on climate maps.\n\nWell-known Dallas businessman, W. C. “Chuck” Adams, owner of Sew-Vac, Inc. and International Mail Order Co., died in Kent, Texas, when his private plane, a Cessna 172H Skyhawk, N2757L, crashed 7 mi north of Kent proper, within the Apache Mountain range. Adams was flying with his two older sons, Chuck Jr. and Charles Rodney, from Pecos to Van Horn that morning. Both sons survived the crash in the early morning hours of November 18, 1978. A man driving by found the crash about an hour later, around 8 am. Adams was found deceased, with Chuck Jr, co-pilot, still inside the plane with him, with near-fatal injuries. The younger son, Rodney, was found thrown outside the plane, with only minor injuries. Chuck Jr., due to the magnitude of his injuries from the crash, died on February 5, 1987, and is interred in the cemetery in Dawson, Texas, with his maternal grandparents.\n\nWilliam Charles Adams, Sr., originally from Frost, Texas, is interred in Dallas, Texas, in the Sparkman-Hillcrest Memorial Gardens. However, a small memorial has been placed in Kent, in his memory, as well.\n\nCoincidentally, CR 2424, heading north from Interstate 10 from Kent, is also given the name Cesna Ave. The other road, Hwy 118, shares the numerical day of the crash, 11–18.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087479", "title": "Heather Marks", "text": "Heather Marks\n\nHeather Marks (born July 25, 1988) is a Canadian model known in the fashion world for her big eyes and \"doll-like\" or elven features. Her high fashion looks have booked her many campaigns, and her career has followed those of other doll-like models, Gemma Ward, Caroline Trentini, Lily Cole, Lisa Cant, Vlada Roslyakova, and Jessica Stam.\n\nMarks was born in Calgary, Alberta, and was discovered at the Calgary Woman's Show at the age of 12 (already 178 cm tall) by Kelly Streit, the owner of Mode Models. He invited her to enter Mode's upcoming model search, which she won. She was still not convinced on the idea of modeling and agreed to help Streit with taking on jobs a few times a month.\n\nAt almost 15 Marks was sent to Toronto and began booking jobs in New York, including her first editorial for Italian Vogue. She made her runway debut three years later at the Givenchy Spring 2003 couture show. She made her ready-to-wear show debut in the Spring/Summer 2004 season, in which she walked over 43 shows (including Anna Sui, Blumarine, Burberry, Chanel, D&G, Givenchy, Lanvin, Louis Vuitton, Marc by Marc Jacobs, Marni, MaxMara, Rochas, Sportmax and Versus by Versace). In each the Spring/Summer 2005 and Fall/Winter 2005 catwalk show seasons she walked in over 70 shows.\n\nMarks has since done shows and advertisements for D & G, Calvin Klein, Emporio Armani, Marc by Marc Jacobs, Max Mara, Moschino, Kenzo, Jimmy Choo, Lacoste, Anna Sui, Christian Lacroix, Just Cavalli, Badgley Mischka, Jeremy Laing, Sisley and other prominent fashion designers. She has also appeared in advertisements for H&M, Aubin & Wills, Converse, Victoria's Secret, Lui Jeans, American Eagle, Benetton, Blanco, Cacharel, Daks, GAP, Holt Renfrew, Lee Jeans, Levi's, Mango, Sportmax, Swarovski, Trussardi and Via Spiga. She is very well known in the industry as a \"beauty\" and \"money\" model, as she has appeared in cosmetics campaigns for Anna Sui, Revlon, MAC and NARS, VDL Cosmetics as well her many turns in the beauty editions of both Japanese and Italian \"Vogue\".\n\nShe has appeared on the covers of magazines such as the German, Korean, Latinoamerican, Mexican and Spanish editions of \"Vogue\", the Croatian, Canadian, and Italian editions of \"Elle\" in addition to \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Dazed\", \"French\", \"Velvet\", \"Flair\", \"Fashion\", \"BLACK\" and \"Mixte\". In 2006 she participated in the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. Marks has also appeared in the catalogs for Bloomingdales, Burberry, Louis Vuitton, Lloyd Jewelry, Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman Marcus, Bergdorf Goodman, Holt Renfrew, Max Mara, Americana Manhasset and Aubin & Wills\n\nShe also had a role in the feature film \"\" (2012).\n\nMarks currently lives in Greenwich Village with her English Bulldog, \"Otis\". She has said that she used to be a \"tomboy\" and is a fan of wakeboarding, snowboarding, and soccer. She has a younger brother (Stephen) and an older sister (Tracy). She also owns a cabin in Shuswap, British Columbia, where she stays for at least one month a year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087491", "title": "Only (Nine Inch Nails song)", "text": "Only (Nine Inch Nails song)\n\n\"Only\" is a song by American industrial rock band Nine Inch Nails. It was released as the second single from Nine Inch Nails' fourth album, \"With Teeth\". \"Only\" reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock chart, where it stayed for seven weeks. It is the second successful release that Nine Inch Nails has had in the UK, peaking at number 20.\n\nThe song is regarded as a fan favorite and has been a staple of Nine Inch Nails live performances for several years, placed by setlist.fm as their 20th most played song live.\n\n\"Only\" was the last song completed for \"With Teeth\".\n\nLike the previous single, \"The Hand That Feeds\", \"Only\" was only widely released in Europe. European releases include a CD, a DVD, and a 9\" vinyl. The only United States release is a vinyl format—a remix record with mixes from Richard X and El-P.\n\nLike \"The Hand That Feeds\", \"Only\" was released as a GarageBand multitrack file, as well as for DigiDesign Pro Tools, Ableton Live, and Sony ACID Pro. A fan remix community page was set up on MySpace.\n\n\"Only\" has been labeled as dance-rock, dance-punk, new wave revival and synth-pop.\n\nThe music video for \"Only\", directed by David Fincher and relying almost entirely on CGI created by Digital Domain, shows various objects in an executive's office coming to life with the propulsion of the song and was released on July 12, 2005 at NIN.com.\n\nThe main focus is Trent Reznor's face appearing on the novelty Pin Art that sits on the desk. The only non-CGI components of the video are a person's hand (Fincher's, who owns the PowerBook in the video) and the cars in the background.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087494", "title": "Robert Bishop", "text": "Robert Bishop\n\nRobert Bishop may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087513", "title": "Fritz Hofmann (athlete)", "text": "Fritz Hofmann (athlete)\n\nFritz Hofmann (19 June 1871 - 14 July 1927) was a German athlete, born in Berlin. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nHofmann competed in the 100 metres. In the heats, he came in second out of five runners, qualifying for the final. There he again came in second, with his time of 12.2 seconds being 0.2 seconds behind the winner, Thomas Burke of the United States.\n\nHofmann also competed in the 400 metres. He placed second in his preliminary heat, advancing to the final. There, he finished in fourth place.\n\nIn the high jump Hofmann placed last of the five athletes. His best jump was to 1.55 metres. He also placed either sixth or seventh (with Khristos Zoumis of Greece taking the other place) in the triple jump, as well as in the bottom three of the seven man field in the shot put.\n\nHe also competed in three gymnastics events, rope climbing and the team parallel bars and horizontal bar. In the rope climbing Hofmann reached the highest of the three gymnasts who did not finish, receiving a bronze medal behind the two Greek climbers, who reached the top of the 14 metre rope. Hofmann made it to 12.5 metres. In the team, Hofmann was the captain of the German team that won both competitions.\n"}
{"id": "2087515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087515", "title": "Ellen Steiber", "text": "Ellen Steiber\n\nEllen Steiber is an American novelist and author of books for young readers, including some based on single episodes of \"The X-Files\" and \"Full House\" series.\n\nSteiber was raised in Newark and West Orange, New Jersey. She went to Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. When she finished college at Carnegie, Steiber moved to New York City where she worked for a Japanese trading company. She worked there for a couple years and eventually became a children’s book writer.\n\nThrough the 1980s, Steiber lived in New York City. During this time period, she studied karate and had a wide social circle of artists and writers. Then in 1991, her lifelong dream of moving to the southwest was finally fulfilled. Ellen now lives in Tucson, Arizona with Doug, her partner.\n\nSteiber's interests include: folk music, folklore, Mexican culture and border arts, classic children book illustrations, poetry, and many different types of fiction books.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087522", "title": "Nishinari-ku, Osaka", "text": "Nishinari-ku, Osaka\n\nTwo designated yakuza groups, the Sakaume-gumi and the Azuma-gumi, are based in Nishinari.\n\n\n\n\nPublic elementary and junior high schools are operated by the Osaka City Board of Education. The public high schools are operated by the Osaka Prefectural Board of Education.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087526", "title": "Lynda Baquero", "text": "Lynda Baquero\n\nLynda Baquero (born January 16, 1967) is an American correspondent for WNBC news in New York City. Baquero has filed numerous reports for the station both at home and abroad, including a trip to Puerto Rico where she filed stories on the island’s economy and tourism. She also has provided coverage of the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah and the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia. Traveling through the Caribbean to such places as Puerto Rico, Haiti and the Dominican Republic, she has provided coverage of various tropical storms such as Hurricane Georges that have battered the region.\n\nBaquero joined the WNBC in 1995 from local cable news network NY1 News where she was a daily news anchor and consumer reporter for three years. At NY1, Baquero was one of two-dozen \"video journalists\" responsible for researching, writing, shooting and editing her own stories. Prior to NY1, Baquero was at local station WCBS for five years working in almost every aspect of the newsroom ranging from desk assistant, to researcher, to assignment editor, and finally associate producer of the daily consumer action segment, \"Troubleshooter\". Baquero has also worked as an associate producer of \"NELY!\" a talk show produced at WCAU in Philadelphia as well as for Telemundo where she wrote and co-produced various Spanish-language network specials.\n\nA year after joining the WNBC news team, Baquero was named co-anchor of the station’s popular weekend editions of their news feature program \"Today in New York\". She hosted that program for two years before moving to hosting the station's weekend evening newscasts. She has also served as co-anchor of \"News 4 New York at 6PM\" with David Ushery and as co-anchor of \"NewsChannel 4 at 6PM\" with Chuck Scarborough.\n\nBaquero was the recipient of the 1998 local Emmy Award for \"Religious Programming\" for her reports on the Pope John Paul II's historic visit to Cuba. In 2007 she received her second Emmy Award for \"Best Evening Newscast\" along with Chuck Scarborough. In addition to the Pope's visit to Cuba, she also traveled to the Middle East to cover the Pope's visit to the Holy Land.\n\nBorn and raised in Manhattan, Baquero is of Puerto Rican ancestry. She lives in Manhattan with her husband, whom she has been married to since 1997, and their two daughters. She is a graduate of Cathedral High School and New York University where she received a Bachelor of Arts degree in broadcast journalism. In addition to English, she is also fluent in both Spanish and French.\n"}
{"id": "2087527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087527", "title": "Hey, Hey, What Can I Do", "text": "Hey, Hey, What Can I Do\n\n\"Hey, Hey, What Can I Do\" is a song by the English rock group Led Zeppelin, released in 1970 as the B-side of \"Immigrant Song\" outside the United Kingdom.\n\nIt is the only non-album track the band released before their 1980 breakup, appearing on the Atlantic Records UK various artists compilation LP record, \"The New Age of Atlantic\", released in 1972. The song was first released on CD in September 1990 on the 4-CD \"Led Zeppelin Boxed Set\" collection.\n\nInitial 7-inch single pressings of the song featured a long gradual fade that ends abruptly with acoustic guitar. Subsequent pressings had a quicker fade, presumably to avoid the sudden end. This is the version that has been featured on every CD release prior to 2015. The 2015 expanded edition of \"Coda\" features an even shorter fade, excising the acoustic guitar ending altogether.\n\nIn 1992, as a 20th anniversary release, \"Immigrant Song\"/\"Hey, Hey What Can I Do\" was released as a \"vinyl replica\" CD single. In 1993, \"Hey, Hey What Can I Do\" was included on \"The Complete Studio Recordings\" 10-CD box set, as one of four bonus tracks on the \"Coda\" disc as well as the subsequent 12-CD \"Led Zeppelin Definitive Collection\" box set released in 2008. In 2015, the song was also included on disc one of the two companion discs of the reissue of \"Coda\".\n\nLed Zeppelin never performed the song in concert; however Page and Plant performed it in 1995 and 1996 on the accompanying tour for their 1994 live album \"\". Page also performed the song with the Black Crowes for their 2000 album \"Live at the Greek\".\n"}
{"id": "2087529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087529", "title": "Victorialand", "text": "Victorialand\n\nVictorialand is the fourth studio album by the Scottish alternative rock band Cocteau Twins, released by 4AD in April 1986. Working without member Simon Raymonde, who had been enlisted to collaborate on This Mortal Coil's \"Filigree & Shadow\" album, vocalist Elizabeth Fraser and guitarist/producer Robin Guthrie produced a record almost completely devoid of percussion, drenching acoustic guitars in reverberant space to create a wide, expansive sound that bordered on ambient. \n\nThe album title refers to the part of Antarctica known as Victoria Land, after Queen Victoria (and forming the British claim to the continent, currently dormant under international treaty). As is often the case with Fraser's vocals, the lyrics are indecipherable. Some of the track titles were borrowed from passages on the Arctic and Antarctic in David Attenborough's \"The Living Planet: A Portrait of the Earth\", the accompanying book to his 1984 BBC nature documentary series \"The Living Planet\", for example \"Throughout the dark months of April and May, the birds display to one another and finally mate\" on page 54.\n\nOn its initial release in the UK, the vinyl edition was a 12\" disc which played at 45 rpm, which would be normal for an EP rather than a full album, which would normally play at 33⅓ rpm. This was due to difficulties in the mastering process in reproducing the minimal soundscapes. Some test pressings at 33⅓ rpm are known to exist.\n\nAn uncredited instrumental version of \"Oomingmak\" was used as a backing track for the credits at the end of the 4AD compilation video for \"Lonely Is an Eyesore\". This instrumental version was later made available on the band's 1991 4AD singles box set.\n\nAll songs written by Elizabeth Fraser and Robin Guthrie.\n\n\n\nOne critic described the album as ethereal and resembling \"early Gong space-rock with much of the stuffing left out\".\n"}
{"id": "2087531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087531", "title": "Kolguyev Island", "text": "Kolguyev Island\n\nKolguyev Island () is an island in Nenets Autonomous Okrug Russia located in the south-eastern Barents Sea (west of the Pechora Sea) to the north-east of the Kanin Peninsula.\n\nThe approximately circular-shaped island has a diameter of and is in area. The highest point on the island is at 166 m (545 feet). The vast wetland consists of many bogs and morainic hills, covered by vegetation characteristic of the tundra. Notably, a proposed subspecies of the Candle Larkspur, \"Delphinium elatum\" ssp. \"cryophilum\", is only found on this island, but its distinctness from the mainland population is disputed.\n\nThere is only one inhabited settlement on the island, Bugrino, located on the southeast coast. Nenets form the majority of the population, with fishing, reindeer farming and trapping being their main economic activities. Oil and gas are also present.\n\nKolguyev Island has a tundra climate (ET) with an August mean of only 7.7.\n\nHighest Temperature: on July 10, 1990\n\nLowest Temperature: on February 16, 1951\n\nWarmest Month: on July, 2016\n\nColdest Month: on February, 1998\n\nWettest Year: in 1962\n\nDriest Year: in 2017\n\nThe island was explored in 1894 by the British naturalist\nAubyn B.R. Trevor-Battye. He landed in June with an assistant, intending to spend about one month studying the wildlife, especially the birds. Due to mechanical problems with the vessel and a misunderstanding, they were left stranded on the island for 12 weeks. He published his study of the natural history and topography of Kolguyev as: \"Ice-bound on Kolguev\" (Trevor-Battye 1895). The book includes observations on the Nenets (whom he called Samoyed) who brought their reindeer to the island for summer grazing and to trap geese for trade in Russia. Trevor-Battye eventually left the island with these reindeer herders in September 1894, and had to travel overland from the Pechora River to Archangel. He described this adventurous journey in: \"A northern highway of the Tsar\" (Trevor-Battye 1898).\n\n"}
{"id": "2087532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087532", "title": "Comfort and Indifference", "text": "Comfort and Indifference\n\nComfort and Indifference () is a 1982 documentary film by Denys Arcand, offering an analysis of the 1980 Quebec referendum, in which \"sovereignty-association\" was defeated as a first step to eventual secession from Canada. The film takes the position that the referendum result was a failure of courage and that the Québécois were numbed by prosperity and the explicitly Machiavellian manipulations of federalist leaders.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087540", "title": "Aria (comics)", "text": "Aria (comics)\n\nAria is a comic book metaseries published by Image Comics, written by Brian Holguin and drawn by Jay Anacleto. Its central concept is that 'mythic beings exist in the modern world,' a premise seen in numerous works of dark contemporary fantasy. There have been several \"Aria\" miniseries written over the course of 1999–2003, which have been collected in trade paperbacks. \n\nThe story opens in a New York bookshop, specializing in the esoteric. The shopowner, a sardonic young woman named Kildare, over the course of a day deals with a woman who found a sword in her flat, two goths who want to drink absinthe, and a man looking for a bargain-basement love potion. After work, she goes back to her flat, where she is greeted by a talking mirror and a fishtank full of tiny merpeople...\n\nShe goes to a club which caters to an unusual clientele, where it becomes apparent that the woman is a Fae noble. She meets a man named Pug, later revealed to be a dwarf, and the bartender Dion, who is none other than the Greek god Dionysus. On the way home, she is attacked by a group of shadowy creatures.\n\nMeanwhile, in an elven pub in Cottingly, a group of Fae are killed by further shadowy creatures.\n\nIn New York, Pug has rescued Kildare, and they are both looking for some answers. We are also introduced to Childe Roland, a half-elf street artist.\n\nThe death of the drinkers means that all of the Fae must return to their realm, temporarily for the funeral. We are introduced to 'Mad Ginny', the heroine's cousin, a touch insane, and the ultimate cause of the Cottingly Fairies fiasco. She, too, is being stalked by the shadowy creatures.\n\nEventually, the villain becomes apparent: a dark spiritual creature, who fought the Fae in ages past, and survived up to the present day as a shrub. After gathering strength for many years, his spirit is able to directly touch the physical world, and influence it, causing such disasters as the Great Fire of London in 1666. Finally he is able to take the shape of a human, he finds Mad Ginny, rapes her, and sires a son, through which he can act against the world at any time. The son is gathering the forces of the father.\n\nIn a final confrontation Kildare, Pug and a mortal wizard battle the son in a shadow realm. He is conducting a ceremony to transfer his soul to that of a human in our world which will allow him to act against mankind. The three defeat the son but not before he transfers his soul back to earth and the waiting recipient. Childe is waiting for him and quickly binds the man with magic.\n\nOn the final page we see that Ginny has moved to New York to live with Kildaire, the two of them work in Kildaire's antique and magic shop where the two of them watch over an urn that houses the soul of the dark one they trapped.\n\nThis mini-series is a two issue crossover where Kildare meets Angela, the angel who appeared in Spawn. In London at the end of the 19th century, Kildare encounters a freak show exhibiting Angela and must rescue her.\n\nIn this six issue mini-series, Kildare battles Goodfellow, otherwise known as Puck from A Midsummer Night's Dream, who is involved in an underground market where human souls are traded.\n\nIn this two issue mini-series, Kildare encounters a lost love, True Thomas, in 1960s London.\n\nIn this four issue mini-series, Kildare investigates the Kingdom of Enchantment, an abandoned theme park from the 1950s, which contains a true hidden magical kingdom.\n\nThe series has been collected into a number of trade paperbacks:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087541", "title": "Neal Shusterman", "text": "Neal Shusterman\n\nNeal Shusterman (born November 12, 1962) is an American writer of young-adult fiction. He won the National Book Award for Young People's Literature for his book \"Challenger Deep\".\n\nShusterman was born on November 12, 1962, and raised in Brooklyn, New York. From a young age, Shusterman was an avid reader. At age 16, Shusterman and his family moved to Mexico City.\nHe finished high school there at the American School Foundation and is quoted as saying that \"Having an international experience changed my life, giving me a fresh perspective on the world, and a sense of confidence I might not have otherwise.\" He attended the University of California, Irvine, where he double-majored in psychology and theater, and he was also on the varsity swim team.\n\nAfter college, Shusterman worked as an assistant at Irvin Arthur Associates, a talent agency in Los Angeles, where Lloyd Segan became his agent. Within a year, Shusterman had his first book deal, and a screenwriting job. He currently lives in Florida.\n\nShusterman has received numerous honors for his books, including the National Book Award in 2015 for his novel Challenger Deep, the Boston Globe–Horn Book Award, and the 2008 California Young Reader Medal for \"The Schwa Was Here\". He served as a judge for the PEN/Phyllis Naylor Working Writer Fellowship in 2012. His novels \"Downsiders\" and \"Full Tilt\" have each won over 20 awards. \"Unwind\" has won more than 30 awards, and is now in development with Constantin Films as a feature film series. His novel \"Scythe\" is in development with Universal as a feature film. His book \"Skinjacker\" was a National Book Award winner and has comments from Orson Scott Card, BCCB, VOYA, and School Library Journal.\n\nShusterman has also written for TV, including the Original Disney Channel movie \"Pixel Perfect\", as well as episodes of \"Goosebumps\" and \"Animorphs\". He has written for \"\" and is also adapting his novel \"Challenger Deep\" for 20th Century Fox.\n\nFellow author Orson Scott Card invited Shusterman to write novels parallel to \"Ender's Game\" about other characters from the series, but schedules didn't permit it, and Card wrote \"Ender's Shadow\" and the subsequent series himself.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087548", "title": "Peter De Vries", "text": "Peter De Vries\n\nPeter De Vries (February 27, 1910 – September 28, 1993) was an American editor and novelist known for his satiric wit. He has been described by the philosopher Daniel Dennett as \"probably the funniest writer on religion ever\".\n\nDe Vries was born in Chicago, Illinois, in 1910. He was educated in Dutch Christian Reformed Church schools, graduating from Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Michigan in 1931. He also studied at Northwestern University. He supported himself with a number of different jobs, including those of vending machine operator, toffee-apple salesman, radio actor in the 1930s, and editor for \"Poetry\" magazine from 1938 to 1944. During World War II De Vries served in the U.S. Marines, attaining the rank of Captain and was seconded to the Office of Strategic Services (OSS). Very little is known about his time in the military or with that secret organization, the predecessor to the CIA.\n\nHe joined the staff of \"The New Yorker\" magazine at the insistence of James Thurber and worked there from 1944 to 1987, writing stories and touching up cartoon captions. A prolific writer, De Vries wrote short stories, reviews, poetry, essays, a play, novellas, and twenty-three novels. Films made from De Vries's novels include \"The Tunnel of Love\" (1958), which also was a successful Broadway play; \"How Do I Love Thee?\" (1970, based on \"Let Me Count the Ways\"); \"Pete 'n' Tillie\" (1972, based on \"Witch’s Milk\"); and \"Reuben, Reuben\" (1983), which also inspired a Broadway play, \"Spofford\". Earlier, in 1952, De Vries also contributed to the writing of the Broadway revue \"New Faces of 1952\". Although he enjoyed success for five decades, all his novels were out of print by the time of his death.\n\nJames Bratt describes De Vries as \"a secular Jeremiah, a renegade CRC missionary to the smart set.\"\n\nPeter De Vries met his future wife, poet and author Katinka Loeser, in 1943 when she won an award from \"Poetry\" magazine. The couple moved to Westport, Connecticut in 1948. They were the parents of four children: sons Derek and Jon, daughters Jan and Emily. Emily died in 1960 at age ten after a two-year fight with leukemia. This experience provided the inspiration for his 1961 work, \"The Blood of the Lamb.\" His son Jon is an actor who has appeared in movies such as \"American Gangster\"; \"Sarah, Plain and Tall\"; and \"Skylark\"; as well as episodic television in shows like \"Blue Bloods\", \"Boardwalk Empire\", and \"\". His daughter Jan, an author, editor and psychic counselor whose interests and activities ranged from homeopathic medicine to shamanism, the occult and Native American lore, died in 1997 at age 52, of cancer.\n\nKatinka De Vries died in 1991. Peter De Vries died at age 83 on September 28, 1993 in a Norwalk, Connecticut hospital. He, his wife, and daughter are buried in Willowbrook Cemetery, Westport, Conn.\n\nDe Vries received an honorary degree in 1979 from Susquehanna University. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters in May 1983.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087552", "title": "Roush Fenway Racing", "text": "Roush Fenway Racing\n\nRoush Fenway Racing, originally Roush Racing, is an American professional stock car organization that currently competes in the NASCAR Cup Series. One of NASCAR's largest racing teams in the 2000s and early 2010s, Roush formerly ran teams in the NASCAR Xfinity Series, Camping World Truck Series, ARCA Racing Series, Trans-Am Series and IMSA Camel GT. The team currently fields the No. 6 Ford Mustang GT full-time for Ryan Newman and Ross Chastain and the No. 17 Mustang full-time for Chris Buescher.\n\nSince its inception, Roush has competed exclusively in Ford brand automobiles. The team also operates Roush-Yates Engines, which provides engines for most Ford teams in NASCAR and ARCA competition.\n\nRoush Racing was founded by Jack Roush, former employee of the Ford Motor Company and founder of Roush Performance Engineering. Prior to entering NASCAR competition, Roush had competed and won championships in various drag racing and sports car racing series since the mid-1960s, including the NHRA, SCCA Trans-Am Series, IMSA GT Championship, and the 24 Hours of Daytona. The racing business was originally a small branch of co-owner Jack Roush's successful automotive engineering and road-racing equipment business based in Livonia, Michigan. Early Roush drivers included Tommy Kendall, Scott Pruett and Willy T. Ribbs.\n\nThe NASCAR operation, founded in 1988 and based in Concord, North Carolina, has since become the cornerstone and centerpiece of the company. The team won back to back Championships in the NASCAR Cup Series in 2003 and 2004; the final Winston Cup championship with driver Matt Kenseth, and the first Nextel Cup championship with driver Kurt Busch. The team also has amassed many wins and championships in the Nationwide/Xfinity Series and Craftsman Truck Series competition.\n\nIn 2007, sports investor John W. Henry, owner of the Fenway Sports Group which operates the Boston Red Sox, Liverpool F.C., and the New England Sports Network bought a 50% stake in the team, renamed Roush Fenway Racing. Jack Roush continues to head day-to-day operations of the team.\n\nRoush restarted its road racing program in 2006, called Roush Road Racing (previously Roush Performance Racing or Roush Performance). The team fielded the No. 61 Ford Mustang in the IMSA Continental Tire Sports Car Challenge and Rolex Sports Car Series for Billy Johnson and Jack Roush's son, Jack Roush Jr., and since 2014 fields the No. 60 Mustang in the Pirelli World Challenge sponsored by Roush Performance and driven by Roush, Jr. Since 2015, the team has been fielded in a partnership with Capaldi Racing, moving from the Roush Fenway shops in North Carolina to Michigan near Roush Performance headquarters.\n\nFounded in 1988, the NASCAR program is built around having multiple cars and providing engine, engineering and race car build services to other NASCAR teams fielding Ford branded vehicles. The multi-team aspect of the company allows for information and resources to be shared across the enterprise, improving the performance of all of the teams. Since the 2004 season, engines for the cars have been provided by Roush-Yates Engines, a partnership between Roush Fenway Racing and now-closed rival Yates Racing, with Doug Yates as head engine builder. Roush-Yates also provides engines, cars and parts to other Cup teams, including Wood Brothers Racing, Team Penske, Go Fas Racing, Stewart Haas Racing \nand Front Row Motorsports.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2000 and 2003–2009, Roush Racing operated five full-time Cup teams (6, 16, 17, 26/97, 99), more than any other organization including Hendrick Motorsports and Richard Childress Racing, which have both operated as many as four full-time teams. Beginning in 2001, after years of operating in separate facilities, the teams were moved into a single shop in Concord, North Carolina to improve performance and communication. Roush Racing set a NASCAR record by putting all five of its race teams in the Chase for the Nextel Cup in 2005. Following the 2009 season, Roush Fenway was ordered by NASCAR to shrink its operation to four Sprint Cup Series teams, ceding the No. 26 team. The team would later shrink to three teams after the 2011 season, and would shrink again to two teams after the 2016 season.\n\nThe Xfinity Series operation began in 1992 with the No. 60 driven by Mark Martin. The No. 60 team has been dominant throughout its history, amassing many wins with Martin; three driver's championships with Greg Biffle in 2002, Carl Edwards in 2007, and Chris Buescher in 2015; and an owner's championship with Edwards in 2011. The No. 6 team won back-to-back driver's championships in 2011 & 2012 with Ricky Stenhouse Jr. Following the departures of Ryan Reed, Chase Briscoe, and Austin Cindric, Roush's Xfinity program was closed following the 2018 season.\n\nFrom 1995 until 2009 Roush also fielded teams in the NASCAR Truck Series, fielding trucks for drivers such as Kurt Busch, Biffle, Kyle Busch, Edwards, Ricky Craven, David Ragan, and various others. Many of these drivers went on to drive for the team at the Cup level. Roush's trucks won fifty races and the 2000 Truck Series championship with Biffle driving.\n\nThe No. 09 truck began running in 2005 as a research and development entry for Ford. Bobby East attempted a few races in the truck (then No. 33) but failed to qualify. Mark Martin made the team's first qualification at the Ford 200, where he started 14th and finished 8th with sponsorship from Stonebridge Life Insurance.\n\nAfter Martin's strong start to the 2006 season, his original limited schedule was expanded. Roush decided to run another part-time team for rookie David Ragan to fill out his original schedule. Ragan took the No. 50 to a 22nd-place finish at Atlanta, but struggled in his next few starts in both the No. 50 and the No. 6. After crashing the No. 6 in practice for the Mansfield race, he was replaced for the weekend. Carl Edwards ran the No. 50 at the Dover race, and Ragan returned at the Texas race. Ragan's best finish in the No. 50 came at Atlanta where he finished sixth. Peter Shepherd and Michel Jourdain Jr. also drove the No. 50 on a part-time basis during the season with sponsorship from PurposeMoney.com. Edwards drove the truck for the first two races of the season unsponsored, when it was announced T. J. Bell would drive the truck for fifteen races, bringing sponsorship from Heathcliff's Cat Litter. Development drivers Peter Shepherd and Danny O'Quinn Jr. also drove the No. 50 truck with sponsorship from Northern Tool and Equipment. Joey Clanton began the 2008 season driving the No. 09 full-time in 2008 with Zaxby's sponsoring, but after the season-opening race, he was released. Travis Kvapil returned to Roush and shared this ride with Bobby East, and John Wes Townley for the rest of the season. Roush shut down the No. 09 team after the 2008 season.\n\nThe No. 6 truck debuted at Heartland Park Topeka in 1996 as No. 99. It was sponsored by Exide Batteries and driven to an eighth-place finish by Jeff Burton. Posting three top tens in four races that year, he shared the ride with Mark Martin, who won at North Wilkesboro Speedway. The next year, Chuck Bown was hired to drive full-time, and posted thirteen top tens and finished ninth in points. The rotating doors moved again, and Joe Ruttman was driving this truck in 1998, winning once and finishing 3rd in points. Mike Bliss was next to tackle the ride, and he performed decently, winning at Heartland Park Topeka but only finishing 9th in points. When Bliss left for an ill-fated rookie year in Winston Cup, Kurt Busch was named the new driver. Busch won four times and finished second to teammate Biffle in the championship, easily winning Rookie of the Year.\n\nBoth Busch and Exide exited after that season (Busch moving to the Cup Series), and rookie Nathan Haseleu took over. The truck was largely unsponsored at the beginning of the year, with Eldon becoming the sponsor after nine races. Despite posting four top ten finishes in twelve starts, Hasleau was waived mid-season, replaced initially by former Truck Series drivers Greg Biffle and Kurt Busch. Biffle scored two wins in the truck. Kurt's younger brother Kyle would also run six races at the end of the season, earning two top tens at the age of 16. Kyle Busch was scheduled to race the truck full-time in 2002, but during the 2001 season finale at Fontana he was ejected from the race due to conflicts with track sponsor Marlboro. Afterwards, NASCAR announced all drivers in its top three series must be at least 18 years of age. Tim Woods III would replace Busch in the race.\n\nAfter Tim Fedewa ran the 2002 season-opener in the truck, and with the now 17-year-old Busch not able to compete, the team did not run for the rest of the year due to lack of sponsorship.\n\nThe truck returned in 2003 with Carl Edwards driving; although the United States Navy was the truck's original sponsor, they left the team midway through the year and Edwards ran largely unsponsored until Superchips came on to sponsor him. Edwards won three races and the Rookie of the Year title. He repeated his win total in 2004 and moved up to fourth in points, and following Jeff Burton's departure from Roush Racing he began splitting time between the Truck Series and the Nextel Cup Series.\n\nWhen Edwards moved up to Nextel Cup for 2005, Roush hired a former Cup driver, Ricky Craven to take his place. Despite posting seven top tens and winning at Martinsville, Roush and Craven announced they would not be back together in 2006.\n\nInstead, the truck switched to No. 6, and was shared by Nextel Cup veteran Mark Martin and rookie David Ragan. The No. 6 truck's new sponsor was Scotts, and the truck, piloted by Martin, won the first two races of the 2006 season. Martin then decided to race more races than he originally intended, and he only skipped races without a corresponding Nextel Cup event. Auggie Vidovich II drove for the Mansfield race after Ragan crashed the truck in practice, finishing 19th. Ragan shared the truck with Martin for the balance of the season and had six top-tens and one pole in the 6 truck. Martin had the most success in the truck, winning five races. Overall, the team finished 2nd in the owner's points.\n\n2003 NCTS Champion Travis Kvapil returned to the Truck Series in 2007, and won four races en route to a sixth-place finish in points.\n\nAs Kvapil heads back to the Sprint Cup Series with Yates Racing, former Rolex Sports Car Series driver Colin Braun took Kvapil's place in the 6 truck with sponsorship from Con-way. In his rookie season, Braun had three top-fives and finished 13th in points, winning Rookie of the Year. In 2009, he won at Michigan and finished 5th in points. With moving Braun to the Nationwide Series for the 2010 season, Roush shut down this team and ended its Truck program. He later sold the remaining Trucks to Sprint Cup driver Kyle Busch for him to start his own Truck Team.\n\nThe original truck in Roush's stable which debuted in 1995 at the Heartland Park Topeka road course. It was No. 61 and driven to a fourth-place finish by Todd Bodine. Bodine had two more top ten runs at Richmond and Mesa Marin Raceway before Ted Musgrave drove to a fourth-place finish at Phoenix. In 1996, the car switched to No. 80 and Joe Ruttman was at the wheel, nailing down sixteen top-10s and finishing 4th in points. In 1997, with sponsorship from LCI, Ruttman won five times and finished 3rd in points. After running one race with the truck in 1998, the truck switched to No. 50 for the rest of 1998.\n\nRuttman took over another ride with the team, and he was replaced by rookie Greg Biffle, whom Roush hired under the recommendation of Benny Parsons. Biffle would be sponsored by W. W. Grainger. Although he failed to win a race, Biffle won four poles and finished eighth in points.\n\nBiffle would go on a tear in 1999, when he won nine times, and was in contention for the championship for much of the season before finally losing to Jack Sprague. His 2000 season was less dominant with only five wins, but he was able to win the championship by 230 points over teammate Kurt Busch.\n\nWith Biffle moving up to the Busch Series, in 2001, Roush hired Winston Modified Tour driver Chuck Hossfeld to drive the truck after he won 2000 Roush \"\"\"\" competition. Hossfeld struggled in his rookie year, and soon he was released, with Jon Wood driving the truck for the remainder of the season.\n\nWood's audition was impressive enough to earn him a full-time run in 2002, and he posted twelve top ten finishes in the U.S. Navy sponsored truck and finished 12th in points in his first full year. Wood had two wins the next year, and finished 15th in points in 2004 before moving on to JTG Racing in the Busch Series.\n\nIn 2005, Todd Kluever, another \"\"Gong Show\"\" winner, piloted the truck sponsored by Shell Rotella T and World Financial Group. Kluever earned six top five and twelve top ten finishes in his rookie season, winning the Rookie of the Year award.\n\nErik Darnell piloted the newly renumbered 99 truck full-time in 2006 with at first Woolrich, but eventually Northern Tool and Equipment as sponsor to a 2006 Rookie of the Year title. 2007 brought about Darnell's first win at Kansas, but inconsistency left the team 12th in points at season's end. 2008 would be the 99's final season in the Truck Series, as the team was being moved up for a part-time schedule in the Nationwide Series. Darnell captured one win at Michigan by only .005 seconds over eventual champion Johnny Benson. This team was shut down after the 2008 season.\n\nRoush drove the No. 60 one time.\n\nFor 2008, Ricky Stenhouse Jr. drove an Aflac sponsored No. 99 to compete in the championship. During the last race, he and Scott Speed battled for the championship and Stenhouse ran Speed up the track causing a caution. Speed later than decided to get revenge on Stenhouse and he wrecked Stenhouse and himself out of the race allowing Justin Allgaier to win the championship.\n\nPerhaps Roush Racing's most famous partnership is with the now defunct-Yates Racing, a longtime rival Ford team. In 2004, the two teams announced a program to combine their engine divisions, now known as Roush-Yates Engines (RYE), a move which greatly improved the power of both organizations' engines. By 2006, most Ford teams were using the Roush-Yates engines, including long-time Ford team and Roush affiliate Wood Brothers Racing (then Wood Brothers/JTG Racing). Current Roush-Yates clients include Team Penske (TP), Wood Brothers Racing (WBR), Stewart-Haas Racing (SHR), Front Row Motorsports (FRM), and Go FAS Racing (GFR).\n\nRoush Fenway also has technical alliances with Front Row Motorsports, providing engines, chassis, and bodies as well as technical support. Roush also provided heavy technical support to Yates Racing from 2008 to the team's closure at the end of 2009, when it merged with Richard Petty Motorsports. As of 2017, Roush supplies engines and chassis to 13 Cup teams.\n\nThe first technical alliance between Roush Racing and another organization was with Wood Brothers Racing, another longtime Ford team and the oldest active team in the sport. The Wood Brothers alliance began in mid-2000, after Roush had provided the team with engines the previous two seasons. The relationship later expanded when the team fielded Roush development driver Trevor Bayne from late-2010 to 2014. It would end after that season, with the Wood Brothers currently receiving equipment and support (other than engines) from Team Penske.\n\nIn 2005, nine-time Pro Bowl NFL wide receiver Tim Brown announced that he intended to start his own NASCAR team, most likely No. 81, and receive equipment from Roush Racing. Brown also stated that he will let Roush select his driver. The series the team will run will depend on how much sponsorship money the team gets.\n\nBrown had said that his team will most likely not enter NASCAR until 2007, but as of October 2006, no further announcements have been made about the status of this partnership.\n\nIn 2006, SoBe No Fear energy drink announced that it was forming a new team to run full-time in 2007, with a car driven by road racing specialist Boris Said. It was also announced that this new team would be affiliated with Roush Racing. This allows Roush to sell No Fear Racing cars and equipment, as well as help them with engineering. In return, Said is tutoring Roush's younger drivers on road course racing. The team began running a limited schedule with the Sonoma road course in 2006.\n\nStarting with the 2007 season, Robby Gordon switched from Chevrolet to Ford vehicles after signing a contract with Ford Racing. He leased engines from the Roush/Yates engine program through the 2007 season, until he switched to Gillett Evernham engines and a Dodge Charger.\n\nOn February 14, 2007, the Fenway Sports Group, owner of the Boston Red Sox baseball team, purchased 50% of Roush Racing to create a new corporate entity, Roush Fenway Racing.\n\nMike Dee, president of the Fenway Sports Group was quoted as saying, \"Although there have been many instances of cross ownership in the world of professional sports, this partnership marks the first time that owners of a professional franchise in one of the four major leagues have crossed over into the world of NASCAR.\"\n\nCurrent management will remain in place at Roush Fenway Racing, with Jack Roush handling all competitive operations and Geoff Smith will continue as Roush Racing president to handle business activities.\n\nRoush became involved in the aerospace industry in the 2010s. In April 2015, United Launch Alliance announced that they were contracting with Roush Racing to produce the lightweight internal combustion engine to be used to power the long-life on orbit system of the Advanced Cryogenic Evolved Stage to be flown in the 2020s as the second stage of the Vulcan launch vehicle.\n\nFor many years, Roush Racing recruited its developmental drivers through an elimination style of testing entitled \"The Gong Show\". The first competition was held in 1985 for Roush's road racing program. The first combine for the stock car program was held in 1999. The process would begin when Roush solicited applications from thousands of drivers from all levels of racing. They would then be put through a series of tests, gauging not only driving skills, but also public relations talent and personality traits. Eventually, the field would be narrowed down to an elite group who are allowed to race Roush vehicles, often Truck Series vehicles, in an attempt to assess driving ability. Those with the fastest times progress, and ultimately the best drivers are awarded with a contract to drive for Roush in the Truck Series or Busch Series (now Xfinity Series). In 2005, the process was documented in the Discovery Channel television series \"\", which followed the stories of those involved in the 2005 Gong Show. Winners of the program include Kurt Busch, Carl Edwards and David Ragan.\n\nThe term \"Gong Show\" comes from the 1970s talent show spoof \"\"The Gong Show.\"\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087554", "title": "Primary education in the United States", "text": "Primary education in the United States\n\nPrimary education in the United States (also elementary education) refers to the first seven to nine years of formal education in most jurisdictions, often in elementary schools, including middle schools. Preschool programs, which are less formal and usually not mandated by law, are generally not considered part of primary education. The first year of primary education is commonly referred to as \"kindergarten\" and begins at or around age 5 or 6. Subsequent years are usually numbered being referred to as \"first grade\", \"second grade\", and so forth. Elementary schools normally continue through sixth grade, which the students normally complete when they are age 11 or 12. Some elementary schools graduate after the 4th or 5th grade and transition students into a middle school.\n\nIn 2016, there were 88,665 elementary schools (66,758 public and 21,907 private) in the United States.\n\nSome private schools, and some public schools, are offering pre-kindergarten (also known as pre-K) as part of elementary school. The first three to five years of an individual’s life can be the most critical period of their education (nursery school). During this time period young minds work on several physical, intellectual, and emotional developments, including curiosity, formation of character, personality, cognition, language skills, and social skills.\n\nSince 1965, the federal government has promoted the growth of state-funded programs such as Head Start, a program under the United States Department of Health and Human Services. In 2007, it served over 22 million preschool-aged children and their families. Head Start works to educate the whole child in addition to providing health and nutrition services to low-income families.\n\nStudents may attend either a 5-year, 6-year or 7-year public or private elementary school. Elementary school usually runs from kindergarten or 1st grade through either 5th or 6th, depending on the region. Upon successful completion of their elementary education students then proceed to middle school, (High School in the UK) also known as junior high school. Depending on the school district, some students attend separate middle schools, beginning at 6th grade and then completing at 8th grade before they transition to high school. Additionally, students may have the option of attending elementary schools that include all eight primary grades. In this case, the student will directly proceed to High School.\n\nIn most U.S. elementary schools, students have all their core classes from one or two homeroom teachers (as opposed to middle and high schools that typically have students rotate from one specialized teacher to the next throughout the day). In some elementary schools, when funding and supplies are adequate, additional teachers are hired to instruct students in areas such as art and music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087561", "title": "Alajos Szokolyi", "text": "Alajos Szokolyi\n\nAlajos Szokolyi (also referred to as \"Alajos Szokoly\", ; ; 19 June 1871 – 9 September 1932) was a Hungarian athlete, sports organizer, sports manager, archivist and physician.\n\nHe competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics, winning the bronze medal in 100 metres dash. In the same year he also won the first ever edition of the Hungarian Athletics Championships in 100 yards dash.\n\nSzokolyi was born on 9 June 1871 in Rónicz, Kingdom of Hungary (now Hronec, Slovakia) as the first child József Szokoly, an engineer and Emília Holub. At the age of 3, he was adopted by his childless godparents, Alajos Schőnn, a veteran of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and Amália Szokoly, sister of Alajos' father. Szokolyi went to grammar school in Ipolyság (Šahy) , subsequently he absolved the high school in Selmecbánya (Banská Štiavnica) and Léva (Levice). He excelled with his talent already in high school, having been nominated the \"best gymnast of the school\" while in fourth grade. He was also regularly awarded in the school-year ending gymnastic competitions. In 1887 Szokolyi with his family moved from Ipolyság to their new mansion in Bernece, lying just on the opposite side of the river Ipoly. Two years later he was enrolled at the medical faculty in Budapest.\n\nIn Budapest Szokolyi immediately joined the Magyar Athletikai Club (MAC). Founded in 1875, MAC was the first athletics club in continental Europe and played a pioneer role in developing sports in Hungary. Competing in the junior category – athletes who did not participate in public competitions before were regarded as juniors –, Szokolyi won his first race in the 100 metres dash at the 1890 autumn championships of MAC. (That time MAC organized a spring and a autumn championships every year.) Szokolyi participated in the seniors' race as well, finishing third in the 100 yards.\n\nAt the spring championships in the following year Szokolyi came second behind Samu Sajtos in 100 yards, however, at the 1891 autumn championships he won the 100 yards event confidently with a new Hungarian record and also triumphed in the quarter miles race.\n\nAfter the initial successes his career suffered a minor setback as he joined the 3rd Imperial Tyrolian Rifle Regiment \"(Tiroler Kaiserjäger)\" and remained without training and competition opportunities for nearly two years. Szokolyi competed again in October 1893, but the long absence had obvious impact on his results — in the 100 yards and the high jump he remained without any success, while in the 120 yards hurdles he came second behind Menotti Réthy. The next two years passed without significant improvements, subsequently MAC contracted John Cash, an English coach. The combination of Cash's training methods and Szokolyi's tenacious work paid off in early 1896, when at the Olympic test race Szokoly won the 110 metres hurdles race, thus secured a place in the Hungarian Olympic Team.\n\nBefore leaving to Athens, Szokolyi accidentally slit his sole. As it is known from Nándor Dáni's travel diary, he suffered much from the injury, still, he became the joker of the team. The Hungarians gained a lot of popularity in Athens — they were the first foreigners to arrive, and their little but friendly team, that on the proposal Szokolyi wore hats with blue and white ribbons, the colors of the Greeks, quickly became favorites among the Athenians.\n\nSzokolyi first competed in the 100 metres dash. He came in second in the heats, with a time of 12.75, and advanced to the final. There, Szokolyi was one of four athletes to come in at 12.6 seconds. The officials ruled that he and Francis Lane of the United States, who had beat Szokolyi in the heats, had finished in a dead heat for third place; Alexandros Khalkokondilis of Greece was ruled to have been slightly behind them. Szokolyi and Lane are currently considered to split the bronze medal for the event (no medals were awarded at the 1896 Olympics) by the International Olympic Committee. Szokolyi placed fourth in the triple jump, with a best effort of 11.26 metres.\n\nSzokolyi was expected to achieve his best result in the 110 metres hurdles since many considered it as his strongest event, however, under controversial circumstances, he was not allowed to run in the final. According to the official announcement and the morning newspaper \"Akropolis\", four qualifying heats were to be held with the respective winners progressing to the final. However, due to the absence of some contestants the athletes were combined to form two heats only. Szokoly, racing in the first heat, was in lead until hitting the final hurdle and stumbling, allowing Grantley Goulding to pass him and win the race. Szokolyi eventually came second and together with the top two of the other heat was supposed to run the final. Prior to the final, Szokolyi and Hoyt, the second placed of the other heat were pulled out, referring not to the rules of the International Olympic Committee but those of the Amateur Athletic Association, causing some controversy and bitterness in the Hungarian team. The event was won by American Thomas Curtis, who finished just inches ahead Goulding.\n\nAfter the Olympic Games, at the annual spring championships Szokolyi competed in so-called handicap races, not being able to catch his opponents. He peaked and achieved his best results in the autumn championships, winning in 100 yard dash, 110 yard hurdles, triple jump and the relay event as well. The Hungarian Athletics Association, created in 1897, declared two races of the 1896 championships – the 100 yard and the 1 mile event – as official competitions, making Szokolyi and František Horn the first Hungarian Athletics Championships winners, respectively.\n\nThe year 1896 not only marked the first modern Olympic Games, but also the millennium of the Hungarian landtaking. On this occasion many prestigious sports competitions, shows and exhibitions were organized; Szokolyi, a celebrated sportsman of his time, was depicted on the promotional materials. Additionally, he participated in the organization of the events as the secretary of the National Gymnastic and Sports Committee \"(Országos Torna és Sportbizottság)\".\n\nFrom 1896 onwards, Szokolyi concentrated less on competing and more on organizing and supervising sports events, and he eventually retired in 1900. Szokolyi raced over ten years; during this period he took part in 71 events in 29 competitions. He won 26 times, finished runner-up 16 times and came third 6 times. Additionally, he improved the Hungarian national record thirteen times in various events.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Szokolyi moved back to his estate in Bernece and married to Charlotte Berchtold on 27 November 1900. By this marriage Szokolyi became related to the country's most distinguished families – the Berchtolds, the Károlyis and the Bánffys. The couple had 5 children. Alajos was ordained priest, József took the military path and served by the hussars while Ferenc became an agronomist and also followed his father example in sports and achieved several notable results. Their daughters were Erzsébet and Mária. Erzsébet married to Count István Révay, founder-president of the Association of Physical Education of Hungarians in Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn 1906 Szokolyi founded the Sports Association of Hont County \"(Hont vármegyei Sport Egyesület)\", of which presidential position held until his resignation in 1912. In 1907 he was appointed as chief archivist of Hont County. In the 1910s he changed the spelling of his name to \"Szokolyi\".\n\nDuring the World War I he organized the medical service of the county as the chief physician of the military hospital in Ipolyság. After the war Ipolyság fell under Czechoslovak administration, subsequently Szokolyi retired to the family mansion in Bernece. In 1928 he was diagnosed with atherosclerosis. He died of a heart attack in 1932.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087577", "title": "Eric Elfman", "text": "Eric Elfman\n\nEric Elfman is an American writer interested in science fiction, fantasy, UFOs and paranormal events. He is the author of 13 books for middle-grade and young adult readers, including the Accelerati Trilogy which he co-wrote with Neal Shusterman. Among Elfman's other books are \"Almanac of Alien Encounters\" (Random House, 2001), \"Almanac of the Gross, Disgusting, and Totally Repulsive\" (Random House, 1994, an ALA Recommended Book for Reluctant Readers), and \"Very Scary Almanac\" (Random House, 1993).\n\nElfman has been on the faculty of the Big Sur Children’s Writers Workshop, sponsored by the Henry Miller Memorial Library and directed by Andrea Brown. Elfman has also presented writing advice at the Ventana Sierra Advanced Writing Workshop in Carson City, Nevada, directed by author Ellen Hopkins, and at the SCBWI San Francisco North-East Bay Writing Conference.\n\nAs a private writing coach, Elfman has worked with the \"New York Times\" bestselling author Veronica Rossi (\"Under the Never Sky\"), the award-winning author Meg Medina (\"Yaqui Delgado\"), Barry Wolverton (\"Neversink\") and Stacey Lee (\"Under a Painted Sky\", 2015), and many other writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087579", "title": "Francis Lane", "text": "Francis Lane\n\nFrancis Adonijah Lane (September 23, 1874 – February 17, 1927) was an American sprinter who competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Greece.\n\nAt the time of the 1896 Summer Olympics Lane was in his junior year at Princeton University and was one of the four from the University that made up the American team of 14 competitors, the 16 day journey to Athens didn't help Lane, and he arrived in the poorest condition after suffering from sea sickness.\n\nLane competed in the 100 metres, and when he won his heat in 12.2 seconds, he became the first American to compete at the Olympic Games and the first ever person to win a 100 metre race. In the final, he ran 12.6 seconds and tied for the third place with Alajos Szokolyi of Hungary, and both are considered as bronze medalists. At those games the champion was honored with a silver medal, an olive branch and a diploma, and the second athlete with a bronze medal, laurel branch and a diploma. Nothing was given to the third-best man.\n\nLane's cousin Albert Tyler was also part of the 1896 United States Olympic team and won a silver medal in the pole vault.\n\nLane was a member of the Franklin (Ohio) High School Class of 1891. In 1897 Lane graduated from Princeton University and went to the medical school at Washington University in St. Louis. He later became the head of ophthalmology departments at Rush Medical College and the Presbyterian and Illinois Central Hospitals in Chicago.\nLane is buried at Greenwood Cemetery in Rockford, IL.\n\n\n6. Burial Information https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/101587151/francis-adonijah-lane"}
{"id": "2087584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087584", "title": "NASSCO", "text": "NASSCO\n\nNASSCO may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087587", "title": "Smooth Chill (UK radio station)", "text": "Smooth Chill (UK radio station)\n\nSmooth Chill (formerly Chill) is a British digital radio station dedicated to chill out, ambient and trip hop music. On 3 September 2019, Chill was rebranded as Smooth Chill to extend the Smooth Radio brand. It is owned and operated by Global\n\nOriginally, the station broadcast solely online and in Greater London as well as on Radioplayer and Global's own Global Player, but was made available nationally on Digital One on 9 April 2020.\n\nOriginally, the station broadcast online and via numerous mobile applications, and on DAB in London, Leicester and Nottingham. The station's aim was to help listeners relax. It broadcast 24 hours a day and, from July 2009 till its original in September 2019, it featured no news bulletins or commercials with only some sponsored programming. Chill originally had no presenters, interspersing tracks with pre-recorded links featuring messages voiced by Davinia Palmer that reinforced the laidback atmosphere of the station. One of these memorably described the station as \"T'ai chi for your ears\". The station encourages interaction with its listeners, who suggest new songs and artists for the playlist, as well as relaxation techniques, via the Chill website and social media.\n\nGlobal announced on 2 September 2019 that Chill would be replaced with a new station, Smooth Chill.\n\nThe station was launched in early 2005 although it's argued Chill went live as early as December 2004, as a means of filling empty slots on DAB multiplexes owned by GWR prior to its merger with Capital Radio. Group Corporate Development Director Gregory Watson and Programme Director Bern Leckie devised a format for a relaxing, ambient station, aimed at 18- to 35-year-olds. \n\nOn the station website, the founders claim, \"We used to make compilation tapes for ourselves and friends to chill out to. That's where the idea for our station came from, and we make it the same way we made the tapes - listening to lots of music, swapping ideas, seeing what happens.\"\n\nIn June 2006, Chill bid for its first analogue licence, for Bristol, citing the city's record in producing trip-hop artists such as Massive Attack, Portishead and Tricky in support of its application. However, in September 2006, Ofcom awarded the licence to Canwest and its Original 106 format. It is not currently known if Global Radio will bid for any more analogue licences with the Chill format.\n\nIn August 2006, the station launched its first regular programmes on weekday evenings, \"The Garden of Delights\", presented by Pete Lawrence and \"The Deep End\", presented by Paul Noble, two of the organisers of The Big Chill festival. It also introduced a nightly programme made up of listener requests, and inherited the \"Chiller Cabinet\" sequence from its sister station Classic FM, which plays \"ambient soundscapes, movie soundtracks and classically inspired chillout music\".\n\nLate in 2006, Chill upgraded from a 32 kbit/s internet stream to a 128 kbit/s stream, offering internet listeners the same quality as the cable and satellite viewers.\n\nThe station stopped being broadcast on Sky and Virgin Media on 3 July 2007, with other GCap stations Capital Disney, Core and Classic Gold Digital Network. It is speculated that this is connected with cost-cutting measures under previous owners GCap. In November 2008, Chill reappeared on Sky and Virgin Media, following the closure of jazz radio station TheJazz, using its old channel numbers on Sky and Virgin Media.\n\nIn March 2009, Chill ceased to broadcast in Leicester, Nottingham and west Wiltshire due to competition regulator compliance following the takeover of GCapMedia by Global Radio.\n\nIn July 2009, Global Radio announced that Chill would lose many of its DAB slots on numerous local DAB ensembles across the UK to allow for an expansion of the Galaxy network, but would still broadcast in London, some parts of the West Midlands and central Scotland. A spokesman indicated that this move was also financially led.\n\nIt was announced on 28 August 2009 that Chill Radio would be replaced in Edinburgh and Glasgow by LBC Radio.\n\nOn 20 October 2009, it was announced by Bern Leckie that Chill Radio has moved from stereo to mono output on DAB Radio in the London area. However the range in which Chill can be heard has slightly extended to an extra 20 miles or so from London.\n\nRajar figures for the third quarter of 2009 showed an increase of weekly listeners by 9,000, bringing total listenership to 209,000.. In March 2012 it attracted 229,000 listeners per week.\n\nOn 15 July 2010, Chill ceased broadcasting on Virgin Media channel 961. On 8 June 2012, Chill ceased broadcasting on the Birmingham multiplex, leaving London as the only area where the station broadcasts on DAB Digital Radio. On 24 August 2012, Chill ceased broadcasting on Sky channel 0177.\n\nIn September 2014, TuneIn Radio announced that Chill Radio had received the 100k 'follower' mark, one of the most listened-to UK and worldwide stations, via its various apps and websites.\n\nIn September 2015, Global Radio confirmed that Chill would return to DAB in Nottingham and Leicester, replacing XFM. This is because XFM would be re-branding, and launching nationally on Digital One. \nSince its return to DAB in Nottingham and Leicester, Chill can also be heard on DAB in Derby.\n\nGlobal announced on 2 September 2019 the station would be replaced with a new station, Smooth Chill.\n\nThe station re-launched nationally on 8 April 2020 on Digital One broadcasting in 32kbps DAB+.\n\nThe Chill playlist was largely drawn from the mainstream end of chill out and ambient music, mixed with downtempo rock, vocal jazz and lounge tracks, film scores and the occasional classical piece.\n\nA notable programme was\n\"The Chiller Cabinet\" - from Arctic Circle Radio\n\n\nChill closed in March 2009 due to Office of Fair Trading ruling on the merger of GCap and Global Radio:\n\nChill closed from August 2009 on these multiplexes:\n\nReplaced with Galaxy:\n\nTaken off air:\n\nReplaced with LBC:\n\nClosed on the following multiplex in June 2012:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087590", "title": "Blanca of Navarre, Queen of Castile", "text": "Blanca of Navarre, Queen of Castile\n\nBlanca of Navarre (, ; aft. 1133, Laguardia, Álava – August 12, 1156) was Queen of Castile, the daughter of King García Ramírez of Navarre and his first wife Margaret of L'Aigle. Blanca married Sancho III of Castile, regent of Castile (subject to his father Alfonso VII) on February 4, 1151 in Carrión de los Condes, Palencia, after travelling from Calahorra, Logroño, in January. The marriage was arranged to insure closer ties between León-Castile and Navarre. As was traditional, Blanca confirmed documents with her husband, so her activity may be traced until 1155. \n\nOn November 11, 1155 she gave birth to the future king Alfonso VIII. There appears to be no record of her activities after December 1155, and she died on August 12, 1156. The cause of her death seems to have been complications of a new pregnancy, a child named García. In addition, she had other children buried in the church of San Pedro in Soria, although they are not identified. That her death was caused by a pregnancy is recorded in an epitaph engraved on her tomb, however, the engraving did not survive a sixteenth-century reconstruction of the royal tombs in Nájera. Her sarcophagus lid was preserved, and it represents the queen's deathbed with members of the court, including her husband, mourning her passing. Blanca was buried in the pantheon of the Navarrese kings in the monastery called Santa María la Real of Nájera, to which Sancho made donations on her behalf. The sarcophagus of the queen is regarded as a primary example of the ability to express human emotions in visual images in the 12th century. \n\nBlanca and Sancho had two named sons:\n"}
{"id": "2087592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087592", "title": "Everett Owens", "text": "Everett Owens\n\nEverett Owens is the pen name under which Rob Thomas authored three books in \"The X-Files\" young adult series. Thomas constructed the pen name from the names of his two dogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087595", "title": "First Night", "text": "First Night\n\nFirst Night is a North American artistic and cultural celebration on New Year's Eve, taking place from afternoon until midnight. Some cities have all their events during the celebration outside, but some cities have events that are hosted indoors by organizations in the city, such as churches and theaters. Since it happens on New Year's Eve, First Night celebrations are actually held on the last night of the old year. First Night celebrates a community's local culture, often featuring music, dance, comedy, art, fireworks and, in some cities, ice sculptures and parades.\n\nThe first First Night was in Boston on December 31, 1975. It was conceived by Clara Wainwright who organized a small group of artists seeking an alternative way of celebrating New Year's Eve, where Boston’s young, innovative artists and musicians could perform on both indoor and outdoor stages. They also wanted to avoid the emphasis on alcohol that is common at New Year's Eve parties. Soon other surrounding communities started their own First Night celebrations. By the 1990s, the First Night Boston event was attracting works by over a thousand artists. In 2006, more than a million visitors attended First Night events, including free outdoor ice sculptures on Boston Common and in Copley Square, and waterfront fireworks.\n\nUntil 2015, live coverage of the final part of Boston's First Night, including the countdown to midnight and fireworks over Boston Harbor that begin at the stroke of midnight, was broadcast by WBZ-TV. CBS, the station's parent company, was an official sponsor.\n\nIn 2013, the non-profit First Night Boston organization closed for financial reasons, though Mayor Menino of Boston (in office for only another year) pledged to find private or public funding the January 2014 celebration. On November 11, 2013, Mayor Menino announced he had acquired the necessary funding and that the 2013 First Night would be “a bigger, brighter display than ever before.”\n\nThe city of Boston took over the First Night festivities in 2015 and hired an event planning firm to manage the smaller and scaled back event.\n\nIn 2016, television coverage of the festivities was transferred to NBCUniversal-owned properties including NECN, Telemundo owned station WNEU and newly acquired NBC owned station WBTS-LD; the latter used the event to help launch the station's NBC affiliation, which took effect on January 1, 2017.\n\nBy 1999, First Night celebrations were being held in more than 200 cities. In 2000, more than 260 cities had such a celebration. However, in 2001, 20 cities dropped out of the First Night celebrations due to the effects of the September 11 attacks and/or money difficulties.\n\nDuring the Great Recession, which began in late 2007, many First Night celebrations faced financial difficulty, being scaled back or canceled.\n\nThere are about 45 cities with First Night celebrations happening on New Year's Eve 2013/2014.\n\nThis Google map contains known First Night celebrations in the United States as of the last edit date on the map.\n\nFirst Night USA is the national offshoot of the original Boston organization. It works with the numerous First Night licensed events throughout the United States.\n\nOther celebrations on New Year's Eve, not labeled \"First Night\", have also sprung up. For example, in 2003, First Night Providence announced they planned to cancel future celebrations, which had been going on for 19 years. A group of local artists created Bright Night Providence, an artist-run New Year's Eve celebration based on the idea and spirit of First Night.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087597", "title": "Alexandros Chalkokondylis", "text": "Alexandros Chalkokondylis\n\nAlexandros Chalkokondylis (, born 1880, date of death unknown), also transliterated at Khalkokondylis, was a Greek athlete. He was born in Athens.\n\nHe competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens. He competed in the long jump, placing fourth of the nine jumpers. His best jump was 5.74 metres.\n\nIn the 100 meters competition, Chalkokondylis placed second in his initial heat with a time of 12.75 seconds. In the final, he came in at 12.6 seconds, just barely behind the joint bronze medal lists Francis Lane and Alajos Szokolyi to finish in fifth place.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087605", "title": "Felicia Taylor", "text": "Felicia Taylor\n\nFelicia Rodrica Sturt Taylor (born August 28, 1964) is a retired anchor-correspondent formerly for CNN International's \"World Business Today\" having contributed to the Business Updates unit for CNN. She was the co-host of Retirement Living TV's \"Daily Cafe\" until November 2009.\n\nShe is the daughter of Australian-born actor Rod Taylor, and his former wife, fashion model Mary Hilem. After her parents divorced, her mother married Chicago real estate developer Arthur Rubloff who adopted Felicia. In 1986, Rubloff died and her mother remarried to Florida real estate developer Lewis M. Schott in 1994. Her stepsister, Victoria (née Schott) de Rothschild, is the second and former wife of British financier Sir Evelyn de Rothschild. A graduate (BA) of Northwestern University, Taylor was a business news anchor and a correspondent for CNBC. Prior to CNBC, she was weekend anchor on WNBC-TV in New York. She joined WNBC in 1998 and left in September 2006. Before WNBC, Taylor worked at the Financial News Network, \"Financial Times TV\" in London.\n\nOn March 25, 1995, Taylor married Charles Beall Schuster, a bond salesman. They have since divorced.\n"}
{"id": "2087608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087608", "title": "Eugen Schmidt", "text": "Eugen Schmidt\n\nEugen Stahl Schmidt (February 17, 1862 – October 7, 1931) was a Danish shooter, athlete, and tug of war competitor. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens and at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris.\n\nSchmidt was a founder of many Danish sports clubs, and became chairman of the Københavns Roklub, and also became a board member of the Danish Rowing Federation, which he served as Chairman between 1894-1896, in 1896 he co-founded DIF, the Danish Sports Federation, he also held down a full-time job and between 1885-1899 he was a brewmaster at Carlsberg, he would also write for sports magazine and had a few sports books published.\n\nSchmidt competed in two events at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece, in the athletics 100 metres event he finished fourth in his heat, so didn't advance to the final, he also competed in the 1896 military rifle event, Schmidt finished tied for twelfth place with 845 points, Schmidt hit the target 12 times out of his 40 shots.\nFour years later, Schmidt was competing at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris, France, this time he was competing for the mixed team in the tug of war, the mixed team consisted of three Danish and three Swedish athletes, the American team withdrew so they were up against the French team in the final, and the mixed side won the first two pulls and so were awarded the gold medal.\nIn the 1912 he was back on the Olympic scene, this time he was the director for the Danish rowing team at the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "2087609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087609", "title": "Sidney T. Weinstein", "text": "Sidney T. Weinstein\n\nSidney T. Weinstein was a United States Army lieutenant general. He is considered by many to be the father of the modern military intelligence corps.\n\nAs a major general, Weinstein served as commander of the U.S. Army Intelligence Center and School (USAICS) during the period from August 1982 until August 1985. From 16 August 1985 to 30 September 1989, Weinstein, then a lieutenant general, served as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Headquarters, Department of the Army. Although diminutive in height, Weinstein possessed a larger-than-life personality; one of his trademarks was a penchant for creative profanity. Upon his retirement, Weinstein became a senior executive with Electronic Warfare Associates in Chantilly, Virginia.\n\nWeinstein died May 24, 2007, in his home in Great Falls, Virginia.\n\nWeinstein is an inductee of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2087616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087616", "title": "June 23 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 23 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 22 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 24\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 6 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 23rd, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 10.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2087619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087619", "title": "George Marshall (athlete)", "text": "George Marshall (athlete)\n\nGeorge Marshall (born 1877 in Patras, Greece) was a British track and field athlete. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nMarshall ran in the 100 metres, finishing last of five runners in his preliminary heat and not advancing to the final. He also competed in the 800 metres, again finishing in last place of the four runners in his preliminary heat.\n"}
{"id": "2087637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087637", "title": "National Steel and Shipbuilding Company", "text": "National Steel and Shipbuilding Company\n\nNational Steel and Shipbuilding Company, commonly referred to as NASSCO, is an American shipbuilding company with three shipyards located in San Diego, Norfolk, and Mayport. It is a division of General Dynamics. The San Diego shipyard specializes in constructing commercial cargo ships and auxiliary vessels for the US Navy and Military Sealift Command; it is the only new-construction shipyard on the West Coast of the United States. The Virginia shipyard primarily performs ship repairs and conversions for the U.S. Navy.\n\nThe origin of NASSCO traces to 1905 and a small machine shop and foundry known as California Iron Works. In 1922 California Iron Works was taken over by U.S. National Bank and renamed National Iron Works.\n\nIn 1944 National Iron Works moved to its present location at 28th Street and Harbor Drive on San Diego Bay, and in 1949 the company was renamed National Steel and Shipbuilding Co. to reflect its expansion into ship construction. In 1959 the company was acquired by four corporations, including Henry J. Kaiser Company and Morrison Knudsen. In 1979 Morrison Knudsen bought out Kaiser's share, and in 1989 management acquired the company from Morrison Knudsen via an employee stock ownership plan.\n\nIn 1940 the company's ironworkers organized into a union. By 1979 the company had 7,900 employees organized into six unions. There was a labor strike in 1988 in which employees demanded a minimal wage of $12 per hour. Another 25-day-long strike in 1992 resulted in workers returning to work without a contract. In 1996, another labor strike hit the company. Around 2,700 employees didn't show up at work while 50 marched in front of the company with picket signs.\n\nIn 1998 General Dynamics bought NASSCO in a $415 million deal.\n\nOn October 31, 2011 General Dynamics-NASSCO acquired Metro Machine Corp, a surface-ship repair company in Norfolk, Virginia, and renamed it NASSCO-Norfolk. The company had been conducting ship repairs and conversions for the U.S. Navy since 1972. The NASSCO-Norfolk shipyard had the newest dry dock in the country, with two auto-start generators, automated ballast control system and automated ship hauling and centering system.\n\nNASSCO began building commercial cargo ships in 1959, eventually including large cargo ships and Alaska class oil tankers. Its most famous commercial ship was the \"Exxon Valdez\" tanker, which completed construction at NASSCO in 1986, and in 1989 returned to NASSCO for repairs after its accident and oil spill in Alaska. In December 2012 the company signed a contract to build two container ships powered by liquefied natural gas (LNG). When completed they will be the largest LNG-powered ships of any kind in the world.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s the company won Navy contracts to build AOE-10 support ships, strategic sealift ships, and TOTE Orca-class trailerships. Additional Navy contracts awarded during the 2000s included maintenance of the San Diego-based USS \"Ticonderoga\" (CG-47) and USS \"Spruance\" (DD-963) warships. In 2001 the Navy awarded NASSCO its largest order in company history, to build the Lewis and Clark class dry cargo ship (T-AKE), a 14-ship program with a contract value of $3.7 billion. The company has a contract to build at least three Mobile Landing Platform ships, a new class of ship for the U.S. Navy. Construction on the first vessel began in July 2011 and the keel was laid for the second in December 2012. In 2016, Matson, Inc ordered two Kanaloa-class freighters, to be delivered near the end of the decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087638", "title": "Charles Gmelin", "text": "Charles Gmelin\n\nCharles Henry Stuart Gmelin (28 May 1872 – 12 October 1950) was a British athlete. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nGmelin was born in Krishnanagar Nadia, in Bengal, India, where his father was a Christian missionary, but returned to England at an early age for schooling.\n\nHe was educated at Magdalen College School and Keble College, Oxford. After graduating he took holy orders and later become headmaster of Freshfields School in Oxford, he eventually became curate in Summertown, Oxford and Kidlington in Oxfordshire. Gmelin was an all-round sportsman who represented Oxfordshire at both football and in cricket where he competed in the Minor Counties Championship from 1895 to 1906.\n\nIn August 1904 Gmelin married Hester Royds in Little Barford, Bedfordshire.\n\nHe died on 12 October 1950 at Cowley Road Hospital Oxford, aged 78, his wife died in April the following year.\n\nHe had the distinction of being the first British athlete to compete in Olympic competition when he finished third in the inaugural heat of the 100 metres. He did not advance to the final. As per the record he was the first man to win a medal for Great Britain at a modern Olympics.\n\nHe was more successful in the 400 metres where he finished second behind Thomas Burke of the United States in his preliminary heat. This qualified him for the final, where he placed third behind the United States pairing of Burke and Herbert Jamison in a time of 55.6 seconds. For many years the German runner Fritz Hofmann was incorrectly listed as placing ahead of Gmelin.\n\nAlthough no awards were made for third place in the 1896 Summer Olympics he is usually credited as a bronze medal winner.\n"}
{"id": "2087641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087641", "title": "Friedrich Traun", "text": "Friedrich Traun\n\nFriedrich Adolf \"Fritz\" Traun (29 March 1876 – 11 July 1908) was a German athlete and tennis player.\n\nTraun was born the son of a wealthy family from Hamburg in 1876. His father, Heinrich Traun (1838–1909), owned a natural rubber manufacturing company and later became senator at Hamburg from 1901 to 1908. In 1885, Fritz began studying chemistry at Dresden University of Technology. In autumn of the same year, he participated in a track and field competition between athletes from Berlin and Hamburg and won the race over a distance of half a mile.\n\nIn 1896 Traun competed at the first modern Olympic Games in Athens. Traun placed third in his preliminary heat of the 800 metres and did not advance to the final. He also participated in the tennis tournament. In the singles competition, Traun was defeated in the first round by John Pius Boland of Great Britain and Ireland, the eventual gold medallist. This put Traun in a six-way tie for eighth place in the field of thirteen men. For the doubles tournament, Traun and Boland partnered. They defeated the Greek brothers Aristidis and Konstantinos Akratopoulos in the first round and had a bye for the semifinals. In the final, the pair defeated Dionysios Kasdaglis of Egypt and Demetrios Petrokokkinos of Greece to give Traun his own gold medal. In 1897, Traun took part in a track-and-field competition at Baden-Baden and was the first German to reach a length of over 6 meters in long jump.\nIn 1899, Traun finished his studies with the degree of a Doctor of Science. His thesis received the best possible mark, summa cum laude. After working as a scientist at the Sorbonne at Paris for two years, he decided to enter his father's company. In 1902, Traun made a business trip to the United States in order to visit the company's branch on Long Island. The following winter, he fell ill of tuberculosis. Upon recommendation of Carl Schurz, Traun spent the spring of 1903 in a hotel at Augusta, Georgia, before returning to Germany.\n\nAs he did not fully recover from his illness, he mostly spent the following years at health spas in the Alps such as St. Moritz and Davos. In addition, he began to work as a sports journalist and tournament organizer. In 1906, he was the director of the German Tennis Championships at Hamburg, and its referee in 1907. In the same year, he met \"Friedel Preetorius\" (1884–1938), the daughter of the wealthy entrepreneur Wilhelm Preetorius from Mainz, during the Kiel Week. The following March, both married at Hamburg, and in their honeymoon they drove as far as Algiers in Friedrich's car. After their return, the couple lived at the exclusive Park Hôtel Teufelsbrücke at Hamburg.\n\nOn the morning of 11 July 1908, a young lady entered the hotel and claimed that she was also married to Traun and would even have children with him. After meeting with Traun, he shot himself in the bathroom of his apartment. Neither the lady's identity nor the validity of her claim is known today. However, it seems very likely that she told the truth and Traun, facing a major social scandal at that time, was left with no other choice but to kill himself. Friedrich's father Heinrich Traun adopted Friedel Preetorius who was already pregnant and gave birth to her daughter \"Lieselotte\" in February 1909. She later married Ludwig Strecker, owner of \"B. Schott's Söhne\" (today Schott Music), Friedrich Traun was buried in the family's grave at the Ohlsdorf Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087642", "title": "George J. Walker", "text": "George J. Walker\n\nGeorge J. Walker (16 January 1934 – 11 April 2005) served as an officer in the U.S. Army, including a stint in 1985 as Deputy Commanding General of the United States Army Intelligence and Security Command(INSCOM).\n\nBrigadier General George J. Walker was a graduate of Mercer University in Macon, Georgia and received a master's degree in political science from Auburn University in Montgomery, Alabama. General Walker's military service began when he entered the US Army Reserves in 1954 and served in the Reserves as an enlisted soldier until his graduation from Mercer University at which time he was commissioned a second lieutenant and entered active duty in November 1956. General Walker served six years in the Quartermaster Corps of the Army and the remainder of his active service in Military Intelligence. He served tours in France, Germany, Korea and Vietnam as well as stateside assignments at Seneca Army Depot, Romulus, New York; Fort Holabird, Maryland; Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; Fort Huachuca, Arizona; Fort Hood, Texas; Washington, DC; and Fort McPherson, Georgia.\n\nHe was a graduate of the Army Command and General Staff College and the Air War College. He served as the Assistant Chief of Staff, G2 of the 3rd Armored Division in Germany and as the Assistant Chief of Staff, G2 of III Corps at Fort Hood, Texas. He served as Chief of Staff and later as Deputy Commandant of the U.S. Army Intelligence Center and School at Fort Huachuca, Arizona and as Chief of Staff and later Deputy Commanding General of the Army's Intelligence and Security Command in Washington, DC. His final assignment immediately prior to retirement from the Army in 1989 was as Director of Intelligence/J2 of Forces Command in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nAfter retirement from the Army, Ret. General Walker and his wife resided in Huntsville, Alabama where Ret. General Walker was employed by Science Applications International Corporation. Later he did consulting work in the United Arab Emirates. He was President of the Huntsville Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America and Chairman of the Military Retiree Advisory Council to the Commander, Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville. General Walker was a volunteer with the Huntsville Chapter of the American Red Cross.\n\nIn 1990, General Walker was inducted into the U.S. Army Military Intelligence Hall of Fame at Fort Huachuca, Arizona and served as the Honorary Colonel of The Army's Military Intelligence Corps from 1994 until 1998. General Walker was a lifetime member of the Military Officers Association of America, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the National Association of Uniformed Services, and the Association of the United States Army. He was also a member of the American Legion and the Knights of Columbus.\n\nAmong General Walker's awards and decorations were the Army Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Air Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with 2 oak leaf clusters, Army Commendation Medal with 1 oak leaf cluster, Air Force Commendation Medal, National Defense Service Medal; Vietnam Service Medal; Armed Forces Reserve Medal; Army Service Ribbon; 4 awards of the Army Overseas Service Ribbon; Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal with 4 campaign stars; Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross Unit Citation with Palm; and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry with Gold Cross.\n"}
{"id": "2087643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087643", "title": "The Candidate for Goddess", "text": "The Candidate for Goddess\n\n\"The Candidate for Goddess\" was serialized in the monthly Wani Books magazine \"Comic Gum\". A total of 26 chapters were collected in five \"tankōbon\" (volumes) and released between 1997 and 2001. The manga was later translated into English and published in North America by Tokyopop and in Australian and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment. \"The Candidate for Goddess\" was adapted into a 12-episode anime series directed by Mitsuru Hongo and produced by Xebec, which was a subsidiary of Production I.G. The adaptation aired on Japan's NHK BS2 satellite channel in early 2000. The anime series, entitled Pilot Candidate for its North American release, was broadcast briefly on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim block in 2002. An original video animation (OVA), serving as a thirteenth episode, was released in Japan in 2002, though it was not localized for North America.\n\nSince the debut of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" on Japanese television, a limited number of CDs and artbook illustrations for the series have been released. Overall reception for \"The Candidate for Goddess\" has been mediocre. Though its animation has been generally praised, its complex plot, compounded by its very short length, has been met with mixed criticism. Reviewers were dismayed by the lack of storyline closure at the end of the television episodes and even its OVA extension.\n\n\"The Candidate for Goddess\" series takes place a millennium after Star Year 4084, when a cataclysmic event called the \"Crisis of Systems\" resulted in the annihilation of four planetary systems. With Zion being the one planet left with the ability to sustain human life, humanity must cling to life in space colonies. Now in Star Year 5030, Zion is under constant threat of invasion by extraterrestrial life forms dubbed . In order to combat their alien foes, humans have developed a quintet of giant, mechanized weapons called \"Ingrids\", or \"Goddesses\" due to their female, humanoid resemblance. A school called the \"Goddess Operation Academy (G.O.A.)\" is established to train the specific few which have the capability of piloting the Ingrids. They are typically young men and must meet several requirements: They must be in good health, must be 14 to 16 years of age, must have an EO blood type, and must possess the potential for \"EX\", superhuman abilities which secondarily link the pilot's nerves to the Ingrid's interface. As EX puts such a physical and mental strain on the pilot, replacements must be turned out by the G.O.A. within a reasonable amount of time. Each pilot is also partnered with a female repairer, who maintains the Ingrid and manually blocks painful feedback from the Ingrid to the pilot during missions.\n\nThe plot of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" primarily focuses on Zero Enna, a brash trainee who has recently left colony homelife with his mother in order to pursue his dream of becoming an Ingrid pilot. Shortly after arriving at the G.O.A., Zero becomes lost and is subconsciously called to a hangar by a mysterious voice, suddenly finding himself within the cockpit of one of the Ingrids just before a Victim attack. As each Ingrid is specifically calibrated for their pilot, this would normally mean death. However, the Goddess instead links with Zero's nervous system and physically shows itself to him in a vision. After a few moments, the Ingrid ends the link with Zero, and he is pulled free by the Ingrid's pilot, who then takes it into battle with the Victim. Zero is rushed unconscious to the academy's sick bay.\n\nThe original manga version of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" was written and illustrated by Yukiru Sugisaki. An anime television adaptation of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" was produced by Xebec, a subsidiary studio of Production I.G., and directed by Mitsuru Hongo. Shinichi Yamaoka was the show's character designer, having also worked on \"Martian Successor Nadesico\". Shingo Takeba and Junya Ishigaki acted as its main mecha designers, respectively credited for the anime series \"Gasaraki\" and the video game \"Xenogears\". The musical score for \"The Candidate for Goddess\" was created by Tomoyuki Asakawa, who previously composed for the television series \"The New Adventures of Kimba The White Lion\" and the film \"The Five Star Stories\".\n\nHongo attempted to adapt the manga closely while integrating interesting story elements and 3D CGI animation, used in the battles between the Ingrids and Victim alongside the traditional cel animation. Hongo felt the possibilities with the CGI were limitless; 3D director Tokumitsu Kifune did not think these portions of the show would not have been possible with 2D animation. The manga series was still ongoing at the time of the anime's creation. With only 12 television episodes produced, Xebec ended the series abruptly without giving the storyline closure. Although a thirteenth episode in the form of an OVA continues where the television series left off, it still fails to conclude the narrative. Hongo has expressed regret over the short length of the series.\n\n\"The Candidate for Goddess\" was originally serialized in \"Comic Gum\", a monthly Japanese manga magazine published by Wani Books. The 26 chapters that comprise the series were compiled into five \"tankōbon\" (volumes) and released between August 1997 and November 2001. All five volumes of the series were re-published in 2005 as part of the \"Gum Comics Plus\" imprint. Tokyopop acquired the series in early 2003 for an English distribution in North America. All five volumes were published between April 14 and December 7, 2004. The series was translated by Alethea and Athena Nibley and adapted by comic book writer Marv Wolfman. The series has also been published in South Korea by Samyang Publishing, in France by Ki-oon, in Germany by Carlsen Comics and in Spain by Editorial Ivréa.\n\nTwelve episodes of \"The Candidate for Goddess\", beginning with \"Curriculum 00\" and ending with \"Curriculum 11\", were aired on Japan's NHK BS2 satellite channel from January 10 to March 27, 2000. Bandai released the series on four DVD volumes from April 25 to July 25, 2000. The thirteenth episode was released straight to DVD as an OVA in Japan on May 25, 2002 as \"Special Curriculum: The Candidate for Goddess\". A DVD box set titled \"Emotion the Best: The Candidate for Goddess\" was released by Bandai Visual in Japan on April 22, 2011 and includes all 12 episodes of the broadcast plus the OVA.\n\nBy early 2001, Bandai Entertainment acquired the North American distribution rights to \"The Candidate for Goddess\" with plans to air the series on Cartoon Network. An English dubtitle was completed by Mix Magic, Inc. in Hollywood, CA. According to Bandai's Jerry Chu, the series was renamed \"Pilot Candidate\" because the company wanted to veer away from the term \"goddess\" for Cartoon Network's sake and because they believed the new title was more descriptive of the series. The channel had originally intended to air the series on its popular afternoon anime block Toonami that fall, and had considered including a reversible cover or an alternate angle intro animation with the original title if fans requested it. However, the anime was delayed and ultimately premiered on its late night Saturday Adult Swim block on February 23, 2002. Despite being broadcast on the more mature list of programming, \"Pilot Candidate\" was censored, including the removal of nudity, violence, tobacco use, and religious references. This was likely due in part that it was originally intended for Toonami and the episodes were already completed with the intention of the demographic being children. Four DVDs containing the series were released in North American stores between November 1, 2001 and May 21, 2002. All twelve episodes of the series were released on the \"Pilot Candidate Complete Collection\" box set on October 11, 2005. On March 8, 2016, Discotek Media had announced their license to the series and the unreleased OVA to be released on June 28, 2016.\n\nA 29-song soundtrack CD of the background and vocal music for \"The Candidate for Goddess\" was released by Victor Entertainment in Japan on March 23, 2000. A CD Single for \"Chance\" was also published on February 2, 2000. , a CD single by the artist Universe Form, was released by Victor on January 21, 2000, shortly after the anime's debut. This CD also contains a preliminary drama track titled . \"The Candidate for Goddess Original Drama Album\", released on July 26, 2000, features the Japanese voice actors portraying their respective characters in a drama.\n\nIn April 2000, Wani Books published a Japanese paperback guidebook to the anime series titled , which contains promotional material, artwork cels, and staff interviews. In February 2002, Wani Books published , a collector's set containing an artbook, an illustrations CD-ROM, and other collectables. Sugisaki's artbook, \"Neutral\", showcases her illustrations for \"The Candidate for Goddess\" as well from her other manga works \"Brain Powerd\" and \"D.N.Angel\". Bandai produced a single action figure set of \"Pilot Candidate\" as part of a toy line for its licensed properties. The set contains the characters Zero and Kizna and the Ingrid Ernn-Laties.\n\nOverall critical reception for \"The Candidate for Goddess\" has been average. Its primary high point for many reviewers has been the anime version's animation quality. \"Protoculture Addicts\" staff contributor Miyako Matsuda enjoyed both the traditional cel animation and the 3D CGI, stating that the two styles blended nicely together. Jeremy A. Beard of THEM Anime Reviews and Anime News Network (ANN) reviewer Daniel DeLorme were equally pleased by the character designs and hand-drawn portions of the show. However, Delorme felt the \"primitive\" look of the 3D mecha battles to be the biggest flaw of the series. Beard, who appreciated the Ingrid designs themselves, did not think the CGI conformed with the rest of the animation and that the space combat sequences were not \"particularly fluid\". Beard further enjoyed the background music and ending theme of the anime, but that its opening theme did not fit with the visuals or feeling of the series.\n\nOpinions for the plot of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" have varied. DeLorme and \"Animerica\" columnist Benjamin Wright commented favorably on the show's pacing. Both writers proclaimed that although the anime initially seemed \"formaliac\", it contained a generous amount of intricate mystery and character development. Wright summarized, \"Zero's trials and tribulations, his friendships and rivalries, and the mysteries of the G.O.A., the Ingrids, EX, and Zero's own past all worm their way into the viewer's mind and heart.\" Adversely, Beard did not feel the anime adaptation well-utilized the anime storyline template of mysterious aliens, an academic setting, a last line of defense, and other related devices. Liann Cooper of ANN similarly found the manga version of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" to suffer from \"a bad case of the 'been there done that' syndrome\" with regard to its plot and characters. Cooper additionally noted sloppy artwork, messy action scenes, and confusion when the narrative switches between the past and present. Beard admitted some \"irritation regarding unnecessary internal plot inconsistencies\", such as the characters constantly voicing the importance of having only male pilots despite the most elite pilot being female, or having no explanation for Kizna being the only catgirl among all the humans.\n\nA common complaint by the press is that the anime adaptation of \"The Candidate for Goddess\" ends on a cliffhanger. Wright and DeLorme were anxious for more of the television series after the build-up of several intriguing and unresolved plot elements and a \"to be continued\" message at its conclusion. \"Effective though \"Pilot Candidate\" is,\" Wright stated, \"there's little satisfaction to be had in the end.\" Having criticized the incomplete storyline of the television episodes itself, Beard was heavily disappointed in the apparent continuation in the form of the single OVA episode, which he found did little to tie up the numerous, loose plot ends present at its close. \"The Candidate for Goddess\" has yet to recommence. AnimeNation journalist John Oppliger has attributed the deficient interest in continuing the anime, beyond its delayed OVA, to the mediocre ratings it received during its original Japanese broadcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087646", "title": "Alphonse Grisel", "text": "Alphonse Grisel\n\nAlphonse Grisel was a French athlete and gymnast. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nFrom 1895 Grisel was affiliated to Racing Club de France, he was the French National long jump champion in 1896 with a jump of 6.23 metres, and runner-up in 1893, 1895 and 1898 with a third place in 1894, he was also National runner-up in the 400 metre hurdles in 1895.\n\nAt the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece he competed in five different events, four in athletics and one gymnastic event.\n\nOn the 6th of April 1896 after the opening ceremony, Grisel competed in three athletics events, in the 100 metres he came fourth in his heat out of five runners so didn't qualify for the final, in the 400 metres Grisel failed to finish in the top two in his heat so again he didn't qualify for the final, he also competed in the discus, no record is showing of his distance thrown but he didn't make the top four out of the nine throwers.\n\nThe next day he was back in the Panathenaic Stadium to compete in the long jump, again no official records show his distance but some reports do show he jumped 5.83 metres and finished in fifth place.\n\nAfter a two day break, Grisel was back, this time competing in the parallel bars in the gymnastics, only Alfred Flatow (gold) and Louis Zutter (silver) were awarded medals, there isn't any official placings for the other 16 gymnasts involved, and even after all this Grisel still had the time and energy to follow fellow countryman Albin Lermusiaux on a bicycle as he competed in the marathon.\n"}
{"id": "2087647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087647", "title": "Kurt Doerry", "text": "Kurt Doerry\n\nKurt Doerry (24 September 1874 – 4 January 1947) was a German track and field athlete. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens and the 1900 Summer Olympics held in Paris, France.\n\nDoerry was 21 years old when he competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics, there he entered three events, in the 100 metres he finished third in his heat behind eventual gold medalist Thomas Burke and fellow countryman Fritz Hofmann, so he didn't qualify for the final. In the 400 metres, again he failed to finish in the top two in his heat so didn't qualify for the final, his final event was the 110 metres hurdles, and yet again he finished outside the top two and didn't progress to the final.\n\nLater in 1896, Doerry won the 100 and 200 metres at the German Championships, and in 1899 he won the German titles in the 200 and 400 metres.\n\nDoerry also competed at the 1900 Summer Olympics held in Paris, France, he entered the 100 metres, in the first round he finished second behind American Clark Leiblee so qualified for semi-final, in the semi-final he didn't finish the race.\n\nApart from athletics, he was also a good figure skater, cyclist and tennis player, awell as an international hockey player and a boxing referee.\n\nIn 1909, Doerry was a founding member of the Deutscher Hockey-Bund and was its first president until 1914\n\nDoerry was also a journalist and author and worked many years for \"Sport Im Bild\" and would become editor-in-chief until World War II, he would also write many books concerning an athletic theme.\n"}
{"id": "2087649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087649", "title": "Henrik Sjöberg", "text": "Henrik Sjöberg\n\nHenrik Sjöberg (20 January 1875 in Stockholm – 1 August 1905 in Helsingør) was a Swedish athlete, gymnast and medical student. He competed as the only Swedish participant at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nSjöberg from 1892 competed for Stockholm AF, and in the same year he held the unofficial Swedish record for the long jump with 6.09 metres, even though he completely lacked the support from the Swedish Sports Confederation he refused to see himself omitted from the first Olympic Games.\n\nAt the 1896 Summer Olympics, Sjöberg competed in five different events, one on the athletics track, three in the athletics field and one as a gymnast, on the track he competed in the 100 metres, his time is unknown and records only show he finished in fourth or fifth place in his heat so didn't qualify for the final. In the athletics field he competed in the discus, his distance is unknown and finished outside the top four, in the long jump, again his distance is unknown and was placed outside the top four, his best result was in the high jump where he cleared 1.60 metres to finish in fourth place just 5 centimetres short of a medal.\n\nSjöberg also competed in the vault event in the gymnastics with 14 other competitors, in which they had two minutes to carry out as many jumps as they wished, again no score or position is recorded for his efforts.\n\nTragically Sjöberg drowned in the eastern Denmark town of Helsingør in 1905.\n"}
{"id": "2087652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087652", "title": "Georgios Gennimatas (athlete)", "text": "Georgios Gennimatas (athlete)\n\nGeorgios Gennimatas (, 1873 in Laconia – ??) was a Greek athlete. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nGennimatas placed fourth or fifth (with the other place going to Henrik Sjöberg of Sweden) in his preliminary heat of the 100 metres competition and did not advance to the final.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087655", "title": "Levi Leipheimer", "text": "Levi Leipheimer\n\nLevi Leipheimer (born October 24, 1973) is an American former professional road racing cyclist. He was twice US national champion, winning the time trial title in 1999 and the road race in 2007, and is an Olympic medalist. Leipheimer was born and raised in Butte, Montana and resides in Santa Rosa, California. He is the patron of the widely attended King Ridge GranFondo, a mass participation ride in Sonoma County.\n\nLeipheimer's major career accomplishments include winning the 2007, 2008 and 2009 editions of the Tour of California, the 2011 Tour de Suisse and the 2011 USA Pro Cycling Challenge. His Grand Tour results include 2nd in the 2008 Vuelta a España, and 4th in the 2009 Giro d'Italia. Leipheimer won the bronze medal in the time trial at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.\n\nThe United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) announced in October 2012 that Leipheimer would be suspended for his involvement in doping while riding for Saturn, U.S. Postal Service, Rabobank, Gerolsteiner and Astana. Leipheimer accepted a 6-month ban from September 1, 2012 to March 1, 2013 and was stripped of all race results from June 1, 1999 to July 30, 2006, and July 7 to 29, 2007. Leipheimer committed a previous doping violation in 1996.\n\nIn May 2013, Leipheimer confirmed his retirement from professional cycling following the termination of his contract with Omega Pharma-Quickstep.\n\nLeipheimer was born and raised in Butte, Montana, where his parents ran a sporting goods store. As a youth, his main sport was skiing, but he became interested in cycling after a skiing accident led to him directing his career hopes towards cycling.\nHe moved to Belgium after graduation to race as an amateur, and turned professional in 1997.\n\nIn 1995 Leipheimer won the Tour of Namur as an intern for the British F.S. Maestro – Frigas team.\n\nLeipheimer, riding for Team Einstein, won the 1996 U.S. National Criterium Championships in Grandview Heights, Ohio, but tested positive for ephedrine, a banned substance. He eventually forfeited his title, prize money and national champion's jersey as well as receiving a three-month suspension. Leipheimer's family later claimed that the positive test was not indicative of doping, but rather, the result of his taking allergy medicine Claritin-D to relieve hay fever.\n\nLeipheimer turned professional in 1997 with the Colorado Cyclist team. In 1998, he changed teams and was hired by Team Saturn, with which he won the U.S. National Time Trial Championship in 1999.\n\nLeipheimer joined the team in 2000. His breakthrough came in the 2001 Vuelta a España, his first Grand Tour, in which he was riding in support of team leader Roberto Heras. Going into the final stage, an individual time trial in Madrid, Leipheimer was fifth, trailing his leader, who was third, by about a minute. During that time trial, Leipheimer moved ahead of two riders, including Heras, in the general classification to finish third overall, the first American to reach the podium in the Vuelta.\n\nHe joined Dutch team in 2002, and he finished 8th in his first Tour de France.\n\nLeipheimer represented the United States in the 2004 Athens Olympics road race, but did not finish. He finished 9th in the 2004 Tour de France.\n\nRiding for the German team , Leipheimer finished 6th in the 2005 Tour de France. On August 23, 2005, Leipheimer won the Deutschland Tour by 31 seconds, ahead of 's Jan Ullrich and Gerolsteiner teammate Georg Totschnig. He had solidified his lead by defeating Ullrich in stage four on the Rettenbachferner, the highest climb in European racing that year at 2,670m.\n\nIn August 2010, Leipheimer was accused of having suspect blood values during the 2005 Tour de France by Hans-Michael Holczer, his former team manager at Gerolsteiner, in his book \"Garantiert Positiv\" (\"Guaranteed Positive\", in English). According to Holczer, Leipheimer showed blood values that indicated a \"high probability of blood manipulation\" and were so suspicious that one UCI official suggested that he should be withdrawn from the race. Holczer said that he refused to withdraw Leipheimer because the team was \"facing total bankruptcy\" due to the sponsor's nervousness about the team's involvement in other doping scandals.\n\nIn February 2006, Leipheimer was a favorite to win the inaugural Tour of California. He took the leader's golden jersey on the first day by winning the prologue to San Francisco's Coit Tower, but eventually finished sixth behind Floyd Landis and won the competition for best climber.\n\nLeipheimer won the 2006 Dauphiné Libéré, having gained the overall lead on the stage to Mont Ventoux. He was considered a contender in the 2006 Tour de France after several favorites, including Ivan Basso and Jan Ullrich, were suspended because of the Operación Puerto doping case: Leipheimer, who had been sixth the previous year, was the highest-placed rider returning. However, his final position was 12th, 18 and a half minutes behind winner Floyd Landis.\n\nLeipheimer re-signed with Tailwind Sports Corp. and Capital Sports & Entertainment, managing companies for the U.S. Postal and, later, the Discovery Channel cycling teams. Leipheimer was team leader in the 2007 Tour of California, which he won after leading the race from start to finish. In the Paris-Nice race, he supported teammate Alberto Contador, who won. He placed third in the 2007 Tour de France, 31 seconds behind the winner, Contador. Leipheimer also won stage 19, the last individual time trial. Discovery Channel disbanded at the end of the season. Leipheimer won the 2007 USA road championship, 1m 11s ahead of Discovery teammate and defending champion George Hincapie.\n\nLeipheimer joined Astana, managed by Johan Bruyneel, former manager of U.S. Postal and Discovery Channel. Astana was banned from the 2008 Tour de France because of doping scandals in the 2007 Tour, although all involved in those scandals had been replaced. Leipheimer created a website to petition, unsuccessfully, for admittance to the 2008 Tour.\nLeipheimer won the 2008 Tour of California. At the last minute, Astana was admitted to the Giro d'Italia, and Leipheimer finished 18th, helping teammate Contador to victory. He won the bronze medal at the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics in the road time trial. Leipheimer won both time trials of the 2008 Vuelta a España, leading the race after the fifth stage, and placed second overall.\n\nLeipheimer began 2009 by winning the Tour of California for the third consecutive year. He broke away during the final climb of stage 2 and led after the stage. Leipheimer won stage 6, the Solvang individual time trial. Astana teammate Lance Armstrong, in his second race after returning from retirement, rode for Leipheimer. Leipheimer won the 2009 SRAM Tour of the Gila with Astana teammates Chris Horner and Armstrong, who finished second but, as UCI regulations meant that Astana were ineligible for the event, the three rode as \"Team Mellow Johnny's\", named after Armstrong's bike shop.\n\nIn May, Leipheimer rode for Astana in the Giro d'Italia and finished 6th overall, the team's best placement. Later, the 2nd-place finisher Danilo Di Luca tested positive for a banned substance and was stripped of his position, moving Leipheimer up to a 5th-place finish in the records.\n\nRiding with Astana in the 2009 Tour de France, Leipheimer broke a wrist in a crash near the end of stage 12, when he was 4th overall, and abandoned the race.\n\nLeipheimer moved, along with Armstrong and several others from Astana's 2009 team, to for 2010.\nHe won his second consecutive SRAM Tour of the Gila in April. At the 2010 Tour de California Leipheimer finished in third place overall.\n\nLeipheimer was favored to lead the team in California again for 2011, but became the team's chief domestique instead, riding in support of Chris Horner's eventual victory, after the latter posted a stronger time on mountainous stage four into San Jose. Leipheimer also won the stage finishing at the Mount Baldy ski area, and was second in the individual time trial. In his next race, the Tour of Switzerland, Leipheimer won, overhauling the race leader Damiano Cunego by 2 minutes in the final time trial stage, to win the tour by 4 seconds.\n\nLeipheimer won the first edition of the USA Pro Cycling Challenge, winning the first stage and the third stage time trial.\n\nLeipheimer joined Patrick Lefevere's team for what was supposed to be the 2012 and 2013 seasons. He started his year by winning the Tour de San Luis in Argentina. However, while on a training ride on the eve of the Vuelta Ciclista al Pais Vasco, he broke his fibula when he collided with a car. He stated that he thought he would die when the accident happened. He returned to competition at the Tour of California, where he won the \"Most Courageous\" jersey after stage one, in recognition of his return from the serious injury. He finished the race in sixth overall.\nLeipheimer followed his California performance with third place overall in the Tour de Suisse. Leipheimer won a stage of the Tour of Utah, and finished third overall in the USA Pro Cycling Challenge, having led the race for one day.\n\nOmega Pharma-Quick Step terminated Leipheimer's contract in October, one week after his testimony to USADA.\n\nLeipheimer officially retired from pro cycling in May 2013. As previously noted, Leipheimer had cooperated with USADA in their case against Lance Armstrong, and detailed his own use of performance-enhancing drugs and methods while riding for Saturn, U.S. Postal Service, Rabobank, Gerolsteiner and Astana. In an October 2012 op-ed for the website of \"The Wall Street Journal\" (\"Why I Doped\"), Leipheimer also asserted to have raced the last five years of his career clean.\n\nLeipheimer and four other riders — George Hincapie, Christian Vande Velde, David Zabriskie and Tom Danielson — received six-month suspensions and were stripped of results. Hincapie retired; the others resumed racing in 2013 after serving their suspensions. Leipheimer hoped to do the same when his suspension ended in March but he could not find a team after having been fired by Omega Pharma.\n\nOn May 19, 2013, Leipheimer admitted to \"The Press Democrat\" that he was \"transitioning into the rest of my life.\" \"I'm retired,\" he told them. \"It's just been an 'unceremoniously' retired.\"\n\nLeipheimer is no longer married to Canadian professional cyclist Odessa Gunn, whom he met at a World Cup event in Philadelphia in 1997.\n\nHe has supported the charity PETA in an advertising campaign.\n\nIn 2009 Leipheimer founded his King Ridge GranFondo, a mass participation ride named for the challenging King Ridge Road in Sonoma County. The inaugural version of the GranFondo hosted a sold-out crowd of 3,500 people on the roads in and around Leipheimer's home of Santa Rosa, California. By 2011, participation had risen to 7,500 riders. The event is a charity ride, benefitting the Forget Me Not Farm, the NorCal High School Cycling League, and a series of initiatives designed to promote cycling and community resources in and around Sonoma County.\n\nOn Tuesday, October 23, 2012, a feature-length documentary on Leipheimer's career entitled \"The Levi Effect: The Story of Levi Leipheimer\" was screened in select theaters in the United States.\n\nAll results from June 1, 1999 to July 30, 2006 and July 7 to 29, 2007 are stripped.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087669", "title": "Edison (film)", "text": "Edison (film)\n\nEdison (also known as Edison Force in the United States), is a 2005 American thriller film written and directed by David J. Burke, and starring Morgan Freeman, LL Cool J, Justin Timberlake and Kevin Spacey.\n\nThere is a force of corrupt cops called F.R.A.T, and the policemen who work for F.R.A.T are above the law. That is, until Joshua Pollack, an Edison journalist discovers a glitch in the system. Now, with the help of those who he trusts, he might be able to take F.R.A.T down.\n\n\nWhile the film was in production, some people speculated it was based upon the title of the film and the limited story details with corrupt officers that the film was based upon the New Jersey township of Edison, since the township's recent (as of that time) controversy involving its police force. Writer and film director David J. Burke claimed that the name \"Edison\" was derived from its common association with the inventor and business leader Thomas Edison, which led to thoughts of \"electricity, power and industry.\"\n\nThe film was originally supposed to see a US release in the spring of 2005; however, due to its poor reviews from critics after its screening at the Toronto International Film Festival, its release to cinemas in the US and most other countries was cancelled. Sony Pictures Home Entertainment released the film, originally titled \"Edison\", as \"Edison Force\", direct–to–video on July 18, 2006. The film was released in theaters in Netherlands on March 12, 2006.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes \"Edison\" has an approval rating of 0% based on reviews from 6 critics, with an average score of 2.5/10.\n\nIn September 2017, when a Twitter user asked his followers to \"name one bad Kevin Spacey movie\", Spacey himself responded and simply wrote \"Edison\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2087670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087670", "title": "June 24 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 24 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 23 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 25\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 7 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 24th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 11.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2087673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087673", "title": "Pennsylvania Convention Center", "text": "Pennsylvania Convention Center\n\nThe Pennsylvania Convention Center is a multi-use public facility in the Market East section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, designed to accommodate conventions, exhibitions, conferences and other events. The \"L\"-shaped complex occupies four city blocks.\n\nIn the latter part of the 20th century, the Philadelphia Civic Center became outmoded. With the opening of the Spectrum in South Philadelphia, fewer big sporting and entertainment events used the Civic Center. Political conventions, too, outgrew the capacity of the Civic Center to host them. By the 1980s, regional and state leaders had begun to plan for a new convention center in the heart of Center City. It was decided that the former train shed of the Reading Terminal be the site of the new center and after renovations were finished by Wilson Brothers & Company, it opened in 1993. When it did, most of the events held in the Civic Center, including trade shows and the annual Philadelphia Flower Show, moved to the new facility.\n\nAs a result of the construction of the Pennsylvania Convention Center, the Chinatown buildings located on Arch Street, up to the intersection of 13th Street, were demolished.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Convention Center comprises four main halls or rooms, smaller meeting rooms and auditoriums, and the Grand Hall, which occupies much of the trainshed of the former Reading Railroad terminal. (The rest of the train shed is occupied by meeting rooms and a hallway on the main floor, and the Grand Ballroom on the upper floor.) The headhouse entrance to the Convention Center is located at 12th and Market Streets in Center City. The A, B, and C exhibit halls extend across 12th Street, one story up (the 200 level) from the street level (100 level), between 11th and 13th Streets and Arch and Race Streets. At the south side of the A exhibit hall, a walkway extend over Arch Street, south into the grand hall. The opposite end of the grand hall provides a gated entrance into the headhouse lobby for the Marriott Hotel that occupies the old office spaces of Reading Railroad. Access to an adjoining Marriott Hotel is gained from this lobby by means of another second-story walkway over 12th Street. \n\nThe hotel, designed by BLT Architects with completion in 1995, is connected to the Market East Station via a skybridge to the historic Reading Terminal. The 1,200-room hotel also offers restaurants, a health/fitness center, and various-sized ballrooms and pre-function areas for meetings, convention activities, and other public and private events. In 1999, designs by BLT Architects to expand the Marriott Hotel at the Pennsylvania Convention Center were completed. The upper seven floors of the historic Reading Terminal Headhouse, designed by the Wilson Brothers in 1894, provided space to expand the Marriott's conference capabilities with a 210 unit suites-type hotel featuring terraced restaurants and other public spaces. The grand ballroom occupies the Reading Railroad Company’s original waiting room.\n\nReading Terminal consists of three parts. The headhouse, a 9-story office building fronting on Market Street, that contained the passenger station and the Reading Railroad company headquarters. It was designed in 1891 by New York architect Francis H. Kimball. The trainshed, directly north of the headhouse, was designed by the Philadelphia architecture/engineering firm of Wilson Brothers & Company. The tracks were raised on a viaduct and entered the great arched shed about above street level. Its single-span arched roof structure is touted as the world's oldest surviving. Reading Terminal Market, which had prior rights to the railroad's right-of-way for the property use, was built below the trainshed. The terminal opened in 1893 and served to enhance the railroad company's power and prominence, and contributed to the city's importance. \n\nWhen Reading Company ceased to exist as a railroad owner and operator, it sold the headhouse and train shed to SEPTA, the regional transit service. SEPTA operated its Regional Rail commuter lines out of the shed until 1984, when they developed Market East Station (now Jefferson Station), an underground station that bypassed Reading Terminal by running under it, and the facility fell into disuse (except for the Reading Terminal Market).\n\nCity and state officials pondered on a means to reuse the facility, and formed a convention center authority. Public reaction to redevelopment prompted the new authority to preserve the market and the train shed in its design of the new convention center. It currently oversees the operation and maintenance of the convention center.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Convention Center annually hosts the Fancy Brigade Finale on January 1, Philadelphia Auto Show in early February and the Philadelphia Flower Show in early March, as well as numerous nonrecurring conferences and conventions.\n\nIn December 2006, the Convention Center approved a $700 million plan to expand the Convention Center west to Broad Street, bringing the amount of convention space to approximately one million square feet. The expansion was completed in March 2011.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2087676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087676", "title": "Heaton Park", "text": "Heaton Park\n\nHeaton Park is a municipal park in Manchester, England, covering an area of over . The park includes the grounds of a Grade I listed, neoclassical 18th century country house, Heaton Hall. The hall, remodelled by James Wyatt in 1772, is now only open to the public on an occasional basis as a museum and events venue.\n\nHeaton Park was sold to Manchester City Council in 1902 by the Earl of Wilton. It has one of the United Kingdom's few concrete towers, the Heaton Park BT Tower.\n\nThe park was renovated as part of a millennium project partnership between the Heritage Lottery Fund and Manchester City Council at a cost of over £10 million. It contains an 18-hole golf course, a boating lake, an animal farm, a pitch and putt course, a golf driving range, woodlands, ornamental gardens, an observatory, an adventure playground, a Papal monument and a volunteer-run tram system and museum, and is listed Grade II by Historic England. It has the only flat green bowling greens in Manchester, built for the 2002 Commonwealth Games.\n\nThe park takes its name from the local area of Great Heaton. Heaton is derived from Old English heah ‘high’ + tun ‘enclosure’ or ‘settlement’.\n\nHeaton Hall had been owned by the Holland family since the Middle Ages. In 1684, when Sir John Egerton, 3rd Baronet of Wilton, married Elizabeth Holland, the hall came to the Egerton family. In 1772, Sir Thomas Egerton, 7th Baronet (later the 1st Earl of Wilton), commissioned the fashionable architect James Wyatt to design a new home for his young family. Although Wyatt had already established a reputation for himself as an innovative architect, he was only 26 years old and Heaton Hall was his first country house commission. Wyatt's neo-classical masterpiece was built in phases and was mostly completed by 1789.\n\nThe park was originally laid out by William Emes in the style of Capability Brown. It has long been used for public events such as Heaton Park races, which were established by the second Earl in 1827. The races were run on a course around the park which included the site of the present day boating lake until 1839 when they moved to Aintree near Liverpool, now the venue for the Grand National. During the 19th century when the railway to Bury was being laid, it stopped short of Heaton Park, as Lord Wilton was not prepared to see his estate disfigured by a railway. As a compromise the line was run under the estate in a tunnel and a railway station opened adjacent to the Whittaker Lane/Bury Old Road entrance in 1879 (now Heaton Park Metrolink station). Consequently, the decision by Lord Wilton to put the hall and park up for sale was greeted with dismay, especially when it became known that the site was being eyed by a property developer. A pressure group was formed to persuade Manchester City Council to purchase it as a museum and municipal park. Alderman Fletcher Moss, a prominent antiquarian was a notable influence in this movement. The park was purchased and opened to the public in 1902. Unfortunately, the council was not prepared to purchase the contents of the hall, so the furniture and paintings were sold by auction. The hall was considered by the council to be of little architectural or historical significance and the saloon was initially used as a tea-room.\n\nDuring the First World War, the park was used as a training camp for the Pals battalion of the Manchester Regiment, whilst Heaton Hall became a military hospital.\n\nIn the Second World War, the park was a camp for the Royal Air Force, where 133,516 aircrew were trained. The park was home to a barrage balloon anchorage and an ackack emplacement. Two \"prefab\" housing estates and an infants school were built in the south of the park, the houses providing much-needed homes until they were demolished in the 1960s. The school building was used by Manchester City Council until 2012, when it was demolished.\n\nThe hall, has been a Grade I Listed Building since 1952 and has been called \"the finest house of its period in Lancashire\". It is built of sandstone and stuccoed brick, in a traditional Palladian design with the entrance on the north side and the facade on the south. The landscaping was designed to make the most of the uninterrupted views of the rolling hills across to the Pennines. A feature of this was the ha-ha, used to keep the grazing animals, so important to the landscaping, away from the formal lawns, with a barrier that was all-but invisible from the house.\n\nThe state rooms include the Library, the Music Room, Dining Room and upstairs, a rather rare Etruscan Room. The rooms of the hall were exquisitely finished by the finest artists and craftsmen of the period, with most of the furnishings and mahogany doors being made by Gillow's of Lancashire. Most of the decorative paintings, the Pompeiian Cupola Room and the case for the 18th century chamber organ built by Samuel Green in 1790, were the work of Italian artist, Biagio Rebecca. The organ fills one wall of the Music Room. The ornate plasterwork was created by the firm of Joseph Rose II of York.\n\nThere are 13 rooms occasionally open to the public in the central core and east wing. Manchester City Galleries restored the decorative detail in the 1980s and early 1990s. The ground floor rooms on the north east front have been converted to an expansive space that houses temporary exhibitions. The first floor rooms include the Cupola which was originally Lady Egerton's dressing-room. The room was styled in the 1770s \"Pompeiian\" style with mirrored walls and a domed ceiling — there are only three such rooms left in Britain. \n\nThe library was remodelled by Lewis Wyatt in the 1820s. Heaton Hall's collections are managed by Manchester Galleries. The hall is currently (February 2017) listed on Historic England's Heritage at Risk register.\n\nDesigned by James Wyatt in 1800 for the First Earl, the ornamental temple is a simple, small rotunda of Tuscan columns with a domed roof and lantern. This Grade II listed building stands on the highest point of the city of Manchester giving views across the golf course, which was originally the deer park. It has its own fireplace and is thought to have been used as an observatory by the Earl who is known to have owned a telescope bought from Dollond's of London. The cost of the telescope was £18.5s.0d (£18.25) – the same amount earned in a year by the Earl's under-butler. The temple has recently been enclosed by a stone balustrade and gravelled path and is used as a summer studio for artists, and for astronomy sessions.\n\nThe Dower House was a plain brick building that was transformed with a decorative columned facade in 1803. The ha-ha in front of the house stopped the cattle from grazing on the formal lawns, making a barrier which cannot be seen from the house. In 2004 the house became the home of the Manchester and District Beekeepers Association and is furnished with an observation hive, equipment and displays with an apiary in the garden behind the house.\n\nThis \"pepperpot\" building located at the east entrance to the park, now on Middleton Road, was designed by Lewis Wyatt for the 1st Earl of Wilton in 1806. It was built in an unusual octagonal shape as a cottage to be viewed from the house in a romantic, rural setting, as well as being a home for the lodge keeper. The name comes from a blacksmith's forge which was located nearby on Middleton Road. The lodge was fully restored with a grant from the Lottery Heritage fund in the late 1990s and is now rented out to the public as short stay accommodation.\n\nCommissioned in 1807 by Sir Thomas Egerton, the Grand Lodge was designed by Lewis Wyatt as an impressive main entrance to the park from the south. The lodge is built of ashlar sandstone as a large triumphal arch and originally led onto one of the longest carriage drives to the house. It has two floors of accommodation, cellars under the west wing and an attic over the arch. The construction of the lodge completed the enclosure of the park by a high boundary wall. It was refurbished as part of the millennium project and is now rented out to the public as short stay accommodation. There is a memorial plaque here dedicated to the memory of the Manchester Pals who trained in the park in 1914. \n\nThese ornamental gardens were probably laid out in the early 19th century as a peaceful retreat for the family. The gardens have recently been returned to their original design with pools, summerhouses and plants appropriate to the period. A tunnel leads from the flowergarden to the dell and carries a causeway at high level across the gardens to allow the cattle, from the fields to the south of the garden, to be taken to the farm for milking without entering the gardens. The tunnel entrance is faced with large stones to give it the appearance of a natural cave.\n\nThe orangery was added to the house by the 2nd Earl of Wilton around 1823. It was probably designed by Lewis Wyatt as it is similar to his orangeries at Tatton Park and Belton House. It was probably built for the wife of the 2nd Earl, Lady Mary Stanley, who was a keen botanist. It was designed with a domed, glazed roof, fronted by a formal garden with two large copies of the Borghese Vase. The ornate glass roof was removed, to be replaced with a flat roof after Manchester City Council purchased the park in 1902. The orangery is now a function and conference venue, run by Manchester City Council's Hospitality and Trading Service.\n\nThe boating lake was constructed between 1908 and 1912 by previously unemployed men using only shovels and hand-pulled trucks. The lake, which is overlooked by the Lakeside Cafe, has three islands and is home to large numbers of ornamental birds and wildfowl including geese, ducks, swans and fantail doves. There are rowing boats for hire during the summer months. The lake is noted for its excellent carp fishing and is also stocked with roach, rudd, bream, tench and chub. Fishing rights to all the waters in the park are held by the King William IV Angling Society.\n\nAn interesting structure in the park is the Colonnade, which once formed the front of Manchester Town Hall in King Street. When that building was scheduled for demolition a successful campaign to save the facade resulted in the colonnade being re-assembled in the park at the end of the boating lake. \n\nThe 18th century Walled Garden was the Earl of Wilton's kitchen garden supplying fruit and vegetables for the estate. The walls provide a warm microclimate for crop cultivation and support for climbing plants. The Horticultural Centre staff now grow plants for the city's displays and for sale to the public. There are also demonstration gardens open to the public during the summer and a sensory garden. \"The Friends of Heaton Park\", a group formed in 1992 to promote an interest in the care of the park and to act as a communication link between the park users and the Heaton Park management team, are based at the centre.\n\nThe farm centre was originally built as a stable block for Sir Thomas Egerton. It was designed by Samuel Wyatt and built between 1777 and 1789. It now houses the Stables Cafe and is also the administrative centre for the park. The Animal Centre is housed behind the stables in the area that was Home Farm, on the site of the 19th century glasshouse range where exotic foods and flowers were grown for the family. The Animal Centre was built in 2003–04 to replace the old Pets' Corner and houses goats, cattle, pigs, donkeys, Hebridean sheep, alpacas and Kune Kune pigs plus small pets.\n\nHazlitt Wood Pond, also known as the \"Golly Pond\", is located in Hazlitt Wood to the far north of the park. This area of the park can only be reached on foot and hence remains quiet and secluded.\n\nShortly after the Heaton Park was bought by Manchester Corporation the tramway was extended into the park and the first tram arrived on 31 May 1903, bringing visitors from Manchester. By 1934 buses were taking over from trams and the tramway was disconnected from the main system and covered in tarmac for use by buses.\n\nThe initial idea, to construct a new tramway from Grand Lodge to Heaton Hall, was considered too expensive, as it would require remedial works to carry it across the railway tunnel. Therefore, a new scheme was proposed to open up the old Manchester Corporation Tramways spur from Middleton Road to the old tram shelter some 300 yards (270 m) inside the park.\n\nThe work was completed in 1979 and the Heaton Park Tramway was officially opened on 28 March 1980. The tramway currently has an operating fleet of 3 electric trams and one horse tram. One of these, tramcar, No 765, was to be seen in the museum at Crich in Derbyshire, before moving to Heaton Park.\n\nThe municipal golf course is a championship standard golf course, built on the former deer park to the south of the hall with views across to the Pennines. Designed by five times Open Champion John Henry Taylor, it was opened to the public in 1912 and has been the venue for a number of professional and amateur events. The golf centre, which has its own private driving range used for teaching purposes, is located at the Smithy Lodge, entrance to Heaton Park. The 11th hole is played across water to a plateau green and was rated by Open Champion Henry Cotton as \"the toughest par-3 in England\". The course was voted the best municipal golf course in England in 2005.\n\nOn 31 May 1982 Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass in the park for over 100,000 people and ordained 12 new priests. This event is commemorated by the papal monument in the south-west of the park.\n\nIn 1909, the great Italian tenor, Enrico Caruso, performed at the Free Trade Hall in Manchester. The concert was attended by William Grimshaw, a gramophone salesman from Prestwich and a few days later, he took his gramophone to Heaton Park and played recordings of the songs performed by Caruso to an assembled crowd of 40,000 people who, according to the \"Prestwich and Heaton Park Guardian\", \"remained as if spellbound from the moment of arrival to the close of the programme, which, it is hardly necessary to say, was intensely enjoyed.\" Caruso later wrote to Mr. Grimshaw to thank him for the way his voice had been reproduced, sending him a signed cartoon of himself. Grimshaw was the first person in Britain to give gramophone concerts in the open, an idea which soon spread across the country. The concerts were carried on for several seasons and as they grew in popularity, Grimshaw became known across Lancashire as the \"Gramophone King\"\n\nSince the 1980s a number of open air pop concerts have been held in the park, headlined by popular bands of the day such as Travis and Supergrass. The park has been the venue for the BBC's \"Proms in the Park\" on a number of occasions.\n\nManchester band, Oasis, performed to a total audience of 210,000 over three nights in June 2009. In June 2012, Manchester band The Stone Roses played three sold-out shows at Heaton Park as part of their Reunion Tour. It was announced in February 2013 that Manchester's annual Parklife Weekender music festival will be held at Heaton Park for the foreseeable future.\n\nManchester band Courteeners played their biggest headline show to date at the park on 5 June 2015.\n\nOn 1 July 2016, the park hosted a concert and exhibition as part of the \"National Commemoration of the Centenary of the Battle of the Somme\", which was centred on Manchester. An act of Remembrance at the Cenotaph in St Peter's Square, Manchester was followed by the National Commemorative Service in Manchester Cathedral. People were invited to make a commemorative tile, with the results laid as a path through the park. An evening concert at Heaton Park featured a national children's choir, archive film, dance, spoken word and Manchester's Hallé Orchestra. The \"Experience Field\" (where visitors could learn more about life on the home and western fronts in 1916) was located in and around Heaton Hall.\n\nOn 27 November 2019, Liam Gallagher announced he would be playing a show in the park on 12 June 2020 \nThe Manchester-born's show sold out within 3 hours after being put on sale at 9:00 am on 29 November 2019.\n\nIn recent years the park has hosted some open-air theatre productions. From 1998 Feelgood Theatre Productions performed open-air promenade productions many of which received Manchester Evening News Theatre Awards and the Horniman Award for outstanding service to theatre. Productions include: \"Blue Remembered Hills\" (Potter), \"The Wizard of Oz, The Wind in the Willows, The Three Musketeers, Arthur - King of the Britons, Dracula - The Blood Count,\"\" Shakespeare's \"Midsummer Night's Dream\" and Macbeth. In 2016 Feelgood returned and performed the world premier of Whispers of Heaton (May and Nov) and Ghost Story of Heaton (October). Feelgood is now (2016) the official theatre partner for Heaton Park and hall and is planning a programme of theatre and music events. In 2005 there was a screening of Pulp Fiction with a film inspired set from the Fun Lovin' Criminals. \n\nA 5 km run against the clock is organised by parkrun on Saturday mornings.\n\nThere are often charity run events such as the 'Race for Life' and seasonal fairs are located near the Papal monument. There is a large bonfire and firework display held on 5 November (Guy Fawkes Night) each year. The Shakespeare's Globe Theatre performs open-air theatre annually with performances of Shakespeare's greatest works in 2008, 2009 and \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" in June 2010. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087678", "title": "Zorneding", "text": "Zorneding\n\nZorneding is a community in district of Ebersberg, Upper Bavaria, Germany. It lies some 20 km east of Munich, Bavaria’s capital.\n\nIn the northwest, Zorneding borders on the community of Vaterstetten, in the northeast on the unincorporated area of the Ebersberg Forest (\"Ebersberger Forst\"), in the east on Kirchseeon, in the south on Oberpframmern and in the southwest on Munich district.\n\nZorneding had its first documentary mention on 4 September 813. A further documentary mention comes from the year 1156 when Zorneding was mentioned in the \"Falkensteiner Codex\" under the name \"Ingoltesperch\" (“Settlement at Ingolt’s Mountain”). Ludwig V, Duke of Upper Bavaria, Margrave of Tyrol and Brandenburg died in Zorneding in 1361 while hunting. Over the centuries, Zorneding grew ever more into a typical road-based town. The ancient Salt Road (nowadays \"Bundesstraße\" 304) gained more and more importance after Munich was founded. Pöring, with its centres of Ingelsberg and Wolfesing is a clearing settlement from the 6th and 7th centuries. In 885, “Peringan” had its first documentary mention. In 1156, “Ingoltesperch” was mentioned, and in 1269 so was “Wolfizzingen”. In 1750, Wolfesing was amalgamated with Pöring, and in 1815 so was Ingelsberg. In 1978, on the occasion of municipal reform, Pöring and Zorneding were merged into one community. At the same time, the centre of Baldham was transferred to Vaterstetten.\n\nZorneding’s municipal arms show the Brandenburg eagle holding two charred boughs, one in each talon. The eagle goes back to Ludwig V who died in 1361 in Zorneding. To commemorate this event, the community took up the eagle as a charge in its arms, since Ludwig was from Brandenburg. The burnt boughs refer to the clearing.\n\nPöring’s arms show two silver points and a yellow partridge on a blue background. It symbolizes the holder of the Pöring noble seat.\n\n\nThere are many hiking and cycling paths in the Ebersberg Forest.\n\nThe constituent community of Zorneding lies on \"Bundesstraße\" 304. On 7 June 2005, the sod was turned to begin construction on a community bypass running south of town. The 4.2 km-long roadway opened to traffic on 3 July 2007. After the opening, traffic through the community was greatly reduced from a former 20,000 vehicles a day to roughly 2,000 now.\n\nThe railway station in Zorneding lies on the Munich–Rosenheim line, but is not a stop for regional trains. Zorneding is connected to Munich by Munich S-Bahn’s lines S4 and S6 and to the district capital of Ebersberg by the S4 line. There is also a bus connection to Glonn by way of Oberpframmern.\n\nThe community is home to the Grundschule Zorneding with its two buildings in Zorneding and Pöring.\nThis school recently celebrated its 350th birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087684", "title": "WAXQ", "text": "WAXQ\n\nWAXQ (104.3 FM) is a classic rock-formatted radio station licensed to New York City. WAXQ is owned by iHeartMedia and broadcasts from studios in the former AT&T Building in the Tribeca neighborhood of Manhattan; its transmitter is located at the Empire State Building.\n\nThe 104.3 frequency originally signed on in 1949 as WFDR, a nonprofit station owned by the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union. However, like most early FM stations, WFDR lost money, and the station ceased operations in 1952.\n\nThe FM station first took to the air on December 1, 1956 as WFMX, and within a year adopted the call letters WNCN (for New York Concert Network). As such, it was a part of a group of classical music stations in the northeastern United States, the Concert Network, programmed from WBCN in Boston and carried by affiliates including WXCN in Providence, Rhode Island and WHCN in Hartford, Connecticut. Later, WNCN was acquired by medical ad agency owner Ludwig Wolfgang Frohlich, the founder of the National Science Network, and added daily medical news reports to the schedule, since it was believed that classical music was the choice of the medical and dental professions. It also moved the antenna from the Hotel Pierre to the Empire State Building, increasing the station's coverage. National Science sold the station to Starr Broadcast Group in 1974. The station would retain a classical music format for many years, except for a short period during 1974–1975 when it took up a rock format with the call letters WQIV. During the brief run of WQIV, the station's progressive album-oriented rock appealed to long-time WNEW-FM listeners and included some veteran 70s FM rock DJs including Rosko and Carol Miller. This brief period also saw deployment of a short-lived technology as unintentionally brief as the format change itself: WQIV broadcast in Quadraphonic sound (a precursor to \"Surround Sound\") as indicated by the new call letters \"Q\" (quadraphonic) \"IV\" (Roman numeral 4). This choice of call letters was a constant reminder to audiences of this technical innovation, although history shows that the free market quickly abandoned quad.\n\nThe WQIV era was during ownership by Starr Broadcast Group, of which William F. Buckley Jr. was chairman. The GM was Alan Eisenberg, and the program director was Larry Miller (WKTU). The announcement that the station was changing to rock music was read by Mr. Buckley himself and repeated frequently on the air. Two groups, the WNCN Listeners Guild and Classical Radio for Connecticut, were formed, and petitioned the FCC to forbid the change. A last minute stay by a Supreme Court Justice delayed the scheduled changeover, but that was lifted and WNCN became WQIV. The first selection played on the air by program and music director Larry Miller after the changeover was Electric Light Orchestra's \"Roll Over Beethoven\". William Buckley admitted he loved classical music, but had a responsibility to Starr shareholders to maximize returns. The Listeners Guild continued its fight, and eventually forced a change back to classical music when an application was filed for the frequency by a new group headed by William Benton of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". Starr relented, and in a negotiated settlement, sold the station to GAF Broadcasting. WQIV signed off with \"Funeral for a Friend\" by Elton John. The station then played the last 2 notes of the last classical song on the original WNCN that were cut off, then said \"sorry for the interruption\". The first selection played on the air after the change back was from Bach's B-minor Mass, \"Et resurrexit\".\n\nFrom 1971-1974 and again from 1975-1994, David Dubal served as music director of WNCN. In 1976, he hosted a regular program of comparative performances titled \"A Musical Offering\", and more than a hundred of these programs have been archived at YouTube. WNCN's influence continues at WQXR-FM where Dubal, Annie Bergen, Paul Cavalconte, Clayelle Dalferes, and Elliott Forrest host.\n\nThe station was owned by GAF until 1996, when Viacom purchased it for $100 million.\n\nOn December 18, 1993, at Midnight, WNCN signed off for good with Joseph Hadyn's Symphony No. 45 (also known as the \"Farewell Symphony\") as the station adopted a current-based album-oriented rock (AOR) format, along with new call letters WAXQ and the branding \"Q104.3\". The first on-air staff was Trent Tyler and Christine Nagy in morning drive; Heidi Hess in middays; Mark Razz in afternoon drive; Candy Martin (Candice Agree) in nights and Lark Logan, overnights. The station's first PD was Bob Elliot, who was replaced by Ron Valeri. The APD/MD for Q104.3's entire existence as a hard rock station was Vinny Marino. The playlist was split into 5-song blocks that focused on current hard rock favorites, but also mixed in classic rock tunes and cuts from bands not typically thought of as radio friendly (Type O Negative, Anthrax). However, ratings were low, as this format was not ideal during a time in which more people were listening to alternative rock than to heavy metal. Also, during the mid-1990s, other New York City radio stations were playing alternative rock music, as WXRK went from classic rock to alternative rock, and WNEW-FM was trying to go after a younger audience.\n\nIn 1996, thanks to a deal involving a swapping of various broadcast stations, Viacom would acquire WAXQ. After initial consideration was given for the station to turn to a country format, management decided that there was a need for a full-time classic rock station in New York City. As a result, the station went to its current format on July 1, 1996, at 5 AM. Research indicated that if WNEW were to revert to an all-classic rock format, listeners would not return there due to the distrust for that station. As it turned out, WNEW would unsuccessfully go back to a classic rock format in January 1997.\n\nThat same year, Viacom sold off its entire radio division (before its merger with CBS and Infinity) to Chancellor Media. Chancellor in turn merged with Capstar Broadcasting to form AM/FM, and that company was then purchased by Clear Channel Communications.\n\nWAXQ's airstaff includes several disc jockeys who were well-known from other New York City radio stations, such as morning show host Jim Kerr, Carol Miller, and Eddie Trunk. Scott Muni also worked at the station, hosting a noon-hour show from late 1998 until his death in 2004. \"The Sopranos\" often featured the station as the radio station Tony Soprano would set on his alarm clock. In sharp contrast to their respective tenures on other NYC area radio stations, the DJs now have little creative input into what music gets played, as is common nowadays at most major-market radio stations. The playlist is narrower than that of classic rock radio stations of the past, due to results from audience research, and songs that were once staples of classic rock radio, such as \"Eight Miles High\" by The Byrds, are now only played during infrequent segments devoted to \"Deep Classics\". WAXQ is also known to go outside the genre of strictly classic rock, sometimes playing more modern rock, such as the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Stone Temple Pilots, as well as some classic pop music such as by Elton John and Phil Collins and even some newer heavy metal such as Queensrÿche and Metallica, that are not normally found on classic rock stations.\n\nLike other Clear Channel stations, Q104.3 began multicasting in late winter 2006. On WAXQ HD1, the Classic Rock format could be heard on the original analog station while WAXQ HD2 played a blend of Deep Classic Rock Hits including some more hard rock and current releases by Classic Rock artists. HD stations can only be received with an HD Radio. HD Radios receive both the primary analog station, the duplicate HD Feed and the multicasting feeds. Stations can put as many as three sets of HD programming on one dial position plus their original analog broadcast. With the demise of 92.3 K-Rock (WXRK), the HD2 Channel began airing \"Rock Nation\" to satisfy the fans of K-Rock's active rock format. On July 16, 2011, one day after alternative station 101.9 RXP stopped running, the HD2 channel became \"The Alternative Project\" to somewhat fill the gap of alternative rock. As of August 2011, the HD2 Channel played a mix of mostly active rock, mixed with 90's alternative hard rock. Although the station ID at the top of the hour stated \"The Alternative Project\", it was neither airing \"Rock Nation\" nor \"The Alternative Project\". Two weeks later (mid August 2011), \"The Alternative Project\" feed returned. On October 1, 2015, HD2 became \"iHeart Country\" with a country music format. However, sometime in 2017, the HD2 country format was replaced by a simulcast of sister station WOR.\n\n\"The Alternative Project\" would later return in 2018, but this time on the new HD3 subchannel, despite having competition from rival alternative station Alt 92.3 (WNYL).\n\n"}
{"id": "2087688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087688", "title": "The Lay of Aotrou and Itroun", "text": "The Lay of Aotrou and Itroun\n\n\"The Lay of Aotrou and Itroun\" is a poem of 508 lines, written by J. R. R. Tolkien in 1930 and published in \"Welsh Review\" in December 1945.\n\n\"Aotrou\" and \"Itroun\" are Breton words for \"lord\" and \"lady\". The poem is modelled on the genre of the \"Breton lay\" popular in Middle English literature of the 12th century, and it explores the conflict of heroic or chivalric values and Christianity, and their relation to the institution of marriage.\n\nA major source for the poem has been identified as the Breton song 'An Aotrou Nann hag ar Gorigann' (Lord Nann and the Fairy), which Tolkien probably knew through Wimberly's \"Folklore in the English and Scottish Ballads\" (1928). Tolkien adds to his source a stern moral - repudiation of all traffic with the supernatural.\n\nIn the poem, Aotrou and Itroun are a couple of Breton nobility. They are childless, and Aotrou seeks the help of a witch. When Itroun is with child, the witch reappears, revealing herself as the Corrigan, and asks for Aotrou's love as payment. Aotrou sacrifices his knightly honour to Christian values, and breaks his word.\n\nCursed by the Corrigan to die in three days, Aotrou takes the consequences and places his trust in Providence:\n\nAotrou died after three days, followed by his wife with a broken heart. They are buried together, and they do not live to see their offspring grow up - something that has been interpreted as a judgement on Aotrou for excessive family pride.\n\nThe lay was originally published in \"The Welsh Review\" in 1945 but had been unavailable for decades. A book form, edited by Tolkien scholar Verlyn Flieger, was published on 3 November 2016. Flieger also edited Tolkien's \"The Story of Kullervo\" (2015).\n\n"}
{"id": "2087708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087708", "title": "Herb Carnegie", "text": "Herb Carnegie\n\nHerbert Henry Carnegie, CM, O.Ont, OMC (November 8, 1919 – March 9, 2012) was a Canadian ice hockey player of Jamaican descent. After his professional hockey career was over, he became a successful businessman working in the investment industry. In 1954, he founded one of Canada's first hockey schools, Future Aces, and through his work in training young hockey players, became a member of both the Order of Ontario and the country's highest civilian award, the Order of Canada. His hockey career was recognized when he was inducted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 2001, and the Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 2014. He died in Toronto in March 2012 at age 92.\n\nCarnegie's hockey career began in 1938 with the Toronto Young Rangers and continued in the early 1950 with the Buffalo Ankerites, a team in a mines league that played in mining towns in northern Ontario and Quebec. From 1944-45 to 1947-48, he played for Shawinigan and Sherbrooke of the semi-professional Quebec Provincial League and was named most valuable player in 1946, 1947 and 1949.\n\nIn 1948, Carnegie was given a tryout with the New York Rangers and offered a contract to play in the Rangers' minor league system. However, he was offered less money than he was earning in the Quebec league and turned down all three offers made by the Rangers organization during his tryout.\n\nReturning to Canada to play in the Quebec Senior Hockey League, he played for Sherbrooke St. Francis and the Quebec Aces before moving to Ontario to play a single season with the Owen Sound Mercuries of the Ontario Senior Hockey Association. During his years in the Quebec Senior League, Carnegie played with future Montreal Canadiens star Jean Beliveau and was coached by Punch Imlach.\n\nAs a black man playing hockey in the 1940s and 1950s, Carnegie endured his share of racism. In one famous 1938 incident, Conn Smythe, the owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs, watched Carnegie play as a member of the Toronto Young Rangers. He is alleged to have said either that he would accept Carnegie on the team if he were white or that he would pay $10,000 to anyone who could turn Carnegie white. In \"Breaking the Ice: The Black Experience in Professional Hockey\", author Cecil Harris noted that \"some doubt has arisen\" as to whether Smythe did indeed utter this remark. According to Harris, Carnegie and others believe that racism played an important part in keeping him out of the NHL. Others interviewed point to his decision to refuse the New York Rangers' offer to play in their organization.\n\nAfter retiring from the game of hockey in 1953, Carnegie started the Future Aces Hockey School, one of the first hockey schools in Canada. In 1954, he wrote the \"Future Aces Creed\" in an attempt to foster respect, tolerance, diversity and sportsmanship among young people.\n\nCarnegie also continued his athletic career as a golfer, winning the Canadian Seniors Golf Championship in 1977 and 1978, and the Ontario Senior Golf Championship in 1975, 1976 and 1982.\n\nIn 1987, he established the Herbert H. Carnegie Future Aces Foundation to provide bursaries for college and university. Carnegie also had a successful business career as a financial planner with the Investors Group.\n\nIn 1996, he published his biography, \"A Fly in a Pail of Milk: The Herb Carnegie Story\" (Mosaic Press, 1996).\n\nCarnegie was named to the Order of Ontario in 1996 and the Order of Canada in 2003. On May 2, 2005, the North York Centennial Centre was renamed the Herbert H. Carnegie Centennial Centre in his honour. On June 12, 2006, he received an Honorary Doctor of Laws degree from York University. A public school in York Region is named in his honour.\n\nHe also received the Queen's Silver Jubilee Medal in 1977, the Ontario Medal for Good Citizenship in 1988, the Metropolitan Toronto Canada Day Medal in 1990, the 125th Anniversary of the Confederation of Canada Medal in 1992, and the Queen's Golden Jubilee Medal in 2002.\n\nCarnegie became legally blind. He died in Toronto, Ontario, Canada where he lived in an assisted living home.\n\nCarnegie last resided in Toronto. He was married to Audrey May Carnegie for 60 years, from 1940 until her death in 2003. They had four children, nine grandchildren and six great grandchildren. His grandson, Rane Carnegie, is also a hockey player. Rane had a successful juniors career with several teams, and has played professional hockey since joining the Milwaukee Admirals as part of their post-season roster during the 2005-06 AHL season.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Carnegie and his \"Future Aces\" hockey program were featured in two special issues of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", helping Spider-Man bring down Electro and his hockey puck/drug smuggling operation (issue 1, Skating on Thin Ice) and foil the Chameleon's plan to steal a valuable chemical formula (issue 2). The comics were set in Winnipeg and Fredericton, respectively.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087711", "title": "The Mega-Maniacs", "text": "The Mega-Maniacs\n\nThe Mega-Maniacs was the World Wrestling Federation tag team of Hulk Hogan & Brutus \"The Barber\" Beefcake that had two distinct runs as a team, one in 1989 and another one in 1993.\n\nHulk Hogan and Brutus Beefcake began their careers more or less at the same time, quickly becoming lifelong friends and would team up from time to time. Their most well known \"Pre-WWF\" teams were as \"Terry & Ed Boulder\" and as \"Hulk & Dizzy Hogan\", billed as brothers.\n\nDuring the summer of 1989, Tiny Lister began appearing at WWF arena shows, playing his character, \"The Human Wrecking Machine\" Zeus, from the WWF-financed film \"No Holds Barred\"; Zeus began targeting Hogan, the movie's top-billed star. Zeus teamed up with \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage in hopes of destroying Hulk Hogan. Faced with overwhelming odds, Hulk Hogan turned to his best friend Brutus Beefcake, who was already feuding with Savage at the time, to even the odds.\n\nAt SummerSlam 1989, Hulk Hogan and Brutus Beefcake teamed up to take on Randy Savage and Zeus in the main event, a clash that saw Hulk Hogan pin Zeus after his trademark Leg drop. Hogan and Beefcake would once again team up after being attacked in the locker rooms during the closing moments of the 1989 Survivor Series by Savage and Zeus.\n\nIt was decided that the feud had to be settled in a steel cage match, which was featured on a \"Mini-PPV\" as a double feature with the movie \"No Holds Barred.\" (The match was taped December 13, 1989, and aired two weeks later on pay-per-view.) Hulk Hogan and Brutus Beefcake were successful in the cage, after which Zeus was not seen in the WWF. After the steel cage match, Hulk Hogan and Brutus Beefcake both went back to working singles matches.\n\nIn 1990, Brutus Beefcake suffered a devastating face injury during a parasailing accident that forced him to retire from in-ring competition. After an aborted comeback attempt in late 1991/early 1992, Brutus Beefcake finally felt he was ready to get back inside the squared circle in 1993.\n\nOn February 1, 1993 (shown on Television February 15), Brutus Beefcake faced off against \"The Million Dollar Man\" Ted DiBiase with his Money Inc. partner I.R.S. and manager Jimmy Hart at ringside. I.R.S. would interfere in the match with Money, Inc. double teaming Beefcake, even going so far as to hitting him in his surgically reconstructed face with a metal briefcase. The actions of Money Inc. were so horrible, that even longtime heel manager Jimmy Hart took objection to it and tried to protect Beefcake from further harm.\n\nAt this point in time, Hulk Hogan was not active in the WWF, having gone into semi-retirement a year earlier, but the attack on his lifelong friend brought the Hulkster back to the WWF. With newly turned babyface manager Jimmy Hart at their side, Hulk Hogan and Brutus Beefcake joined forces, swore vengeance on Money, Inc. and then officially named themselves \"The Mega-Maniacs.\"\n\nDue to the attack by Money, Inc, Beefcake took to wearing a red and yellow protective facemask when competing in the ring and Brutus's entire outfit changed to red and yellow as a show of unity with Hulk Hogan.\n\nLeading up to WrestleMania IX, the Mega-Maniacs took on the Beverly Brothers during house shows to get ready for their shot at the WWF World Tag-Team titles at WrestleMania. The Mega-Maniacs were not successful in their challenge as they lost to Money Inc. via disqualification when Hogan attacked the champions with Beefcake's steel face plate. Later in the night, Hogan would win the WWF World Heavyweight Title in an impromptu match against Yokozuna, when Yokozuna challenged Hogan to a match immediately after winning the title from Bret Hart the same night.\n\nThe Mega-Maniacs would team up and take on Money, Inc. several times during the months of April and May on the house show circuit with the World Champion not defending his title once. Hogan would eventually lose the title to Yokozuna at June's King of the Ring pay-per-view, and both he and Beefcake would leave the WWF soon after.\n\nHogan and Beefcake, now known as \"Brother Bruti,\" came to WCW together in June 1994. Bruti would eventually turn on Hogan at Halloween Havoc 1994, and the two feuded on and off for the next year and a half, with Bruti becoming \"The Butcher\" and \"Zodiac.\" Hogan would be aided by Savage, while Butcher/Zodiac would be aligned with Kevin Sullivan and Avalanche, as well as being a member of Sullivan's Dungeon of Doom stable.\n\nZodiac would turn face in 1996, revealing himself to be a mole that Hogan and Savage had injected into the Dungeon of Doom a year earlier, becoming The Booty Man. Hogan, Savage, and Booty Man would continue to team against members of the Dungeon.\n\nIn July 1996, Hogan shocked the fans by turning heel and starting a new faction known as the New World Order. Booty Man attempted to join the group until Hogan ordered his fellow nWo members Scott Hall and Kevin Nash to attack him. Less than a year later, Booty Man, now known as The Disciple, would join the group and always accompany Hogan to the ring and aide him in winning matches. In 1998, The Ultimate Warrior came to WCW to feud with Hogan and turned the Disciple against Hogan, joining the One Warrior Nation (or oWn, a play on the nWo acronym). Hogan and Leslie never teamed again after this.\n"}
{"id": "2087713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087713", "title": "June 25 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 25 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 24 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 26\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 8 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 25th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 12.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2087719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087719", "title": "Snitter", "text": "Snitter\n\nSnitter is a village and civil parish in Northumberland, England. It is near the Northumberland National Park. The closest town is Rothbury.\n\nSnitter is in the parliamentary constituency of Berwick-upon-Tweed.\n"}
{"id": "2087722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087722", "title": "Charles Darwin's education", "text": "Charles Darwin's education\n\nCharles Darwin's education gave him a foundation in the doctrine of Creation prevalent throughout the West at the time, as well as knowledge of medicine and theology. More significantly, it led to his interest in natural history, which culminated in his taking part in the second voyage of the \"Beagle\" and the eventual inception of his theory of natural selection. Although Darwin changed his field of interest several times in these formative years, many of his later discoveries and beliefs were foreshadowed by the influences he had as a youth.\n\nBorn in 1809, Charles Darwin grew up in a conservative era when repression of revolutionary Radicalism had displaced the 18th century Enlightenment. The Church of England dominated the English scientific establishment. The Church saw natural history as revealing God's underlying plan and as supporting the existing social hierarchy. It rejected Enlightenment philosophers such as David Hume who had argued for naturalism and against belief in God.\n\nThe discovery of fossils of extinct species was explained by theories such as catastrophism. Catastrophism claimed that animals and plants were periodically annihilated as a result of natural catastrophes and then replaced by new species created \"ex nihilo\" (out of nothing). The extinct organisms could then be observed in the fossil record, and their replacements were considered to be immutable.\n\nDarwin's extended family of Darwins and Wedgwoods was strongly Unitarian. One of his grandfathers, Erasmus Darwin, was a successful physician, and was followed in this by his sons Charles Darwin, who died while still a promising medical student at the University of Edinburgh in 1778, and Doctor Robert Darwin, Darwin's father, who named his son after his deceased brother.\n\nErasmus was a freethinker who hypothesized that all warm-blooded animals sprang from a single living \"filament\" long, long ago. He further proposed evolution by acquired characteristics, anticipating the theory later developed by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Although Charles was born after his grandfather Erasmus died, his father Robert found the texts an invaluable medical guide and Charles read them as a student. Doctor Robert also followed Erasmus in being a freethinker, but as a wealthy society physician was more discreet and attended the Church of England patronised by his clients.\n\nCharles Robert Darwin was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England on 12 February 1809 at his family home, the Mount, He was the fifth of six children of wealthy society doctor and financier Robert Darwin, and Susannah Darwin (\"née\" Wedgwood). Both families were largely Unitarian, though the Wedgwoods were adopting Anglicanism. Robert Darwin, himself quietly a freethinker, had baby Charles baptised on 15 November 1809 in the Anglican St Chad's Church, Shrewsbury, but Charles and his siblings attended the Unitarian chapel with their mother.\n\nAs a young child at The Mount, Darwin avidly collected animal shells, postal franks, bird's eggs, pebbles and minerals. He was very fond of gardening, an interest his father shared and encouraged, and would follow the family gardener around. Early in 1817, soon after becoming eight years old, he started at the small local school run by a Unitarian minister, the Reverend George Case. At home, Charles learned to ride ponies, shoot and fish. Influenced by his father's fashionable interest in natural history, he tried to make out the names of plants, and was given by his father two elementary natural history books. Childhood games included inventing and writing out complex secret codes. Charles would tell elaborate stories to his family and friends \"for the pure pleasure of attracting attention & surprise\", including hoaxes such as pretending to find apples he'd hidden earlier, and what he later called the \"monstrous fable\" which persuaded his schoolfriend that the colour of primula flowers could be changed by dosing them with special water. However, his father benignly ignored these passing games, and Charles later recounted that he stopped them because no-one paid any attention.\n\nIn July 1817 his mother died after the sudden onset of violent stomach pains and amidst the grief his older sisters had to take charge, with their father continuing to dominate the household whenever he returned from his doctor's rounds. To the -year-old Charles this situation was not a great change, as his mother had frequently been ill and her available time taken up by social duties, so his upbringing had largely been in the hands of his three older sisters who were nearly adults by then. In later years he had difficulty in remembering his mother, and his only memory of her death and funeral was of the children being sent for and going into her room, and his \"Father meeting us crying afterwards\".\n\nAs had been planned previously, in September 1818 Charles joined his older brother Erasmus Alvey Darwin (nicknamed \"Eras\") in staying as a boarder at the Shrewsbury School, where he loathed the required rote learning, and would try to visit home when he could. He continued collecting minerals and insects, and family holidays in Wales brought Charles new opportunities, but an older sister ruled that \"it was not right to kill insects\" for his collections, and he had to find dead ones. He read Gilbert White's \"The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne\" and took up birdwatching. Eras took an interest in chemistry and Charles became his assistant, with the two using a garden shed at their home fitted out as a laboratory and extending their interests to crystallography. When Eras went on to a medical course at the University of Cambridge, Charles continued to rush home to the shed on weekends, and for this received the nickname \"Gas\". The headmaster was not amused at this diversion from studying the classics, calling him a \"poco curante\" (trifler) in front of the boys. At fifteen, his interest shifted to hunting and bird-shooting at local estates, particularly at Maer in Staffordshire, the home of his relatives, the Wedgwoods. His exasperated father once told him off, saying \"You care for nothing but shooting, dogs, and rat-catching, and you will be a disgrace to yourself and all your family.\"\n\nHis father decided that he should leave school earlier than usual, and in 1825 at the age of sixteen Charles was to go along with his brother who was to attend the University of Edinburgh for a year to obtain medical qualifications. Charles spent the summer as an apprentice doctor, helping his father with treating the poor of Shropshire. He had half a dozen patients of his own, and would note their symptoms for his father to make up the prescriptions.\n\nDarwin went to Edinburgh University in October 1825 to study medicine, accompanied by Eras doing his external hospital study. The brothers took lodgings at 11 Lothian Street, near the University.\nThe city was in an uproar over political and religious controversies, and the competitive system where professors were dependent on attracting student fees for income meant that the university was riven with argumentative feuds and conflicts. The monopoly held by established medical professors was challenged by private independent schools, with new ideas of teaching by dissecting corpses giving clandestine trade to bodysnatchers (just shortly before the Burke and Hare scandal).\n\nHe attended the official university lectures, but complained that most were stupid and boring, and found himself too sensitive to the sight of blood. He was disgusted by the dull and outdated anatomy lectures of professor Alexander Monro \"tertius\", and later regretted his failure to persevere and learn dissection. Munro's lectures included vehement opposition to George Combe's daringly materialist ideas of phrenology. As the exception to the general dullness, the spectacular chemistry lectures of Thomas Charles Hope were greatly enjoyed by the brothers, but they did not join a student society giving hands-on experience. Darwin regularly attended clinical wards in the hospital despite his great distress about some of the cases, but could only bear to attend surgical operations twice, rushing away before they were completed due to his distress at the brutality of surgery before anaesthetics. He was long haunted by the memory, particularly of an operation on a child.\n\nThe brothers kept each other company, and made extensive use of the library. Darwin's reading included novels and Boswell's \"Life of Johnson\". He had brought natural history books with him, including a copy of \"A Naturalist's Companion\" by George Graves, bought in August in anticipation of seeing the seaside, and he borrowed similar books from the library. The brothers went for regular Sunday walks on the shores of the Firth of Forth and Darwin kept a diary recording their finds, which included a sea mouse and a cuttlefish.\n\nDarwin wrote home that \"I am going to learn to stuff birds, from a ... he only charges one guinea, for an hour every day for two months\". These lessons in taxidermy were with the freed black slave John Edmonstone, who also lived in Lothian Street. Darwin often sat with him to hear tales of the South American rain-forest of Guyana, and later remembered him as \"a very pleasant and intelligent man.\"\n\nDuring his summer holiday Charles read \"Zoönomia\" by his grandfather Erasmus Darwin, which his father valued for medical guidance but which also proposed evolution by acquired characteristics. In June he went on a walking tour in North Wales.\n\nIn his second year Charles became active in student societies for naturalists. The 21-year-old radical demagogue William A. F. Browne and the 19-year-old John Coldstream both proposed Darwin for membership of the Plinian Society on 21 November 1826. John Coldstream came from an evangelical background and shared Darwin's fascination with sea life. Darwin was elected to its Council on 5 December, and at the same meeting Browne presented an attack on Charles Bell's \"Anatomy and Physiology of Expression\" (which in 1872 Darwin would target in \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals\").\n\nDarwin became a keen student of Robert Edmond Grant, a Lamarckian anatomist. Grant had cited Erasmus Darwin in his doctoral thesis and shared the evolutionist ideas of Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire on evolution by acquired characteristics. Charles joined Grant in pioneering investigations of the life cycle of marine invertebrates on the shores of the Firth of Forth. Darwin and Grant collected tiny animals from the rock pools and walked along the rocky shore at Prestonpans, where Grant lived during the winter at Walford House. Grant began taking Darwin as a guest to professor Robert Jameson's Wernerian Natural History Society. There Charles saw John James Audubon lecturing on the habits of North American birds. In the April–October 1826 edition of the quarterly \"Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal\" edited by Jameson, an anonymous paper praised \"Mr. Lamarck, one of the most sagacious naturalists of our day\" for having \"expressed himself in the most unambiguous manner. He admits, on the one hand, the existence of the simplest infusory animals; on the other, the existence of the simplest worms, by means of spontaneous generation, that is, by an aggregation process of animal elements; and maintains, that all other animals, by the operation of external circumstances, are evolved from these in a double series, and in a gradual manner.\" – this was the first use of the word \"evolved\" in a modern sense. Though some have attributed authorship to Jameson, this is hotly contested and others see Grant as having written it, as the first significant statement to relate Lamarck's concepts to the geological record of living organisms of the past.\n\nDarwin made a discovery new to science when he observed cilia moving the microscopic larvae of a species of the bryozoan \"Flustra\". He rushed to tell Grant, confirming Grant's belief that the larvae of these marine animals were free swimming, but was upset when Grant claimed rights to the work. Darwin also made the discovery that black spores often found in oyster shells were the eggs of a skate leech, and was disappointed when Grant announced both finds to the \"Wernerian\" on 24 March 1827 without giving Darwin credit, though Grant in his publication about the leech eggs in the \"Edinburgh Journal of Science\" later that year acknowledged \"The merit of having first ascertained them to belong to that animal is due to my zealous young friend Mr Charles Darwin of Shrewsbury\", the first time Darwin's name appeared in print. Darwin made a presentation of both discoveries to the Plinian Society on 27 March, his first public presentation. Later in the meeting Browne argued that mind and consciousness were simply aspects of brain activity, not \"souls\" or spiritual entities separate from the body. A furious debate ensued, and later someone deleted all mention of this materialist heresy from the minutes. This was Darwin's first exposure to militant freethought and the storm it stirred up.\n\nDuring their walks Grant expounded his ideas to Darwin, and on one occasion dropped his guard and praised Lamarck's views on evolution. He explained his radical theory of \"homology\", an extension of the idea of \"unity of plan\" in vogue in Paris at the time. He argued that all animals had similar organs differing only in complexity and, controversially, that this showed their common descent. Grant had announced to the \"Wernerian\" his identification of the pancreas in a pinned-out sea-slug, showing an organ molluscs shared with mammals. He assumed that as the earth cooled, changing conditions drove life towards higher, hotter blooded forms, as shown by a progressive sequence of fossils, and that study of eggs of the simplest creatures would help reveal \"monads\", elementary living particles. While this showed that naturalists could try to \"lift the veil that hangs over the origin and progress of the organic world\", Darwin was troubled by Grant's atheism and could see that transmutation was far from respectable. Darwin later recalled \"I listened in silent astonishment, and as far as I can judge, without any effect on my mind. I had previously read the Zoönomia of my grandfather, in which similar views are maintained, but without producing any effect on me.\"\n\nShortly afterwards Coldstream graduated and went to Paris for his hospital study, where he suffered a mental breakdown, struggling with \"the foul mass of corruption within my own bosom\", held captive to his body by \"corroding desires\" and \"lustful imaginations\". The doctor's report was that though Coldstream had led \"a blameless life\", he was \"more or less in the dark on the vital question of religion, and was troubled with doubts arising from certain Materialist views, which are, alas!, too common among medical students\".\n\nDarwin also took the popular natural history course of Professor Robert Jameson, learning about stratigraphic geology. Jameson was a Neptunian geologist who taught that strata had precipitated from a universal ocean: he held debates with chemistry professor Thomas Charles Hope who held that granites had crystallised from molten crust, ideas influenced by the Plutonism of James Hutton who had been Hope's friend. Jameson's view was that \"It would be a misfortune if we all had the same way of thinking... Dr Hope is decidedly opposed to me, and I am opposed to Dr Hope, and between us we make the subject interesting.\" Darwin liked Hope and found Jameson a boring speaker. It is not known what he made of Jameson's closing lectures on the \"\"Origin of the Species of Animals\"\". Darwin enjoyed practicals in the Museum and course field trips, learning the sequence of strata. The Museum of Edinburgh University was Jameson's preserve and was then one of the largest in Europe. Darwin assisted and made full use of the collections, spending hours studying, taking notes and stuffing animal specimens.\n\nEven medical lectures proved of some use. In January 1826 Darwin had written home complaining of \"a long stupid lecture\" from Dr. Andrew Duncan \"secundus\" about medicine, but the lectures introduced him to Augustin de Candolle's \"natural system\" of classification and emphasis on the \"war\" between competing species. However, he loathed medicine and left in April 1827 without a degree.\n\nHe toured Scotland, went on to Belfast and Dublin and in May made his first trip to London to visit his sister Caroline. They joined his uncle Josiah Wedgwood II on a trip to France. There Charles fended for himself for a few weeks in Paris with Browne and Coldstream who was recovering having \"found joy and peace in believing\". Charles rejoined his relations and then returned to his home at Shrewsbury, Shropshire by July.\n\nHis father was unhappy that his younger son would not become a physician and \"was very properly vehement against my turning into an idle sporting man, which then seemed my probable destination.\" He therefore enrolled Charles at Christ's College, Cambridge in 1827 for a Bachelor of Arts degree as the qualification required before taking a specialised divinity course and becoming an Anglican parson. He enrolled for an \"ordinary\" degree, as at that time only capable mathematicians would take the Tripos. At that time the only way to get an honours degree was the mathematical Tripos examination, or the classical Tripos created in 1822, which was only open to those who already had high honours in mathematics, or those who were the sons of peers.\n\nThis was a respectable career for a gentleman at a time when most naturalists in England were clergymen in the tradition of Gilbert White, who saw it as part of their duties to \"explore the wonders of God's creation\". Charles had concerns about being able to declare his belief in all the dogmas of the Church of England, so as well as hunting and fishing, he studied divinity books. He was particularly convinced by the reasoning of the Revd. John Bird Sumner's \"Evidences of Christianity\". John Bird Summer wrote that Jesus's religion was \"wonderfully suitable... to our ideas of happiness in this & the next world\" and there was \"no other way... of explaining the series of evidence & probability.\" His Classics had lapsed since school, and he spent the autumn term at home studying Greek with a tutor. Darwin was accepted as a \"pensioner\", having paid his fees, on 15 October 1827, but did not attend Cambridge until the Lent Term which began on 13 January 1828. Eras returned from Edinburgh ready to sit his Bachelor of Medicine exam, and in the new year he and Charles set out together for Cambridge. Darwin came into residence in Cambridge on 26 January 1828, and matriculated at the University's Senate House on 26 February.\n\nHis tutors at Christ's College, Cambridge were to include Joseph Shaw in 1828, John Graham (in 1829 – 1830) and Edward John Ash in 1830 – 1831. One of his university friends was Frederick Watkins, (1808–1888).\n\nArriving at the University of Cambridge in January 1828, Darwin found this elite theological training institution governed by complex rules much more congenial than his experiences at Edinburgh. No rooms were available at Christ's College, so he took lodgings above a tobacconists in Sidney Street, across the road. Extramural activities were important, and while Darwin did not take up sports or debating, his interests included music and his main passion was the current national craze for the (competitive) collecting of beetles. Trainee clergymen scoured Cambridgeshire for specimens, referring to \"An Introduction to Entomology\" by William Kirby and William Spence. Charles joined his older cousin William Darwin Fox who was already a skilled collector and like him got a small dog. The two and their dogs became inseparable. They explored the countryside as Darwin learnt about natural history from his cousin. Darwin became obsessed with winning the student accolade and collected avidly. Once he stripped bark from a dead tree and caught a ground beetle in each hand, then saw the rare Crucifix Ground Beetle, \"Panagaeus cruxmajor\". With the habits of an egg-collector, he popped one ground beetle in his mouth to free his hand, but it ejected some intensely acrid fluid which burnt his tongue and Darwin was forced to spit it out. He lost all three. The specimens he did not lose had to be mounted and identified, and his knowledge from Edinburgh of Lamarck proved useful. Fox introduced him for advice on identification to the Revd. John Stevens Henslow, professor of botany, and Darwin began attending his soirées, a club for budding naturalists. Here he could meet other professors including the geologist the Revd. Adam Sedgwick and the new mineralogist the Revd. William Whewell.\n\nIn the summer Darwin paid visits to Squire Owen, and romance seemed to be blossoming with the squire's daughter Fanny. Darwin joined other Cambridge friends on a three-month \"reading party\" at Barmouth on the coast of Wales to revise their studies with private tutors. For Charles it was an \"Entomo-Mathematical expedition\". Though he badly needed to catch up with his mathematics, the insect collecting predominated along with pleasant diversions such as hillwalking, boating and fly fishing. He went on daily walks with his close friend, the older student John Maurice Herbert who he dubbed \"Cherbury\" after Herbert of Cherbury, the father of English Deism. Herbert assisted with the insect collecting, but the usual outcome was that Darwin would examine Herbert's collecting bottle and say \"Well, old Cherbury, none of these will do.\" In September Darwin wrote to tell \"My dear old \"Cherbury\"\" that his own catches had included \"some of the rarest of the British Insects, & their being found near Barmouth is quite unknown to the Entomological world: I think I shall write & inform some of the crack Entomologists.\" He described these \"\"extremely rare\"\" insects and asked Herbert to oblige him by collecting some more of them.\n\nAt the start of his second year Charles became the tenant of the rooms at Christ's College which traditionally had been occupied by the theologian William Paley. He now had breakfast every day with his older cousin William Darwin Fox. This was Fox's last term before his BA exam, and he now had to cram desperately to make up for lost time. At the Christmas holiday Charles visited London with Eras, toured the scientific institutions \"where Naturalists are gregarious\" and through his friend the Revd. Frederick William Hope met other insect collectors. These included James Stephens, author of \"Illustrations of British Entomology\".\n\nThe January term brought miserable weather and a struggle to keep up with his studies. Around this time, he had an earnest conversation with John Herbert about going into Holy Orders, and asked him whether he could answer yes to the question that the Bishop would put in the ordination service, \"Do you trust that you are inwardly moved by the Holy Spirit\". When Herbert said that he could not, Darwin replied \"Neither can I, and therefore I cannot take orders\" to become an ordained priest. Even his interest in insect collecting waned. He fell out with one of the two locals he employed to catch beetles when he found that the local was giving first choice to a rival collector. In the doldrums, he joined a crowd of drinking pals in a frequent \"debauch\". He put in some hard riding. On one night he and three friends saw the sky lit up and \"rode like incarnate devils\" eleven miles to see the blaze. They arrived back at two in the morning and violated curfew. He was risking \"rustication\", temporary expulsion. Such behaviour would be noticed by the Proctors, university officials appointed from the colleges who patrolled the town in plain gowns to police the students.\n\nStudent resentment against two unpopular Proctors built up, and on 9 April 1829 a tumult broke out. Charles described how the Senior Proctor was \"most gloriously hissed.. & pelted with mud\", being \"driven so furious\" that his servant \"dared not go near him for an hour.\" The Proctors had noted some faces in the mob, and four were rusticated and one fined for being out-of-gown and shouting abuse. Outraged by this leniency, the Proctors quit \"en masse\" and printed their resignation to post up around the colleges. Though the unpopular Proctors were gone, Charles was jolted into thinking of the consequences of law-breaking.\n\nIn the Spring, Darwin enrolled for John Stevens Henslow's lectures on botany. Professor Henslow's first \"public herborizing expedition\" of the year took place in May, an outing on which students assisted with collection of plants. However, Darwin made no mention of Henslow in his letters to Fox. On 18 May Darwin wrote to Fox enthusing about his success with beetle collecting, \"I think I beat Jenyns in Colymbetes\", contrasted with his lack of application to studies: \"my time is solely occupied in riding & Entomologizing\".\n\nCambridge was briefly visited on 21 May by the Radicals Richard Carlile and the Revd. Robert Taylor, both recently jailed for blasphemy, on an \"infidel home missionary tour\" which caused several days of controversy. Taylor was later nicknamed \"the Devil's Chaplain\", a phrase remembered by Darwin.\n\nCharles had been sending records of the insects he had caught to the entomologist James Francis Stephens, and was thrilled when Stevens published about thirty of these records in \"Illustrations of British entomology; or, a synopsis of indigenous insects etc.\" which was printed in parts, with the first description under Darwin's name appearing in an appendix dated 15 June 1829.\n\nThat summer, amongst horse riding and beetle collecting, Charles visited his cousin Fox, and this time Charles was teaching entomology to his older cousin. Home at Shrewsbury, Shropshire, he saw his brother Erasmus whose \"delicate frame\" led to him now giving up medicine and retiring at the age of 26. The brothers visited the Birmingham Music Festival for what Charles described as the \"most glorious\" experience.\n\nBack at Cambridge, Charles studied hard for his \"Little Go\" preliminary exam, as a fail would mean a re-sit the following year. He dropped his drinking companions and resumed attending Henslow's Friday evening soirées. For the exam he slogged away at Greek and Latin, and studied William Paley's \"Evidences of Christianity\", becoming so delighted with Paley's logic that he learnt it well. This was a text he also had to study for his finals, and he was \"convinced that I could have written out the whole of the \"Evidences\" with perfect correctness, but not of course in the clear language of Paley.\" Later, on the \"Beagle\" expedition, he saw evidence which challenged Paley's rose-tinted view, but at this time he was convinced that the Christian revelation established \"a future state of reward and punishment\" which \"gives order for confusion: makes the moral world of a piece with the natural\". As with Cambridge University, God gave authority and assigned stations in life, misconduct was penalised and excellence bountifully rewarded. Charles took the one-day verbal examination on 24 March 1830. There were three hours in the morning on the classics and three in the afternoon on the New Testament and Paley. The next day he was delighted to be informed that he had passed.\n\nSeveral of his friends celebrated their examination successes by dining in each other's rooms in rotation in a weekly club commonly known as the \"Glutton Club\". This name was proposed to ridicule another group whose Greek title meant \"fond of dainties\", but who dined out on \"Mutton Chops, or Beans & Bacon\". The \"Glutton Club\" attempted to live up to their title by experimentally dining on \"birds and beasts which were before unknown to human palate\" and tried hawk and bittern, but gave up after eating an old brown owl, \"which was indescribable\". They had more amusement from concluding each meeting with \"a game of mild vingt-et-un\".\n\nOver Easter Charles stayed at Cambridge, mounting and cataloguing his beetle collection. He then became an enthusiastic member of the botany course which the \"good natured & agreeable\" professor Henslow taught five days a week in the Botanic Gardens and on field trips. Henslow's outings were attended by 78 men including professor Whewell. Charles became the \"favourite pupil\", known as \"the man who walks with Henslow\", helping to find specimens and to set up \"practicals\" dissecting plants. He became interested in pollen. One day he watched through a microscope and saw \"transparent cones\" emerge from the side of a geranium pollen grain. Then one burst spraying out \"numberless granules\". Henslow explained that the granules were indeed the constituent atoms of pollen, but they had no intrinsic vital power – life was endowed from outside and ultimately derived its power from God, whatever more \"speculative\" naturalists argued regarding self-activating power. Darwin had been taught otherwise by Grant, and reflected quietly on this, biding his time.\n\nFor the summer holidays Darwin arranged to meet Fox at The Mount, but Darwin's father had been ill and family tensions led to a row. Charles went off with the Revd. Hope and other friends for three weeks \"entomologizing\" in North Wales, hunting for beetles and trout fishing. He went partridge shooting at Maer before returning home.\n\nBack at Cambridge, his final exams loomed. A \"desperate\" Charles focused on his studies and got private tuition from Henslow whose subjects were mathematics and theology. This term he had to study Euclid and learn Paley's \"Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy\", though this old text was becoming outdated. It opposed arguments for increased democracy, but saw no divine right of rule for the sovereign or the state, only \"expediency\". Government could be opposed if grievances outweighed the danger and expense to society. The judgement was \"Every man for himself\". These ideas had suited the conditions of reasonable rule prevailing when the text was published in 1785, but in 1830 they were dangerous ideas. At this time the French king was deposed by middle class republicans and given refuge in England by the Tory government. In response, radical street protests demanded suffrage, equality and freedom of religion. Then in November the Tory administration collapsed and the Whigs took over. Paley's text even supported abolition of the \"Thirty-nine Articles of the Anglican faith\" which every student at Cambridge (and Oxford University) was required to sign. Henslow insisted that \"he should be grieved if a single word... was altered\" and emphasised the need to respect authority. This happened even as campaigns of civil disobedience spread to starving agricultural labourers and villages close to Cambridge suffered riots and arson attacks.\n\nIn the third week of January 1831 Charles sat his final exam. There were three days of written papers covering the Classics, the two Paley texts and John Locke's \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", then mathematics and physics. At the end of the week when the results were posted he was dazed and proud to have come 10th out of a pass list of 178 doing the \"ordinary\" degree. Charles shone in theology and scraped through in the other subjects. He was also exhausted and depressed, writing to Fox \"I do not know why the degree should make one so miserable.\" In later life he recalled Paley and Euclid being the only part of the course which was useful to him, and \"By answering well the examination questions in Paley, by doing Euclid well, and by not failing miserably in Classics, I gained a good place among the οἱ πολλοί, or crowd of men who do not go in for honours.\"\n\nOn the specific issue of his mathematical education, Darwin came to regret his lack of ability and application: \"I attempted mathematics, and even went during the summer of 1828 with a private tutor (a very dull man) to Barmouth, but I got on very slowly. The work was repugnant to me, chiefly from my not being able to see any meaning in the early steps in algebra. This impatience was very foolish, and in after years I have deeply regretted that I did not proceed far enough at least to understand something of the great leading principles of mathematics, for men thus endowed seem to have an extra sense\".\n\nResidence requirements kept Darwin in Cambridge till June. He resumed his beetle collecting, took career advice from Henslow, and read William Paley's \"Natural Theology or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity\" which set out to refute David Hume's argument that \"design\" by a Creator was merely a human projection onto the forces of nature. Paley saw a rational proof of God's existence in the complexity and perfect adaptation to needs of living beings exquisitely fitted to their places in a happy world, while attacking the evolutionary ideas of Erasmus Darwin as coinciding with atheistic schemes and lacking evidence. Paley's benevolent God acted in nature though uniform and universal laws, not arbitrary miracles or changes of laws, and this use of secondary laws provided a theodicy explaining the problem of evil by separating nature from direct divine action. This convinced Charles and encouraged his interest in science. He later wrote \"I do not think I hardly ever admired a book more than Paley's \"Natural Theology\": I could almost formerly have said it by heart.\"\n\nHe read John Herschel's new \"Preliminary Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy\", learning that nature was governed by laws, and the highest aim of natural philosophy was to understand them through an orderly process of induction, balancing observation and theorising. This was part of the liberal Christianity of Darwin's tutors, who saw no disharmony between honest inductive science and religion. Such science was religion, and could not be heretical. Darwin also read Alexander von Humboldt's \"Personal Narrative\", and the two books were immensely influential, stirring up in him \"a burning zeal to add even the most humble contribution to the noble structure of Natural Science.\"\nAs a young graduate, Henslow had geologised on the Isle of Wight and the Isle of Man, and he too had longed to visit Africa. Marriage and his position at the university now made the prospect remote, but he still had an unfulfilled ambition to \"explore regions but little known, and enrich science with new species.\"\n\nAt home for Easter in early April, Darwin told his cousin Fox of \"a scheme I have almost hatched\" to visit the Canary Islands and see Tenerife as recommended by Humboldt. On returning to Cambridge, he wrote to his sister that \"my head is running about the Tropics: in the morning I go and gaze at Palm trees in the hot-house and come home and read Humboldt: my enthusiasm is so great that I cannot hardly sit still on my chair. Henslow & other Dons give us great credit for our plan: Henslow promises to cram me in geology\". He was studying Spanish language, and was in \"a Tropical glow\". \nHenslow introduced Darwin to the great geologist the Revd. Adam Sedgwick who had been his own tutor, and shared views on religion, politics and morals. Darwin was fired up by Sedgwick's Spring course of \"equestrian outings\" with its vistas of the grandeur of God's creation, so much of which was yet unexplored. He exclaimed, \"What a capital hand is Sedgewick for drawing large cheques upon the Bank of Time!\". When Sedgwick mentioned the effects of a local spring from a chalk hill depositing lime on twigs, Charles rode out to find the spring and threw a bush in, then later brought back the white coated spray which Sedgwick exhibited in class, inspiring others to do the same.\n\nDarwin continued plotting his \"Canary scheme\", and on 11 May he told Fox \"My other friends most sincerely wish me there I plague them so with talking about tropical scenery &c &c.\". His father gave him \"a 200£ note\" to pay his college debts. In addition, \"Some goodnatured Cambridge man has made me a most magnificent anonymous present of a Microscope: did ever hear of such a delightful piece of luck? one would like to know who it was, just to feel obliged to him.\" Darwin later found that the gift was from his friend John Herbert.\n\nIn mid June Darwin returned home to Shrewsbury, and continued \"working like a tiger\" for the Canary scheme, \"at present Spanish & Geology, the former I find as intensely stupid, as the latter most interesting\". By then his most likely companion on the trip was the tutor Marmaduke Ramsay. Darwin was \"trying to make a map\" of Shropshire, \"but dont find it so easy as I expected.\" He ordered a clinometer, and on 11 July wrote to tell Henslow that it had arrived and he had tried it out in his bedroom. \"As yet I have only indulged in hypotheses; but they are such powerful ones, that I suppose, if they were put into action but for one day, the world would come to an end.\" In efforts to learn the basics of geology he extended his mapping of strata as far away as Llanymynech, some from Shrewsbury, using the terminology he had learnt in Edinburgh from Robert Jameson. Already he was anxious that he had not heard from Sedgwick, and when he investigated ship sailings he found that they were only available in certain months. For this reason, the trip to Teneriffe had to be postponed to the following June, and it looked increasingly unlikely that Henslow would come on the trip. Darwin wrote to one of his student friends that he was \"at present mad about Geology\" and had plans to ride through Wales then meet with other students at Barmouth.\n\nOn 4 August 1831 Sedgwick arrived in his gig at The Mount, Shrewsbury, to take Charles as his assistant on a short geological expedition mapping strata in Wales. That evening Charles told of a tropical shell found in a nearby gravel pit and was impressed when Sedgwick responded that it must have been thrown away there, as it contradicted the known geology of the area. This made him realise \"that science consists in grouping facts so that general laws or conclusions may be drawn from them.\" Sedgwick aimed to investigate and correct possible errors in George Greenough's geological map of 1820, and to trace the fossil record to the earliest times to rebut the uniformitarian ideas just published by Charles Lyell. \nOn the morning of 5 August they went from Shrewsbury to Llangollen, and on 11 August reached Penrhyn Quarry. After less than a week of doing hard practical work Charles had learnt how to identify specimens, interpret strata and generalise from his observations. Then he went off on his own to collect samples and investigate the Vale of Clwyd, looking in vain for the Old Red Sandstone shown by Greenough. They met up in Colwyn, and Sedgwick's pleasure at the confirmation that the map was incorrect made Darwin \"exceedingly proud\". They went on to Capel Curig where Charles struck out on his own across 30 miles (50 km) of \"some strange wild places\" to Barmouth. He had parted from Sedgwick by 20 August, and travelled via Ffestiniog.\n\nArriving at Barmouth on the evening of 23 August, Charles met up with a \"reading party\" of Cambridge friends for a time before he left on the morning of 29 August, to go back to Shrewsbury and on to partridge shooting with his Wedgwood relatives at Maer Hall. He was grieved to have received a message that Ramsay had died. This upset Darwin's plans for a visit in the following year to Tenerife. He arrived home at The Mount, Shrewsbury, on 29 August, and found a letter from Henslow. The Cambridge Fellow George Peacock had heard from Francis Beaufort of plans for the second survey voyage of HMS \"Beagle\", and had written to Henslow proposing Leonard Jenyns as \"a proper person to go out as a naturalist with this expedition\", or if he was unavailable seeking recommendations for an alternative to take up this \"glorious opportunity\". When Jenyns decided not to leave his parish, he and Henslow thought of Darwin. Henslow's letter, read by Peacock and forwarded to Darwin, expected him to eagerly catch at the likely offer of a two-year trip to Terra del Fuego & home by the East Indies, not as \"a \"finished\" Naturalist\", but as a \"gentleman\" \"amply qualified for collecting, observing, & noting any thing worthy to be noted in Natural History\". The appointment was more as a companion to Captain Robert FitzRoy, than as a mere collector. Henslow wrote \"I assure you I think you are the very man they are in search of\".\n\nHis father thought the voyage a waste of his son's time and strongly objected. Dejected, Charles declined the offer, and went to Maer for the partridge shooting with a note from his father to \"Uncle Jos\" Wedgwood. This contained a prescription for a bowel ailment and a note saying that Charles had quite given up the proposed \"voyage of discovery\", but \"if you think differently from me I shall wish him to follow your advice.\" Charles' hopes were revived by this unexpected news, and his relatives came out in favour of the voyage. He outlined his father's objections, and sat up that night drafting a reply with his uncle. Jos wrote suggesting that Charles would be likely to \"acquire and strengthen, habits of application\", and \"Natural History... is very suitable to a Clergyman.\" Though \"useless as regards his profession\", for \"a man of enlarged curiosity, it affords him such an opportunity of seeing men and things as happens to few\". The Admiralty would look after him well, but \"you & Charles... must decide.\" Charles begged \"one favour... a decided answer, yes or no.\" This reply was sent post-haste early on the morning of 1 September and Charles went shooting. About 10 o'clock he received word from his uncle that they should go to The Mount at once. When they arrived a few hours later, Charles' father had decided that he would give \"all the assistance in my power\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087723", "title": "Herbert Jamison", "text": "Herbert Jamison\n\nHerbert Brotherson Jamison (September 17, 1875 – June 22, 1938) was an American sprinter who won a silver medal in the 400 m at the 1896 Summer Olympics. His favorite event, 200 m, was not yet part of the Olympics.\n\nIn 1897 Jamison graduated from Princeton University and joined the family business in agriculture. Seven years later he founded an insurance agency in his native Peoria, which he ran until his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087724", "title": "Firefly (DC Comics)", "text": "Firefly (DC Comics)\n\nFirefly (Garfield Lynns) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by France Herron and Dick Sprang, he made his debut in \"Detective Comics\" #184 (June 1952). Initially portrayed as a criminal who utilized lighting effects to commit robberies, Firefly was later re-imagined as a sociopathic pyromaniac with an obsessive compulsion to start fires following \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" reboot of the DC Universe in the 1980s. This darker depiction of the character has since endured as one of the superhero Batman's most recurring enemies and belongs to the collective of adversaries that make up his central rogues gallery.\n\nFirefly has been featured in various forms of media, including several shows set within the DC animated universe, \"The Batman\" cartoon series, The CW's live-action television series \"Arrow\", and the \"\" video game franchise.\n\nGarfield Lynns was a down-and-out film special effects expert whose plan to rob a theater by faking a fire was foiled by Batman and Robin. As Lynns fled the scene, Batman mistook a distant firefly for Lynns' lit cigarette and gave chase in the wrong direction. Lynns saw this as a sign of fate and became the Firefly, a costumed criminal who utilized various lighting effects and optical illusions during heists.\n\nFollowing \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" reboot of the DC Universe, Firefly was re-imagined as a much darker and more violent character.\n\nAfter being taken away from their abusive parents, Garfield Lynns and his sister, Amanda, grew up at the St. Evangelina Home for Orphans. Unlike his relatively normal sister, Garfield was a problematic child whom nobody wanted to adopt. As an adult, Lynns became a pyrotechnics and special effects expert in the film industry, but eventually fell victim to Gotham City's severe poverty issues and turned to a life of crime as a result. While he initially only committed arson during his robberies as a hobby, Lynns' compulsion to start fires soon turned into a pyromaniacal obsession as a result of his abusive and troubled childhood; he believed that he could see visions in the flames he created.\n\nLynns then becomes a professional arsonist known as the \"Firefly\", and allies himself with fellow supervillain Killer Moth in an attempt to kill Batman and Robin. Their alliance falls apart, however, when Killer Moth realizes the full extent of Firefly's madness and feared for his own well-being. The two villains are then taken into custody. During the \"\" storyline, Firefly escapes from Arkham Asylum and attempts to burn all of the places that he lacked the privilege to go to as a child. After successfully destroying a pier and a theater, Firefly is stopped by Batman as he tries to scorch the Gotham Zoo. In his next attempt to burn Gotham to the ground, Firefly is horribly scarred when an uncontrollable fire that he starts at a chemical factory causes it to explode; over 90 percent of his body is burned, so he designs a fireproof battle suit to protect himself from his own flames from this point on.\n\nDuring the \"No Man's Land\" story arc, Firefly is one of the inmates at Blackgate Penitentiary when it is taken over by Lock-Up. When Nightwing is captured after trying to retake the prison from Lock-Up, Firefly attempts to kill him and wear his skin over his burned body.\n\nDuring the \"DC One Million\" crisis, Firefly nearly burns down Gotham while infected with the Hourman virus, requiring Nightwing and Robin to work with the future Batman to stop him.\n\nFirefly makes a short appearance in the Justice League of America story arc \"Crisis of Conscience\" fighting Catwoman in Gotham City over a diamond before Batman arrives. Although an epic battle between the Secret Society and the Justice League ensues, Firefly is knocked unconscious and remains that way during the entire battle. He makes another short appearance in the 2005 miniseries \"Villains United\" when the Secret Six attempts to escape the Society's grasp.\n\nFirefly is among the numerous heroes and villains apparently murdered by the OMACs in the pages of DC's \"The OMAC Project\", although he later appears alive in \"Villains United: Infinite Crisis Special\" and \"Gotham Underground\".\n\nFirefly appears with Mr. Freeze facing Batman (though Firefly is wearing the same uniform as the Firefly design of \"The Batman\"). He and Mr. Freeze are again shown as having worked together a month after the events of the Crisis, Batman working with the currently-redeemed Harvey Dent to take them down before he takes his year of absence while leaving Dent to guard Gotham.\n\nFollowing the \"Final Crisis\", Firefly was with Cheetah's Secret Society of Super Villains at the time when Genocide was created. He was defeated by Wonder Woman alongside Shrapnel, Phobia, and T. O. Morrow.\n\nFirefly is recruited by a new Black Mask to be a part of a group of villains that are aiming to take over Gotham, but he follows his own agenda. Inspired by the chemicals that Black Mask used on him, Firefly inserts chips into Gothamites in order to make them burn. Not long after the identity of the new Black Mask was revealed to be Jeremiah Arkham, Firefly was arrested and put into Arkham Asylum. A short time later Firefly is broken out of Arkham Asylum by Dick Grayson, who has assumed the mantle of Batman, to assist him in gaining access to Sebastian Blackspell's closest friends. Batman (Dick) desires to know what Blackspell's true intentions are in regards to killing the Riddler.\n\nFollowing \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" reboot of the DC Universe, Firefly's depiction was drastically altered from that of a mere criminal who utilized colored lights and optical illusions to that of a violent sociopath with intense pyromania. Even prior to becoming Firefly, Garfield Lynns was already an expert in pyrotechnics and explosives with a thorough knowledge of flammable agents. After he is horribly scarred by a blaze at a chemical factory, Lynns mechanically engineered an insulated, fireproof battle suit to protect himself. This specialized outfit is equipped with an extensive arsenal of fire-creating weapons, including a military-grade flamethrower, various incendiary devices (such as grenades, napalm, and smoke bombs), and a sword-like blade of superheated plasma for close-ranged hand-to-hand combat. A high-tech, winged jet pack is also mounted on the back of the armor to allow for high-speed flight.\n\nFirefly appears in the \"Smallville Season Eleven\" comic. A yellow ring of Parallax finds its way to Lynns and attaches itself to him, transforming him into a powerful Yellow Lantern. However, Firefly's ring is ultimately confiscated by Batman and he is returned to Arkham Asylum.\n\nIn the alternate reality created during \"Flashpoint\", Firefly is seen as a member of Canterbury Cricket's Ambush Bugs, and is killed in battle against the Amazons.\n\nFirefly appears as one of the villains attacking Batman and Wonder Woman's wedding, during which Lynns battles the Martian Manhunter.\n\nFirefly is introduced to the DC Extended Universe via the tie-in prequel comic to the 2016 film \"\". When Lynns attempts to bomb a warehouse full of valuables, the vigilante Batman appears and subdues him before leaving him to be apprehended by the police. Lex Luthor ominously watches all this unfold through security footage.\n\nA man named Ted Carson becomes the second character to adopt the identity of the \"Firefly\". Created by Bill Finger and Sheldon Moldoff, he first appeared in \"Batman\" #126. Carson was an ostentatiously wealthy gold mine heir who gambled his family fortune away and subsequently turned to a life of crime as the second Firefly. Carson then goes on a robbery spree before being apprehended by Batman and Batwoman.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" reboot, Carson is a former high school teacher who tries to incinerate everything that will separate him from his ex-girlfriend Cindy Cooke, though he is ultimately defeated by Nightwing and Batgirl.\n\nIn the DC Rebirth relaunch, Ted Carson and Killer Moth attempt to kill Batman to collect Two-Face's multi-million dollar bounty. Carson is later seen as one of the many villains that Bane pummels in his quest to reach Batman at Arkham Asylum. During the gang war between the Joker and the Riddler, Carson is shown siding with the Riddler's faction.\n\nTed Carson's protégé Bridgit Pike (a character introduced in the TV series \"Gotham\") adopts the identity of \"Lady Firefly\". She first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #988 (September 2018), and was created by James Robinson and Stephen Segovia. She and Carson are hired by Kobra to kill Batman while he investigates a murder.\n\n\n\n\n\nGarfield Lynns / Firefly is featured in the \"\" video game series, where he is voiced by Crispin Freeman. This version is depicted as an unhinged and obsessive pyromaniac with burns on 90 percent of his body.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087727", "title": "Vienna sausage", "text": "Vienna sausage\n\nA Vienna sausage, Frankfurter or informally Frank (; Austrian German: \"Frankfurter Würstel\" or \"Würstl\"; Swiss German \"Wienerli\"; Swabian: \"Wienerle\" or \"Saitenwurst\") is a thin parboiled sausage traditionally made of pork and beef in a casing of sheep's intestine, then given a low temperature smoking. The word \"Wiener\" is German for \"Viennese\". In Austria the term \"Wiener\" is uncommon for this food item, which instead is usually called Frankfurter Würstl. \n\nThe ingredients, preparation, size and taste can vary widely by both manufacturer and region of sale.\n\nIn some European countries, cooked and often smoked wiener sausages bought fresh from supermarkets, delicatessens and butcher shops may be called by a name (such as in German or French) which translates in English as \"Vienna sausage.\" Traditionally, they are made from spiced ham. Wieners sold as Vienna sausage in Europe have a taste and texture very much like North American \"hot dogs\" or \"frankfurters\", but are usually longer and somewhat thinner, with a very light, edible casing. European Vienna sausage served hot in a long bun with condiments is often called a \"hot dog\", referring not to the wiener itself, but to the long sandwich as a whole.\n\nAfter having been brought to North America by European immigrants, \"Vienna sausage\" came to mean only smaller and much shorter smoked and canned wieners, rather than link sausage, beginning about 1903. However, they have no federal standard of identity. North American vienna sausages are made similarly to pork wieners, finely ground to a paste consistency and mixed with salt and various spices, such as cloves, coriander, nutmeg, garlic powder, onion powder and finely ground, dry red pepper. The sausages are stuffed into a long casing, sometimes smoked, always thoroughly cooked and beginning in the 1950s, the casings were removed. The sausages are then cut into short segments for canning and further cooking. They are available plain (in a gelatin, similar to aspic) or with a variety of flavorings, such as smoke, mustard, chili or barbecue sauces. Consumption of Vienna sausages peaked in the 1940s to 1970s, but has declined since then.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087733", "title": "Thomas Vanek", "text": "Thomas Vanek\n\nThomas Vanek (born 19 January 1984) is an Austrian former professional ice hockey left winger. He played fourteen years in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Buffalo Sabres, New York Islanders, Montreal Canadiens, Minnesota Wild, Detroit Red Wings, Florida Panthers, Vancouver Canucks and Columbus Blue Jackets. Vanek was drafted by the Sabres fifth overall in the 2003 NHL Entry Draft, making him the highest-drafted Austrian in NHL history.\n\nVanek was born in Baden bei Wien, Austria, to Slovak mother Jarmila and Czech father Zdeněk, who emigrated from the Czechoslovakia to Austria in 1982. He grew up in Zell am See (Salzburg) and in Graz (Styria), where his father played professional ice hockey.\n\nAs a youth, he played in the 1997 and 1998 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournaments with a team from Austria. In 1998, at the age of 14, he moved to Canada.\n\nAfter playing junior hockey for the Sioux Falls Stampede of the United States Hockey League (USHL), Vanek joined the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers, leading the team in goals (31), assists (31) and points (62) in the 2002–03 season. In part due to his prolific scoring touch, the Golden Gophers won the 2003 NCAA National Championship. Vanek was named MVP of the Frozen Four tournament, scoring the game-winning goals in both the semifinal against Michigan in overtime and in the final against New Hampshire. He was also named Minnesota's team MVP for 2003, becoming the first freshman to receive the honor. He scored the most points by a Golden Gopher freshman in 2003 since Aaron Broten who scored 72 total points in 1979–80. He was the first freshman to lead the team in scoring since Mike Antonovich in 1969–70. His 31 goals also led all NCAA freshmen in goal scoring, and was fourth in the entire country. He was also the 2003 WCHA Rookie of the Year, the third Golden Gopher to win the award.\n\nVanek was a member of the Austrian national team in the 2004 IIHF World Championships, where he collected seven points in six games (two goals and five assists). Vanek led the Golden Gophers in goals (26) and points (51) for the second-straight season and finished fifth in points among Division I leaders with 51. Vanek was the Twin Cities Best College Athlete for 2004.\n\nVanek spent 2004–05 with the Sabres' American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate, the Rochester Americans, recording 68 points in 74 games and helped Rochester to the best record in the AHL. Vanek finished second on the team in points, 11 points behind Chris Taylor, but led the team in goals with 42 and in power play goals with 25. He finished second among rookies in points and led all rookies in goals scored, the latter of which was second in the league among all players.\n\nVanek signed a three-year deal with Buffalo on 3 September 2004, and began playing for the Sabres in 2005–06 after a season with their AHL affiliate. He had a promising rookie season with 25 goals and 48 points in 81 games for the Sabres. His performance tailed off in the playoffs, managing two goals in ten games.\n\nVanek recorded his best statistical season, the following year in 2006–07. He played in all 82 regular season games for the Sabres, scoring 43 goals, tied for fifth in the league, and 41 assists. He also finished an NHL best +47, earning the NHL Plus-Minus Award. Upon the expiration of his entry-level contract during the 2007 off-season, Vanek signed a seven-year, $50 million offer sheet from the Edmonton Oilers. The Sabres, having lost Chris Drury and Daniel Brière as free agents that off-season, immediately matched the offer sheet, thus keeping Vanek under contract until at least the end of the 2013–14 season. Despite his lucrative new contract, Vanek's production dipped to 64 points in 2007–08.\nIn the midst of a more productive year, however, Vanek was named to his first NHL All-Star Game in 2009 in Montreal. He helped the East to a 12–11 shootout victory over the West. Earlier in the season, on 13 December 2008, Vanek helped the Sabres reach a milestone by scoring the 10,000th goal in franchise history. Following the All-Star Game, on 4 February 2009, Vanek made NHL history by becoming only the second player to score four consecutive natural hat-trick. He recorded his fourth natural hat trick, and fifth overall, in a 5–0 win over the Toronto Maple Leafs in HSBC Arena. It was also Vanek's fourth consecutive natural hat-trick, matching an NHL record set by Cy Denneny between 1923 and 1924 with the old Ottawa Senators. Later that week, on 7 February, Vanek took a slapshot from Anton Volchenkov of the Ottawa Senators, fracturing his jaw. He underwent surgery the next day and was announced to be out of the lineup for three-to-four weeks. At the time of the injury, Vanek was third in the league goal-scoring. At the end of the 2008–09 season, Vanek would score a total of 40 goals with 24 assists, totaling 64 points. He led the NHL in powerplay goals with 20.\n\nThe 2009–10 season also started on a sour note, as Vanek sustained an upper body injury after scoring two goals in a 6–2 win against the Detroit Red Wings on 13 October. Vanek had scored three goals in four games up to that point. On 10 April 2010, he scored four goals against Ottawa (one on a penalty shot) in the first two periods.\n\nOn 1 October 2012, Vanek signed with the Graz 99ers in Austria to play for them until 4 November 2012, during the 2012–13 NHL lockout.\n\nOn 1 October 2013, the Buffalo Sabres names Vanek and Steve Ott captains; Vanek would wear the \"C\" for home games while Ott would wear the \"C\" for road games.\n\nOn 27 October 2013, Vanek was traded to the New York Islanders for Matt Moulson, a conditional 2014 first-round draft pick and a 2015 second-round draft pick. He immediately joined the team's top line alongside John Tavares and Kyle Okposo, which Vanek said later was the best line he ever played on. On 4 February 2014, Vanek confirmed that he had turned down a contract extension offer from the Islanders. The contract was reportedly for seven years and $50 million, with Vanek stating that the Islanders move to Barclays Center was one of his primary reasons for leaving the team.\n\nOn 5 March 2014, Vanek was dealt to the Montreal Canadiens in exchange for Sebastian Collberg and a second-round draft pick. On 19 March 2014, he scored his first three goals for the team – a hat trick in a game against the Colorado Avalanche that they went on to win 6–3. However, Vanek was noted for his lackluster performance during the 2014 Stanley Cup playoffs, including scoring just five even-strength points over 17 games. In late June, Canadiens General Manager Marc Bergevin announced that the team would not be re-signing Vanek, allowing him to become an unrestricted free agent.\n\nOn 1 July 2014, Vanek signed a three-year, $19.5 million contract with the Minnesota Wild with a no-trade clause, turning down a three-year, $21 million offer to return to the Islanders. The signing reunited Vanek with former Sabres teammate Jason Pominville.\n\nWith the Wild up against the salary cap and Vanek having endured an unsuccessful stint with the Wild, Vanek's last year of his contract was bought-out by Minnesota on 24 June 2016.\n\nOn 1 July 2016, Vanek signed a one-year, $2.6 million contract with the Detroit Red Wings reuniting him with Co-Captain Steve Ott when a member with the Sabres.\n\nWith the Panthers looking to make a playoff push, on 1 March 2017, Vanek was traded to the Florida Panthers in exchange for Dylan McIlrath and a conditional third-round pick in the 2017 NHL Entry Draft. Vanek recorded 10 points in 20 games with Florida, but ultimately the Panthers did not qualify for the post-season.\n\nOn 1 September 2017 Vanek signed a one-year, $2 million contract with the Vancouver Canucks. On 20 December 2017, Vanek recorded his 10th career hat trick in a loss to the Montreal Canadiens. On 26 February 2018, the day of the trade deadline, Vanek was traded to the Columbus Blue Jackets in exchange for Jussi Jokinen and Tyler Motte. He recorded his 11th career hat trick in the same season on 27 March 2018, in a game against the Edmonton Oilers.\n\nOn 1 July 2018, Vanek signed a one-year, $3 million contract for a second stint with the Red Wings.\n\nOn 25 February 2020, Vanek announced his retirement.\n\nVanek and his wife Ashley have three sons. They live in Stillwater, Minnesota.\n\nOn 21 July 2014, Vanek's name was listed in records seized from The Marina Restaurant & Bar, a Rochester, New York, facility suspected of running an illegal gambling ring. For his part, Vanek denied all wrongdoing, cooperated with authorities and was not charged with any crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087735", "title": "Rebecca Gilman", "text": "Rebecca Gilman\n\nRebecca Gilman (born 1965 in Birmingham, Alabama) is an American playwright.\n\nShe attended Middlebury College, graduated from Birmingham-Southern College, and earned a Master of Fine Arts from the Iowa Playwrights Workshop at the University of Iowa.\n\nGilman was the first American playwright to win an \"Evening Standard\" Award. She serves on the advisory board for Chicago Dramatists. She has received the 2008 Harper Lee Award.\n\nHer most widely known works are \"Spinning Into Butter\", a play that addresses political correctness and racial identity, and \"Boy Gets Girl\", which was included in \"Time Magazine\"'s List of the Best Plays and Musicals of the Decade.\n\nA production of her adaptation of \"The Heart is a Lonely Hunter\" was the occasion of a protest by actors who felt only a deaf person should play a deaf person on stage. She currently teaches at Texas Tech University's\nSchool of Theatre and Dance as Head of Playwriting.\n\nWhen asked about her influences, she remarked that \"I'm a big fan of Wallace Shawn. He's incredibly smart and the only writer who writes about intellectuals in a complicated and even contradictory way. He's really funny, too. I also like Donald Margulies, Kenneth Lonergan, and Conor McPherson...Caryl Churchill, Kia Corthron, and a Chicago playwright, Jamie Pachino.\"\n\n\nRebecca Gilman was born in 1965 in Trussville, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham. She currently resides in Chicago. Her plays deal with contemporary societal issues.\n\nGilman received the Scott McPherson Award for her play \"The Glory of Living\". This award is a commission given by the Goodman Theatre in memory of the late playwright Scott McPherson. \"The Glory of Living\" (2001) also earned her an M. Elizabeth Osborn Award, an After Dark Award, a Jeff Citation, the George Devine Award, and the \"Evening Standard\" Award for Most Promising Playwright . \"The Glory of Living\" earned her a finalist nomination for the Pulitzer Prize.\n\nGilman received the Roger L. Stevens Award from the Kennedy Center Fund for New American Plays as well as a Jeff Award for \"Spinning into Butter\". According to Chris Jones, this play made her \"One of America's most talked-about and sought-after playwrights.\"\n\nShe has also been awarded Illinois Arts Council playwriting fellowship.\n\nRebecca Gilman is an artistic associate at the Goodman Theatre and an associate professor of playwriting and screenwriting at Northwestern University. She also serves on the board of the Dramatists Guild of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087739", "title": "Frantz Reichel", "text": "Frantz Reichel\n\nFrançois Étienne \"Frantz\" Reichel (16 March 1871 – 21 March 1932) was a French sports administrator, athlete and journalist. He competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens as a runner and at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris as a rugby union player. He co-founded the Association Internationale de la Presse Sportive (AIPS), and served as its first president in 1924–1932.\n\nReichel's father was the treasurer of the French Union of Athletic Sports Societies (USFSA) and the chief press officer at the 1894 Sorbonne Congress, where the Olympic Movement was founded. He later succeeded Pierre de Coubertin as secretary-general of the USFSA. \n\nHis son was a talented runner, who won French titles in the 110 m hurdles (1891), cross country (1890 and 1891) and 1 km walking. In 1892 he set a national record in one-hour run at 16.611 km. At the 1896 Olympics he failed to reach the 400 m final. It is unclear whether he placed second or third in the preliminary round of the 110 metres hurdles. He did not run in the final anyway, as he was busy assisting Albin Lermusiaux in conducting the marathon race. At those Games, besides running, Reichel also worked as a journalist for the French magazine \"Vélo\".\n\nAt the 1900 Olympics Reichel competed in rugby and won a gold medal with the French team. He was later selected as the captain of the French rugby team in an international match in 1906. Reichel was a highly respected rugby player in France, and after his death a championship for young rugby players, Championnat Reichel, was established in his honour.\n\nLater in life Reichel became a sports administrator and the secretary general of the USFSA. He also founded the French Boxing Federation and the Fédération Internationale de Hockey (FIH), serving as its president from 1926 to 1932. He was also a member of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee and headed the organizing committee of the 1924 Paris Olympics. \n\nReichel remained active as a journalist, and became the first European journalist to fly an airplane, assisting Wilbur Wright in his distance record for flights with a passenger. He co-founded the Association Internationale de la Presse Sportive (International Sports Press Association) and served as its first president from 1924 until his death in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "2087746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087746", "title": "Balzers", "text": "Balzers\n\nBalzers is a village located in southern Liechtenstein. As of 2019, the village had a total population of 4,642. The main part of the village is situated along the east bank of the Rhine.\n\nHistorically, the present-day form of the village consists of two different villages, the actual Balzers in the east and Mäls in the west. Not visible to the unaware, the division still persists in the local village culture, where it manifests in half-serious local competition. Some customs, such as the \"Funken\" a springtime ritual with pre-Christian origins involving a huge bonfire, are still being practised by each separately. The two parts were first mentioned in 842 as \"Palazole\".\n\nBalzers is the home of the Burg Gutenberg, which was built in the 12th-century and located on a rocky hill in the centre of the village.\n\nThere is no airport in Liechtenstein, but Balzers has a small heliport available for charter flights (). The heliport has no border-control facilities; therefore, the only flights permitted to use it are those heading to/from elsewhere within the Schengen Area.\n\nThe headquarters of the major thin film coating, solar and vacuum technology company Oerlikon Balzers is located in Balzers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087762", "title": "Hatch Memorial Shell", "text": "Hatch Memorial Shell\n\nThe Edward A. Hatch Memorial Shell (commonly referred to as the \"Hatch Shell\") is an outdoor concert venue on the Charles River Esplanade in the Back Bay section of Boston, Massachusetts. Built in 1939-40, it is one of the city's prominent examples of Art Deco architecture.\n\nThe Hatch Shell is best known for hosting the Boston Pops Orchestra annually for the Boston Fourth of July celebration, but is also used for free concerts most weekends and many weeknights during the summer months. The grass pavilion in front of the stage has no permanent seating. There is a memorial nearby to Arthur Fiedler, first permanent conductor of the Pops.\n\nThe Hatch Shell is named in memory of Edward Hatch, the descendant of a family with deep roots in colonial Massachusetts and a fortune made in foreign trade. Hatch died in 1910, and his sister Maria died without issue in 1926, leaving a substantial portion of her estate in a trust which was to be used for \"a park, playground or memorial\" in or near Boston that would be \"open to the public at such times and under such circumstances as may from time to time best minister to the public need for a beauty spot.\" The executor of Maria Hatch's estate died before the terms of the trust could be executed, and it remained undiscovered until 1936, when Massachusetts Attorney General Paul A. Dever discovered it and instituted probate action to complete its terms. New trustees, selected by the court, determined that a permanent concert shell on the Charles River Esplanade would satisfy the terms of the trust.\n\nThe original, wooden shell was built in 1928 as a temporary venue for the Pops with expectations of construction of a permanent structure in the near future. It was first used for a concert on July 4, 1929, with Arthur Fiedler conducting the Boston Pops Orchestra. A second, temporary shell, made of metal, was built in 1934.\n\nThe permanent shell was designed by architect Richard J. Shaw, and was dedicated on July 2, 1940. In preparation for its 50th anniversary in 1991, it underwent significant renovation and repair along with modernization of its acoustics by Boston architecture firm Finegold Alexander. Bostonian Howard Brickman, a master craftsman specializing in wood floors, re-created the intricate interior paneling of the shell by hand.\n\nAn bronze statue of George S. Patton, by James Earle Fraser, commemorates the general's June 7, 1945 address at the site before a crowd of 20,000 persons.\n\nUses of the Hatch Shell include concerts, movie showings and speeches, and as a meeting place for large events, such as AIDS Walk Boston and the Larry Kessler 5K Run. The grass pavilion is used for picnics, casual sports and sunbathing, in a manner typical of urban parks.\n\nThe Hatch Shell underwent a $2.4 million renovation in 2018, the first since 1989. The exterior panels of the shell were replaced, which required a laser scan of the shell and fabrication of 673 separate panels in 93 different shapes.\n\nThe Hatch Shell is a wood frame structure with a semicircular arched opening that is high and wide. It is fronted by a stone platform with stairs that extend the structure's width to . On the front of this platform are engraved the names of famous (at least through the period of its construction) composers. The exterior of the shell is finished in terrazzo tile, and the interior is finished in wood. The interior floor consists of stepped tiers in semicircular form. The outside of the shell is ringed by a single-story flat-roof structure housing dressing rooms and storage facilities for performers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087769", "title": "Urdd Gobaith Cymru", "text": "Urdd Gobaith Cymru\n\nUrdd Gobaith Cymru () (known as the Urdd) is a voluntary youth organization, with over 55,000 members aged between 8 and 25 years old. It provides opportunities for children and young people to take part in a range of experiences through the medium of Welsh.\n\nUrdd Gobaith Cymru also has 5 residential centres for children and young people across Wales. \n\nThe main aim is to ensure that all young people in Wales are given the opportunity, through the medium of Welsh, to play a constructive role in the community, developing personal and social skills'. Up till 2019, 4 million children and young people have engaged with the Urdd in one form or another.\n\nThe Urdd National Eisteddfod (Welsh: \"Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Urdd Gobaith Cymru\" or \"Eisteddfod Genedlaethol yr Urdd\") is an annual Welsh-language youth festival of literature, music and performing arts organised by Urdd Gobaith Cymru. Arguably Europe's largest youth festival, it is usually held during the last week of May, coinciding with schools' half term holiday. \n\nUrdd Gobaith Cymru was established by Sir Ifan ab Owen Edwards in 1922. His aim was to protect the Welsh language in a world where the English language dominated every aspect of life outside the home. In an issue of the magazine \"‘Cymru’r Plant’\" in 1922 Sir Ifan said, \"These days, in many villages, and in most towns in Wales, children play and read in English. They forget that they are Welsh.\"\n\nHe appealed to the children of Wales to join a new organization that offered opportunities through the medium of Welsh, and as a result, Urdd Gobaith Cymru was established.\n\nNearly a century later, Urdd Gobaith Cymru, the main youth organization in Wales, has over 55,000 members, belonging to over 900 branches who take part in a wide range of activities. The work is carried out with the help of 260 staff and 10,000 volunteers. The Chief Executive appointed in 2015 to take the movement forward to the 2022 centenary left in 2017 after Trustees took action following the expression of a lack of faith in her ability by staff. The current Chief Executive of Urdd Gobaith Cymru is Sian Lewis.\n\nThe Urdd National Eisteddfod (Welsh: \"Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Urdd Gobaith Cymru\" or \"Eisteddfod Genedlaethol yr Urdd\") is an annual Welsh-language youth festival of literature, music and performing arts organised by Urdd Gobaith Cymru. Arguably Europe's largest youth festival, it is usually held during the last week of May, coinciding with schools' half term holiday. Locations alternate between north and south Wales.\n\nThe Eisteddfod consists of competitive singing, recitation, art, composition, dance and instrumental events for contestants aged between 7 and 24 years. Regional qualifying heats are held in advance around Wales, as occurs for the National Eisteddfod.\n\nIn 2019, the Eisteddfod yr Urdd was held in Cardiff Bay. In 2020, it was planned to be held in Denbigh but was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nThe Urdd's Sports Department hosts a wide range of community sports clubs and national sporting events for children and young people through the medium of Welsh. In 2019 boys were banned at short notice from participating in netball at the Urdd National Sports Festival.\n\nThe Sports Department, supported by Sport Wales, now employs 20 staff and trains over 1,000 volunteers annually. This has enabled the organisation to offer regular activities for children and young people, with 150 sports clubs held weekly across the country, and over 11,000 children attending.\n\nOver 47,000 residents visit the Urdd Camps annually. In 2018, over 2 million young people have attending one or more of the Urdd residential Centres. The aim of the centres is to create spaces that offer opportunities for children, young people and adults to live, teach and socialize in a safe and welcoming Welsh environment. In 2019 £5.5 million was alocated to Glan-Llyn and Llangrannog by the Welsh Government to develop the centres.\n\nThe Urdd offers residential experiences through its 5 residential centres:\n\nEvery year since 1922, the children and young people of Wales have written and sent a Message of Peace and Goodwill to the children and young people of the world on Goodwill Day, 18 May.\n\nSince 1955, Urdd Gobaith Cymru has been responsible for arranging for the message to be written and shared each year\n\n"}
{"id": "2087772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087772", "title": "Cando, Spain", "text": "Cando, Spain\n\nCando (parish of San Tirso) is a village in northwestern Spain, in Outes, province of A Coruña, and the region of Galicia, with a population of around 1000.\n\nIt was the location of the observation of a fireball in early 1994, and the subsequent discovery of an explosion site (crater), which has been interpreted by some as being related to UFO activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087778", "title": "Emirdağ", "text": "Emirdağ\n\nEmirdağ is a town and district of Afyonkarahisar Province in Turkey, between the city of Afyon and Eskişehir. The district covers an area of 2,009 km², and the population (2014) is 38,269 of which 19,093 live in the town of Emirdağ itself. The mayor is Cengiz Pala (AKP).\n\nThe Emir Mountains rise steeply behind the town. The region is vulnerable to earthquakes. The weather is very cold in winter.\n\nDuring the Hellenistic era the name of Emirdağ was Amorion. () After the Arab conquests of Anatolia the city became known as Ammūriye by Arab-Islamic sources. The Ottomans called the settlement Hergen Kale, which refers to the old city outside the town. After 17th century, the city was named as Muslucalı (Which means \"\"From Mosul\"\") due to migrations of Turkmens from Mosul and Rakka. From 1867 until the foundation of the Turkish Republic, the town was named Azîziyye in honour of Sultan Abdülâziz. After the Turkish war of independence at 1932 the name \"\"Emirdağ\"\" was restored by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk which derives from Seljuk commander Emir Ahmed Mengücek who defeated the Byzantines by the Battle of Bolybotum and rested by the mountain range near the area during the battle, therefore the mountain was named as \"\"Emirdağ\"\".\n\n\"Emir\" means \"High officer\" and \"dağ\" means \"mountain\".\n\nThe area has been occupied since at least 1437 BC by a succession of peoples beginning with Hittites, Lydians, Persians, and Greeks.\n\nThe ruins of the Hellenistic and Byzantine city of Amorium lie about 12 km east of Emirdağ. Amorium was one of the four principal Byzantine cities in Anatolia, and was the home of the Byzantine Amorian dynasty. It was conquered in 838-845 by the Abbassid Caliph Al-Mu'tasim.\n\nThe area was settled by Turkmen from 1068 onwards and particularly following the battle of nearby Bolvadin, between the Byzantines and the Seljuk Turks. Later further waves of Turkmen followed including the Dulkadirids; Yörük nomads were settled here by the Ottoman Empire.\n\nDuring the Greco-Turkish War, Emirdağ was occupied by Greek forces from 16 August 1921 till 22 September 1921.\n\nMany Turkish migrants in Belgium and the Netherlands originally came from Emirdağ and the surrounding villages, including Karacalar where there is a strong Alevi minority. People originally went abroad to work as miners in the 1950s and nowadays are typically occupied with running restaurants, cafes, and bars.\n\nThis emigration helps to explain why the population growth in Emirdağ in recent decades has been less than most Anatolian towns (the population of the town in 1960 was 10,069). It also means that in summer the district is swollen with local families returning on vacation.\n\nMany of these families have invested their savings in apartment buildings, offices and shops (and smart cars) in Emirdağ. This is still a typical Turkish country town and quite conservative; the tea-gardens are segregated into areas for families and single men. There are some basic restaurants and internet cafes. There is a jandarma training camp in Emirdağ and the army is important for the economy of the town in winter.\n\nThe local cuisine includes arabaşı, a soup with dumplings.\n\nUgur Serdar Kargın (MHP) is elected as new mayor in 2014. The council had an \"alderman for external affairs\" in 2004–2009, Metin Edeer (MHP), who has been living in Schaerbeek (Brussels) since 1978, where he runs two restaurants and presided over an association of people from Emirdağ (EYAD); he visits Emirdağ during the summer holidays.\n\nPrevious mayors:\n\nThere are 6 municipalities (\"belediye\") in the district, and 57 villages (\"köy\")\n\nThe statistics of the population of Emirdağ since 2007 according to TUIK (Türkiye İstatistik Kurumu) are as follows:\n\nAccording to Sevan Nişanyan's \"Index Anatolicus\", several villages in the area of Davulga were originally Azeri settlements: İncik, Karakuyu, Daydalı, Davulga itself, Avdan, Eşrefli, Yeniköy, Gelincik (before 1928: Vahdetiye), Yarıkkaya and Aşağıaliçomak.\n\nThe village of Yusufağa was founded in 1901 by Bulgarian emigrants.\n\nEmirdağ Folk Songs are very famous.\n\nSome Emirdağ Folk Songs: \n\nEmirdağ has long had a rich folk culture and has given us many folk songs (türkü) and singers including in the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087781", "title": "Silverado (film)", "text": "Silverado (film)\n\nSilverado is a 1985 American western film produced and directed by Lawrence Kasdan, written by Kasdan and his brother Mark. It stars Kevin Kline, Scott Glenn, Danny Glover and Kevin Costner. The supporting cast features Brian Dennehy, Rosanna Arquette, John Cleese, Jeff Goldblum and Linda Hunt.\n\nThe film was produced by Columbia Pictures and Delphi III Productions, and distributed to theatres by Columbia, and by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment for home media. The original soundtrack, with a score composed by Bruce Broughton, was released by Geffen Records. On November 12, 2005, an expanded two-disc version of the score was released by the Intrada Records label.\n\n\"Silverado\" premiered in the United States on July 9, 1985. Through an 11-week run, the film was shown at 1,190 theaters at its widest release, and grossed $32,192,570 at the box office. Generally met with positive critical reviews, it was nominated for Best Sound and Best Original Score at the 58th Academy Awards.\n\nA man named Emmett is ambushed by three assailants while he sleeps in an isolated shack, but kills them all in a brief gunfight. On a journey toward Silverado, he detours to Turley to meet his brother, Jake. Along the way, Emmett finds a man, Paden, lying in the desert, having been robbed and left to die. Paden chooses to travel with Emmett.\n\nArriving in Turley, Emmett and Paden meet Mal, another cowboy that gets run out of town by Sheriff John Langston. They find out that Jake is locked up and awaiting hanging for killing a man (in self-defense). Paden is later thrown in the same cell after he encounters and kills one of the men who robbed him. They escape the cell and, with Emmett, outrun Langston's posse with Mal's assistance. Mal is also headed for Silverado and joins the group.\n\nThey help a wagon train of settlers recover stolen money from thieves and then lead them to Silverado where the four men part ways. Emmett and Jake visit their sister, whose husband, the land agent for the area, informs them that rancher Ethan McKendrick is attempting to maintain the open range, which he will dominate with his enormous herds of cattle, by driving all lawful claimants off the land. Emmett had been imprisoned for killing McKendrick's father years earlier and learns that McKendrick hired the men who attempted to kill him at the shack after his release.\n\nMal finds his father Ezra left destitute after his home had been burned down and his land overrun by cattle. Mal's sister, Rae has gone off on her own, taking up with Calvin \"Slick\" Stanhope, a shifty gambler in league with Silverado's ruthless sheriff, Cobb.\n\nCobb, an old acquaintance of Paden's, is on McKendrick's payroll, and arranges for Paden to supervise the gambling in a saloon owned by Cobb and managed by Stella, an honest woman who despises Cobb and welcomes Paden's presence. Cobb, however, threatens Stella to prevent Paden from involving himself in McKendrick's dealings.\n\nMcKendrick's men murder Ezra, burn the land office, and kidnap Emmett's young nephew Augie. Stella knows about the threat on her life, telling Paden that she won't be the cause of suffering and asks him to assist Mal, Emmett, and Jake in setting things right. They stampede McKendrick's cattle to provide cover for a raid on his ranch, in which most of the bandits are killed and Augie is rescued. McKendrick escapes to Silverado.\n\nThe four men return to town to end the corruption. Jake is hunted by Tyree, Cobb's right hand, but Jake outsmarts and shoots him dead. Mal rescues Rae from Slick and stabs him fatally with his own knife. Emmett and McKendrick battle on horseback; Emmett drops his gun but successfully guides his horse to kick McKendrick in the head, killing him, by jumping off a ramp. Paden faces off with Cobb in a showdown in the street, and is quicker to the draw.\n\nAfter saying their goodbyes, Emmett and Jake are accompanied to the edge of town to say good-bye to their sister and her family before departing for California, their long-stated goal. Mal and his sister reunite and decide to rebuild their family's homestead. Meanwhile, Paden has found a calling as the new sheriff of Silverado.\n\nThe film was shot primarily on location at the Cook Ranch in New Mexico. In 1984, Lawrence and Mark Kasdan and crew were out scouting a remote area of New Mexico by helicopter, hoping to find the most suitable place to build the town of Silverado. The location manager appeared at the property of local natives Bill and Marian Cook. At that time they wanted to build only two to three structures, offering Cook a \"casual number\" as a location fee. \"There wasn't any great motivation for me one way or another, but I said okay. It just grew from that into a big budget movie and the \"Silverado\" set was built,\" Cook recalled. The set was appropriately dressed and filmed for towns in four different states, depending on the view from the streets - mountains or prairie or the Galisteo River.\n\nIn an interview with Trailer Addict, actor Scott Glenn related how casting profoundly influences directing. In reference to different actors working together, he mentioned how he \"really liked\" Kevin Costner, and how he thought Kevin was \"easy and comfortable\" to be around. He exclaimed, \"there is real magic going on with that performance.\" Glenn spent his time kidding around with Costner addressing him by saying, \"hey movie star!\" during that earlier stage in his career.\n\nAmong mainstream critics in the U.S., the film received mostly positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 76% based on reviews from 33 critics, with an average score of 6.73/10. The consensus reads, \"Boasting rich detail and well-told story, \"Silverado\" is a rare example of an '80s Hollywood Western done right.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average out of 100 to critics' reviews, the film received a score of 64% based on 14 reviews. \n\nCritic Janet Maslin, writing in \"The New York Times\", said of director Kasdan, \"he creates the film's most satisfying moments by communicating his own sheer enjoyment in revitalizing scenes and images that are so well-loved.\" Impressed, she exclaimed, \"\"Silverado\" is a sweeping, glorious-looking western that's at least a full generation removed from the classic films it brings to mind.\" Roger Ebert in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" called it \"sophisticated\" while remarking, \"This is a story, you will agree, that has been told before. What distinguishes Kasdan's telling of it is the style and energy he brings to the project.\" In the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Peter Stack wrote that the film \"delivers elaborate gun-fighting scenes, legions of galloping horses, stampeding cattle, a box canyon, covered wagons, tons of creaking leather and even a High Noonish duel.\" He openly mused, \"How it manages to run the gamut of cowboy movie elements without getting smart-alecky is intriguing.\" In a mixed review, Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\", said the film was \"a completely successful physical attempt at reviving the western, but its script would need a complete rewrite for it to become more than just a small step in a full-scale western revival.\" Another ambivalent review came from Jay Carr of \"The Boston Globe\". He noted that \"Silverado\" \"plays like a big-budget regurgitation of old Westerns. What keeps it going is the generosity that flows between Kasdan and his actors. It's got benevolent energies, but not the more primal kind needed to renew the standard Western images and archetypes.\" In an entirely negative critique, film critic Jay Scott of \"The Globe and Mail\" said the all too familiar \"manipulative \"Star Wars\"-style score is the only novelty on tap in \"Silverado\", which has a plot too drearily complicated and arid to summarize\". Left equally unimpressed was Dave Kehr of the \"Chicago Reader\". Commenting on director Kasdan's style, he said his \"considerable skills as a plot carpenter seem to desert him as soon as the story moves to the town of the title.\" As far as the supporting cast was concerned, he dryly noted, \"none of them assumes enough authority to carry the moral and dramatic center of the film.\" Giving \"Silverado\" 4 out of 5 stars, author Ian Freer of \"Empire\", thought the film was the \"kind of picture that makes you want to play cowboys the moment it is over.\" He exclaimed, \"Whereas many of the westerns from the ‘70s try a revisionist take on the genre, \"Silverado\" offers a wholehearted embracing of western traditions.\"\n\nThe staff at \"Variety\" reserved praise for the film stating that the real rewards of the picture lie in its \"visuals\" saying, \"rarely has the West appeared so alive, yet unlike what one carries in his mind's eye. Ida Random's production design is thoroughly convincing in detail.\" Julie Salamon writing for \"The Wall Street Journal\", voiced positive sentiment joyfully exclaiming that \"Silverado\" \"looks great and moves fast. Mr. Kasdan has packed his action well against the fearsomely long, dusty stretches of Western plain.\" Describing some pitfalls, David Sterritt of \"The Christian Science Monitor\" said, \"When pure storytelling takes over after an hour or so, the picture becomes less original and engaging.\" Sterritt however was quick to admit, \"The cinematography by John Bailey is stunning,\" but he frustratingly noted that \"Like the last movie Lawrence Kasdan gave us, \"The Big Chill,\" it's best when the carefully chosen cast throws itself into developing characters and building their relationships.\" Injecting some positive opinion, the staff at \"Total Film\" viewed \"Silverado\" as a creation of the \"Kasdan brothers' ebullient love letter to the horse operas of their youth\", while throwing in \"every Western cliché imaginable. It's not as rousing as it thinks, despite the efforts of Bruce Broughton's strident score, but looks terrific - all big skies and wide-open spaces.\"\nRichard Corliss of \"Time\" didn't find the picture to be compelling, stating how the film \"sprays the buckshot of its four or five story lines across the screen with the abandon of a drunken galoot aiming at a barn door. Though the film interrupts its chases and shootouts to let some fine actors stare meaningfully or spit out a little sagebrush wisdom, it rarely allows them to build the camaraderie that an old cowhand like Gabby Hayes exuded with no sweat.\" He ultimately came to the conclusion that \"Silverado\" \"proves it takes more than love of the western to make a good one. Maybe the dudes at K-Tell were a mite too slick for the job.\" Similarly, in an equally pessimistic tone, the staff at \"TV Guide\" described how \"Lawrence Kasdan bloats the plot with dozens of side stories that, in painfully predictable detail, show how each of our heroes has a reason for being in \"Silverado\" and why they decide to stick their necks out. Though much of the running time is devoted to these expository passages, it's all very basic and shallow.\"\nAt the 58th Academy Awards, \"Silverado\" was nominated for Best Music (Original Score), and Best Sound (Donald O. Mitchell, Rick Kline, Kevin O'Connell and David M. Ronne). In 1986, the film received a nomination for the Artios Award in the category of Best Casting for a Feature Film (Drama) by the Casting Society of America.\n\nThe film premiered in cinemas on July 9, 1985 in wide release throughout the United States. During its opening weekend, \"Silverado\" opened in 7th place, grossing $3,522,897 at 1,168 locations. The film \"Back to the Future\" came in first place during that weekend grossing $10,555,133. The film's revenue increased by 3% in its second week of release, earning $3,631,204. For that particular weekend, it moved up to 5th place screening in 1,190 theaters. \"Back to the Future\" remained in first place grossing $10,315,305 in box office revenue. During its final release week in theaters, \"Silverado\" opened in a distant 11th place with $741,840 in revenue. It went on to top out domestically at $32,192,570 in total ticket sales through an 11-week theatrical run. For 1985 as a whole, \"Silverado\" would cumulatively rank at a box office performance position of 28.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nThe film was released on RCA CED videodisc format in December 1985 and on Criterion laserdisc in August 1991. It was released on VHS video format on July 8, 1994. A collector's edition VHS featuring a remastered recording was released on June 1, 1999. The Region 1 widescreen edition was released on DVD in the United States on February 3, 2009. Special features include filmographies, the making of \"Silverado\", and subtitles in Chinese (Mandarin Traditional), English, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish, and Thai. Additionally, a two-disc Special Edition DVD was also released by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment on April 5, 2005. Special features included \"A Return to Silverado with Kevin Costner\" featurette, \"Along the Silverado Trail: A Western Historian's Commentary\", Superbit presentation, \"Top Western Shootouts\" featurette, talent files, bonus previews, an exclusive 16-page movie scrapbook, and collectible \"Silverado\" playing cards.\n\nThe widescreen hi-definition Blu-ray Disc version was released on September 8, 2009. Special features: \"A Return to Silverado with Kevin Costner\" featurette, the making of \"Silverado\", and \"Along the Silverado Trail: A Western Historians' \" commentary. A supplemental viewing option in the media format of Video on demand is available as well.\n\nThe original motion picture soundtrack for \"Silverado\" was released by Geffen Records in 1985. On November 12, 2005, an expanded two-disc version was released by the Intrada Records music label. The score was composed and conducted by Bruce Broughton and mixed by Donald O. Mitchell. Gene Feldman and Erma Levin edited the music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087784", "title": "Buck Rogers XXVC", "text": "Buck Rogers XXVC\n\nBuck Rogers XXVC (sometimes written as Buck Rogers in the 25th Century) is a game setting created by TSR, Inc. in the late 1980s. Products based on this setting include novels, graphic novels, a role-playing game (RPG), board game, and video games. The setting was active from 1988 until 1995.\n\nBuck Rogers is a fictional character created in 1928 by Philip Francis Nowlan. A Buck Rogers comic strip written by Nowlan was syndicated by John F. Dille (who may have contributed the nickname \"Buck\" to the character). Ownership of Buck Rogers and other works passed into the hands of the Dille Family Trust.\n\nIn the 1980s, John Dille's granddaughter, Lorraine Williams, was the president of TSR. In that decade, business for TSR was booming, mainly as a result of their popular RPG, Advanced Dungeons & Dragons. Lorraine Williams decided to merge Buck Rogers and D&D to make the XXVc game setting. First, a board game came out in 1988, later followed by a role-playing game in 1990. The latter was based on the Advanced Dungeons and Dragons Second Edition rules, but there are some small differences. It was a new incarnation of the Buck Rogers world created by Williams' brother, Flint Dille. Its universe was limited to the solar system, and revolved heavily around interplanetary travel and terraforming. A few dozen expansion modules were published, as well as a line of novels and graphic novels.\n\nThe company TSR owned Advanced Dungeons and Dragons at the time and had worked with SSI on a computerized version of the rules. SSI developed their \"Gold Box\" game engine for Advanced Dungeons and Dragons, so it was natural for them to use the engine for the XXVc rules.\n\nThe setting of XXVC is a possible future of the real universe that we live in. In the year 1999, the Soviet Union and the United States are involved in the \"Last Gasp War.\" This is the world's first nuclear war.\n\nThis war causes many governments of Earth to abandon conventional warfare and embrace large alliances. Three of these alliances that grow to be superpowers are the Russo-American Mercantile (\"RAM\"), the Indo-Asian Consortium (\"IAC\"), and the Euro-Bloc Faction (\"EBF\"). In the latter half of the 21st century, these three alliances jointly form the System States Alliance (\"SSA\") for the purposes of exploring and colonizing the solar system. Slowly, the SSA begins to terraform the inner planets. Mars is colonized by RAM, Luna is colonized by EBF, and Venus is controlled by IAC.\n\nThe main method of interplanetary travel from this time onward is the rocket ship. These vessels use fusion reactions to power the ship throughout its entire voyage. Rocket ships usually can range from 5 to 500 tons.\n\nIn the year 2275, RAM revolts against Earth and gains independence. Furthermore, because of Earth's dependence on the other planets for resources, RAM begins to dominate Earth. In 2310, refugees from Earth begin to colonize Mercury. In the next century, the asteroid belt and Jupiter begin to be settled. Human DNA is modified with genes from various animals, resulting in genetically modified humans commonly known as \"gennies.\" These play a role in the settlement of Venus, Mars, Jupiter and also of many asteroids and moons.\n\nIn the first half of the 25th century, certain Terrans (inhabitants of Earth) form the New Earth Organization (\"NEO\"). This society plans to rebel against the rule of RAM and restore Earth to its former glory. After the revival of Buck Rogers, NEO is strengthened by alliances with other governments and space pirates. NEO is able to repel the occupation by RAM and fend off the ensuing large-scale attack by RAM.\n\nMost of the XXVC material takes place in the time from 2430 until 2460.\n\nLike all other versions of the Buck Rogers universe, one central story is that of Anthony \"Buck\" Rogers. In this case, Buck is the pilot of an experimental spacecraft for the American government in 1999. Buck is sent into space to destroy \"MasterLink\" - a heavily defended satellite that acts as the hub of the Soviet war machine. The MasterLink satellite is primarily controlled by an eponymous artificial intelligence, but as an experimental system, it is supplemented by a Soviet cosmonaut named \"Karkov\" - who coincidentally murdered Rogers' parents years before while they were flying in a commercial jet the Soviet Union declared a spy craft.\n\nThe battle ends badly for both combatants; the Masterlink satellite is neutralized (but not destroyed), and Karkov dies from space exposure. Masterlink integrates Karkov's mind into its program before he dies. Rogers survives the battle, but his own ship has taken too much damage to make atmospheric reentry. Instead, he utilizes an experimental cryogenic system to await recovery. However, the \"Last Gasp War\" begins before a rescue can be attempted, and his preserved form is left drifting in space for the next five centuries.\n\nIn the year 2456, Rogers's spacecraft is discovered, and a number of factions race to recover it for various unrelated reasons. He is ultimately recovered by a civilian researcher who brings him out of cryogenic stasis, resurrecting the 20th century hero. Rogers, upon discovering what Earth has suffered in his absence, joins NEO, a resistance movement fighting to liberate Earth from its absentee landlord, RAM. His expertise, dedication and symbolic value ultimately prove to be the key to NEO's defeat of RAM.\n\n\n\nThese two games were developed and published by SSI for various platforms and are entirely unrelated to Sega's 1982 Buck Rogers video game Buck Rogers: Planet of Zoom.\n\nThe \"Buck Rogers Battle for the XXVth Century\" board game (TSR, Jun 1988, ) was a strategy game, designed by Jeff Grub, similar to Axis and Allies or Risk. Players maneuvered soldiers, ships, and gennies on a board representing the solar system. During the game, the planets moved, changing the relative distances of the various planets and their moons. In the advanced game, each player's leader character, based on a personage from the setting, had a unique special ability, and the gennies could be assigned special abilities based on their home planet.\n\nFollowing lackluster response, TSR decided to try again with a more conventional table-top RPG, this time based on the original 1928 Philip Francis Nowlan novel \"Armageddon, 2419 A.D.\" (Ace, Aug 1978, ) and subsequent 1929 comic strip continuity, in which resurgent tribal Americans overthrow their Red Mongol conquerors. The basic game was called the \"High Adventure Cliffhangers Buck Rogers Adventure Game\" (Sep 1993, ) and was co-designed by Jeff Grubb and Steven Schend. The \"High Adventure Cliffhangers Buck Rogers War Against The Han Campaign Supplement\" (Dec 1993, ) was designed by Steven Schend alone. Although published by TSR as a licensed Buck Rogers property, this game is unconnected with the XXVC universe.\n\n\n\nThere were 10 novels published under the XXVC banner, including three trilogies.\n"}
{"id": "2087787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087787", "title": "Montjuïc Communications Tower", "text": "Montjuïc Communications Tower\n\nThe Montjuïc Communications Tower (, ), popularly known as Torre Calatrava and Torre Telefónica, is a telecommunication tower in the Montjuïc neighborhood of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. It was designed by Santiago Calatrava, with construction taking place from 1989 to 1992. The white tower was built for Telefónica to transmit television coverage of the 1992 Summer Olympic Games in Barcelona. The tower is located in the Olympic park and represents an athlete holding the Olympic Flame.\n\nThe base is covered with trencadís, Gaudí's mosaic technique created from broken tile shards.\n\nBecause of the tower's orientation, it works also as a giant sundial, which uses the Europa Square to indicate the hour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087797", "title": "Aminata Traoré", "text": "Aminata Traoré\n\nAminata Dramane Traoré (born 1947) is a Malian author, politician, and political activist. She served as the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Mali from 1997 to 2000 and also worked as coordinator of the United Nations Development Programme. She is the current Coordinator of \"Forum pour l'autre Mali\" and Associate Coordinator of the International Network for Cultural Diversity and was elected to the board of the International Press Service in July 2005. She is a member of the scientific committee of the \"Fundacion IDEAS\", Spain's Socialist Party's think tank.\n\nTraoré is a prominent critic of globalization and the economic policies of the most developed nations. Specifically, she has voiced opposition to the Western countries' subsidization of their own cotton farmers, which leaves West African countries at a disadvantage in competing for space in Western markets. Traoré is one of the signatories, or members of the \"Group of Nineteen\", of the Porto Alegre Manifesto issued at the 2005 World Social Forum.\n\nShe defended Ahmed Sékou Touré, the long-time president of neighbouring Guinea, saying his bad reputation as a dictator and his attempts at exterminating the Fulas from the Fouta Djalon in Guinea were due to propaganda and misinformation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087804", "title": "Melnik, Bulgaria", "text": "Melnik, Bulgaria\n\nMelnik (, , \"Meleniko\") is a town in Blagoevgrad Province, Southwestern Bulgaria, in the Southwestern Pirin Mountains, about 440 m above sea level. The town is an architectural reserve and 96 of its buildings are cultural monuments. With a population of 385, it is the smallest town in Bulgaria, retaining its town status today for historical reasons. It is situated on the foothills of the Pirin mountain range and is overlooked by the Melnik Earth Pyramids.\n\nAccording to archaeological evidence, the first to settle in the area were the Thracian tribe \"Medi\" to which the famous rebel Spartacus belonged. Centuries later, the presence of the Romans left the town one of its landmarks — the Ancient Roman bridge, which is still preserved. The Slavs who later came in these parts named the settlement \"Melnik\" after the sand formations surrounding it on all sides (the Bulgarian word мел \"mel\" means \"white clay, chalk\"). Melnik became a part of the First Bulgarian Empire under the rule of Khan Presian I (836-852) and prospered greatly in the period. Melnik became the capital of an independent feudal principality ruled by Despot Alexius Slav, a descendant of the Asen dynasty, in 1209, and passed through an economic and cultural upsurge during his reign. The town continued to flourish under Tsar Ivan Asen II because of the duty-free trade with Venetian-ruled Dubrovnik.\n\nThe Ottoman conquest of the Balkans in the 14th-15th century resulted in a long period of decline, but Melnik was once again a thriving town in the 17th and 18th century, the time of the Bulgarian National Revival, due to the tobacco and wine production, with wine being exported abroad, mainly to England and Austria. In that time Melnik was also a centre of craftsmanship, particularly church decoration and woodcarving. Many Bulgarian schools and churches were built in Melnik in that period.\n\nMelnik was taken by the Imperial Russian Army during the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-1878, but was given back to the Ottoman Empire according to the Treaty of Berlin. The town was the centre of a \"kaza\" in the Sanjak of Siroz as \"Menlik\" (or , \"Meleniko\") until 1912. During the First Balkan War, Melnik was ultimately liberated and became once again part of Bulgaria. In the late 18th century, the town had 1300 houses, seventy churches and a population of some 20,000 people, but a fire largely destroyed it. Since then it has been restored and rebuilt, and still, the current population of 400 is nowhere near the one from the beginning of the 20th century, when it primarily consisted of Greeks, but also of Bulgarians, Turks, Vlachs and Romani. Melnik is the subject of Yuri Trifonov's short story \"The Smallest Town on Earth\" (1967). According to the statistics of Vasil Kanchov (\"Macedonia, Ethnography and Statistics\"), Melnik used to have 2.650 Greek Christian, 950 Turkish, 500 Bulgarian Christian, 200 Romani and 30 Vlach inhabitants in 1900.\n\nAt the end of the Second Balkan War in 1913, the Greeks left Melnik and moved to Greece by the express orders of the Greek government; the order being given when it was known that Melnik was to remain Bulgarian. According to Bulgarian claims submitted to the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, some Bulgarian shops and houses were looted by retreating Greeks. The Greek population moved primarily to Sidirokastro and fewer settled in Serres and Thessaloniki.\n\nMelnik has a Mediterranean climate with hot summers and cold winters.\n\nClimate table:\nThe unique architecture of Melnik and the nearby Rozhen Monastery (located 6 km northeast of Melnik) make it a popular tourist destination. In addition, the town has been famous for producing strong wine since at least 1346. The local wine from the varietal Broad Leave Melnik Vine was reportedly a favourite of Winston Churchill's. Lately, the area of Melnik is enjoying a revival of vine growing and wine making. Several new, modern wineries have been built and operate (Villa Melnik Winery, Sintica Winery, Orbelus, etc.), producing high quality wine from local and international varieties.\n\nInteresting architectural landmarks include the Byzantine House, one of the oldest civilian buildings in the Balkans (built probably in the 12th or 13th century as a Bulgarian fortress), the Kordopulov House (named after the merchant Manolis Kordopulou to whom it once belonged), which also has one of the largest wine cellars in Melnik, the Pashov House (1815), which houses the Historical Museum of Melnik and the Pasha's House, built by Ibrahim Bey, one of the richest beys in the region, during Ottoman rule. Some of the old churches in the town worth visiting are St Nicholas (built in the 13th century), SS Peter and Paul (1840), St Nicholas the Thaumaturge (1756) and St Anthony.\n\nThe area around Melnik is strikingly eroded, particularly the enormous area of cliff that serves as a backdrop to the town. This area, covering some 17 km² near Melnik, Kurlanovo and Rozhen, has been called the Melnik Earth Pyramids or Melnik Badlands. The hills in this area can rise up to high. The unique formations, which can resemble giant mushrooms, ancient towers, and obelisks, were formed when heavy rain eroded the sand and clay the hills are composed of.\n\n\nMelnik Ridge and its summit Melnik Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica are named for Melnik.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087807", "title": "Ray McGovern", "text": "Ray McGovern\n\nRaymond McGovern (born August 25, 1939) is a former CIA officer turned political activist. McGovern was a CIA analyst from 1963 to 1990, and in the 1980s chaired National Intelligence Estimates and prepared the President's Daily Brief. He received the Intelligence Commendation Medal at his retirement, returning it in 2006 to protest the CIA's involvement in torture. McGovern's post-retirement work includes commenting for Consortium News, RT, and Sputnik News, among other outlets, on intelligence and foreign policy issues. In 2003 he co-founded Veteran Intelligence Professionals for Sanity (VIPS).\n\nRay McGovern was born and grew up in the Bronx, New York City. With a scholarship he earned a M.A. with honours in Russian Language, Literature and History at Fordham University, and in the early 1960s served as a U.S. Army infantry intelligence officer in the analysis division on Soviet foreign policy, especially with respect to China and Indochina.\n\nMcGovern has been married to Rita Kennedy. Together they have five children and eight grandchildren.\n\nMcGovern was a CIA analyst for 27 years (April 1963 to August 1990), serving seven U.S. presidents. His CIA career began under President John F. Kennedy, and lasted through the presidency of George H. W. Bush. McGovern chaired National Intelligence Estimates and prepared the President's Daily Brief, and in the mid-1980s was a senior analyst conducting early-morning briefings one-on-one with the Vice President, the Secretaries of State and Defense, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs and the assistant to the president for national security. \n\nAt his retirement in 1990, McGovern received the CIA's Intelligence Commendation Medal. He returned the medal in 2006. \n\nAfter retiring from the CIA, McGovern became a commentator on intelligence-related issues since the late 1990s. He was heavily critical of the government's handling of the Wen Ho Lee case in 2000. In 2002 he was publicly critical of President George W. Bush's use of government intelligence in the lead-up to the war in Iraq.\n\nIn 2003, together with other former CIA employees, McGovern founded the Veteran Intelligence Professionals for Sanity (VIPS). The organization is dedicated to analyzing and criticizing the use of intelligence, specifically relating to the War in Iraq.\n\nIn the same year, McGovern confronted Donald Rumsfeld openly and live-broadcast by CNN interrogating him about his lies concerning weapons of mass destruction, a dispute later called the \"vivisection of Donald Rumsfeld\" by Keith Olbermann.\n\nIn January 2006, McGovern began speaking out on behalf of the anti-war group Not in Our Name. According to the group's press release, McGovern served symbolic \"war crimes indictments\" on the Bush White House from a \"people's tribunal.\"\n\nIn 2006, McGovern returned his Intelligence Commendation Medal in protest at the CIA's involvement in torture. He commented, corruption had run amok in intelligence circles and the president should be impeached.\n\nOn October 9, 2013, McGovern, along with three former winners, gave the Sam Adams Award for integrity in intelligence to Edward Snowden in a Moscow ceremony.\n\nIn September 2015, McGovern and 27 other members of VIPS steering group wrote a letter to the President challenging a recently published book, that claimed to rebut the report of the United States Senate Intelligence Committee on the CIA's use of torture.\n\nDuring a 2011 speech at George Washington University (GW) by then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, McGovern stood with his back turned during her remarks, blocking the view of some of the audience and media for about five minutes in \"silent protest\" of Clinton's foreign policy. McGovern refused to cooperate when asked to leave by security, which led to his arrest for disorderly conduct. The incident led to his inclusion on the State Department's \"be on the lookout\" (BOLO) list, which authorizes law enforcement to stop and question him on sight. The charges were subsequently dropped two weeks later. In 2014, McGovern's lawyer filed a lawsuit against the GW police department for allegedly using excessive force and also against the university and State Department for allegedly violating his right to peacefully protest.\n\nIn 2014, McGovern was arrested by the New York City police department at an event where former CIA director and retired Army General David Petraeus was giving a speech. McGovern said he wanted to ask Petraeus about his involvement in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but security told him he was not welcome. He claimed he had a ticket to the event, but was charged for resisting arrest and criminal trespassing.\n\nOn May 9, 2018, McGovern was one of several protesters who disrupted the Senate confirmation hearing of Gina Haspel to become CIA director. After he began yelling about waterboarding, McGovern was forcibly removed by Capitol Police and charged with disruption and resisting arrest.\n\nThe CIA knew about the flimsy evidence of a second attack in the Gulf of Tongkin incident. The CIA was ordered by a deputy director not to inform the congress, and McGeorge Bundy, by his own admission, was obliged to sign the official declaration of the LBJ administration.\n\nAccording to Ray McGovern the CIA advised LBJ strongly against the proposals of Air Force generals to bomb the Ho Chi Minh trail which the CIA knew was not suitable for block transport of weapons and movement of troops on the 160 trails into South Vietnam and not able to weaken the North Vietnamese communists' resistance.\n\nHe was highly critical of Pope John Paul II conservative stance on women's rights in church. He saw him as a repressive force. McGovern had been teaching Sunday school and earned a certificate in theology from Georgetown University. He participated in Cursillo, and was district president of Bread for the City, but by standing during mass for several weeks he protested against the teaching on sex roles and sexual ethics which to him seemed oppressive.\n\nIn a television interview with Tucker Carlson on MSNBC in 2006, McGovern said: \"I've been using the acronym O.I.L. for many—for two years now: O for oil; I for Israel; and L for logistics, logistics being the permanent—now we say \"enduring\"—military bases that the U.S. wants to keep in Iraq.\"\n\nMcGovern testified at a Democratic National Headquarters forum in 2005 that had been convened by Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) of the House Judiciary Committee on the Downing Street memo.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported in 2005 that, in his testimony, McGovern \"declared that the United States went to war in Iraq for oil, Israel and military bases craved by administration neocons so 'the United States and Israel could dominate that part of the world.'\" He said that Israel should not be considered an ally and that Bush was doing the bidding of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. 'Israel is not allowed to be brought up in polite conversation,' McGovern said. Genuine criticism of official Israeli policy is often portrayed as if it were anti-semitism: 'The last time I did this, the previous director of Central Intelligence called me anti-semitic.'\"\n\nWhen asked on TVNZ whether Julian Assange was a hero or villain, he replied \"hero,\" and has co-written an open letter of support for WikiLeaks and Assange.\n\nWhen asked whether Julian Assange was a journalist, he replied \"Yeah, actually, with all due respect, I think you should be following his example,\" to the CNN reporter.\n\nIn November 2016, he wrote to the supporters of Jill Stein: \"I am in Europe now, but voted for Jill Stein, as a matter of conscience, before departing the U.S.\" and \"I thought of my grandchildren, in deciding to cast my vote for Jill Stein, knowing that she and the Greens are hard at work trying to assure that my grandchildren will have the clean air and pure water that most of us 'grown-ups' still take for granted.\"\n\nMcGovern holds a position that the theft of the DNC emails was an inside job, and not the work of Russian agents (contrary to the findings published by the US intelligence community). In his view, the metadata in the files released by Guccifer 2.0 (whom the US intelligence community identifies as a Russian military intelligence operation) has been manipulated to show that the documents came from Russia, where in fact according to this theory they originated from a computer in the Eastern United States. McGovern subsequently released a VIPS report in support of his theory. Many of the VIPS members however, did not sign the report and expressed a view that the inside job theory itself is a disinformation campaign run by a pro-Kremlin hacker Tim Leonard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087822", "title": "Judith Rossner", "text": "Judith Rossner\n\nJudith Rossner (March 31, 1935 – August 9, 2005) was an American novelist, best known for her acclaimed best sellers \"Looking for Mr. Goodbar\" (1975) and \"August\" (1983).\n\nBorn in New York City, on March 31, 1935, Judith Louise Perelman was raised in the Bronx. Her father, Joseph Perelman, was a textile official; her mother, Dorothy Shapiro Perelman, was a public schoolteacher. Rossner wanted to be a writer, even before she could read or write, and dictated poems and stories to her \"warmly supportive\" mother. She was also encouraged by an uncle, the American-Canadian writer Charles Yale Harrison, best known for his best-selling story of World War I, \"Generals Die in Bed\" (1930).\n\nAfter graduating from Taft High School, Rossner attended the City College of New York from 1952 to 1954. She left school to marry Robert Rossner (1932–99), a teacher and writer. The couple had two children, Jean (born 1960) and Daniel (born 1965).\n\nShe was unsuccessful in selling short stories to women's magazines, but, in 1963, she did publish a book for children, \"What Kind of Feet Does a Bear Have?\" (Bobbs-Merrill), with illustrations by Irwin Rosenhouse.\n\nRossner worked as a secretary at various jobs while continuing to write. She gave up a job at \"Scientific American\" because her interest in the work interfered with her writing. She went to work instead in a real estate office (where she was \"bored out of [her] mind\" and finished her first novel, \"To the Precipice\". This story of a young woman who married her way out of poverty was published by William Morrow in 1966 to positive reviews. As Thomas Lask presciently noted in his review for \"The New York Times\", \"[Rossner] is a lady we will hear from again.\" \n\nIn 1969, Rossner published her second novel, \"Nine Months in the Life of an Old Maid\" (Dial Press), about a woman in her late 30s and her sister's unexpected pregnancy; \"The New York Times\" complimented its \"... unusual literary climate rich in universal implications.\" After its publication, Rossner and her family moved to Acworth, New Hampshire, to live on a rural commune while her husband taught at a progressive school there. In 1971, missing the city, Rossner moved back to New York with her children. In 1972, she published \"Any Minute I Can Split\" (McGraw-Hill), the story of a very pregnant woman who leaves her husband and runs away to a commune, \"a sunburst of human relationships.\" The following year, Rossner and her husband divorced. Rossner went to work as a secretary in a methadone clinic to support herself and her children.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, Rossner was a writer of \"impeccable literary credentials,\" but her three novels had not sold well. Following \"Any Minute I Can Split\", Rossner began a novel about two women who marry conjoined twins. In the meantime, Nora Ephron, who was editing a women's issue of \"Esquire\", invited Rossner to participate. Rossner, who had been recovering from a car accident, had become interested in the true story of Roseann Quinn, a 28-year-old schoolteacher who had been brutally murdered in January 1973 by a man she had reportedly picked up in a singles bar. Rossner wrote an article about Quinn, but \"Esquire\" declined to publish it, fearing legal ramifications. Rossner, who considered herself a \"lousy journalist,\" decided to write the story as a novel.\n\nOn June 2, 1975, Simon & Schuster published \"Looking for Mr. Goodbar\", the graphic story of Theresa Dunn, a damaged young woman who teaches children by day and cruises singles bars by night. After picking up a man at Mr. Goodbar, she is brutally murdered in her own bed. The book was an enormous critical and commercial success, selling some 4 million copies. It spent 36 weeks on the \"New York Times\" best seller list (three of which were at #1), becoming the fourth-highest selling novel of the year. Even \"Time\" magazine—rarely a champion of popular fiction—admitted, the book \"richly deserves its success.\"\n\nRossner sold the film rights to Paramount for $250,000; the film adaptation was released in 1977, Written and directed by Richard Brooks, it stars Diane Keaton, Tuesday Weld, William Atherton, and Richard Gere. It received very mixed reviews, but was a success at the box office, earning $22.5 million ($86.9 million in 2016 dollars), and received two Academy Award nominations. Although Rossner herself \"detested\" the film, she praised Diane Keaton's performance\n\nIn 2012, the novel was adapted as \"Goodbar\", a \"staged concept album,\" by the band Bambi and the performing arts group Waterwell. It was presented at the Public Theater in New York as part of the Under the Radar Festival.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Goodbar\", which brought her fame and wealth and subsequently allowed her to write full-time, Rossner returned to her novel of conjoined twins. Published in 1977 by Simon & Schuster, \"Attachments\" tells the story of Nadine and Dianne, friends who together marry twins Amos and Eddie. A novel not just about Siamese twins but a host of human attachments, it was only a modest best seller, but reviews were laudatory. Hailed by Jerome Charyn in \"The New York Times\" as \"a lovely, bitter, frightening book,\" it was also described as \"... an ambitious, disturbing novel by a bestselling author who might have written a trashy book, but decided instead to mess up our minds.\"\n\nIn 1979, Rossner married journalist Mordecai Persky (born 1931); the couple divorced in 1983.\n\nRossner followed \"Attachments\" with \"Emmeline\" (Simon & Schuster, 1980). Her only novel with a noncontemporary setting, the book was based on the life of a historical Maine woman, Emmeline Mosher, who at 14 is sent from her home to take a job in a textile mill in order to support her impoverished family. The book received predominately favorable notices, although Rossner was \"humiliated\" by a scathing review by Julian Moynahan in \"The New York Times\", and believed that it hurt the book's commercial prospects (conversely, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt, also in the \"Times\", gave the book high praise, stating that \"[Rossner] inspires a renewed respect for the complexities of skillful story-telling.\") \"Emmeline\" was adapted as an opera, composed by Tobias Picker with libretto by poet J.D. McClatchy. It premiered in 1996 at the Santa Fe Opera, and has been produced several times by other companies, including the New York City Opera in 1998. A recording of the original Santa Fe production was released in 1996 and a performance was aired on PBS as part of its series of \"Great Performances\" in 1997.\n\n\"August\" (Houghton Mifflin), Rossner's most successful novel following \"Goodbar\", was published in 1983 to critical acclaim. This story of 18-year-old Dawn Henley who undergoes psychoanalysis with Dr. Lulu Shinefeld, who has issues of her own, was a significant best seller, spending 19 weeks on the \"New York Times\" list. On page one of \"The New York Times Book Review\", Walter Kendrick wrote, \"I know of no other account, imagined or factual, that gives such a vivid picture of the analytic experience, on both sides of its intense, troubled, ambiguous relationship.\"\n\nAfter publication of \"August\", Rossner became seriously ill with viral encephalitis. Diagnosis had been delayed: Rossner's mother had committed suicide, and Rossner thought initially that her symptoms were psychosomatic. She suffered short-term memory loss, being unable to write for several years; the devastating illness also left her with diabetes.\n\nRossner's eighth novel, written during her long recuperation, was \"His Little Women\" (Summit Books), a modern retelling of the Louisa May Alcott classic, which was published in 1990 to mixed reviews. Some suggested that Rossner had \"lost her touch,\" neglecting to take into the account the difficulties she had encountered during its writing as she battled her illness. Although \"The New York Times\" found the novel \"energetic, ambitious and funny...,\" many agreed with the verdict of \"Publishers Weekly\": \"Laboriously contrived, rambling and lacking momentum... it will disappoint fans of the author who expect better.\"\n\nRossner's critical reputation was restored with \"Olivia (or, The Weight of the Past)\" (Crown), published in 1994. It's the story of a chef and cooking teacher and her difficult relationship with her resentful daughter. \"Publishers Weekly\", in its review, found Rossner to be \"in top form,\" stating that \"Anyone who likes to eat, cook or read about food will savor Rossner's descriptions of tasty dishes and culinary lore, conveyed with gusto and sensuous detail.\" \"The Los Angeles Times\" noted that \"Olivia\" is \"a remarkable exploration of the intimate, complex connections between food and emotion...\"\n\nRossner published her last novel, \"Perfidia\" (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday), in 1997 to extraordinary reviews. \"Perfidia\" (which means \"treachery\" in Spanish) was, like \"Looking for Mr. Goodbar\", inspired by a real-life murder. A \"chilling\" story of an abusive mother and the daughter who kills her, the novel is \"a scorching portrait of attachment and loss.\" Hailed as \"[r]elentless, suspenseful, and absolutely captivating,\" \"Perfidia\" is a novel which \"burns hypnotically.\"\n\nIn 2002, Rossner married educational publisher Stanley Leff, with whom she had begun a relationship in 1985.\n\nRossner died from complications of diabetes and leukemia on August 9, 2005, at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 70. She was survived by her husband, two children, her sister, and three grandchildren. Her papers are held at the Mugar Memorial Library of Boston University.\n\n\nAs of January 2017, all of Rossner's novels are available as ebooks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087830", "title": "Qubbet el-Hawa", "text": "Qubbet el-Hawa\n\nQubbet el-Hawa is a site on the western bank of the Nile, opposite Aswan. The name is derived from the dome of the tomb of an Islamic sheikh, but archaeologically, it is usually understood as referring to the site of the tombs of the officials lined up on artificial terraces below the summit of the Nile bank upon which the Islamic tomb stands.\n\nThe elite Tombs date mainly from the Old Kingdom and provide an insight into the burial traditions of Upper Egyptian Nome 1 during the later Old Kingdom. The tombs include the famous tomb of Harkhuf. Others belong to Sabni, Ishemai or Heqaib. There are also some later tombs, from the Middle Kingdom and New Kingdom. Among the most important tombs are those of the expedition leaders (like Harkhuf) despatched to distant lands to negotiate the acquisition of foreign goods for the Egyptian court. During the Middle Kingdom, a minor sanctuary for one (or more) of these leaders (designated with the appelation \"Heqa-jb\") was prominent in the town at Elephantine.\nExcavation work continues.\n\nThe hill is also the site of a Coptic monastery and some of the tombs were reused as a Coptic church.\n\n\nQubbet el-Hawa Project\n"}
{"id": "2087837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087837", "title": "Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep", "text": "Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep\n\nNow I lay me down to sleep is a classic children's bedtime prayer from the 18th century.\n\nPerhaps the earliest version was written by Joseph Addison in an essay appearing in \"The Spectator\" on 8 March 1711. It says: \n<poem>\nWhen I lay me down to Sleep,\nI recommend my self to his Care;\nwhen I awake, I give my self up to his Direction.\n</poem>\n\nA later version printed in \"The New England Primer\" goes: \n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my Soul to keep[;]\nIf I should die before I 'wake,\nI pray the Lord my Soul to take.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray thee, Lord, my soul to keep;\nIf I should die before I wake,\nI pray thee, Lord, my soul to take.\nIf I should live for other days,\nI pray thee, Lord, to guide my ways.\nAmen.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep, \nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nHis Love to guard me through the night,\nAnd wake me in the morning's light.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep, \nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nMay the angels watch me through the night,\nand keep me in their blessed sight.\nAmen.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nThy angels watch me through the night,\nAnd keep me safe till morning's light.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nAngels watch me through the night,\nAnd wake me with the morning light.\nAmen\n</poem>\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep; \nIf I shall die before I wake, \nI pray the Lord my soul to take,\nAll the angels watching over me.\nAmen.\n\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nGuide me safely through the night,\nAnd wake me with the morning light.\nAmen.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep:\nWatch and guard me through the night,\nUntil You bring the morning light.\nAmen.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nWhen in the morning light I wake,\nShow me the path of love to take.\nAmen.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nIf I should live another day,\nI pray the Lord to guide my way.\nAmen.\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nFor if I die before I wake,\nThat's one less test I have to take. [Parodic]\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nNow I lay me down to sleep,\nI pray the Lord my soul to keep;\nFor if I die before I wake,\nLet me thank you in advance. [Parodic]\n</poem>\n\nIt is sometimes combined with the \"Black Paternoster\", one version of which goes:\n<poem>\nMatthew, Mark, Luke and John,\nBless the bed that I lie on.\nFour corners to my bed,\nFour angels round my head;\nOne to watch and one to pray\nAnd two to bear my soul away.\n</poem>\n\nThe Doors performed a part of this prayer live in New York in 1970 as an added verse to their song Soul Kitchen.\n\nThe prayer is best known for being used in the bridge of Metallica's hit \"Enter Sandman\" from their 1991 eponymous album. \n\nAlso, Circle of Dust used edited version of this prayer in track \"Prayers of a dead man\" from their 1994 album \"Brainchild\" \n\nCoincidentally, it was used in the opening lines of rival Megadeth's 1991 song \"Go to Hell\" from the to the 1991 film Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey.\n\nIn \"Murder was the case\", a song from his debut album Doggystyle, Snoop Dogg included a verse where you can hear this prayer.\n\nAmerican singer-songwriter, Halsey, used this prayer in the opening lines of her hit single, \"Nightmare\".\n\nRapper and songwriter XXXTentacion also used the poem in his song \"before I close my eyes\", from his album \"?\".\n\nThe musical, Carrie (musical) had the poem featured in the middle of the song “Evening Prayers”, featuring the lyrics “Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I die, before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take.”\n\nIn 'A nightmare of Elm Street 4: Dream Master' A rhyme based on this prayer was used to defeat Freddy\n\nAmerican metalcore band Ice Nine Kills use another version of this rhyme in the bridge of their song \"Communion of the Cursed\", on the album \"Every Trick In The Book\"\n\nRapper Calboy also used this rhyme in the beginning of his song Envy Me\n\nAmerican rapper Kid Cudi features the latter two lines of the rhyme repeatedly in the hook to his song \"The Prayer,\" on his debut mixtape A Kid Named Cudi.\n\nThe prayer is also mentioned in Margaret Atwood’s novel The Testaments.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087897", "title": "Mount Perry, Ohio", "text": "Mount Perry, Ohio\n\nMount Perry is an unincorporated community in northern Madison Township, Perry County, Ohio, United States, northeast of Somerset. State Route 204 runs through the town. It is in the Northern Local School District, home of the Sheridan Generals.\n\nMount Perry was laid out in 1828. A post office called Mount Perry has been in operation since 1843.\n"}
{"id": "2087908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087908", "title": "Ames strain", "text": "Ames strain\n\nThe Ames strain is one of 89 known strains of the anthrax bacterium (\"Bacillus anthracis\"). It was isolated from a diseased 14-month-old Beefmaster heifer that died in Sarita, Texas in 1981. The strain was isolated at the Texas Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory and a sample was sent to the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID). Researchers at USAMRIID mistakenly believed the strain came from Ames, Iowa because the return address on the package was the USDA's National Veterinary Services Laboratories in Ames and mislabeled the specimen.\n\nThe Ames strain came to wide public attention in association with the 2001 anthrax attacks when seven letters containing it were mailed to media outlets and US Senators on September 18, 2001 and October 9, 2001. \n\nBecause of its virulence, the Ames strain is used by the United States as somewhat of a gold standard for development of vaccines and testing their effectiveness, starting in the 1980s, after work on weaponizing the Vollum 1B strain ended and all weaponized stocks were destroyed after the end of the U.S. biological warfare program in 1969. The Ames strain is a monomorphic disease, meaning it mutates slowly, if at all.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087909", "title": "Renata Adler", "text": "Renata Adler\n\nRenata Adler (born October 19, 1937) is an American author, journalist, and film critic. Adler was a staff writer-reporter for \"The New Yorker\", and in 1968–69, she served as chief film critic for \"The New York Times\". She is also a writer of fiction.\n\nAdler was born in Milan, Italy, and grew up in Danbury, Connecticut. (Her parents had fled Nazi Germany in 1933.) After earning her B.A. (\"summa cum laude\") in philosophy and German literature from Bryn Mawr College, where she studied under José Ferrater Mora, Adler studied for an M.A. in comparative literature at Harvard under I. A. Richards and Roman Jakobson. She then pursued her interest in philosophy, linguistics and structuralism at the Sorbonne, where she gained a D. d'E.S. under the tutelage of Jean Wahl and Claude Lévi-Strauss, and later received a J.D. from Yale Law School, and an honorary doctorate of laws from Georgetown University.\n\nIn 1962, Adler became a staff writer-reporter for \"The New Yorker\", and in 1968–69, she served as chief film critic for \"The New York Times\". Her film reviews were collected in her book, \"A Year in the Dark\". She then rejoined the staff of \"The New Yorker\", where she remained for four decades. Her reporting and essays for \"The New Yorker\" on politics, war, and civil rights were reprinted in \"Toward a Radical Middle\". Her introduction to that volume provided an early definition of radical centrism as a political philosophy. Her \"Letter from the Palmer House\" was included in the collection \"The Best Magazine Articles of the Seventies\".\n\nIn 1980, upon the publication of her \"New Yorker\" colleague Pauline Kael's collection \"When the Lights Go Down\", she published an 8,000-word review in \"The New York Review of Books\" that dismissed the book as \"jarringly, piece by piece, line by line, and without interruption, worthless\", arguing that Kael's post-1960s work contained \"nothing certainly of intelligence or sensibility\", and faulting her \"quirks [and] mannerisms\", including Kael's repeated use of the \"bullying\" imperative and rhetorical question. The piece, which stunned Kael and quickly became infamous in literary circles, was described by \"Time\" magazine as \"the New York literary Mafia['s] bloodiest case of assault and battery in years.\"\n\nAdler taught for three years in both the University Professors Honors Program and the Journalism Department of Boston University. She also held Trumbull and Branford Fellowships at Yale, and visiting fellowships at the Hoover Institute of Stanford University.\n\nIn 1974, Adler's short story \"Brownstone\" won first prize in the O. Henry Awards. She has published two novels, \"Speedboat\" (1976) and \"Pitch Dark\" (1983). In 2010, members of the National Book Critics Circle called for \"Speedboat\" to be returned to print, and it was re-published by New York Review Books in 2013, along with \"Pitch Dark\". Both were greeted with new critical acclaim.\n\nAdler's book, \"Reckless Disregard: Westmoreland v. CBS et al., Sharon v. Time\" (1986), an account of two libel trials and the First Amendment, was also praised: \"This book should be under the Christmas tree of every lawyer and journalist\", wrote William B. Shannon in \"The Washington Post\". The journalist Edwin M. Yoder wrote, also in \"The Washington Post\", \"\"Reckless Disregard\" is the best book about American journalism of our time.\"\n\nHer book \"Gone: The Last Days of\" The New Yorker (1999) described what she saw as the magazine's decline in the 1980s and 1990s. \"The New York Times\" called it an \"irritable little book\" and criticized Adler for claiming that famed Watergate judge John Sirica was a \"corrupt, incompetent, and dishonest figure, with a close connection to Senator Joseph McCarthy and clear ties to organized crime\", without offering any proof. Adler rebutted this accusation in a detailed article, \"A Court of No Appeal\", published in \"Harper's\" in August 2000.\n\nIn 2001, Adler published \"Canaries in the Mineshaft: Essays on Politics and the Media\", a collection of pieces from \"The New Yorker\", the \"Atlantic\", \"Harper's\", \"The New Republic\", \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"Vanity Fair\", and \"The New York Review of Books\". Some of these, on the National Guard, Biafra, Pauline Kael, soap operas, the impeachment inquiries (of both Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton), and the press, had received awards.\n\nIn 2008, Adler contributed an essay to the Corcoran Gallery of Art exhibition catalog \"Richard Avedon: Portraits of Power\". Her introduction, a memoir of her close friendship and work with the photographer, includes details of her work as editor of Avedon's photo-essay for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, \"The Family\" (1976).\n\nIn 2015, New York Review Classics published a collection of Adler's essays and reporting pieces as \"After the Tall Timber: Collected Non-Fiction\".\n\nIn 1968, Adler's essay \"Letter from the Palmer House\", which appeared in \"The New Yorker\", was included in \"The Best Magazine Articles of 1967\". In 1975, Adler's short story \"Brownstone\" received first prize in the O. Henry Awards Best Short Stories of 1974. The same story was selected for the O. Henry Collection Best Short Stories of the Seventies.\n\nAdler's novel \"Speedboat\" won the Hemingway Foundation/PEN Award, an annual award to recognize a distinguished achievement in debut fiction. In 1987, she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and in 1989 she received an honorary doctorate from the Georgetown University School of Law.\n\nHer \"Letter from Selma\", originally published in the \"New Yorker\" in 1965, was included in the Library of America compendium \"Reporting Civil Rights: American Journalism 1963–1973\" (2003), and an essay from her tenure as film critic of \"The New York Times\", on \"In Cold Blood,\" is included in the Library of America compendium \"American Movie Critics: An Anthology From the Silents Until Now\". In 2004, Adler served as a media fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. In 2005, she became a Branford fellow at Yale University; she had been a Trumbull fellow at Yale from 1967 to 1979.\n\nAdler's son Stephen (born 1986 in New York) is a filmmaker based in Los Angeles, CA.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087912", "title": "Annandale High School", "text": "Annandale High School\n\nAnnandale High School is a public high school in Annandale, Virginia, United States. It is part of the Fairfax County Public Schools system.\n\nThe school's student body has been well-recognized for its high level of racial and cultural diversity since at least the 1980s. Students derive from over 90 countries and speak more than 50 languages.\n\nThe school's diverse student body has been noted by multiple US presidential administrations. In 1998, AHS was chosen by then-President Bill Clinton's Race Initiative Advisory Board as the site and focus of round-table discussions on race and education. In 2006, Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings visited Annandale to commend the school's diverse language programs, and to announce a $188,000 grant for Fairfax County Public Schools to expand Arabic and Chinese programs. And in October 2011, AHS was visited by First Lady Michelle Obama and First Lady of South Korea Kim Yoon-ok, who spoke at a school ceremony celebrating education and the school's diverse ethnic composition.\n\nAHS is the publishing site and focus of \"The A-Blast Newspaper\", a \"Washington Post\" YJDP paper that was consistently honored as one of the top-10 high school newspapers in the country from the late 1990s to 2009 by the National Scholastic Press Association and the Columbia Scholastic Press Association.\n\nHistorically AHS has also had a competitive football program. The Atoms have won six state championships since 1965, and were ranked as the best high school football team in the country by the National Sports Service after completing an undefeated season in 1978. The team has seen district-wide and sporadic statewide success since the mid-1990s.\n\nAnnandale was chosen in 1998 as the site and focus of the Race Initiative Advisory Board's round-table discussions on race and education. The event was hosted by members of the board, including Thomas Kean and William Winter, and chaired by historian John Hope Franklin. The discussions were held as part of President Bill Clinton's One America Initiative.\nIn 2006, then-Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings visited Annandale to announce that a $188,000 grant would be given to Fairfax County Public Schools to expand Arabic and Chinese programs, as part of the National Security Language Initiative. At the time, Annandale students taking Arabic were among \"the less than 1 percent of high school students studying languages deemed critical.\"\n\nIn October 2011, AHS was again noted by the White House for its cultural diversity, hosting a visit by First Lady Michelle Obama and First Lady of South Korea Kim Yoon-ok, both of whom praised the school's widespread ethic make-up in speeches to the student body. During her address, Obama said of AHS, “This is the perfect place for you to find out who you are and what you want to become, and that’s really what education is all about.” The visits were accompanied by a ceremony featuring Grammy-nominated violinist Jennifer Koh. At the time, Madame Kim was traveling on a state visit to the US with her husband, Korean President Lee Myung-bak, who were invited as guests of honor to a White House dinner that week after Congress approved the Korea-US Free Trade Agreement. During the 2009–2010 school year, Korean and other Asian-Americans represented 22 percent of the AHS student body.\n\nIn 2011–2012, Annandale's student body was 32.28% Hispanic, 24.97% Asian, 23.97% White, 16.37% Black and 2.41% other. During the 2011–2012 school year, 51.89% of the student body received free or reduced price lunch. 74.79% of the school was proficient in English. No single racial group formed the majority. AHS is considered one of the most diverse schools among FCPS, itself one of the most diverse school districts in the country.\n\nThe 2009–2010 school year marked the first year that Hispanic students represented a plurality of Annandale students, and the first year in the school's history that any racial group other than White students represented a plurality within the student body. In fact, White students represent the only group not to see consistent growth in percentage student body representation over the last three years.\n\nThe A-Blast is Annandale High School's student-run, student-sponsored newspaper. It was consistently recognized as one of the top-10, +17-page high school newspapers in the country from the late 1990s to 2009, during which the paper won a number of National Scholastic Press Association Pacemaker Awards, placed among the Best-in-Show at a variety of NSPA national conventions, and won the Columbia Scholastic Press Association Gold Crown Award (in 2009). The A-Blast has also been a national fore-runner among high school papers for publishing online content, being one of the first fourteen newspapers in the country to be awarded the NSPA's Pacemaker Award for an Online Edition. The A-Blast, in 2009, had adopted a new multimedia program which trains journalism students to create projects pertaining to the news around Annandale High School, and is currently in its fourth production year.\n\nThe A-Blast is a Washington Post Young Journalists Development Program Paper. The paper's writers and editors receive publishing and content-related guidance from Post professional staff, and periodically visit The Washington Post headquarters in Washington, D.C., for collaborative workshops. A-Blast editors regularly participate in Post programs for high school students, including the High School Writing Seminar and the High School Journalism Workshop. The A-Blast is printed on The Washington Post press in Springfield, VA.\n\nThe A-Blast uses WordPress as its technology platform and is hosted by School Newspapers Online.\n\nIn 50 years, Annandale has won six football state championships (1965, 1967, 1972, 1978, 1993, and 1994) and numerous district titles as a member of both the Potomac District (Pre-resdistricting) and the Patriot District (Post redistricting). They are now in the Gunston District. After an undefeated season in 1978, Annandale ended the year ranked #1 in the nation by the National Sports Service. Annandale won Patriot District titles in 2005, 2006,2007, and 2009 (shared with West Springfield High School), but the Atoms fell to their first round opponents each year.\n\nOpening its doors in 1954, Annandale High School had 1,000 students, ranging in grades eight-eleven. During this time, the students voted to call themselves \"Atoms\" after the influence from president Dwight D. Eisenhower's speech called \"Atoms for Peace.\" \nIn the late 1980s, Annandale High School was involved in the creation of the Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology (TJHSST), ranked as the best high school in the country in 2010 by US News and World Report. TJHSST is one of 18 Virginia Governor's Schools.\n\nThe former Thomas Jefferson High School (Jefferson, TJHS), originally occupied the FCPS building of the current TJHSST. Over a two-year period, from 1985 to 1987, the Jefferson students were merged into Annandale. The former TJHS students, now Annandale seniors, were appropriately given the one-time special distinction to use a dual name, TJHS/AHS, for school year 1987–88. No students from Jefferson or TJHSST graduated in 1988.\n\nAnnandale High School was ranked #122, with a score of 1.391, in The Washington Post's 2010 Challenge Index, an annual ranking of public high schools in the Washington Metropolitan Area. Each school's score, and rank, was based on a simple formula: \"divide the number of Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate or other college-level tests a school gave in 2009 by the number of graduating seniors.\" 172 schools were ranked in 2010. In 2008 Annandale placed #105 (out of 166) in the Challenge Index, with a score of 1.542, and in 2007 it was ranked #107 (out of 190), with a score of 1.425.\n\nIn early 2010, the Annandale Border Control Force was established by local parent and community groups. Their goal was to realign the school borders by sending residents of Annandale to adjacent county schools such as Falls Church High School and sending Springfield residents to Lake Braddock Secondary School in an effort to address the overcrowding at Annandale High School. The issue has been long and contentious with some residents and students loyal to Annandale. Several options for preventing the realigning and reassigning of students of certain housing developments to different middle and high schools were suggested to the county school board. A major concern to the Annandale parent and community groups included losing sections of the Annandale community which would change the diverse demographics of the school.\n\nEnrollment at AHS during the 2009–2010 school year was 2,257 students. Enrollment at the school reached over 2,000 students for the first time during the 1995–1996 school year. After that year, enrollment grew each year for a decade before reaching 2,568 students during the 2003–2004 school year. Since then, enrollment has experienced non-streaking growth and decline, though has remained at over 2,000 students. During the 2007–2008 school year, enrollment reached a ten-year low of 2,045 students.\n\nAHS has the following FCPS Programs:\n\n\nKugler, Eileen Gale (2003). \"Debunking the Middle-Class Myth: Why Diverse Schools Are Good For All Kids\". Scarecrow Education Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087916", "title": "Battle of Fort Niagara", "text": "Battle of Fort Niagara\n\nThe Battle of Fort Niagara was a siege late in the French and Indian War, the North American theatre of the Seven Years' War. The British siege of Fort Niagara in July 1759 was part of a campaign to remove French control of the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley regions, making possible a western invasion of the French province of Canada in conjunction with General James Wolfe's invasion to the east.\n\nBritish General Jeffery Amherst made plans for the 1759 military campaigns of the Seven Years' War that included an expedition to capture Fort Niagara, a major French military and supply point between the French province of Canada and their forts in the Ohio Valley. Amherst chose Brigadier General John Prideaux to lead the expedition, which also included Sir William Johnson, the British Indian agent who led the expedition's Iroquois forces.\n\nFort Niagara had been largely constructed under the direction of Captain Pierre Pouchot of the French Army. In early 1759, General Louis-Joseph de Montcalm and New France's Governor, the Marquis de Vaudreuil, sent him with about 2,500 men to fortify Niagara beyond the 500 men that had wintered there. Pouchot, under orders from Vaudreuil, sent many of those men south to Fort Machault in mid-June as part of a plan to reinforce the French forts of the Ohio Country and attack the British at Fort Pitt. The forces left to defend Niagara consisted of about 200 men from the regiments of Royal Roussillon, Languedoc, La Sarre, and Béarn, 20 artillerymen, and about 300 provincial troops and militia.\n\nPrideaux's British Army troops consisted of the 44th and 46th Regiments, and two companies from the 60th, numbering about 2,200 men. He also commanded 2500 provincial militia from New York and 700 from Rhode Island. Delayed by high water on the Mohawk River and the late arrival of some of the provincial companies, the expedition did not begin leaving Schenectady until mid-May. On 27 June the army arrived at Fort Oswego, where they were joined by Johnson and about 600 Iroquois.\n\nLeaving men behind to garrison Oswego, Prideaux departed on 1 July for Niagara with about 20,500 men. While the French had ships patrolling Lake Ontario for British movements, inattention on the part of one the crews allowed the British flotilla to avoid discovery. They arrived at Fort Niagara on 6 July, landed near a marsh out of sight of the fort, and immediately began siege operations.\n\nThe French had about one hundred Iroquois allies at the Fort who deserted when the British arrived. Captain Pouchot directed a vigorous defense.\n\nPrideaux was killed when a shell fragment from one of his own guns hit him, and command of the British forces fell to Sir William Johnson. Johnson was a provincial officer and not in the regular army, and thus there was some question of his right to take command. But Sir William held a royal colonel's commission in his role as commander of the Iroquois auxiliaries, and so he insisted on remaining in command after a lower-ranking regular army officer, Lieutenant Colonel Frederick Haldimand, arrived on the scene.\n\nThe French capitulated on 26 July after a French relief force was defeated at the Battle of La Belle-Famille two miles south of the fort.\n\nThe capitulation of Fort Niagara occurred on the same day that French troops abandoned Fort Carillon to an overwhelming British army under General Amherst.\nFollowing the surrender of Fort Niagara, the French abandoned other forts in the frontier, recalling garrisons to defend the populated areas of Canada. Forts abandoned by the French includes Fort St. Frédéric (in present day Crown Point) and Fort Rouillé (in present day Toronto). Fort St. Frédéric was destroyed as French troops abandoned Lake Champlain to protect the Canadian heartland. The garrison at Fort Rouillé was instructed to evacuate the area, and burn the fort should Fort Niagara fall. After the British captured Fort Niagara, the French garrison burned Fort Rouillé, and withdrew to Montreal. The remaining French forts in the Ohio and Illinois Country were eventually turned over to British forces.\n\nIn the same month, Montcalm led the defences against British General James Wolfe in the three-month siege of Quebec City. The colonial capital was taken in September 1759 at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. During the next year, attempts were made by the French to recapture Quebec City, although their attempts were rebuffed with the arrival of British reinforcements. A year later after a two month campaign, Montreal was conquered by the British in September 1760, the administration of New France signed the Articles of Capitulation surrendering the colony of Canada to the British. The signing of the Articles of Capitulation saw the end of major combat operations in the North American theater of the Seven Years' War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087922", "title": "Blood doping", "text": "Blood doping\n\nBlood doping is the practice of boosting the number of red blood cells in the bloodstream in order to enhance athletic performance. Because such blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the muscles, a higher concentration in the blood can improve an athlete's aerobic capacity (VO max) and endurance. Blood doping can be achieved by making the body produce more red blood cells itself using drugs, giving blood transfusions either from another person or back to the same individual, or by using blood substitutes.\n\nMany methods of blood doping are illegal, particularly in professional sports where it is considered to give an artificial advantage to the competitor. Anti-doping agencies use tests to try to identify individuals who have been blood doping using a number of methods, typically by analysing blood samples from the competitors.\n\nBlood doping is defined as the use of illicit products (e.g. erythropoietin (EPO), darbepoetin-alfa, hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) stabilizers) and methods (e.g. increase aerobic capacity by maximizing the uptake of O) in order to enhance the O transport of the body to the muscles.\n\nThe body undergoes aerobic respiration in order to provide sufficient delivery of O to the exercising skeletal muscles and the main determining factors are shown in figure 1. The rate of maximum O uptake (Omax) depends on cardiac output, O extraction and hemoglobin mass. The cardiac output of an athlete is difficult to manipulate during competitions and the distribution of cardiac output is at the maximum rate (i.e. 80%) during competitions. In addition, the O extraction is approximately 90% at maximal exercise. Therefore, the only method to enhance the physical performance left is to increase the O content in the artery by enhancing the hemoglobin mass. In other words, hemoglobin concentration and blood volume contribute to hemoglobin mass.\n\nMany forms of blood doping stem from the misuse of pharmaceuticals. These drug treatments have been created for clinical use to increase the oxygen delivery when the human body is not able to do so naturally.\n\nErythropoietin (EPO) is a glycoprotein hormone produced by the interstitial fibroblasts in the kidney that signal for erythropoiesis in bone marrow. The increased activity of a hemocytoblast (RBC stem cell) allows the blood to have a greater carrying capacity for oxygen. EPO was first developed to counteract the effects of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for cancer patients. EPO also stimulates increased wound healing. Because of its physiological side effects, particularly increased hematocrit, EPO has become a drug with abuse potential by professional and amateur cyclists.\n\nHypoxia-inducible factor stabilizer (HIF stabilizer) is a pharmaceutical used to treat chronic kidney disease. Like most transcription factors, the HIF transcription factor is responsible for the expression of a protein. The HIF stabilizer activates the activity of EPO due to anemia induced hypoxia, metabolic stress, and vasculogenesis—the creation of new blood vessels. HIF stabilizers as used by cyclists in combination with cobalt chloride/desferrioxamine stimulate and de-regulate the natural production of erythropoietin hormone. At physiologically low PaO around 40 mmHg, EPO is released from the kidneys to increase hemoglobin transportation. The combination of drugs consistently releases EPO due to increased transcription at the cellular level. The effect wears off when the HIF stabilizers, cobalt chloride/desferrioxamine is excreted and/or decayed by the body.\n\nMyo-inositol trispyrophosphate (ITPP), also known as compound number OXY111A, is an allosteric effector of hemoglobin which causes a rightward shift in the oxygen–hemoglobin dissociation curve, increasing the amount of oxygen released from red blood cells into surrounding tissue during each passage through the cardiovascular system. ITPP has been a subject of anti-doping research in both humans and racehorses.\n\nBlood transfusions can be traditionally classified as autologous, where the blood donor and transfusion recipient are the same, or as allogeneic/homologous, where the blood is transfused into someone other than the donor. Blood transfusion begins by the withdrawal of 1 to 4 units of blood (1 unit = 450 ml of blood) several weeks before competition. The blood is centrifuged, the plasma components are immediately reinfused, and the corpuscular elements, principally red blood cells (RBCs), are stored refrigerated at 4 °C or frozen at −80 °C. As blood stored by refrigeration displays a steady decline in the number of RBCs, a substantial percentage, up to 40%, of the stored RBCs may not be viable. The freezing process, conversely, limits the aging of the cells, allowing the storage of the blood for up to 10 years with a 10% to 15% loss of RBCs. Stored RBCs are then reinfused, usually 1 to 7 days before a high-endurance event. As a significant amount of iron is removed by each autologous transfusion, an adequate time for recovery of not less than 3 days from the last donation, and appropriate iron supplements, are usually required for patients undergoing autologous donations. Nearly 50% of autologous donations are not used by the donor and are discarded, as current standards do not allow transfusion of these units to another patient for safety reasons.\n\nBiochemical and biotechnological development has allowed novel approaches to this issue, in the form of engineered O carriers, widely known as \"blood substitutes\". The blood substitutes currently available are chiefly polymerized haemoglobin solutions or haemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs).\n\nHemoglobin-based oxygen carriers are intra/ inter-molecularly engineered human or animal hemoglobins, only optimized for oxygen delivery and longer intravascular circulation. The presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate within erythrocytes maintains the normal affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. HBOCs do not contain erythrocytes and lose this interaction, thus, unmodified human HBOC solutions have a very high oxygen affinity which compromises their function. Chemical methods developed to overcome this problem have resulted in carriers that effectively release oxygen at the physiological pO of peripheral tissues.\n\nA common feature of all HBOCs is their resistance to dissociate when dissolved in media, which contrasts hemoglobin of natural dissociation under non-physiological conditions. HBOCs may hypothetically supply greater benefits to athletes than those provided by the equivalent hemoglobin in traditional RBC infusion. Recent developments have shown that HBOCs are not only simple RBC substitutes, but highly effective O donors in terms of tissue oxygenation. Additional effects include increases in blood serum iron, ferritin, and Epo; up to 20% increased diffusion of oxygen and improved exercise capacity; increased CO production; and lower lactic acid generation in anaerobic activity. HBOCs have been shown in trials to be extremely dangerous in humans. Because HBOCs increase both the risk of death and risk of myocardial infarction clinical trials were ended. They are not commercially available in the US or Europe and there is no approved use for them.\n\nPFCs, also known as fluorocarbons, are inert, water-insoluble, synthetic compounds, consisting primarily of carbon and fluorine atoms bonded together in strong C–F bonds. PFCs are substantially clear and colorless liquid emulsions that are heterogeneous in molecular weight, surface area, electronic charge, and viscosity; their high content of electron-dense fluorine atoms results in little intramolecular interaction and low surface tension, making such substances excellent solvents for gases, especially oxygen and carbon dioxide. Some of these molecules can dissolve 100 times more oxygen than plasma. PFCs are naturally hydrophobic and need to be emulsified to be injected intravenously. Since PFCs dissolve rather than bind oxygen, their capacity to serve as a blood substitute is determined principally by the pO gradients in the lung and at the target tissue. Therefore, their oxygen transport properties differ substantially from those of whole blood and, especially, from those of RBCs. At a conventional ambient pO of 135 mmHg, the oxygen content of 900 ml/l perfluorocarbon is less than 50 ml/l, whereas an optimal oxygen content of 160 ml/l, which is still lower than that of whole blood in normal conditions, can be achieved only by a pO greater than 500 mmHg. In practice, at a conventional alveolar pO of 135 mmHg, PFCs will not be able to provide sufficient oxygenation to peripheral tissues.\n\nDue to their small size, PFCs are able to permeate circulation where erythrocytes may not flow. In tiny capillaries, PFCs produce the greatest benefit, as they increase local oxygen delivery much more efficiently than would be expected from the increase in oxygen content in larger arteries. In addition, as gases are in the dissolved state within PFCs, it pO promotes efficient oxygen delivery to peripheral tissues. Since the mid-1980s, improvements in both oxygen capacity and emulsion properties of PFCs have led to the development of second-generation PFC-based oxygen carriers; two PFC products are currently being tested in phase III clinical trials.\n\nTransition metal complexes are widely known to play important roles in erythropoiesis; as such, inorganic supplementation is proving to be an emerging technique in blood doping. Particularly of note is the cobalt complex, cobalamin (Vitamin B) commonly used as a dietary supplement. Cobalamin is an important complex used in the manufacture of red blood cells and thus was of interest for potential use in blood doping. Experimental evidence, however, has shown that cobalamin has no effect on erythropoiesis in the absence of a red blood cell/oxygen deficiency. These results seem to confirm much of what is already known about the functioning of cobalamin. The signaling pathway that induces erythropoietin secretion and subsequently red blood cell manufacture using cobalamin is O dependent. Erythropoietin is only secreted in the kidneys when there is an O deficiency, as such, RBC manufacture is independent of the amount of cobalamin administered when there is no O deficiency. Accordingly, cobalamin is of little to no value in blood doping.\n\nMore potent for use in blood doping is Co (administered as Cobalt(II) chloride, CoCl). Cobalt chloride has been known to be useful in treating anemic patients. Recent experimental evidence has proved the efficacy of cobalt chloride in blood doping. Studies into the action of this species have shown that Co induces hypoxia like responses, the most relevant response being erythropoiesis. Co induces this response by binding to the N-terminus (loop helix loop domain) of the Hypoxia inducing transcription factors HIF-1α and HIF-2α, and thus stabilizes these protein complexes. Under normal O conditions, HIFs are destabilized as proline and asparagine residues are hydroxylated by HIF-α hydroxylases, these unstable HIFs are subsequently degraded following a ubiquitin-proteosome pathway, as such,they cannot then bind and activate transcription of genes encoding Erythropoietin (EPO). With Co stabilization, degradation is prevented and genes encoding EPO can then be activated. The mechanism for this Co N terminus stabilization is not yet fully understood. In addition to N-terminus binding, it has also been hypothesized that replacement of Fe by Co in the hydroxylase active site could be a contributing factor to the stabilizing action of Co. It is understood however, is that Co binding permits Ubiquitin binding but prevents proteosomal degradation.\n\nIn 2004, a test for detection allogeneic/homologous blood transfusion doping was implemented. Flow cytometry is the method of choice. By examining markers on the surface of blood cells, the method can determine whether blood from more than one person is present in an athlete's circulation.The test utilizes 12 antisera directed against the blood group antigens, obtained from donor plasma. The antigens are labeled with secondary antibodies, which are conjugated with phycoerythrin to label IgG or IgM-coated RBCs and enhance the detection by flow cytometry The flow cytometry is able to detect minor variance in blood group antigens. The assessment was able to distinguish the blood of subjects who had earlier received at least one unit of allogeneic blood. This technique is able to detect small (<5%) populations of cells that are antigenically distinct from an individual's own RBCs.\n\nAutologous blood doping detection is done indirectly via CO rebreathing technique to measure the nonphysiologic increases in Hb mass. The principle of CO rebreathing method used currently requires an O-CO gas mixture inhalation for about 10-15mins. By measuring the difference in carboxyhemoglobin concentration (HbCO) before and after rebreathing, the volume of CO and the binding capacity of Hb for CO ( 1.39ml g-1), total Hb mass can be calculated. This detection method is problematic for an athlete as it is not desirable to breathe in CO shortly before a competition, which may potentially affect their performances.\n\nDetection method for hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (i.e. Oxyglobulin) is done in four separate steps. Step one involves the elimination of abundance proteins in the blood samples by immunodepletion (i.e. Proteo Prep 20 plasma immunodepletion kit). This process ensures that other proteins (i.e. albumin and immunoglobulin) do not interfere with capillary electrophoresis (CE) separation by changing the ionization. Second step, CE separation is done under certain condition, in this case background electrolyte consisting of ammonium formate (75mM at pH 9.5) in order to provide sufficient resolution between HBOC and Hb. Third step, UV/Vis detection was performed at 415 nm to selectively detect HBOC and HB. Fourth step, Time-of-flight (TOF) or Mass spectrometer(MS) allowed increase accuracy in selectivity between hemoproteins and other proteins and definite determination of HBOC uptake. The detection limits for CE-UV/Vis at 415 nm and CE-ESI-TOF/MS results to be 0.20 and 0.45g/dL for plasma respectively.\n\nCobalt can be detected by laboratory blood analysis if the intake amount is greater than 400 μg per day. As the whole blood concentration is greater than 1 μg/L and the urinary concentration is greater than 10 μg/L after at least 10 days of administration. The dose, which increases the red blood cell production to approximately 16%-21%, is about 68 mg Co per day for at least 10 days of oral administration. The predicted whole blood concentration of cobalt exceeds 200 μg/L two hours after the last intake and the average urine concentrations of cobalt exceed 3000 μg/L within 24 hours of intake. A study was carried out where 23 subjects were to take 900 μg per day in the form of CoCl for 10 days. The model predictions were then compared to the study. The result shows that the model prediction for blood and urine are between the median concentration of the male and female groups, which indicate the model predictions sufficiently represent the test population as a whole.\n\nAs early as 1947, military research scientists were studying ways to increase fighter pilots’ tolerance for hypoxia at high altitude. In one such study, red blood cells were transfused into ten males at the US Naval Research facility, resulting in increased oxygen capacity.\n\nIn 1993, U.S. Special Forces commanders at Fort Bragg started experimenting with blood doping, also known as blood loading. Special Forces operators would provide two units of whole blood, from which red blood cells would be extracted, concentrated, and stored under cold temperatures. 24 hours before a mission or battle, a small amount of red blood cells would be infused back into the soldier. Military scientists believe that the procedure increases the soldiers’s endurance and alertness because of the increase in the blood's capability to carry oxygen.\n\nIn 1998, the Australian Defence Forces approved this technique for the Special Air Service Regiment. Senior nutritionist at the Australian Defence Science and Technology Organisation Chris Forbes-Ewan is quoted as saying that, unlike in sport, \"all's fair in love and war.\" \"What we are trying to gain is an advantage over any potential adversary,\" Forbes-Ewan said. In this study, over 50 performance-enhancing drugs and techniques were rejected. The six that were approved are caffeine, ephedrine, energy drinks, modafinil, creatine, and blood-loading.\n\nBlood doping started in the late 1960s but was not outlawed until 1986. While it was still legal, it was commonly used by middle and long-distance runners. The first known case of blood doping occurred at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow as Kaarlo Maaninka was transfused with two pints of blood before winning medals in the 5 and 10 kilometer track races, though this was not against the rules at the time. Cyclist Joop Zoetemelk admitted to receiving blood transfusions during the 1976 Tour de France, where he finished second, although he claimed that these were intended to treat his anaemia rather than enhance his performance. In the same year cyclist Francesco Moser used blood transfusions to prepare for his successful attempt to break the hour record. \"Blood doping\" was banned by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 1985, though no test existed for it at the time.\n\nThe Swedish cyclist Niklas Axelsson tested positive for EPO in 2000.\n\nThe American cyclist Tyler Hamilton failed a fluorescent-activated cell sorting test for detecting homologous blood transfusions during the 2004 Olympics. He was allowed to keep his gold medal because the processing of his sample precluded conducting a second, confirmatory test. He appealed a second positive test for homologous transfusion from the 2004 Vuelta a España to the International Court of Arbitration for Sport but his appeal was denied. Hamilton's lawyers proposed Hamilton may be a genetic chimera or have had a 'vanishing twin' to explain the presence of red blood cells from more than one person. While theoretically possible, these explanations were ruled to be of \"negligible probability\".\n\nThe Spanish-based Operación Puerto case in 2006 involved allegations of doping and blood doping of hundreds of athletes from Spain, Germany, Italy, Colombia, Australia, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and The USA.\n\nTour de France rider Alexander Vinokourov, of the Astana Team, tested positive for two different blood cell populations and thus for homologous transfusion, according to various news reports on July 24, 2007. Vinokourov was tested after his victory in the 13th stage time trial of the Tour on July 21, 2007. A doping test is not considered to be positive until a second sample is tested to confirm the first. Vinokourov's B sample has now tested positive, and he faces a possible suspension of two years and a fine equal to one year's salary. He also tested positive after stage 15.\n\nVinokourov's teammate Andrej Kashechkin also tested positive for homologous blood doping on August 1, 2007, just a few days after the conclusion of the 2007 Tour de France (a race that had been dominated by doping scandals). His team withdrew after the revelation that Vinokourov had doped.\n\nAccording to Russian investigators, 19-year-old New York Rangers prospect and Russian hockey player Alexei Cherepanov was engaged in blood doping for several months before he died on October 13, 2008, after collapsing on the bench during a game in Russia. He also had myocarditis.\n\nThe German speed skater and five-fold Olympic gold medalist Claudia Pechstein was banned for two years in 2009 for alleged blood doping, based on irregular levels of reticulocytes in her blood and the assumption that these levels were always highest during competitions. Her mean reticulocyte count over the ten years from 2000 to 2009 was 2.1% during top events like Olympic Games and during world championships. At world cup races the mean reticulocyte was 1.9% and during training phases 2.0%. The Court of Arbitration for Sport confirmed the ban in November 2009 in stating: \"...once the possibility of a blood disease has been safely excluded...\".\nIn September 2010, the Swiss Federal Supreme Court rejected the athlete's appeal, stating that Pechstein's inherited blood anomaly had been known before (\"die vererbte Blutanomalie bekannt gewesen sei\").\n\nOn May 20, 2011, Tyler Hamilton turned in his 2004 Olympic Gold Medal to the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency after admitting to doping in a \"60 Minutes\" interview.\n\nOn August 23, 2012, Lance Armstrong was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles and banned for life by cycling's governing body following a report from the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency that accused him of leading a doping program during his cycling career. He later admitted to using banned substances including blood doping with transfusions and EPO in an interview with Oprah Winfrey on January 17, 2013.\n\nIn June 2014, UFC fighter Chael Sonnen tested positive for EPO. One month later, another UFC fighter, Ali Bagautinov also tested positive for EPO.\n\nThe simple act of increasing the number of red blood cells in blood may be associated with hyperviscosity syndrome which is characterized by increased blood viscosity and decreased cardiac output and blood flow velocity which results in the reduction of peripheral oxygen delivery. For instance, an overdose of EPO can thicken blood into a highly viscous and artery-clogging sludge. This increases the chances of heart attack, stroke, phlebitis, and pulmonary embolism, which has been seen in cases where there is too much blood reintroduced into the blood stream. Because blood doping increases the volume of red blood cells, it effectively introduces a condition called polycythemia, a blood disorder that has known adverse outcomes such as heart attacks or strokes.\n\nBlood contamination during preparation or storage is another issue. Contamination was seen in 1 in every 500,000 transfusions of red blood cells in 2002. Blood contamination can lead to sepsis or an infection that affects the whole body.\n\nCertain medications used to increase red blood cells can reduce liver function and lead to liver failure, pituitary problems, and increases in cholesterol levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087927", "title": "La belle au bois dormant (Carafa)", "text": "La belle au bois dormant (Carafa)\n\nLa belle au bois dormant (\"Sleeping Beauty\") is an opera in three acts by Michele Carafa to a French libretto by François-Antonine-Eugène de Planard after the tale by Charles Perrault.\n\nIt was first performed on 2 March 1825 at the Salle Le Peletier of Paris Opera. The famous tenor Adolphe Nourrit created the role of the Prince. Choreography was by Pierre Gabriel Gardel, and set design by Pierre-Luc-Charles Cicéri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087938", "title": "Curt Gentry", "text": "Curt Gentry\n\nCurtis Marsena \"Curt\" Gentry (June 13, 1931 – July 10, 2014) was an American writer, born in Lamar, Colorado. He is best known for co-authoring, with Vincent Bugliosi, the 1974 book \"Helter Skelter\", which detailed the Charles Manson murders. Gentry lived in San Francisco, California.\n\nGentry died, aged 83, on July 10, 2014, in San Francisco.\n\n\"Frame-Up\" was a nominee for the 1968 Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Fact Crime book.\n\n\"Helter Skelter\" won a 1975 Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Fact Crime book.\n\n\"J. Edgar Hoover\" won the 1992 PEN Center West Literary Award for Non-Fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2087951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087951", "title": "Educational policies and initiatives of the European Union", "text": "Educational policies and initiatives of the European Union\n\nIn the European Union education is the responsibility of Member States; European Union institutions play a supporting role. According to Art. 165 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Community \nThe EU also funds educational, vocational and citizenship-building programmes which encourage EU citizens to take advantage of opportunities which the EU offers its citizens to live, study and work in other countries. The best known of these is the Erasmus programme, under which more than 3,000,000 students have taken part in inter-university exchange and mobility over the last 20 years.\nSince 2000, conscious of the importance of Education and Training for their economic and social objectives, EU Member States have begun working together to achieve specific goals in the field of Education. By sharing examples of good policy practice, by taking part in Peer Learning activities, by setting benchmarks and by tracking progress against key indicators, the 27 Member States aim to respond coherently to common challenges, whilst retaining their individual sovereignty in the field of Education policy. This strategy is referred to as the Education and Training 2020 programme (ET2020), which is an update of the Education and Training 2010 programme.\nThe European Union is also a partner in various inter-governmental projects, including the Bologna Process whose purpose is to create a European higher education area by harmonising academic degree structures and standards as well as academic quality assurance standards throughout EU Member States and in other European countries.\n\nThe European Union adopted its first education programme (the COMETT programme, designed to stimulate contacts and exchanges between universities and industry) in July 1987. This programme was rapidly followed by the ERASMUS programme, which promoted inter-university contacts and cooperation, as well as substantial student mobility (as, in 1989, did the \"Youth for Europe\" programme, the EU's first youth exchange support scheme). These programmes were adopted by the EU countries but with considerable support from the European Parliament which made budgets available even before the legal instruments had been adopted.\n\nThe European Union has two different types of instrument to increase the quality and openness of the education and training systems of the EU's Member States: a set of policy instruments through which EU countries are encouraged to develop their own education systems and to learn from each other's successes; and a substantial programme to support exchanges, networks and mutual learning between schools, universities or training centres as well as between the political authorities responsible for these areas in the different Member States.\n\nThe European Union's interest in Education policy (as opposed to Education programmes) developed after the Lisbon summit in March 2000, at which the EU's Heads of State and Government asked the Education Ministers of the EU to reflect on the \"concrete objectives\" of education systems with a view to improving them. The European Commission and the European Union's Member States worked together on a report for the Spring 2001 European Council, and in 2002 the Spring Summit approved their joint work programme showing how they proposed to take the report's recommendations forward. Since then they have published a series of \"Joint Reports\" every other year.\n\nThe Commission seeks to encourage Member States to improve the quality of their education and training systems in two main ways: through a process of setting targets and publishing the position of Member States in achieving them and by stimulating debate on subjects of common interest. This is done using the process known as the Open Method of Coordination.\n\nAs regards target setting, the Member States agreed in the Council on 5 May 2003 on five benchmarks on : early school leavers; number of graduates and decrease of gender imbalance in maths, science and technology; upper secondary education completion; low achievers in reading literacy; lifelong learning.\n\nUnder the current policy framework in Education and Policy (ET2020), the seven benchmarks require that by 2020:\n\n1 - \"Early School Leavers\" : less than 10% of school pupils should leave school before the end of compulsory schooling\n\n2 - \"Tertiary education attainment\" : at least 40% of the population aged 30–34 years should have completed tertiary education\n\n3 - \"Early childhood education and care\" : 95% of children aged 4 to the age when primary education starts should participate in early education\n\n4 - \"Low achievement in Reading, Maths and Science\" : no more than 15% of 15-year-olds should be low-achievers in reading, maths and science as measured at level 2 in the OECD's Programme for International Student Assessment\n\n5 - \"Employment rate of recent graduates\" : 82% of the population aged 20–34, who are no longer in education or training and have successfully completed upper secondary or tertiary education, should be employed\n\n6 - \"Adult participation in life-long learning\" : participation of the 25-64 age group in lifelong learning (i.e. formal or non-formal continuing education or training including in-company skills development) should be not less than 15% per annum\n\n7 - \"Mobility between countries\" : at least 20% of higher education graduates and 6% of 18- to 34-year-olds with an initial vocational qualification should have spent some time studying or training abroad\n\nSince 2012, progress against benchmarks and core indicators is yearly assessed in the \"Education and Training Monitor\", published every autumn by the Directorate-General for Education and Culture in replacement of the \"Progress Report\". The benchmark on \"Early school leavers\" and the benchmark on \"Tertiary education attainment\" are also Europe 2020 targets.\n\nIn addition to the measurement of progress, the Commission also publishes policy papers designed to encourage the EU's Member States to look more closely at particular areas of their education and training policy. The Commission has published such papers over many years, but until the Lisbon Summit in March 2000, few were widely followed. Since then, however, Member States have become more open to mutual exchange and learning, and a number of Commission papers have had significant impact. A recent example (late 2006) may be found in the Communication on \"Efficiency and equity in European education and training systems\". This paper was generally welcomed by Member States but it drew criticism from some (in particular Germany and Austria) who felt that it commented negatively on their education and training systems.\n\nFinally, the Commission has supported a variety of networking systems between Ministers (and Ministries) in the EU's Member States, in addition to the thrice yearly meetings of the \"Education Council\" within the EU's own institutional system. These range from biennial meetings of Ministers responsible for Vocational Education and Training (the \"Copenhagen Process\"), through regular meetings of Director Generals for Higher Education or for Vocational Education and Training to more specialised networks or \"clusters\" within the \"Education and Training 2010 programme\" in areas such as key competences, foreign language learning or the recognition of informal and non-formal qualifications.\n\nThe first European Union exchange programmes were the COMETT Programme for Industry-University links and exchanges, launched in 1987 (and discontinued in 1995); the Erasmus university exchange programme was launched in the same year. Similar programmes have been running ever since, and as from 2007 all the education and training programmes were brought together in one single programme; the Lifelong Learning Programme 2007-2013. The Lifelong Learning programme comprises separate sub-programmes for schools; universities and higher education; vocational education and training; adult education; teaching about the EU in universities; and a 'horizontal' programme for policy development.\n\nThe schools exchange programme, named after the 15th century Czech teacher, scientist and educator John Amos Comenius, has helped over 2.5 million school students take part in joint projects across boundaries. The Erasmus programme (named after Desiderius Erasmus, the 16th century Dutch humanist and theologian), has been the icon of university exchange programmes since its launch in 1987. Some two million students have so far spent a fully accredited period of between 3 months and an academic year in another EU university under the programme, which has become a symbol of Europe in universities. The vocational education and training programme is named after the renaissance inventor and all-rounder Leonardo da Vinci. It currently helps around 75,000 young people each year to do an apprenticeship or internship in another EU country. The adult education programme, named after Pastor N. F. S. Grundtvig, the 19th century Danish theologian, poet, philosopher and thinker, helps those involved in adult education to have access to similar international experience. The sub-programme which supports teaching about Europe in higher education is named after the French politician and architect of European Unity, Jean Monnet.\n\nThe programme entered into force on 1 January 2007, and will continue until projects launched in its final year 2013 are closed - probably in 2016.\n\nThe first EU programme to promote educational exchange and cooperation between educational institutions inside the EU and those outside it was the TEMPUS programme, adopted on 7 May 1990 by the Council as part of the assistance provided by the European Community of the day to the countries breaking free of Soviet rule.\n\nThe idea behind TEMPUS was that individual universities in the European Community could contribute to the process of rebuilding free and effective university systems in partner countries; and that a bottom-up process through partnerships with individual universities in these countries would provide a counterweight to the influence of the much less trusted Ministries, few of which had by then undergone serious change since Soviet domination. The programme was an immediate success; and by 1993 the number of participating countries had grown from five at the start to eleven. The programme was subsequently enlarged to include the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union; again to include the countries of the Western Balkans; and finally to cover the Mediterranean countries.\n\nThe TEMPUS programme currently supports projects run by consortia of universities in the EU and in partner countries which aim to update curricula and teaching methods; to improve academic management (e.g., strategic development plans, systems of quality assessment and assurance); and to promote the higher education priorities of its partner countries. It also provides Individual Mobility Grants to enable individuals to travel to or from Europe in connection with these themes. The TEMPUS programme is still running, but will be renewed and revised as from 2007.\n\nTEMPUS was followed by a series of smaller programmes built more round the mobility of academics towards the EU. These included the ALFA/ALBAN programmes with Latin American universities; the Asia-Link programme; and others, sometimes time-limited. A number of these appear to have been set up as a means of development assistance rather than with the development of universities as such, an impression strengthened by the fact that they were managed by the European Commission's development assistance service EuropeAid rather than (like TEMPUS or Erasmus Mundus programme) by its Education and Culture department.\n\nFinally, in 2003 the European Union launched the Erasmus Mundus programme, a project to ensure the place of European Universities as centres of excellence across the world; to attract the best students from around the world to Europe; and to enable partnerships between European universities and those in other countries. The programme had strong support both from the Council of Ministers and from the European Parliament. The first phase of Erasmus Mundus will finish in 2008. The Commission has announced its intention to propose a further period. Europe Study Centre (ESC) has lately come up as a reputed and dependable company in Indian providing end to end services in the European overseas education field helping Indian students to avail the Erasmus Mundus benefits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087952", "title": "Tomoe", "text": "Tomoe\n\n, commonly translated as \"comma\", is a comma-like swirl symbol used in Japanese (roughly equivalent to a heraldic badge or charge in European heraldry). It closely resembles the usual form of a .\n\nThe appears in many designs with various uses. The simplest, most common patterns of the device contain from one to four , and are reminiscent of similar designs that have been found in wide distribution around the world. When circumscribed in a circle, it often appears in a set of three, with this design known as the .\n\nThe character 巴 (Chinese pronunciation \"bā\") has several meanings, ranging from a Sichuan toponym to a crust formed by dryness, parts of the body such as hands or cheeks, and, as a verb, bearing the sense of \"to hope\", \"expect\" or \"be anxious over\". The Chinese character used to depict, according to Bernhard Karlgren's interpretation of the small seal script graph, a python. The Japanese word itself may be of Altaic origin, since it bears comparison with Middle Mongolian (twisted horse headdress, from the verb (plait, twist)) and Ordos \"t'omok\" ('a little bag hung on a horse's head'). In this latter connection Tang ceramic figures of horses show small sacks tethered to the lower neck, perhaps to stop the horse from throwing its head back.\n\nOne view is that the word refers to a picture of a , or drawings on the latter, the in question, in archaic Japanese , being a round leather arm protector, like the bracer or gauntlet tab of European archery. Roy Andrew Miller describes it as \"a small hollow sack or bulb of sewn leather with leather tie straps, sometimes embossed with a comma like decorative device () of continental origin\". It was worn on the left elbow or wrist of an archer either to prevent chafing from the bowstring (: 弦) twanging back to position on the release of an arrow, or to strike fear into the enemy from the sharp sound caused by the bowstring hitting the wrist guard. The 'tomo picture' () can therefore be interpreted either as a visual pun on the tomo represented, or, otherwise, as taking its name from that object. Several such examples are conserved in Nara at the Shōsōin. \n\nAn alternative interpretation takes it to be a stylized magatama.\n\nThe origin of the design is uncertain. A pattern resembling the two-comma () has been found in ancient cultures on all inhabited continents. A stylized design on a Yangshao bowl dates back to 2,000 BCE. The motif of two encircling dolphins biting each other's tails has been found on Cretan ceramics dating from the Minoan period (1700-1400 BCE), and the two fish biting each other in circular fashion recurs in both Chinese and Central Mexican ware. It is frequently seen on prehistoric Celtic remains, and one mirror from Balmaclellan is almost identical to the . In China, the double comma form came to be assimilated to the Ying-Yang philosophy of opposing male/female principles, formalized in the design of the late Song Dynasty period. This in turn recurs in the 7th century in Korea, where it was known as Taegeuk. and replicated in the Japanese and patterns, the former in association with divinatory rites, the latter frequently linked to temple drums with apotropaic functions. According to Jean Herbert in these contexts, the embodied three spirits, the yin-yang dyad being represented by an (rough kami) and a (gentle kami), while the third comma denoted the , or lucky spirit.\n\nN. Gordon Munro argued that the basis for the pattern, a motif found also among the Ainu, was the eastern European and western Asian figure of the triskelion, which he believed lay behind the Chinese three-legged crow design, and, in his view, its reflex in the mythical Japanese crow, the (八咫烏), cf. Proto-Indo-European religion\n\nAs a leather wrist protector appear to have been employed at least as early as the Kofun period, where they are frequently attested on haniwa terracotta figurines depicting archers, and may even have had, aside from their military function, a ritual or fetish value, perhaps related to their testicular shape.\n\nThe tomoe emblem established itself as a common emblem during the Fujiwara ascendency of the late Heian period, around the 10th-11th centuries, and proliferated through to Kamakura times. It is thought that a resemblance between the tomoe and the Emperor Ōjin found in the Nihongi may also account for its rising popularity among samurai, since Ōjin was apotheosized as a god in Hachiman shrines.\n\nIn the Nihongi account, when Ōjin was born, inspection of his body revealed a fleshy growth on his arm similar to a warrior's wrist or elbow pad, and for this reason he was called (誉田: lit.(Lord) Armguard) (OJ: ), an old word for a .\n\nThe Mitsudomoe was adopted as the emblem of the royal family of the Ryukyu Kingdom by the First Shō Dynasty's last ruler, Shō Toku, and continued to be used by the Second Shō Dynasty. There it was called . Since it was the royal family's emblem, its usage was once severely restricted in Ryukyu. Ryukyuans who visited Japan shortly after the Japanese annexation of Ryukyu in 1879 were surprised that mitsudomoe banners were flown everywhere. Nowadays the symbol can still be seen at historical sites and cultural events, but is now more widespread in use as a symbol for Okinawa.\n\nThe is closely associated with Shinto shrines, in particular those dedicated to Hachiman, the god of war and archery. Hachiman in Shinto cosmology and ritual, as for example at Hakozaki Shrine, is repeatedly connected with the number three. In Shintoist thinking, this number is taken to represent the three aspects of the four mitama or 'souls' (the other, the being considered far rarer).\n\nIt is also commonly displayed on banners and lanterns used in festivals and rituals related to Amaterasu-ōmikami, who in the Kojiki confronts her brother Susanowo when he usurps her terrain on earth by dressing as an archer, adorned with magatama beads and 'an awesome high arm-guard' ().\n\nA third element of its symbolic panorama concerns water, an association engendered by its swirling pattern. For this reason, it is said to be located on roofs and gables as a charm against fire.\n\nSince Hachiman was worshipped as the guardian of warriors, it was adopted as a common design element in by various samurai clans such as Kobayakawa and Utsunomiya. Among aristocrats, the Saionji family used it as its family emblem. The Koyasan Shingon sect of Buddhism uses the mitsudomoe as a visual representation of the cycle of life.\n\nTomoe also is a personal name, dating at least back to Tomoe Gozen (巴御前), a famous female warrior celebrated in The Tale of the Heike account of the Genpei War. In Kyoto's Jidai Matsuri festival, she appears in the Heian period section of the procession in samurai costume, and parades as a symbol of feminine gallantry.\n\nThe tomoe has also been adopted as a corporate logo in Japan.\n\nThe two-fold is almost identical in its design elements to the Chinese symbol known as a taijitu, while the three-fold is very similar to the Korean tricolored taegeuk. Also note that the negative space in between the swirls of a fourfold forms a swastika-like shape, which is fairly prominent in many Indian religions such as Hinduism and Jainism and Buddhism. A similar design can also be found in the some forms of the Celtic spiral triskele as well as with the Basque lauburu and the Sicilian Trinacria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087960", "title": "Prince Chun", "text": "Prince Chun\n\nPrince Chun may refer to any of the following princely peerages of the Qing dynasty in China:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087964", "title": "Bagarmossen", "text": "Bagarmossen\n\nBagarmossen is a district within Skarpnäck borough of Stockholm, Sweden. Bagarmossen had 10,951 inhabitants as of December 31, 2009.\n\nBagarmossen is located southeast of central Stockholm, neighbouring the Skarpnäcks gård district to the south and west, Kärrtorp to the northwest, and the nature reserve Nackareservatet in Nacka Municipality to the east.\n\nBagarmossen is served by the Bagarmossen metro station, which is located along the green line 17. When the station opened in 1958, it was a surface station and the terminus of line 17. When line 17 was extended to Skarpnäck in 1994, this included a new underground station in Bagarmossen, replacing the old surfaced one. Bagarmossen is also the terminus of the 161 bus line to Midsommarkransen.\n\nBagarmossen was built mostly during the 1950s, and remains a relatively well-preserved '50s suburb. The apartment buildings along Byälvsvägen were built in the early 1970s as a part of the million programme. New apartment buildings were constructed near the metro station in the early 1990s, and in recent years, Bagarmossen has seen several new developments, mostly in the northwest.\n\nWhen the area was first built in the 1950s, it received some international recognition because of the consistent separation of pedestrian and road traffic - leading to plenty of walking paths. The houses were also built to fit with the natural conditions. The courtyards constructed along with the houses in the 1950s are well-designed with genitalia, pines, spruce trees and lawns.\n\nBagarmossen has 10,951 inhabitants as of December 31, 2009. People with a foreign background (in this case, born outside Sweden, or with both parents born outside Sweden) constituted for 33.3% of the population. The same figure for Skarpnäck borough was 26.6%, and 28.7% for Stockholm as a whole. \n\nThe unemployment rate in Bagarmossen was 4.9% as of October 31, 2009. In comparison, the unemployment rate of the Skarpnäck borough was 3.8%, and 3.6% of Stockholm as a whole. The average income per person in Bagarmossen was 222,200 Swedish kronor in 2008, this was lower than the average income of the Skarpnäck borough, 250,200 Swedish kronor, as well as the Stockholm average of 294,500 Swedish kronor.\n\nThe results of the 2006 Stockholm municipal election differed largely between Bagarmossen, Skarpnäck borough and Stockholm as a whole. While the centre-right Alliance for Sweden earned a majority in Stockholm, they were behind the red-greens in both Bagarmossen and Skarpnäck borough. The voter turnout in Bagarmossen was 71.0%, compared to 76.3% in Skarpnäck borough, and 79.1% for Stockholm as a whole. Overall, the results were very similar to those of the Kärrtorp district. \n\nThe following sports clubs are located in Bagarmossen:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087966", "title": "Ammonium bromide", "text": "Ammonium bromide\n\nAmmonium bromide, NHBr, is the ammonium salt of hydrobromic acid. The chemical crystallizes in colorless prisms, possessing a saline taste; it sublimes on heating and is easily soluble in water. On exposure to air it gradually assumes a yellow color because of the oxidation of traces of bromide (Br) to bromine (Br).\n\nAmmonium bromide can be prepared by the direct action of hydrogen bromide on ammonia. \n\nIt can also be prepared by the reaction of ammonia with iron(II) bromide or iron(III) bromide, which may be obtained by passing aqueous bromine solution over iron filings.\n\nAmmonium bromide is a weak acid with a pKa of ~5 in water. It is an acid salt because the ammonium ion hydrolyzes slightly in water.\n\nAmmonium Bromide is strong electrolyte when put in water:\n\nAmmonium bromide decomposes to ammonia and hydrogen bromide when heated at elevated temperatures:\n\nAmmonium bromide is used for photography in films, plates and papers; in fireproofing of wood; in lithography and process engraving; in corrosion inhibitors; and in pharmaceutical preparations.\n\nyu\n"}
{"id": "2087967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087967", "title": "Chief of the Staff of The Salvation Army", "text": "Chief of the Staff of The Salvation Army\n\nThe Chief of the Staff of The Salvation Army is a Commissioner appointed by the General of The Salvation Army as the second in command internationally. The Chief of the Staff is stationed at International Headquarters in London.\n\nThe office of Chief of the Staff was created in 1880 by General William Booth. The first officer to take the position was his son, Bramwell Booth, in 1881.\n\nThe Chief of the Staff also summons all Commissioners and Territorial Commanders of The Salvation Army to form a High Council to elect a new general when a vacancy exists.\n\nGeneral Andre Cox appointed Commissioner Brian Peddle to become the 26th Chief of the Staff of The Salvation Army effective on 1 November 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087976", "title": "October 27, 1997, mini-crash", "text": "October 27, 1997, mini-crash\n\nThe October 27, 1997, mini-crash is a global stock market crash that was caused by an economic crisis in Asia, the \"Asian contagion\", or \"Tom Yum Goong crisis\" (Thai: วิกฤตต้มยำกุ้ง). The point loss that the Dow Jones Industrial Average suffered on this day currently ranks as the 18th biggest percentage loss since the Dow's creation in 1896. This crash is considered a \"mini-crash\" because the percentage loss was relatively small compared to some other notable crashes. After the crash, the markets still remained positive for 1997, but the \"mini-crash\" may be considered as the beginning of the end of the 1990s economic boom in the United States and Canada, as both consumer confidence and economic growth were mildly reduced during the winter of 1997–98 (with neither being strongly affected, compared to the rest of the world), and when both returned to pre-October levels, they began to grow at an even slower pace than before the crash.\n\nThe crash started overnight in Asia as Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index fell 6%, although the most widely watched Asian market, Japan's Nikkei 225, only fell 2% on the day. The losses spread to the European markets, where London's FTSE 100 Index fell 98.90 points, or just about 2%, to 4,871.30. The Frankfurt DAX index fell sharply as well. The U.S. markets were widely expected to open lower for the day. The Dow, NASDAQ Composite and S&P 500 all declined for the entire session. At 2:36 pm, after falling 350 points, the Dow hit its first trading curb halt, which lasted 30 minutes. After that, stocks continued their immense slide, eventually hitting the second trading curb at 550 points, and trading ended at 3:35 pm. The second trading curb usually halts trading for one hour, but since there were only 25 minutes left in the session, the New York Stock Exchange simply ended trading early. Nasdaq trading continued until 4:00 p.m.\n\nThe decision of the NYSE to end trading early was controversial. Since the Dow hit the first trading curb at 350 points, its loss was only 4.54%. This was not nearly enough to justify halting trading, given that the Dow had fallen more than 4.5% in 11 different sessions between 1945 and 1997. Currently, the New York Stock Exchange sets the curbs at 10%, 20% and 30%, and determines how much these percentages are in point terms by where the Dow finishes at the end of the quarter.\n\nBy the end of the day, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 554.26 points, or 7.18%, to 7,161.15. Back then, this was the 12th biggest percentage loss and 3rd biggest point loss on record. The Nasdaq Composite fell 7%, or 115.41, to 1,535.51. The S&P 500 fell 64.63, or 6.86%, to 877.01. Several stock market analysts saw this crash as a \"correction\" to the overheated markets, which had doubled in value in 30 months. This crash put the Dow down 12% from its then-record high of 8,259 on August 6, but it still gained for the year. \n\nVolume also hit a record high. New York Stock Exchange volume topped 695 million shares, breaking the previous record of 684 million shares traded on January 23, 1997. Today, this volume is considered to be very low. $663 billion in market capitalization was wiped out.\n\nU.S. stock markets were widely expected to open lower for October 28 because the Asian markets fell even more than they had on the 27th. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index declined a staggering 14%. The Nikkei fell 4.26%. The U.S. stock markets initially continued their drop from the 27th but abruptly stabilized and began to climb. The Dow fell as many as 186 points by 10:06 am, and soon thereafter a rally started. By 10:20 am, the Dow was down only 25 points. Five minutes later, the Dow jumped back into positive territory and was up 50 points. Nine minutes later, at 10:34 am, the Dow made a triple-digit gain of 137.27 points. Stock prices continued to soar in choppy trading throughout the rest of the day\n\nAt the close of trading at 4:00 pm, the Dow finished with a then-record 337.17 point gain (recovering 61% of the previous day's loss) to close at 7,498.32. The market restored $384 billion of the $663 billion in market capitalization lost the previous day, and 1 billion shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange for the first time ever, with a volume of 1.21 billion shares. Currently, the volume is considered very low. The Nasdaq Composite also made a record gain on record volume by gaining 67.93 points to 1,603.02 and saw its first-ever 1-billion share day, with a volume of 1.23 billion shares.\n\nThis was not the first time the market had large losses followed by a sharp recovery. Here are a few other instances:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2087981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087981", "title": "Ammonium fluoride", "text": "Ammonium fluoride\n\nAmmonium fluoride is the inorganic compound with the formula NHF. It crystallizes as small colourless prisms, having a sharp saline taste, and is highly soluble in water.\n\nAmmonium fluoride adopts the wurtzite crystal structure, in which both the ammonium cations and the fluoride anions are stacked in ABABAB... layers, each being tetrahedrally surrounded by four of the other. There are N−H···F hydrogen bonds between the anions and cations. This structure is very similar to ice, and ammonium fluoride is the only substance which can form mixed crystals with water.\n\nOn passing hydrogen fluoride gas (in excess) through the salt, ammonium fluoride absorbs the gas to form the addition compound ammonium bifluoride. The reaction occurring is:\n\nIt sublimes when heated—a property common among ammonium salts. In the sublimation, the salt decomposes to ammonia and hydrogen fluoride, and the two gases can recombine to give ammonium fluoride, \"i.e.\" the reaction is reversible:\n\nThis substance is commonly called \"commercial ammonium fluoride\". The word \"neutral\" is sometimes added to \"ammonium fluoride\" to represent the neutral salt—[NH]F \"vs.\" the \"acid salt\" (NHHF). The acid salt is usually used in preference to the neutral salt in the etching of glass and related silicates. This property is shared among all soluble fluorides. For this reason it cannot be handled in glass test tubes or apparatus during laboratory work.\n\nIt is also used for preserving wood, as a mothproofing agent, in printing and dying textiles, and as an antiseptic in breweries.\n"}
{"id": "2087995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087995", "title": "Borommatrailokkanat", "text": "Borommatrailokkanat\n\nBorommatrailokkanat (, ) or Trailok (1431–1488) was the king of the Ayutthaya Kingdom from 1448 to 1488. He was one of many monarchs who gained the epithet \"King of White Elephants\" (). He was the first Thai king to possess a \"noble\" or white elephant, which, according to Hindu belief, was a \"glorious and happy sign\". His reign was also known for a massive reforms of Thai bureaucracy and a successful campaign against Lan Na. He was also revered as one of the greatest monarchs of Thailand.\n\nPrince Ramesuan (not to be confused with King Ramesuan r. 1369–1370) was born in 1431 to King Borommarachathirat II or Chao Sam Phraya. Some authors claim that his mother was a princess of the Sukhothai Kingdom, daughter of Sai Lue Thai. According to historian Michael Vickery, however, this is not verifiable in historic sources and may be due to a misreading or misinterpretation of a chronicle. \n\nBe that as it may, Ramesuan was born at a time when the Kingdom of Sukhothai was increasingly tied to Ayutthaya, being under its suzerainty since 1412. When King Maha Thammaracha IV (Borommapan) of Sukhothai died in 1438, Borommaracha II of Ayutthaya annexed Sukhothai and installed his own son, then seven year old Prince Ramesuan, as viceroy \"(uparaja)\" of Sukhothai. When Ramesuan was 15 years old, the king sent him to Phitsanulok (which had replaced the city of Sukhothai as capital around 1430) to rule the former territories of Sukhothai which were now known as the \"northern cities\" \"(Mueang Nuea)\" and increase the control of the ruling family over them.\n\nBorommaracha II died in 1448, Prince Ramesuan was then crowned King Borommatrailokkanat of Ayutthaya, making a personal union between Sukhothai and Ayutthaya.\n\nBorommatrailokkanat reformed the Thai bureaucracy – the system lasted well into the 20th century. He separated civil and military officials, giving them titular ranks and feudal ranks to create the hierarchy of nobility, or life-nobles. He also established the mandalas: Inner Cities, Outer Cities, and Tributaries. He also stopped the tradition of appointing royal princes to govern cities, as they had always clashed with each other in times of succession. Borommatrailokkanat promulgated Ayutthayan Law in 1458.\n\nThe traditional ministries of Thailand—the \"Kalahom\" (predecessor of today's ministry of defence) and the \"Mahatthai\" (precursor of the ministry of interior)—were introduced by Borommatrailokkanat. Originally they were meant to serve as simultaneous military and civil Greater Officers of State for the north and south, respectively.\n\nAlso in his reign in 1454, the Thai royal and noble titles were first codified under the hierarchy system called \"sakdina\". Each subject was given a numerical ranking corresponding to the number of \"rai\" of land he was entitled to.\n\nBorommatrailokkanat adopted the position of Uparaja, translated as \"Deputy-King\", \"viceroy\" or \"underking\", usually held by the king's senior son, or full brother, or the sons of their queens, in an attempt to regularize the succession to the throne — a particularly difficult feat for a polygamous dynasty. In practice, there was inherent conflict between king and uparaja and frequent disputed successions. He appointed his eldest son Uparaja of Ayutthaya while he lived in Phitsanulok for twenty-five years, keeping Chiang Mai under control. Eventually, a younger son was made the Uparaja of Phitsanulok, junior to the Uparaja of Ayutthaya.\n\nIn 1468, Borommatrailokkanat adopted a mandala tributary system, and ranked the cities recognizing him as overlord. Phitsanulok and Nakhon Sri Thamarat were listed among the eight great first-rank cities (\"Phraya maha nakhon\"). The \"mueang\"s Sing, In and Phrom were downgraded to be the level of four cities () under Lopburi. Governors of first class towns were \"chao phraya\", second class were \"phraya\", third class were \"phra\", fourth class were \"luang\", fifth class were \"khun\", and sixth class were \"muen\".\n\nIn 1455, Borommatrailokkanat sent envoys to the Malacca Sultanate. The Thai had been suspicious of the sultanate since its conversion to Islam. The expedition was mentioned in Portuguese chronicles, written several years later, as not of great significance.\n\nYutthitthira, a Sukhothai royal and Boromtrailokkanat’s relative, was the king's close childhood friend. He himself had promised Yuttittira the title of uparaja. However, after Borommatrailokkanat’s reforms, Yuttittira ended up with the title of the Governor of Phichit. Yutthitthira then claimed to be the rightful king of Sukhothai.\n\nLan Na under Tilokkarat was so powerful that he led armies down south to subjugate Ayutthaya. In 1456, Yutthitthira sought Tilokkarat’s support and led the Lan Na armies to capture Sukhothai and proceeded further towards Ayutthaya. Borommatrailokkanat, however, led armies to successfully defeat Lan Na.\n\nTilokarat of \"mueang\" Chiang Mai, and Yutthitthira, governor of \"mueang\" Sawankhalok led the Lan Na armies to invade Ayutthaya but without achieving fruitful results and retreated. Trailokkanat then took this opportunity to retake Sukhothai. Borommatrailokkanat, upon seeing the seriousness of the wars, made Phitsanulok his base, moving the capital from Ayutthaya.\nBorommatrailokkanat, accompanied by more than 2000 followers, was the first Thai king to be ordained as a Buddhist monk. The ordination took place at Wat Chulamani, Phitsanulok, in 1461.\n\nIn 1463, Lan Na invaded again. Borommatrailokkanat sent his son, Prince Intharacha, to crush the invading armies. Indraracha defeated Yutthitthira but was killed during battles against Nagara, Tilokkarat’s uncle. However, Lan Na was plunged by her own internal princely conflicts. In 1474, Borommatrailokkanat finally expelled Lan Na out of Ayutthaya territories. The next year, Tilokarat sought peace settlements.\n\nIn Phitsanulok, Borommatrailokkanat ordered the establishment of new temples as well as the restoration of existing older ones. He ordered the construction of a cetiya and other buildings at Wat Ratchaburana, Phitsanulok, for example.\n\nIn 1485, Borommatrailokkanat appointed his son Prince Chaiyachettha (later Ramathibodi II) as the \"Uparaja\" and King of Sukhothai. The title \"King of Sukhothai\" then became a title for Ayutthayan Crown Prince. However, upon Borommatrailokkanat's death in 1488, his two sons inherited the two kingdoms, thus separating the union once again.\n\nAmong the institutions named for Borommatrailokkanat include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2087999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2087999", "title": "Ammonium iodide", "text": "Ammonium iodide\n\nAmmonium iodide is the chemical compound NHI. It is used in photographic chemicals and some medications. It can be prepared by the action of hydroiodic acid on ammonia. It is easily soluble in water, from which it crystallizes in cubes. It is also soluble in ethanol. It gradually turns yellow on standing in moist air, owing to decomposition with liberation of iodine.\n\nAmmonium iodide can be made in lab by reacting ammonia or ammonium hydroxide with hydroiodic acid or hydrogen iodide gas:\n\nIt is also formed by the decomposition of ammoniated triiodoamine (an explosive).\n"}
{"id": "2088013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088013", "title": "Barquentine (Gormenghast)", "text": "Barquentine (Gormenghast)\n\nBarquentine is a fictional character in Mervyn Peake's \"Gormenghast\" series. He is the son of Sourdust, the Master of Ritual of Gormenghast Castle. He is a one-legged, hunchbacked dwarf with a bitter, vicious personality; he never washes, he dresses in filthy rags, and his hair and beard are long, tangled, and dirty. He is frequently taunted by the castle's children, who sing \"Rotten leg, rotten spine - ya! ya! Barquentine!\"\n\nWhen he appears in the first book, Barquentine is 74 years old, and lives a hermitic existence in an obscure tract of the castle. He takes on the hereditary office of Master of Ritual following the death of his father, and accepts Steerpike as his assistant. In the second book, \"Gormenghast\", he is murdered by Steerpike, who takes over the post of Master of Ritual.\n"}
{"id": "2088015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088015", "title": "Craig Wedren", "text": "Craig Wedren\n\nCraig Benjamin Wedren (born August 15, 1969) is an American singer-songwriter, musician and composer, who began his career fronting post-hardcore band Shudder to Think. Following the disbandment of Shudder to Think, Wedren pursued a career as a television and film music composer, as well as releasing solo material.\n\nWedren began his career as the singer and primary songwriter for Washington, DC-based Shudder to Think, a band that started out in the hardcore music scene, only to challenge the aesthetics and limitations of this then-emerging musical genre. After breaking indie music tradition by signing with Epic Records (Sony Music), Shudder to Think released three major label albums including their opus \"Pony Express Record\". Shudder to Think toured widely with bands like Smashing Pumpkins, Fugazi, and Pearl Jam, and their videos were featured in regular rotation on MTV. At the peak of their career, a battle with Hodgkin's Disease grounded Wedren and the band, but following successful treatments Shudder to Think returned with a new goal in mind – to create music for film. With Shudder to Think, Wedren scored the independent films \"First Love Last Rites\", and \"High Art\", and contributed music to the film \"Velvet Goldmine\". Shortly after making the transition to film work, the band dissolved their partnership, and Wedren continued his dual career as both film composer and solo artist.\n\nAs a composer, Wedren has scored a host of popular feature films including \"Wanderlust\", \"Role Models\", \"School of Rock\", \"Wet Hot American Summer\", \"\", \"Laurel Canyon\", \"\", \"Roger Dodger\", \"The Baxter\", and \"Boxers and Ballerinas\". Wedren has also written and performed music for the television shows \"Hung\", \"United States of Tara\", \"Reno 911!\", \"Stella\", \"The State\", \"The Whitest Kids U' Know\", \"Dawson's Creek\", \"Bones\" and \"Don't Trust the B---- in Apartment 23\".\n\nIn 2004 Wedren released a recording by his band BABY, which was in an electronic dance vein, but distinguished by glam and pop sensibilities.\n\nWhile continuing to grow creatively and commercially as a composer, Wedren has also developed a career as a solo artist. In 2005 he released his first solo album \"Lapland\" on the Team Love label, after which he toured supporting Foo Fighters, and Greg Dulli of Afghan Whigs. In September 2011, Wedren released \"Wand\". To accompany the release of \"Wand\", Wedren toured the United States with Chris Cornell, and he worked with director Tim Nackashi to create a series of 360-degree interactive videos.\n\nIn 2012, Wedren re-released recordings by his band BABY. The release included previously unreleased demos, and mixes, as well as a mixed tape which includes covers, and other unreleased material.\n\nWedren has also contributed vocals to the musical act Tweaker with Chris Vrenna, formerly of Nine Inch Nails, The Verve Pipe's self-titled album, the musical act Cex, The Dead Science's album \"Villainaire\" and \"Someone To Run Away From\" with Pocket, Jherek Bischoff, and a Fleetwood Mac cover with St. Vincent on Fleetwood Mac Tribute record \"Just Tell Me That You Want Me.\"\n\nWedren wrote the theme for and was a regular extra on MTV's \"The State\" and was close friends with many members of the show. Wedren also played a part in 2009's \"I Love You, Man\" as a member of the wedding band, as well a role in David Wain's 2012 film \"Wanderlust\".\n\nWedren also wrote and performed the title track for the movie Balls of Fury. Additionally, he wrote the song \"Bondage\" for the movie soundtrack.\nWedren was diagnosed with Hodgkin's Lymphoma in 1997. He successfully fought the disease and, after several years of treatments, remains in remission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088017", "title": "David Ushery", "text": "David Ushery\n\nDavid Ushery (born June 5, 1967) is an American television news anchor at WNBC News 4 New York, NBC’s flagship owned and operated station. Ushery co-anchors the 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. newscasts. An integral member of the NBC 4 New York News team, Ushery has covered many of the largest and most visible breaking news stories across the Tri-State region and around the world - including the terror attacks in Manchester, England, Orlando Florida and Paris France.\n\nUshery was born and raised in Bloomfield, Connecticut, the only child of Solomon Ushery and Winifred Ushery. The journalism bug bit early.\n\nAt age 11, Ushery was selected from a statewide search to host the local edition of “Kidsworld,” a nationally syndicated television show. One of his early interviews was with the late Walter Cronkite, the former CBS News anchor once ranked as the most trusted man in America. In what could be considered a prescient scene from that interview, young Ushery sits at the anchor desk. He asked Cronkite, “What kind of person should be a newscaster?” \n\nCronkite responded that a person should have a sense of curiosity. Ushery has said of the interview: “Many have asked if I think that's when the seed was planted for me to become a television reporter and anchor. I say, YES.” Connecticut audiences would see Ushery grow up on television. He hosted “Kidsworld” until he was 18.\nUshery graduated from the University of Connecticut with a double-major in Political Science and Journalism. While at the university he was a staff writer for the Hartford Courant newspaper, where he honed his skills for covering local politics and events. He also reported for the Los Angeles Times. The CBS affiliate in Hartford, WFSB-TV, hired Ushery right after his graduation for its training program. But recognizing his talent, the station offered him a full-time general assignment reporting position within just a matter of months.\n\nAs the lead reporter for WFSB’s 11pm broadcast, Ushery covered many stories impacting the everyday lives of the citizens of Connecticut’s capital city. But one of these stories made an indelible impression on Ushery: the night he and his photographer spent with residents of New Britain who were being terrorized by arsonists. Within two years of starting at the station, Ushery traveled to Moscow after the fall of the Soviet Union for a story on policing. The overseas trip would become the first of many in Ushery’s career, as news directors recognized his talent for covering international stories.\nIn 1993, at the age of 25, Ushery was recruited by WABC-TV in New York City to join its staff as a general assignment reporter, covering news for the number one station in the top market in the nation.\nSince then, Ushery has been a familiar face to New York City viewers reporting on the city’s tragedies and triumphs.\n\nHe was part of the station’s coverage of the police investigations into the shooting death of Amadou Diallo and the torture of Abner Louima, the deaths of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and John F. Kennedy, Jr. and September 11th terrorist attacks. He was on the team of reporters for WABC’s extended coverage of the celebrations for the Yankees World Series wins and the installation of Edward Cardinal Egan to lead New York City’s Archdiocese.\n\nWABC also sent Ushery on the road to cover world events including multiple reports from Haiti on the island’s political unrest, Pope John Paul II’s visits to Africa and Toronto, and the United Nation’s conference on racism in South Africa. \nThree years after arriving at WABC, Ushery was named anchor of a new weekend show, “Eyewitness News This Morning.” He also anchored the weekday morning newscasts and the news at noon. Ushery was later named primary fill-in for the legendary anchor, the late Bill Beutel. Ushery spent 10 years at WABC. \nIn 2003, he joined WNBC-TV to become the anchor of its highly rated morning newscast, \"Weekend Today in New York.\" The show's format of hard news and features, interviews and sports, allowed Ushery to display his versatility as a newsman. One year later, Ushery was also named anchor of WNBC's weekend 6pm and 11pm newscasts. These simultaneous appointments made Ushery in effect \"the face\" of WNBC during the weekend, anchoring all the station's morning and evening newscasts on Saturday and Sunday. \nIn 2006, Ushery was named co-anchor of WNBC's iconic \"Live at 5\" program, alongside legendary anchor Sue Simmons. After a change of programming, Ushery returned to anchor the weekend broadcasts for \"News 4 New York.\" \n\nAs an anchor at WNBC, he has steered coverage of some of the most memorable events in recent memory. In 2018, Ushery traveled to Houston, Texas to deliver live updates following the funeral of former President George H.W. Bush. Earlier that year, Ushery traveled to Jerusalem where he took Tri-State viewers to the opening of the new United States Embassy. He also took viewers to the front lines in Gaza and the West Bank, where massive protests led to confrontations with police. One year earlier, Ushery traveled to Israel to cover President Trump's visit to the Holy Land before quickly shifting his live reports to England, following the tragic bombing outside the Manchester sports arena.\n\nIn June, 2016, Ushery traveled to Orlando to cover the tragic Pulse Nightclub shooting. One year prior, he reported from Paris following the city's deadly terrorist attacks. He also provided live coverage following the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting in 2012, the miraculous emergency landing of US Airways Flight 1549 in the Hudson River in 2009 as well as multiple presidential elections. He made also made several trips to Rome to cover the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI; the 2013 papal conclave electing Pope Francis, the current Pope of the Catholic Church and the canonizations of Popes John Paul II and John XXIII.\n\nUshery has also represented NBC Universal in national initiatives. He hosted the network's special program on its switch to digital in 2009, as well as \"Going Green at Any Age,\" which examined ways to help the environment.\n\nIn 2009, Ushery conceived and launched “The Debrief with David Ushery,” which has been called a must-watch program \nthat was nominated for a 2011 Emmy Award. The weekly, half-hour broadcast gives viewers a unique perspective on important current events. According to the show's opening lines, “Eight million stories in the naked city. And chances are you can only keep up with a fraction of them during your hectic day. Give us just a few minutes then to bring you up to speed on What New Yorkers are talking about.”\n\nUshery takes a high-energy, unscripted approach for his interviews with reporters and newsmakers. Viewers are meant to feel part of the conversation about major stories. The show has garnered attention and praise for breaking boundaries and challenging long-held tenets of being an anchor. In “The Debrief,” Ushery doesn't sit behind an anchor desk but rather moves freely around the News 4 newsroom, giving viewers a behind-the-scenes look at the operation. He also often goes tie-less, an informal look he sometimes wears when he anchors the more traditional evening newscasts. Ushery was noted for boldly venturing into uncharted territory for not wearing a tie.\n\nThe no tie-look also caught the attention of other media, including the New York Times and NBC “Nightly News” Anchor Brian Williams, who during a holiday television appearance with Ushery joked that viewers should consider giving Ushery a necktie. Even then-New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, at the annual Gracie Mansion holiday party for the press, called Ushery to the podium saying he “was really excited by ‘The Debrief,’ your new show about New York.” The Mayor also remarked that Ushery seemed a “little underdressed.” Bloomberg whipped off his own tie and presented it to Ushery as a gift.\n\nIn 2010, after a “Debrief” segment featuring blogging New York City mothers, Ushery developed and launched a spin-off program. “Moms and the City and a Dad named David,” features Ushery and three mothers offering a straightforward look at life in the city from a parent's point of view. Ushery has said the fourth mother on the program is New York City. The program airs on WNBC's New York Nonstop cable channel.\n\nDuring his long career in New York City, Ushery has been recognized for his contributions to the community. \nIn 1993, he won an award from the National Association of Black Journalists for his series of reports on children and violence. \nIn 1999, The Network Journal, the Black Professionals and Small Business Magazine, named Ushery as one of its “40 Under-Forty” for his significant accomplishments. In 2000, the Israeli Consulate in New York City honored Ushery for his dedicated reporting. And in 2010, Ushery was honored as a recipient of McDonald's Faces of Black History Award.\n\nUshery is married to TV producer Isabel Rivera. The couple has one son.\n"}
{"id": "2088021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088021", "title": "Whirled Peas", "text": "Whirled Peas\n\nWhirled Peas was a surf music band formed in 1992, in Austin, Texas, USA. Its name was taken from a bumper sticker reading \"Visualize World Peace\", which they twisted into \"Visualize Whirled Peas\". This led to bumper stickers with this phrase on it instead. The band released two albums in the mid-1990s, and played the Austin music scene before breaking up in 1996.\n\nMembers of the band first met at an Austin apartment complex in summer 1992. Robert Hembrook had just finished his service in the Army and was moving into Sandstone Apartments east of the University of Texas campus. George Pestana was living in the apartment complex and offered to help Hembrook move in. Part of Hembrook's belongings included a bass guitar and amplifier. Pestana mentioned that he was a drummer and that he knew a guitarist, Christoph Borst. Pestana suggested they all meet up to play and start a band. Hembrook had access to the Geology 100 Lecture hall on the ampus, so that became their rehearsal space through late 1992. The style favored more metal, led by Borst. These early efforts, along with attempts to add a second guitarist, did not gel, so Borst suggested the rhythm section continue with another guitarist, Ted James, who might fit better stylistically.\n\nJames started his first band, Rattletrap, in 1992, playing bass guitar. He moved to Austin in October 1992 from Huntsville, Alabama. He was a huge fan of surf music, a style made popular in the 1960-1965 time frame by artists such as Duane Eddy, The Ventures and Dick Dale and the Deltones.\n\nJames brought several arrangements to the band, and they began working on such tunes as Dick Dale's \"Misirlou\". Coincidentally, that tune was used to open Quentin Tarantino's movie \"Pulp Fiction\". The band hoped that releasing it as a single would lead to some local success, but initial cassette and vinyl releases were met with little fanfare.\n\nJames was the songwriting force behind the band, bringing in the basic chord sheets and working out leads. Hembrook and Pestana arranged their own parts. Hembrook took on the role of frontman, introducing the songs and providing chatter between songs, while changing instruments or tuning, etc.\n\nStudio work began on the first recording. This was released on cassette in 1993 as \"Visualize Me Baby!\". The recording was done by Hembrook, using rented equipment in a spacious North Austin practice space. The initial run of cassettes was sold at local gigs and attempts were made to sell them through local indie record stores.\n\nIn 1994, the band went to Snooty Fox Studios in South Austin to record ten songs for what became \"War and Peas\". \"War and Peas\" was recorded on 16 track ADAT, with 4 tracks for drums, one each for bass guitar and guitar (dry) with additional tracks open for guitar effects and vocals. Jennifer Summers was featured on a vocal arrangement of the Daniel Johnston song \"Walking the Cow\". This song, along with the REM cover \"White Tornado\" and Whirled Peas original \"Loungitude\", appeared on a compilation album mainly of songs originally by The Replacements called \"The Fans Hit Back\" in 1994.\n\nReviews of the Whirled Peas portions of the tape were favorable. Mark Timmins, in \"The Skyway\" e-zine, wrote, \"Ted feels that since his band Whirled Peas performs primarily sans vocalist, and that since every band covers an REM song at least once during their career, they thought they should record \"White Tornado.\" Whirled Peas' rendition of this instrumental by the band from Georgia is included. \"Driver 8\" without vocals just wouldn't cut it, I guess... Their proclivity toward instrumentals notwithstanding, the band also offer up a rendition of the Daniel Johnston classic \"Walking the Cow,\" featuring Jenifer Sanders on vocals. A Whirled Peas original, \"Loungitude,\" rounds out the roster of their songs included on this tape. I get nightclub jitters just listening to it.\n\n\"War & Peas\" did not sell well in the blues-dominated Austin music scene. Whirled Peas continued to gig in Austin, supporting various members of the instrumental/surf/ska-punk scene. They had showcases at an out of the way venue during SXSW, and had opening gigs for a number of similar instrumental and rockabilly bands.\n\nJames and Hembrook also played with the short-lived Austin \"supergroup\" called Selma, which made a recording of the Uncle Tupelo song \"New Madrid\".\n\nIn March 1995, Pestana moved to Dallas. James and Hembrook decided to give up. James went on to found instrumental bands such as Squid Vicious, Johnny Vortex and The Nematoads. Hembrook and Pestana reunited in 1998 to form the rhythm section of Id, Ego, Superego which played South By Southwest in 1998 and broke up soon after. Pestana later played on and off with James, and currently drums with The Nematoads.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088025", "title": "Ammonium chlorate", "text": "Ammonium chlorate\n\nAmmonium chlorate is an inorganic compound with the formula NHClO.\n\nIt is obtained by neutralizing chloric acid with either ammonia or ammonium carbonate, or by precipitating barium, strontium or calcium chlorates with ammonium carbonate or ammonium sulfate, producing the respective carbonate or sulfate precipitate and an ammonium chlorate solution. Ammonium chlorate crystallizes in small needles, readily soluble in water.\n\nThe bitartrate method is a candidate for production and can be used if exotic chlorates are currently inaccessible or need to be synthesized. Warm solutions of potassium chlorate and ammonium bitartrate are needed in warm solutions. The latter can be synthesized by adding aqueous ammonia to an excess of tartaric acid. Then, a double displacement reaction will result in precipitation of potassium bitartrate.\n\nOn heating, ammonium chlorate decomposes at about 102 °C, with liberation of nitrogen, chlorine and oxygen. It is soluble in dilute aqueous alcohol, but insoluble in strong alcohol. This compound is a powerful oxidizer and should never be stored with flammable materials, as it can easily form sensitive explosive compositions.\n\nAmmonium chlorate is a very unstable oxidizer and will decompose independently, sometimes violently, at room temperature. This results from the mixture of the reducing ammonium cation and the oxidizing chlorate anion. Even solutions are known to be unstable. Because of the dangerous nature of this salt it should only be kept in solution when needed, and never be allowed to crystallize.\n\nIt can be made by mixing a solution of ammonium nitrate with sodium chlorate or ammonium sulfate and barium chlorate.\n"}
{"id": "2088039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088039", "title": "P250", "text": "P250\n\nP250 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2088040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088040", "title": "Hugh Rodham (born 1911)", "text": "Hugh Rodham (born 1911)\n\nHugh Ellsworth Rodham (April 2, 1911 – April 7, 1993) was an American businessman, who was the father of former First Lady of the United States, United States Senator from New York, United States Secretary of State, and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.\n\nRodham was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, the son of Hugh Rodham (1879–1965) and Hannah Jones (1882–1952). His parents were either from or parentally from the United Kingdom – his father emigrated from Oxhill, County Durham, England, the son of a coal miner, while his mother was born in Pennsylvania, to immigrant parents from Wales, one of whom was from Merthyr Tydfil; she was also descended from coal miner parents.\n\nRodham attended Pennsylvania State University and was a third-string tight end for the Penn State Nittany Lions football team. He joined the Delta Upsilon fraternity. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in physical education from the College of Education in 1935, at the height of the Great Depression.\n\nHe briefly worked for his father's employer, Scranton Lace Company, then freighthopped to Chicago without telling his parents. Rodham found work there selling drapery fabrics around the Midwest, sending the money he made back home.\n\nIn World War II Rodham served in the United States Navy. He became a Chief Petty Officer stationed at the Great Lakes Naval Station, performing training duties for sailors headed for the Pacific Ocean theater of World War II. After the war, he established a successful career in the textile supply industry, starting with Rodrik Fabrics, a drapery fabric business located in Chicago's famous Merchandise Mart building. His company made draperies and window shades; customers included offices, hotels, airlines, and theaters. He later opened a fabric print plant building on the North Side. The couple lived in the Edgewater neighborhood of Chicago.\n\nRodham entered politics once. Hoping to work his way into favor with the Cook County Democratic Party political machine in order to capitalize on a downtown investment he had made, he ran for Chicago alderman as a Democratic-leaning independent in 1947. The contest, held in Chicago's 49th Ward, was won by Frank Keenan, a Democratic ward committeeman running on the regular Democratic line, with 17,073 votes; a Republican, Joseph Reubens, finished second with 5,509 votes. Rodham finished fifth out of eight candidates with only 382 votes, or 1.5 percent of the total votes cast. According to some family members, this episode led to his strong dislike of the Democratic Party for the rest of his life.\n\nRodham was a staunch supporter of Barry Goldwater's 1964 presidential campaign and remained a committed Republican until his death. Even after his daughter married Democrat Bill Clinton, he (according to Bill Clinton) \"never gave up hope that his son-in-law would join him in the Republican Party and support a cut in the capital gains tax.\" In late 1992, following son-in-law Bill Clinton's election as president, Rodham made a cameo appearance on the television comedy \"Hearts Afire\", whose producers were friends of the Clintons.\n\nIn 1937, while Rodham was making a sales call at a textile company, he met Dorothy Emma Howell (1919–2011), who was applying for a job at that company. After a lengthy courtship, they married in early 1942. The Rodhams had three children: Hillary (born 1947), Hugh (born 1950), and Tony (born 1954). In 1950, they moved to the more affluent Chicago suburb of Park Ridge, Illinois. The family still maintained ties to Scranton: all three children were christened there, and they spent summers in a rural region that overlooks Lake Winola, located in Overfield Township in the Endless Mountains area of Pennsylvania. staying in a cottage that in 1921, Hugh and his father had built themselves.\n\nHugh Rodham died in Little Rock, Arkansas, on April 7, 1993, three weeks after suffering a stroke and less than three months after Bill Clinton's inauguration as 42nd President of the United States. Following a private memorial service in Little Rock attended by the Clintons, he was buried in the Washburn Street Cemetery in his native Scranton, Pennsylvania, in a private funeral also attended by the Clinton family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088047", "title": "Lincoln Home National Historic Site", "text": "Lincoln Home National Historic Site\n\nLincoln Home National Historic Site preserves the Springfield, Illinois home and a historic district where Abraham Lincoln lived from 1844 to 1861, before becoming the 16th President of the United States. The presidential memorial includes the four blocks surrounding the home and a visitor center.\n\nIn 1837, Lincoln moved to Springfield from New Salem at the start of his law career. He met his wife, Mary Todd, at her sister's home in Springfield and married there in 1842.\n\nThe historic-site house at 413 South Eighth Street at the corner of Jackson Street, bought by Lincoln and his wife in 1844, was the only home that Lincoln ever owned. Three of their children were born there and one, Eddie, died there. The house contains twelve rooms spread over two floors. During the time he lived here, Lincoln was elected to the House of Representatives in 1846, and elected President in 1860.\n\nLincoln's son, Robert Todd Lincoln donated the family home to the State of Illinois in 1887 under the condition that it would forever be well maintained and open to the public at no charge. This came as a result of tenants who would charge those who wanted to visit Lincoln's home and that many tenants tended to leave the home in disrepair. The home and Lincoln Tomb, also in Springfield, were designated National Historic Landmarks on December 19, 1960, and automatically listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966. The home and adjacent district became a National Historic Site on August 18, 1971 and is owned and administered by the National Park Service. It is one of two National Park Service properties in Illinois.\nAlong with the Lincoln Home, several other structures within the four-block area are also preserved. All the homes have been restored to their appearance during the time Lincoln lived in the neighborhood. Two of these structures, the Dean House and the Arnold House, are open to visitors and house exhibits on the life and times of Lincoln and his neighbors. In total, the buildings included in the park occupy .Lincoln’s first son was born in 1843, the year before the house was bought by the Lincolns. The article erroneously states all four sons were born there.\n\nNearby in Springfield is the Old State Capitol where Lincoln served as a State Legislator, the building which housed the law offices of Lincoln and his partner William Herndon from 1844 until 1852, and the Lincoln Depot from which Lincoln left the city for his 1861 inauguration.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088073", "title": "Gift (law)", "text": "Gift (law)\n\nA gift, in the law of property, is the voluntary transfer of property from one person (the donor or grantor) to another (the donee or grantee) without full valuable consideration. In order for a gift to be legally effective, three requirements must be met:\n\nThe donor of the gift must have a present intent to make a gift of the property to the donee. A promise to make a gift in the future is unenforceable, and legally meaningless, even if the promise is accompanied by a present transfer of the physical property in question.\n\nSuppose, for example, that a man gives a woman a ring and tells her that it is for her next birthday and to hold on to it until then. The man has not made a gift, and could legally demand the ring back at any time before the woman's birthday. In contrast, suppose a man gives a woman a deed and tells her it will be in her best interest if the deed stays in his safe-deposit box. The man has made a gift and would be unable to legally reclaim it.\n\nThe gift must be delivered to the donee. If the gift is of a type that cannot be delivered in the conventional sense - a house, or a bank account - the delivery can be effected by a \"constructive delivery\", wherein a tangible item allowing access to the gift - a deed or key to the house, a passbook for the bank account - is delivered instead. \"Symbolic delivery\" is also sometimes permissible where manual delivery is impractical, such as the delivery of a key that does not open anything, but is intended to symbolize the transfer of ownership.\n\nCertain forms of property must be transferred following particular formalities described by statute law. In England, real property must be transferred by a written deed. The transfer of equitable interests must be performed in writing by the owner or their agent.\n\nA gift is assumed when property owner deeds real estate as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. Regardless of contribution to purchase price, such a deed guarantees each tenant equal shares upon sale or partition of the property.\n\nThe donee must accept the gift in order for the property transfer to take place. However, because people generally accept gifts, acceptance will be presumed, so long as the donee does not expressly reject the gift. A rejection of the gift destroys the gift, so that a donee cannot revive a once-rejected gift by later accepting it. In order for such an acceptance to be effective, the donor would have to extend the offer of the gift again.\n\nGifts can be either:\n\n\n\nGifts can also be:\n\nConditional gifts can be revoked based on (1) donee not fulfilling the conditions (2) breach of contract by donor such as an engagement ring and in this case, the donee keeps the gift.\n\nIn India, previously there was Gift Tax Act under which donor had to pay the gift tax on the amount of gift. However, the said Act has been abolished and from FY 2004-05, a new provision was inserted in the Income Tax Act (1961) under section 56 (2) which provides that if the gift is received by an individual or Hindu undivided family from any relatives or blood relatives or at the time of marriage or as inheritance or in contemplation of death, it will not be taxable. In all other cases if the aggregagte of gifts received exceeds Rs 50,000 in a year, the gift will be taxable as income from other source.\n\nGifts into a trust above a certain value (known as the nil rate band which is currently £325,000 but this limit may be reduced by certain gifts made in the last 7 years) are generally subject to inheritance tax in the United Kingdom though at the reduced rate of inheritance tax of 20% rather than the full rate of 40%. There are certain reliefs that may apply to reduce or eliminate the IHT due including business property relief and agricultural property relief. Gifts to individuals are generally not subject to inheritance tax unless the donor dies within 7 years of the date of the gift. There is anti-avoidance legislation to prevent assets being gifted but with the donor retaining a benefit from the asset (for example the gift of the main residence while continuing to live in it will be ineffective from an IHT perspective unless market value rent is charged). Gifts in life may be a way to circumvent inheritance tax on death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088074", "title": "Golden Temple Mail", "text": "Golden Temple Mail\n\nThe 12903/12904 Golden Temple Mail is a Superfast express train belonging to Indian Railways that runs daily between Mumbai Central (BCT) and Amritsar in Punjab. The train ran as the Frontier Mail between 1928 and 1996, ferrying passengers arriving by Steamer from Europe directly from Ballard Pier in Bombay to the city of Peshawar on India's North-West Frontier before the Partition of India.\n\nIt operates as train number 12903 from Mumbai Central to Amritsar Junction and as train number 12904 in the reverse direction.It is named after the famous golden Temple in amritsar\n\nThe Golden Temple Mail was until September 1996 known as Frontier Mail. Prior the Partition of India, it would run up to Peshawar on British India's frontier with Afghanistan from which it derived its name. During the autumn months between September and December, the train used to depart from the Ballard Pier Mole station. This was for the convenience of the British who arrived in India by steamer. The Frontier Mail also finds a place in romanticised biographies of film actor Prithviraj Kapoor who is believed to have travelled to Bombay from his hometown of Peshawar by the Frontier Mail in 1928 to act in films. \"Hunterwali\", probably India's first action heroine, has acted in the film Miss Frontier Mail. The \"Frontier Mail\" was the first air conditioned train in the Indian Peninsula, when it got an air-conditioned compartment in 1934. The radio facility was provided for the first time in the Golden Temple Mail.\n\nThe 12903/04 Golden Temple Mail has 1 AC First Cum AC 2 Tier, 2 AC 2 tier, 6 AC 3 tier, 8 Sleeper Class, 2 General unreserved coaches, 2 General cum baggage coaches. It also has 1 Railway Mail service coach, 1 Pantry car & 1 High Capacity Parcel Van.\n\nThe Golden Temple Mail runs between Mumbai Central and Amritsar Junction. It is a daily service covering the distance of 1891 km in 32 hours 15 mins as 12903 Golden Temple Mail averaging 58.64 km/hr & 31 hours 55 mins as 12904 Golden Temple Mail averaging 59.25 km/hr.\nThe Down Frontier Mail, from Bombay side, with a load of 13 coaches, entered Fateh Singhpura Station on the loop line which was already occupied by No. 1118 up goods train, and collided with it The two coaches next to the engine of the Frontier Mail remained on he line undamaged, the third, a II class bogie coach, derailed, and the fourth, also a II class bogie coach, telescoped into the former. The fifth coach remained on the line but was slightly damaged, and the remaining 8 coaches remained on the line undamaged. The engines of the two trains and goods wagons are reported to have suffered hardly any damage. One, Shri Shiv Charan Singh, retired Principal oi Government College, Rupar, a II class passenger in the third coach, unfortunately died, and thirty-four other passengers holding different classes of tickets received minor injuries. \n\nEarlier Dual traction WCAM 2/2P locos would haul the train between Mumbai Central and Vadodara after which a Vadodara based WAP 4 would take over until Amritsar.\n\nSince Western Railways completed DC Electric Conversion to AC on 5 February 2012, it is now regularly hauled by a Vadodara based WAP 4E to Amritsar Junction.\n\nThe service traverses through via , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .\n\n"}
{"id": "2088077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088077", "title": "David B. Sullivan", "text": "David B. Sullivan\n\nDavid B. Sullivan (born June 6, 1953 in Fall River, Massachusetts) was a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, representing the 6th Bristol District. He is a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nHe is a graduate of Bristol Community College and Southeastern Massachusetts University, and completed his graduate studies at Bridgewater State College. He was a member of the Fall River City Council from 1992 to 1997, served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1997 to 2013, and he was the executive director of the Fall River Housing Authority from 2013 until his retirement in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "2088078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088078", "title": "Fascism Today", "text": "Fascism Today\n\nFascism Today: A World Survey is a book by the historian Angelo Del Boca, writing with Mario Giovana. It is a survey of radical right-wing movements, from the roots of fascism to a present-day (1960s) country-by-country discussion.\n\nIt was originally published in Milan, Italy as \"I \"figli del sole\"\" () by Feltrinelli Editore in 1965. Translated, from the Italian, by R. H. Boothroyd, it was first published in English, in a 532-page hardcover, by Pantheon Books in 1969. Heinemann in London republished it in 1970.\n"}
{"id": "2088084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088084", "title": "Robert Engler", "text": "Robert Engler\n\nRobert Engler (July 12, 1922 – February 23, 2007) was an American professor emeritus of political science at the City University of New York (and other colleges and universities) and a writer of numerous essays and books on the subject. He was most outspoken regarding the Western world's dependence on oil, a subject on which he wrote two books, \"The Politics of Oil\" (1961) and \"The Brotherhood of Oil\" (1977). Engler also wrote numerous essays on an array of subjects for various journals and magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088092", "title": "Mondello Park", "text": "Mondello Park\n\nMondello Park is Ireland's only international motorsport venue located in Caragh, County Kildare off the R409 regional road, approximately from Dublin city centre.\n\nIt is owned by Martin Birrane family, and had been designed by Stuart Cosgrave. \n\nCurrently, Irish Car Championship, Rallycross, kart and Dunlop Masters Superbike Championship racing events take place. In the past Mondello Park hosted the Irish round of the British Superbike Championship, British Touring Car Championship, British GT Championship and the British Formula Three Championship. International Pickup Truck Racing, GT and historic car racing events also have taken place.\n\nThe biggest Irish circuit racing events, Formula Vee Festival and Leinster Trophy take place in Mondollo Park every year. Other recurring motorsport events include drifting championship, Jap-Fest, Ireland's only Japanese car show, Historic Festival, historic car show and racing event. Mondello Park Racing School is on-site. General public car and motorbike circuit track days are organised. A small museum containing a number of rally and track cars from the past 30 or so years is also on-site.\n\nThe 2019 motor racing season at Mondello Park consisted of car racing days, 6 rallycross racing days, 7 drift days and 26 motorcycle racing days. Formula Vee Festival took place on 13-14 of July, and Leinster Trophy on 14-15 of September.\n\nIn the 2020 motor racing season Mondello Park hosts 16 car racing days, 7 rallycross racing days, 12 drift days and 14 motorbike racing days. It will accommodate the biggest annual Irish motorsport events Formula Vee Festival on 11-12 of July, and Leinster Trophy on 12-13 of September.\n\nIt was established in 1968. Following investment and development in 1999/2000, the circuit was awarded FIA International status in 2001.\n\nSituated on 110 acres the facility incorporates 3.5 km of race track, 24 race garages and 12 Hospitality Suites. It is host to National and International Race events, Motor Shows, Car & Bike Track days, Training Schools and Corporate Events.\n\nThe Circuit also has 3 km of extreme off-road driving trails and a 5-acre off-road activities centre and the Museum of Motorsport.\n\nThis racetrack appears in the videogames \"\" \",\"GT Legends\" and \"TOCA Race Driver 3\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2088095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088095", "title": "IJCAI Computers and Thought Award", "text": "IJCAI Computers and Thought Award\n\nThe IJCAI Computers and Thought Award is presented every two years by the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), recognizing outstanding young scientists in artificial intelligence. It was originally funded with royalties received from the book \"Computers and Thought\" (edited by Edward Feigenbaum and Julian Feldman), and is currently funded by IJCAI.\n\nIt is considered to be \"the premier award for artificial intelligence researchers under the age of 35\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088101", "title": "Jean-Marie Villot", "text": "Jean-Marie Villot\n\nJean-Marie Villot (11 October 1905 – 9 March 1979) was a French prelate and Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church who served as Archbishop of Lyon from 1965 to 1967, Prefect of the Congregation for the Clergy from 1967 to 1969, Vatican Secretary of State from 1969 to 1979, and Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church from 1970 to 1979. He was made a cardinal in 1965.\n\nHe was born on 11 October 1905 in Saint-Amant-Tallende, Puy-de-Dôme, to Joseph and Marie (née Laville) Villot; he was an only child. Before serving in the military until 2 August 1924, he studied for the priesthood in Riom, Clermont, and Lyon. He became a Marist novice on 7 September 1925, but left the order three months later. He then studied at the Catholic Institute of Paris and the Pontifical Athenaeum \"Angelicum\" in Rome, where he earned a licentiate in canon law and a doctorate in sacred theology in 1934 with a thesis entitled \"Le pape Nicolas II et le décret de 1059 sur l'élection pontificale\".\n\nHe was ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of Paris on 19 April 1930 by Archbishop Alfred-Henri-Marie Baudrillart, rector of the Institut Catholique. From 1931 to 1934, he served as secretary to Pierre-Marie Gerlier, Bishop of Tarbes-et-Lourdes. He taught at the Clermont seminary and the Catholic University in Lyon, serving as vice-rector of the latter from 1942 to 1950. At the start of 1950 he was incardinated into the Archdiocese of Lyon.\n\nPope Pius XII appointed Villot auxiliary bishop of Paris and titular bishop of Vinda on 2 September 1954. He received his episcopal consecration on 12 October from Cardinal Maurice Feltin, with Archbishop Emile Guerry\nof Cambrai and Bishop Pierre de la Chanonie of Clermont as co-consecrators.\n\nOn 17 December 1959, he was named Coadjutor Archbishop of Lyon and titular archbishop of Bosporus. He succeeded Cardinal Gerlier as Archbishop of Lyon on 17 January 1965.\n\nDuring the Second Vatican Council, he served as one of several of the Council's undersecretaries, where his performance impressed Pope Paul.\n\nOn 22 February 1965, he was created Cardinal-Priest of SS. Trinità al Monte Pincio by Pope Paul VI.\n\nHe was named Prefect of the Congregation of the Council (later renamed the Congregation for the Clergy) on 7 April 1967. Two years later, on 2 May 1969, he was named Cardinal Secretary of State as part of Pope Paul's program to internationalize the Roman Curia. Though Villot told reporters \"I have long been a Roman at heart\", his appointment was resented by the Italians though without public conflict. Pope Paul underscored his stance by adding to Villot's portfolio in May 1969, naming him head of the Section if the Secretariat of State responsible for foreign affairs, expanding his control over broader curia by making him President of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State and of the Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See.\n\nVillot was named Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church on 16 October 1970, the first non-Italian to hold the office in half a millennium, a further testament of Pope Paul's insistence on expanding the role of non-Italians at the highest levels of the Vatican bureaucracy. On 15 July 1971, he was appointed President of the newly formed Pontifical Council \"Cor Unum\", a position he resigned on 4 September 1978, during the brief pontificate of Pope John Paul I.\n\nPope Paul elevated him to Cardinal Bishop of Frascati on 12 December 1974. Villot was present at the death of Paul VI in Castel Gandolfo on 6 August 1978. \n\nPope John Paul I retained Villot as Secretary of State. When Pope John Paul II announced he would retain Villot as Secretary of State, he made clear the appointment was short-term but also confirmed Villot in his other positions. He noted that Villot himself had suggested that the first non-Italian pope in centuries might want an Italian as his Secretary of State. He was replaced as Secretary of State nine months later on 1 July 1979.\n\nVillot participated as a cardinal elector in both the August and October conclaves of 1978, which elected John Paul I and John Paul II respectively, and presided at the conclaves because he was the senior cardinal bishop in attendance. As Camerlengo he acted as the interim administrator of the Holy See in the interregnums of 1978.\n\nVillot died at age 73 from bronchial pneumonia on 9 March 1979, in his Vatican City apartment, the day he returned from a four-day hospital stay. John Paul II celebrated his funeral Mass in St. Peter's Basilica on 13 March, and his remains were buried in the crypt of Ss. Trinità al Monte Pincio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088102", "title": "Tichina Arnold", "text": "Tichina Arnold\n\nTichina Rolanda Arnold (; born June 28, 1969) is an American actress, comedian, and singer. She began her career as a child actor, appearing in supporting roles in \"Little Shop of Horrors\" (1986) and \"How I Got into College\" (1989) before being cast as Pamela \"Pam\" James on the FOX sitcom \"Martin\", which she played from 1992 until the show ended in 1997. Arnold also played the family matriarch Rochelle on the UPN/CW sitcom \"Everybody Hates Chris\" from 2005 to 2009, and portrayed Judi Mann in the TV Land original sitcom \"Happily Divorced\" from 2011 to 2013. From 2014 to 2017, she played the lead role of Cassie Calloway on \"Survivor's Remorse\". Since 2018, Arnold currently plays Tina Butler in the CBS sitcom series \"The Neighborhood\".\n\nArnold was born in Queens, New York, to a middle-class African-American family. Her mother, Diane, was a sanitation department worker and her father was a police officer. She was raised in the Church of God in Christ. She attended the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts.\n\nIn 1986, Arnold appeared as Crystal, one of the three chorus girls who perform R&B numbers in Frank Oz's film musical \"Little Shop of Horrors\" (1986) along with future \"Martin\" co-star Tisha Campbell. Arnold was only sixteen at the time of filming, and her career continued steadily after that, with a role or two almost every year, including the films \"How I Got into College\" and the Paul Mazursky/Woody Allen collaboration \"Scenes from a Mall\" (1991). In February 1987 Arnold scored her first big break on television, with a permanent role on the soap opera \"Ryan's Hope\". Her critically lauded role, as young heroine Zena Brown, landed her a Daytime Emmy Award nomination in 1988. She continued in the role until the series ended in January 1989. Later that year, Arnold was cast as Sharla Valentine, a high-school friend of Emily Ann Sago (played by Liz Vassey) on the ABC-TV daytime drama \"All My Children\". She continued in the role until 1991.\n\nArnold's best-known television role was Pamela James on Martin Lawrence's sitcom \"Martin\" (1992–1997). She also played the recurring role of Nicole Barnes on the sitcom \"One on One\". In 2000, she was reunited with Martin Lawrence in \"Big Momma's House\". In 2007, she again reunited with Lawrence (this time as his character's wife) in the big screen road comedy/buddy film \"Wild Hogs\". In 2003, she appeared in \"Civil Brand\". Arnold played the role of the matriarch, Rochelle, on the sitcom \"Everybody Hates Chris\" which premiered in September 2005 and ended in May 2009. In a departure from her known comedic roles, she played the title role in \"The Lena Baker Story\" (2008), which was about the first and only woman to be executed by the electric chair in Georgia.\n\nArnold also played the voice of the friend in \"The Boondocks\", episode \"Attack of the Killer Kung-fu Wolf Bitch\" which aired in 2007. In 2009, Arnold appeared onstage in \"The Wiz\" revival at the New York City Center in the part of Evillene, The Wicked Witch of the West. In 2010 she guest starred in the one-hour episode premiere of the Disney XD Original Series \"Pair of Kings\" as Aunt Nancy, and also reprise her role for one more episode.\n\nArnold played the best friend of Fran Drescher in the TV Land sitcom \"Happily Divorced\", which is based on Fran Drescher's real-life marriage and divorce to series co-creator Peter Marc Jacobson.\n\nIn 1998, Arnold started her own company of designer headgear called \"China Moon Rags\". The headbands were Swarovski crystal-embroidered bandanas. Celebrities such as her best friend Michel'le, Tisha Campbell, Janet Jackson, Vivica A. Fox, Regina King, Christina Aguilera and LisaRaye McCoy have modeled and been seen wearing Arnold's designs. When her daughter was born, she stopped production.\n\nArnold has a daughter, Alijah Kai Haggins (born March 16, 2004), with music producer Carvin Haggins. In an interview with Joan Rivers, Arnold revealed that she had thought she was unable to conceive after bouts with endometriosis.\n\nOn August 18, 2012, Arnold married St. Johns Men's Basketball assistant coach and former Golden State Warriors assistant coach DaRico Hines in Honolulu, Hawaii. In January 2016, Arnold's representative confirmed she and Hines were divorcing. The media reported that Hines had been unfaithful to Arnold, having made a sex tape with another woman during their marriage, which was later released to the public without his consent.\n\nIn 2013, Arnold and her sister created the We Win Foundation, a foundation for people with lupus; her sister, Zenay, has the disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088103", "title": "Toshio Arima", "text": "Toshio Arima\n\nHe was educated at International Christian University College of Liberal Arts, Division of Social Sciences, graduating in 1967, after which he joined Fuji Xerox of which he became President and Representative Director in 2002.\nUnder his direction, the company created a new business vision called Open Office Frontier or OOF. He became a member of United Nations Global Compact in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "2088104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088104", "title": "Kozo Haraguchi", "text": "Kozo Haraguchi\n"}
{"id": "2088106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088106", "title": "Commutation test", "text": "Commutation test\n\nIn semiotics, the commutation test is used to analyze a signifying system. The test identifies signifiers as well as their signifieds, value and significance.\n\nThis test is a metalingual subjective system for analysing textual or other material. It has evolved from a limited method for investigating the structure of individual signs (per Roman Jakobson). Its primary uses are to: \nThe initial assumption is that the communication to be analysed represents both a cognitive use of the sign system and a statement that refers to the values of the addresser. The purpose of the test is therefore to illuminate the addresser's intention in using the code in this particular way. It works through a process of substitution, assessing the extent to which a change in the signifier leads to a change in the signified. The first step, therefore, is to exclude one signifier from the material to be analysed. This is a test of redundancy: to identify what meaning is lost (if any) by omitting that sign. It will be relatively unusual to find that one sign is completely superfluous, but more common to find that the contribution of the one sign to the whole meaning is relatively weak. The weakness or strength of its contribution can be calibrated more exactly by placing alternate (synonymous and antonymous) signs in the context. This will enable the analyst to make a judgment on the distinctiveness of the particular signifier chosen by the author/artist and of its value to the meaning, i.e. as more or less necessary for maintaining the meaning and/or rule structure in different occurrences. By changing the collocation between two of the existing signifiers, and so changing their original relationship, the relative significance of each signifier can be considered. Further, by also placing the original sign into different contexts, it can be seen whether the sign becomes more or less distinctive.\n\nThe nature of the process will be determined by the form of the media to be analysed. In textual or pictorial media where individuals are the theme of the content, this might involve a substitution of words that are synonymous, or of imagery parallel in classes representing age, gender, ethnicity, religion, ability, etc. to assess the extent to which overall meaning is affected. In visual media generally, substituting different mise en scènes or backgrounds may change the significance of objects or people in the foreground. Colour selections may affect the perceived attractiveness of the scene or of individuals whose clothing is changed. The presence or absence of branded or generic goods, of stylish or outmoded clothing, etc. may help to suggest the contribution of the original signifier.\n\nAccording to Daniel Chandler, the commutation test may involve any of four basic transformations which, to a greater or lesser extent, involve modification of the syntagm:\n\nTake the phrase:\nNow substitute \"boy\" with \"baby\", \"girl\", \"child\", \"pansy\", \"thief\". Each of these alternatives affects the implication of the phrase. A \"man\" rather than a father or parent randomly striking a baby or girl might be considered sexist and a crime. If the boy was a thief, this would explain but not excuse the man's behaviour as retaliation or revenge. If the boy is a pansy which has pejorative connotations of cowardice or homosexuality, the man may be intolerant or overly judgemental but the victim is also presented in a less sympathetic way. The use of child not differentiated by gender is a more common usage in the context of paedophilia. When the signifiers of boy and man are transposed, the relative inequality in strength is also reversed and the interpretation shifts to more playful and less threatening images. Hence, the subjective view may be that the phrase as originally conceived was the most neutral of the possible formulations given the original form. \n\nIf we now contextualise the image in a school, seminary, prison, training gym or home environment different sets of meanings emerge depending on the presence or absence of other signifiers demonstrating the relationship between the protagonists, the time the image was created (a Victorian image of corporal punishment in a school would have a different significance from a more recent image of judicial caning in Britain, Canada or Singapore), the nature of the activity (e.g. a boxing training session or a game of tennis in which the blow is struck accidentally, etc.), the presence or absence of other people, etc.. The values are therefore added or subtracted according to the presence or absence of other signifiers.\n\nThe first stage of development in semiotics related to the spoken and/or written form of language. Later, it was expanded to cover all sign systems that have an informational content. As Umberto Eco says, \"A sign is everything which can be taken as significantly substituting for something else.\" (1976)\n\nSemiotics studies the relationship between the form of the sign (the \"signifier\") and the meaning expressed (the \"signified\"), and thereby attempts to reveal the process of communicating understanding. In each case, a message is to be sent by an addresser to an addressee. For this to occur, the addresser and addressee must use a common code, Hence, language evolves dynamically. The community will identify a lexical thing that needs to be referred to in their language. By common agreement, a sign (sometimes called a \"signal\") will be selected. Of the many possible shades of meanings that it can be used to convey, one or more will be selected and \"encoded\", i.e. the chosen meaning(s) will be denoted or associated with the sign within the broader framework of syntactic and semantic systems available within the community. When the audience is exposed to the sign, the expectation is that they will be able to decode the meaning. As Roman Jakobson adds, there will also be an emotional element or value which represents the addresser's attitude towards the \"thing\". This will either become a connotative meaning attached directly to the sign itself, or it will be communicated by the context in which the sign is used by the addresser. \n\nIn lexicography, the fact that a neologism is used marks its acceptance into the language. This will not be a difficult process so long as each sign has a limited and immediately useful meaning. The problem arises when several possible meanings or shades of meaning become associated with the sign. This is a shift from denotational to connotational meanings. Rules of interpretation are required to resolve uncertainty. Within the community, such rules are, for the most part, experiential and applied without conscious control. Members of a community have a shared memory of language patterns and norms which, for the most part, are stable over long periods of time. Individuals are therefore able to build up a cognitive framework which identifies the possible meanings from any grouping of signs and selects one considered the most appropriate from the context. This intuitive system is continuously tested through the audience's responses. If the responses are satisfying, intuition prevails. If the responses are obviously inappropriate, the audience will consciously review the thought process and decide whether to modify the framework. Semiotics has developed a more precise methodology for this interpretive process, seeking to expose the unstated habitual practices for interpreting signifiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088116", "title": "Vladimir Savon", "text": "Vladimir Savon\n\nVladimir Andreyevich Savon (; 26 September 1940 – 1 June 2005) was a Ukrainian chess player. He was awarded the title of Grandmaster by FIDE in 1973.\n\nSavon shared the Ukrainian Chess Championship in 1969 and won the USSR Championship in 1971. He competed in the 1972 Chess Olympiad.\n\nBorn in Chernigov, he learned how to play at the age of 13.\n\nSavon competed in the Soviet championship eleven times, from 1961 (at age 21) to the last championship in 1991. His best result was his first place in the 1971 championship with an undefeated 15/21. Only an international master, he finished 1.5 points ahead of former world champions Mikhail Tal and Vasily Smyslov. Future world champion Anatoly Karpov finished another half point back. Taimanov and Bernard Cafferty, in their book on the Soviet championships, described Savon's win \"the least plausible result for decades\".\n\nOne possible factor was the distraction of Fischer's Candidates matches. It was claimed that Fischer's 6–0 wins against Larsen and Taimanov had hypnotised the top Soviet players, who were now following Petrosian's similar demise in the Candidates match that was to finish only days after this tournament.\n\nSavon's next-best result in the Soviet championship came the following year, when he tied for 3rd–5th and qualified for the Interzonal.\n\nHe did, however, achieve other good results in international competition; at Debrecen in 1970 (1st= with Bilek), at Sukhumi 1972 (2nd after Tal), at Vilnius 1975 (1st=), at Portorož 1977 (2nd= with Hort, after Larsen) and at Kiev 1978 (2nd=).\n\nFIDE awarded Savon the International Master title in 1967, and the International Grandmaster title in 1973. In the latter year, he finished eighth out of 18 at the Petropolis Interzonal. He shared the title of Ukrainian Champion with Gennady Kuzmin in 1969.\n\nHe died in Kharkiv at the age of 65.\n\nFrom the 39th USSR Championship 1971, rd. 13, Savon-Roman Dzindzichashvili\n1.e4 c5 2.Nf3 e6 3.d4 cxd4 4.Nxd4 Nf6 5.Nc3 d6 6.g4 h6 7. Rg1 Nc6 8. Be3 a6 9.h3 Bd7 10.f4 Qc7 11.Qd2 b5 12.Bd3 Nxd4 13.Bxd4 Bc6 14.Qe2 e5 15.Nd5 Nxd5 16.exd5 Bxd5 17.fxe5 0-0-0 18.0-0-0 Qc6 19.Rgf1 dxe5 20.Bxe5 f6 21.Bf5+ Kb7 22.Rxd5 Rxd5 23.Be4 Bc5 24.Rd1 Ka7 25.Bxd5 Qe8 26.Be6 fxe5 27. Qxe5 1-0\n\nFrom Leningrad 1971, Yuri Balashov-Savon \n1.d4 Nf6 2.c4 c5 3.d5 e6 4.Nc3 exd5 5.cxd5 d6 6.Nf3 g6 7.e4 Bg7 8.Be2 0-0 9.0-0 Bg4 10.Bf4 Re8 11.Qc2 Na6 12.h3 Bxf3 13.Bxf3 Qb6 14.b3 Nd7 15.a3 Bd4 16.Rad1 Ne5 17.Be2 Rac8 18.Na4 Qd8 19.Bb5 Rf8 20.Bh6 Nc7 21.Bxf8 Nxb5 22.Bh6 Nxa3 23.Qc1 Nb5 24.Be3 Nd7 25.Rde1 Qe7 26.Bxd4 Nxd4 27.Re3 b5 28.Nc3 Nxb3 29.Qa3 Nd4 30.Qxa7 b4 31.Qa6 Rb8 32.Na4 Nc2 33.Re2 b3 34.Rb1 Kg7 35.Nc3 Nd4 36.Re3 Nc2 37.Re2 Nd4 38.Re3 Rb6 39.Qf1 Nc2 40.Rg3 Nf6 41.Qd3 Rb4 42.f4 Rd4 43.Qe2 c4 44.e5 dxe5 45.fxe5 Ne4 46.Nxe4 Qxe5 47.Rf1 Rxe4 48.Qf3 f5 0-1\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088117", "title": "Dead Cities, Red Seas &amp; Lost Ghosts", "text": "Dead Cities, Red Seas &amp; Lost Ghosts\n\nDead Cities, Red Seas & Lost Ghosts (stylized as DeadCities,RedSeas&LostGhosts) is the second studio album by the French electronic group M83. The album was first released in Europe on April 14, 2003, then in North America on July 27, 2004 to positive reviews. The cover art is by Justine Kurland, and is called \"Snow Angels\". This album is also known for being founding member Nicolas Fromageau's last album with the band.\n\nThe North American pressing of the album comes with a bonus disc, containing five additional tracks, including the title track of the album and a live version of \"Gone\", as well as the enhanced videos of the singles \"Run into Flowers\" and \"America\".\n\nOne of the bonus tracks, Cyann & Ben’s cover of \"In Church\", was featured in the 2006 film \"Stranger than Fiction\". \"Unrecorded\" was used in the theatrical trailer of \"Night Watch\" and featured in the 2006 film, \"Camping Sauvage\". \"Gone\" was featured in the 2015 show \"Mr. Robot\".\n\n\"Dead Cities, Red Seas & Lost Ghosts\" has received widespread critical acclaim since its release. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 86, based on 15 reviews, which indicates \"universal acclaim\".\n\nIn August 2009, \"Pitchfork\" placed \"Dead Cities, Red Seas & Lost Ghosts\" at number 188 on their list of the \"Top 200 Albums of the 2000s\".\n\nAs of 2005 close to 25,000 copies of Dead Cities, Red Seas & Lost Ghosts have been sold in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088123", "title": "Stephen Canessa", "text": "Stephen Canessa\n\nStephen R. Canessa (born 1980) was a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, representing the 12th Bristol District. He resigned to accept the position of executive director for government affairs at Southcoast Health Systems. He is a member of the United States Democratic Party.\n\nRep. Canessa's district includes East Freetown, Lakeville, Middleborough, East Taunton, and New Bedford, Massachusetts. He is a graduate of Apponequet Regional High School and Bridgewater State College, and completed his MBA at Suffolk University. Prior to being elected to the house in 2004, he was a member of the Lakeville School Committee from 2001 - 2004.\n\nIn January 2006, in response to gang violence and witness intimidation in his district and across the state, Rep. Canessa co-sponsored a bill with Senator Jarrett Barrios, entitled \"An Act to Reduce Gang Violence in the Commonwealth,\" that would establish a witness protection program to encourage witnesses to come forward and to testify accurately. It passed unanimously in the Senate, was approved in the House with 151 yeas to 2 nays and was signed into law by Gov. Mitt Romney shortly thereafter.\n\nThe bill, publicized mainly for the establishment of a witness protection program, included the following provisions:\n\nProponents tout the bill as a welcome and needed step toward reducing witness intimidation, especially by gang members awaiting trial. Family members of gang violence victims praised the bill, and many were present at the Massachusetts State House for its passage into law.\n\nThe ACLU and the Massachusetts Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers opposed sections of the bill that allow judges to bar defendants from seeing grand jury witness statements, and that reduce the requirements for a perjury conviction. Specifically, they point to a possible conflict with the 6th Amendment, which states in part:\n\"In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right...to be confronted with the witnesses against him...\"\nIt is the subject of continuing debate whether sections of the bill violate this Amendment.\n\nRep. Canessa has expressed support for the expansion of the MBTA Commuter Rail into the Southcoast area including New Bedford, which is part of the district he represents. The federal Transportation Equity Act of 2005 set aside $20 million for the project, and in August of that year, Canessa joined area senators and representatives in urging Governor Romney to \"make this project a legitimate, top priority.\" \n\nLong Pond and other water supplies in towns across Canessa's district have recently been noted as being overrun by invasive weeds such as milfoil. In 2005, acknowledging that these weeds can pose a risk to the environment and to the towns' drinking water, he supported studies into the weeds and their impact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088124", "title": "Cemetery Ridge", "text": "Cemetery Ridge\n\nCemetery Ridge is a geographic feature in Gettysburg National Military Park, south of the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, that figured prominently in the Battle of Gettysburg, July 1 to July 3, 1863. It formed a primary defensive position for the Union Army during the battle, roughly the center of what is popularly known as the \"fish-hook\" line. The Confederate States Army launched attacks on the Union positions on the second and third days of the battle, but were driven back both times.\n\nThe ridge rises only about 40 feet (12 m) above the surrounding terrain and is under 2 miles (3.2 km) long. The northern end rises to become Cemetery Hill, the southern descends to low, wooded, and sometimes marshy ground just north of Little Round Top. At the northern end of Cemetery Ridge is a copse of trees and a low stone wall that makes two 90-degree turns; the latter has been nicknamed \"The Angle\" and is also referred to as \"the High Water Mark of the Confederacy\". This area, and the nearby Codori Farm on Emmitsburg Road, were prominent features in the progress of Pickett's Charge during the third day of battle, as well as Maj. Gen. Richard H. Anderson's division assault on the second.\n\nOn the first day of the Battle of Gettysburg, Cemetery Ridge was unoccupied for much of the day until the Union army retreated from its positions north of town, when the divisions of Brig. Gen. John C. Robinson and Maj. Gen. Abner Doubleday from the I Corps were placed on the northern end of the ridge, protecting the left flank of the XI Corps on Cemetery Hill. After the XII Corps arrived, Maj. Gen. John W. Geary's Second Division was sent to the southern end of the ridge near Little Round Top; Brig. Gen. John Buford's cavalry division formed a skirmish line in the fields between Cemetery Ridge and Seminary Ridge. The III Corps arrived about 8 p.m. and replaced Geary's division (which was sent to Culp's Hill); the II Corps arrived about 10:30 p.m. and camped immediately behind the III Corps.\n\nDuring the morning of the battle's 2nd day (July 2), Army of the Potomac commander Maj. Gen. George G. Meade shifted units to receive an expected Confederate attack on his positions. The II Corps was placed in the center of Cemetery Ridge, with Brig. Gen. Alexander Hays's division on the corps' right, John Gibbon's division in the center around the Angle, and John C. Caldwell's division on the left, adjacent to the III Corps; Robinson's division of the I Corps was placed in reserve behind the XI Corps. The V Corps was formed in reserve behind the II Corps. In the late afternoon, the end of the Confederate Maj. Gen. Lafayette McLaws's assault drove portions of Maj. Gen. Daniel Sickles's III Corps line back to the southern end of Cemetery Ridge, and Brig. Gen. Ambrose Wright's Confederate brigade temporarily captured the southern end of the Angle before being driven back to Seminary Ridge by the Philadelphia Brigade.\n\nThe Confederate artillery bombardment preceding Pickett's Charge on July 3 battered Cemetery Ridge, and Union artillery on the ridge counterfired to Seminary Ridge. Thirty-four Union cannons were disabled, but the three Confederate divisions of the subsequent infantry assault (Pickett's of the First Corps and Pettigrew's and Trimble's of the Third Corps), attacked the Union II Corps at the \"stone fence\" at the Angle. Heavy rifle and artillery fire prevented all but about 250 Confederates led by Lewis Armistead from penetrating the Union line to the high water mark of the Confederacy. Armistead was mortally wounded. Two brigades of Anderson's Division, assigned to protect Pickett's right flank during the charge, reached a more southern portion of the Union line at Cemetery Ridge soon after the repulse of Pickett's Division, but were driven back with 40% casualties by the 2nd Vermont Brigade.\n\nThe Gettysburg Battlefield Memorial Association purchased rights-of-way for an avenue and monuments along the ridge, and the 1884 Round Top Branch steam railroad was built across the southern end of Cemetery Ridge. The 1893 Gettysburg Electric Railway was built across the north end of the ridge, and several Gettysburg Battlefield camps after the American Civil War used the ridge's west slope at the Angle (e.g., for Eisenhower's 1918 Camp Colt and during the 1938 Gettysburg reunion). The 1962 Cyclorama Building at Gettysburg with observation deck replaced the 1896 observation tower at the ridge's Zeigler's Woods, but was closed in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088125", "title": "Randy Wolf", "text": "Randy Wolf\n\nRandall Christopher Wolf (born August 22, 1976) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Philadelphia Phillies, Los Angeles Dodgers, San Diego Padres, Houston Astros, Milwaukee Brewers, Miami Marlins, and Detroit Tigers.\n\nWolf graduated from El Camino Real in Woodland Hills, California. He was drafted by the Dodgers in 1994, but he did not sign. He played college baseball for Pepperdine University and then was drafted by the Phillies in 1997. He made his MLB debut in 1999. In 2003, Wolf was selected to the Major League Baseball All-Star Game.\n\nWolf was born on August 22, 1976 in Canoga Park, California. He played PONY League Baseball in West Hills, California. He played high school baseball at El Camino Real in Woodland Hills, California, where he was named High School \"Pitcher of the Year\" by the Los Angeles Times in 1993, and \"Player of the Year\" in 1994. Wolf continued his amateur career at Pepperdine University where he was a freshman first-team All-America, West Coast Conference Pitcher of the Year, second-team college All-American, and a West Coast Conference All-Star.\n\nWolf was originally drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 25th round of the 1994 Major League Baseball Draft, but did not sign. He was then drafted by the Philadelphia Phillies in the second round of the 1997 Major League Baseball Draft. He rose through the minor leagues quickly, including stops with Single-A Batavia (1997, 4–0, 1.58, 7 starts), Double-A Reading (1998, 2–0, 1.44, 4 starts), and Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre (1998, 9–7, 4.62, 23 starts & 1999, 4–5, 3.61, 12 starts).\n\nWolf made his major-league debut on June 11, 1999, against the Toronto Blue Jays, pitching 5 innings, giving up one run, and recording his first career victory in the Phillies 8–4 win over Toronto. He finished his first season with a 6-9 record and a 5.55 ERA.\n\nIn his second season, Wolf was embedded in the rotation and was a mainstay the entire season, going 11-9 in 32 starts. He followed the next couple of seasons winning 10 and 11 games respectively in the years 2001 and 2002.\n\nIn 2003, Wolf was selected to the National League All-Star team and finished the year with a career-high 16 wins. On August 11, 2004, Wolf hit two home runs while pitching the Phillies to a 15–4 win against the Colorado Rockies. On July 1, 2005, Wolf underwent Tommy John surgery, missing the remainder of the season and the first half of the 2006 season. He made his return to the Phillies' rotation on July 30, 2006. He finished the 2006 season with a 4–0 record, pitching only 55 innings. During his time with the Phillies, Wolf was supported at every home start by a fan group, “The Wolf Pack,” founded by eight brothers and their four cousins. The group, sporting wolf masks, assembled in the typically empty upper deck of Veterans Stadium and celebrated Wolf strikeouts by howling and dancing. Wolf befriended members of the group and kept in contact even after leaving the Phillies in 2006. The Wolf Pack returned to Citizens Bank Park in 2016 for Wolf’s retirement ceremony and performed a dance on top of the Phillies dugout with the Phillie Phanatic. After the 2006 season Wolf's contract with the Phillies expired and he became a free agent.\n\nWolf signed as a free agent with the Los Angeles Dodgers. Wolf started 18 games, going 9-6. On July 4, 2007, Wolf went on the 15-day disabled list due to left shoulder soreness. He underwent shoulder surgery and missed the rest of the season. On November 1, the Dodgers bought out his 2008 option and allowed Wolf to become a free agent.\n\nOn December 1, 2007, Wolf signed a one-year contract with the San Diego Padres. On April 15, 2008, Wolf had a no-hitter through 6 innings against the Colorado Rockies at Petco Park before Brad Hawpe hit a single.\n\nOn July 22, 2008, Wolf was traded to the Houston Astros for Chad Reineke.\n\nOn February 6, 2009, Wolf signed a one-year, $5 million contract to return to the Dodgers. He turned in one of his best seasons, finishing 11–7 with a 3.23 ERA in 34 starts for the team.\n\nOn December 14, 2009, Wolf agreed to a three-year, $29.75 million contract with the Milwaukee Brewers.\n\nIn 2010, Wolf finished 13–12 in 34 starts. In 2011, he started 33 games (4th in the National League) and was 13–10, with a 3.69 ERA. Through 2011, his 9 career shutouts were 6th-most of all active pitchers. On October 13 in the 2011 NLCS against the St. Louis Cardinals, Randy Wolf won his first career postseason start. With this victory, Wolf is no longer the active leader in career games started without a postseason win. The Brewers lost the NLCS against the St. Louis Cardinals in 6 games. On August 22, 2012, Wolf was given his release by the Brewers organization after going 3–10 with a 5.69 ERA. Jeff Bianchi was brought up from Triple A to fill his spot on the roster. A few weeks before being released, Wolf threw a 49 mph curveball, the slowest in MLB history.\n\nThe Baltimore Orioles and Wolf reached an agreement on August 31, 2012, and was subsequently added to the team's 25-man roster as a member of the bullpen. Wolf was also included on the Orioles postseason roster until losing the 2012 ALDS against the Yankees. Wolf went 2-0 in 5 games for the O's. Wolf was released after the season ended.\n\nOn October 30, Wolf underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time of his career. As a result, Wolf missed the entire 2013 season.\n\nOn February 11, 2014, Wolf signed a minor league contract with the Seattle Mariners. The Mariners' released him on March 25.\n\nOn April 11, 2014 he signed a minor league contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks. Wolf opted out of his contract on May 14, 2014.\n\nWolf agreed to a one-year contract with the Miami Marlins on May 14, 2014. Wolf pitched in 6 games for the Marlins, posting a 1-3 record with a 5.26 ERA. On June 16, the Marlins designated Wolf for assignment after a couple of poor starts. Two days later on June 18, Wolf cleared outright waviers and elected free agency.\n\nOn June 22, 2014, Wolf agreed to a minor league contract to return to the Orioles. After 6 games (1 start) with the Triple-A Norfolk Tides, he opted out of his minor league deal on July 13.\n\nWolf signed a minor league deal with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim on July 26, 2014, and subsequently made 7 starts for the Triple-A Salt Lake Bees.\n\nOn March 16, 2015, Wolf signed a minor-league contract with the Toronto Blue Jays. The Blue Jays announced the signing officially on March 18, and assigned him to the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons. Wolf made 23 starts for the Bisons in 2015, and posted a 9–2 record, with a 2.58 ERA, 106 strikeouts and 40 walks in 139 innings.\n\nOn August 20, 2015, Wolf was traded to the Detroit Tigers for cash considerations. He made his debut for the Tigers on August 22 in a game against the Texas Rangers. In his debut, he pitched seven innings, allowing four runs, three earned, on nine hits, with five strikeouts and no walks. Eight of Texas' first 14 batters singled against him, before retiring 14 of the final 15 batters he faced. Wolf appeared in a total of 8 games with the Tigers, pitching to an 0-5 record with a 6.23 ERA. Wolf retired during the offseason, following a 16-year career.\n\nWolf threw a four-seam fastball and a two-seam fastball clocked at 87–90 mph. He also threw a cut fastball in the mid-80s, a late breaking slider in the upper 70s, a sweeping curveball in the upper 60s to lower 70s, and occasionally mixed in a changeup in the upper 70s. Wolf primarily pitched to contact for fly balls, though he was capable of racking up strikeouts in his starts.\n\nWolf's older brother, Jim, is a Major League umpire. To avoid potential conflicts of interest, Jim did not work behind the plate during his brother's starts. Eventually Jim would not officiate in any capacity in games Randy's team were playing. If his crew was involved in games that included Randy's team, he was removed from those games and switched with another umpire. Wolf's cousin, Sid Akins, is a retired professional baseball player who appeared in the 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 2007, Wolf purchased a house in Los Angeles' Hollywood Hills from rocker Slash.\n"}
{"id": "2088128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088128", "title": "Sidney Lens", "text": "Sidney Lens\n\nSidney Lens (1912–1986), also known by his birth name Sid Okun, was an American labor leader, political activist, and author, best known for his book, \"The Day Before Doomsday\", which warns of the prospect of nuclear annihilation, published in 1977 by Doubleday. He also wrote a history of U.S. intervention abroad, \"The Forging of the American Empire\", originally published in 1974 and republished in 2003 by Haymarket Books with a new introduction by Howard Zinn; and an autobiography, \"Unrepentant Radical\".\n\nFormerly a member of Hugo Oehler's Revolutionary Workers League, Lens was active in retail worker unions in Chicago and in the anti-war movement during the Vietnam War. In 1967, he was among more than 500 writers and editors who signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse to pay the 10% Vietnam War Tax surcharge proposed by president Johnson.\n\nLens was an editor of \"The Progressive\".\n\nIn 1980, Lens was the Citizens Party (United States) candidate for United States Senate in Illinois.\n\nThe Sidney Lens Photograph Collection is held at the Oviatt Library at California State University, Northridge. This collection consists of photographs taken by Sidney Lens, who is depicted in some of the images. Other papers and books related to the legacy of Sidney Lens are also held at the CSUN Oviatt Library Special Collections and Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088139", "title": "John Lawrie", "text": "John Lawrie\n\nJohn Polworth Lawrie (August 25, 1875 in Edinburgh, Scotland – October 17, 1952) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1936 to 1949. Originally elected as a Conservative, he sat as a Progressive Conservative after the party changed its name.\n\nLawrie was educated in Edinburgh, and came to Canada in 1893. He worked as an implement dealer and insurance broker, also served as a police magistrate and commissioner. In 1907, he married May Clegg.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1936 provincial election, defeating incumbent Liberal-Progressive candidate John Muirhead by 82 votes in the constituency of Norfolk. The Conservatives were the primary opposition party in Manitoba during this period, and Lawrie sat with his party on the opposition benches.\n\nIn 1940, the Liberal-Progressives and Conservatives joined together in a wartime coalition government. This arrangement did not prevent the parties from fielding candidates against one another in the 1941 election, however; Lawrie again faced John Muirhead, and won by only 44 votes. He served as a government backbencher for the remainder of his tenure in the legislature.\n\nIn the 1945 election, he defeated a candidate of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nLawrie did not run for re-election in 1949, and died in Carberry three years later.\n"}
{"id": "2088151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088151", "title": "Karen Valentine", "text": "Karen Valentine\n\nKaren Valentine (born May 25, 1947) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as young idealistic schoolteacher Alice Johnson in the ABC comedy drama series \"Room 222\" from 1969 to 1974, for which she won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in 1970, and received a Golden Globe Award nomination in 1971. She later went to star in her own short-lived sitcom \"Karen\" (1975), and played leading roles in the Disney films \"Hot Lead and Cold Feet\" (1978) and \"The North Avenue Irregulars\" (1979).\n\nValentine was born in Sebastopol, California, on May 25, 1947. She is of Portuguese heritage, and her grandfather changed the family name from Valentin before her birth.\n\nIn 1966–1967, she started her television career as \"The Resident Dream Girl\" on \"The Dream Girl of 1967\", replacing Beverly Adams from the first weekday broadcast opposite hosts Dick Stewart and Wink Martindale, and during that time she appeared on another Chuck Barris show, \"The Dating Game\".\n\nIn 1969, Valentine won her breakthrough role as a new teacher on the ABC television series \"Room 222\" with Lloyd Haynes and Michael Constantine. She was discovered by Gene Reynolds, the director of \"Room 222\", who saw her lip-synching in rehearsal and realized she was funny. She was nominated twice for an Emmy and once for a Golden Globe, winning an Emmy in 1970 for Outstanding Actress in a Supporting Role.\n\nValentine later starred in her own television series, \"Karen\", in 1975. She played Gidget in the 1969 film \"Gidget Grows Up\", the title role in the critically acclaimed true story \"Muggable Mary, Street Cop\" (1982) and appeared in many other movies for television including \"The Daughters of Joshua Cabe\" (1972), \"Coffee, Tea or Me?\" (1973), \"The Girl Who Came Gift-Wrapped\" (1974), \"e'Lollipop\" (1976), \"Murder at the World Series\" (1977), \"Go West, Young Girl\" (1978) and \"Skeezer\" (1982). Valentine was a semi-regular on \"The Hollywood Squares\" from 1971 to 1977 on both NBC-TV and in syndication, often trading quips with Paul Lynde. She guest-starred on many series, including \"Starsky & Hutch\", \"Baretta\", \"McMillan & Wife\", \"Cybill\" and \"Murder, She Wrote\" and multiple episodes of \"The Love Boat\" and \"Love, American Style\". She had a starring role in the 25th episode of the third season of the 1985 revival of \"The Twilight Zone\", entitled \"Many, Many Monkeys\".\n\nHer feature films include \"Forever Young, Forever Free\" (1975), \"Hot Lead and Cold Feet\" (1978), \"The North Avenue Irregulars\" (1979) and \"The Power Within\" (1995). She also has had many leading roles in made-for-television movies.\n\nValentine continues to work in television and on stage. She co-starred with John Larroquette in a 2004 Hallmark Channel TV movie, \"Wedding Daze\". She has starred on stage in many productions, including \"Romantic Comedy\" on Broadway and National Tour, \"Breaking Legs\" Off-Broadway and National Tour, and the Los Angeles production of \"Steel Magnolias\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2088152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088152", "title": "Ammonium nitrite", "text": "Ammonium nitrite\n\nAmmonium nitrite, NHNO, is the ammonium salt of nitrous acid. It is not used in pure isolated form since it is highly unstable and decomposes into water and nitrogen, even at room temperature.\n\nAmmonium nitrite forms naturally in the air and can be prepared by the absorption of equal parts nitrogen dioxide and nitric oxide in aqueous ammonia.\n\nIt can also be synthesized by oxidizing ammonia with ozone or hydrogen peroxide, or in a precipitation reaction of barium or lead nitrite with ammonium sulfate, or silver nitrite with ammonium chloride, or ammonium perchlorate with potassium nitrite. The precipitate is filtered off and the solution concentrated. It forms colorless crystals which are soluble in water.\n\nAmmonium nitrite may explode at a temperature of 60–70 °C, and will decompose quicker when dissolved in a concentrated aqueous solution, than in the form of a dry crystal. Even in room temperature the compound decomposes into water and nitrogen;\n\n<chem>NH4NO2 -> N2 + 2H2O</chem>\n\nIt decomposes when heated or in the presence of acid into water and nitrogen. Ammonium nitrite solution is stable at higher pH and lower temperature. If there is any decrease in pH lower than 7.0, it may lead to an explosion, since the nitrite can react to it. A safe pH can be maintained by adding an ammonia solution. The mole ratio of ammonium nitrite to ammonia must be above 10%.\n"}
{"id": "2088157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088157", "title": "Ammonium phosphate", "text": "Ammonium phosphate\n\nAmmonium phosphate is an ammonium salt of orthophosphoric acid. It is a highly unstable compound with the formula (NH)PO. Because of its instability, it is elusive and of no commercial value. A related \"double salt\", (NH)PO(NH)HPO is also recognized but is too unstable for practical use. Both triammonium salts evolve ammonia. In contrast to the unstable nature of the triammonium salts, the diammonium phosphate (NH)HPO monoammonium salt (NH)HPO are stable materials that are commonly used as fertilizers to provide plants with fixed nitrogen and phosphorus.\n\nTriammonium phosphate can be prepared in the laboratory by treating 85% phosphoric acid with 30% ammonia solution:\n\n(NH)PO is a colorless, crystalline solid. The solid, which has the odor of ammonia, is readily soluble in water. The salt converts to diammonium hydrogen phosphate (NH)HPO.\n\n\n yo"}
{"id": "2088168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088168", "title": "Joan Menard", "text": "Joan Menard\n\nJoan M. Menard (born September 6, 1935 in New York City) is a retired American politician who also served as the vice president for work force development, lifelong learning, grant development and external affairs at Bristol Community College. \n\nFrom 1979 to 2000, Menard represented the 5th Bristol District in the Massachusetts House of Representatives. In 1991, she served as the House Assistant Majority Whip and in 1984 and again from 1992 to 1996, she was the Majority Whip.\n\nFrom 1993 to 2000, Menard served as the Chairman of the Massachusetts Democratic Party.\n\nIn 1999, Menard was elected to the Massachusetts Senate; filling the vacancy caused by Thomas C. Norton's appointment to the Massachusetts Low-level Radioactive Waste Management Board. She represented the 1st Bristol and Plymouth District until her retirement in 2011. From 2003 to 2011, Menard was the Senate Majority Whip.\n\nAccording to the Massachusetts Open Checkbook list of state pensions, Menard is currently receiving a pension from Massachusetts at a rate of $99,297 annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088171", "title": "W. J. Campbell", "text": "W. J. Campbell\n\nWilliam J. Campbell (May 5, 1885 – 1949) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1945 to 1949, as a member of the Progressive Conservative Party.\n\nThe son of Duncan Campbell Jr., Campbell was born in Teulon, Manitoba. In 1919, he married Isabel Fraser. Campbell was a member of the council for the Rural Municipality of Rockwood from 1922 to 1937 and served as reeve from 1942 to 1945, when he resigned to run for election provincially. He was elected to the provincial legislature in the 1945 election, defeating Liberal-Progressive incumbent Mungo Lewis by 297 votes in the Rockwood constituency.\n\nThe Liberal-Progressives and Progressive Conservatives were partners in a coalition government during this period, and Campbell sat as a government backbencher during his time in the legislature. He died in office in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2088185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088185", "title": "Mobile User Objective System", "text": "Mobile User Objective System\n\nThe Mobile User Objective System is a narrowband military communications satellite system that supports a worldwide, multi-Service population of users in the ultra high frequency band. The system provides increased communications capabilities to newer, smaller terminals while still supporting interoperability with legacy terminals. MUOS is designed to support users who require greater mobility, higher bit rates and improved operational availability.\n\nThe Mobile User Objective System (MUOS) is an Ultra High Frequency (UHF) (300 MHz to 3 GHz frequency range) SATCOM system, primarily serving the United States Department of Defense (DoD). International allies use is under consideration. The MUOS will replace the legacy UHF Follow-On (UFO) system before that system reaches its end of life to provide users with new capabilities and enhanced mobility, access, capacity, and quality of service. Intended primarily for mobile users (e.g. aerial and maritime platforms, ground vehicles, and dismounted soldiers), MUOS will extend users' voice, data, and video communications beyond their lines-of-sight.\n\nMUOS is an array of geosynchronous satellites that will provide global satellite communications (SATCOM) narrowband connectivity for communications use by the United States at data rates up to 384kbit/s. The program will deliver five satellites, four ground stations, and a terrestrial transport network at a cost of US$7.34 billion.\n\nThe Navy's Communications Satellite Program Office (PMW 146) of the Program Executive Office (PEO) for Space Systems in San Diego is lead developer for the MUOS Program. Lockheed Martin is the Prime System Contractor and satellite designer for MUOS under U.S Navy Contract N00039-04-C-2009, which was announced September 24, 2004. Key subcontractors include General Dynamics Mission Systems (Ground Transport architecture), Boeing (Legacy UFO and portions of the WCDMA payload) and Harris (deployable mesh reflectors). Full on-orbit capability is expected by 2015.\n\nThe MUOS operates as a global cellular service provider to support the war fighter with modern cell phone-like capabilities, such as multimedia. It converts a commercial third generation (3G) Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) cellular phone system to a military UHF SATCOM radio system using geosynchronous satellites in place of cell towers. By operating in the UHF frequency band, a lower frequency band than that used by conventional terrestrial cellular networks, the MUOS provides warfighters with the tactical ability to communicate in \"disadvantaged\" environments, such as heavily forested regions where higher frequency signals would be unacceptably attenuated by the forest canopy. The MUOS constellation will consist of four operational satellites and one on-orbit spare. MUOS will provide military point-to-point and netted communication users with precedence-based and pre-emptive access to voice, data, video, or a mixture of voice and data services that span the globe. Connections may be set up on demand by users in the field, within seconds, and then released just as easily, freeing resources for other users. In alignment with more traditional military communications methods, pre-planned networks can also be established either permanently or per specific schedule using the MUOS' ground-based Network Management Center.\n\nIn addition to the cellular MUOS WCDMA payload, a fully capable and separate UFO legacy payload is incorporated into each satellite. The \"Legacy\" payload extends the useful life of legacy UHF SATCOM terminals and enables a smoother transition to MUOS.\n\nAfter several range weather delays, the first MUOS satellite, MUOS-1, launched into space successfully on February 24, 2012, carried by an Atlas V rocket flying in its 551 configuration.\n\nMUOS-2 launched on schedule on July 19, 2013, at 13:00 UTC aboard an Atlas V 551 (AV-040).\n\nMUOS-3 was launched on board a United Launch Alliance (ULA) Atlas V rocket on January 20, 2015, from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida.\n\nMUOS-4 arrived at Cape Canaveral July 31, 2015. Weather conditions pushed back the launch, which was originally scheduled for August 31, 2015, at 10:07 UTC. The launch took place September 2, 2015, at 10:18 UTC.\n\nMUOS-5 arrived at Cape Canaveral on March 9, 2016. Launch was originally scheduled for May 5, 2016, but due to an internal investigation into an Atlas V fuel system problem during the Cygnus OA-6 launch on March 22, the scheduled date was pushed back. The launch took place on June 24, 2016, at 14:30 UTC. An \"anomaly\" aboard the satellite occurred a few days later, however, when it was still in a Geostationary Transfer Orbit (GTO), leaving it \"Reconfigured into Safe Intermediate Orbit\", or stranded in GTO. Amateur observers tracked it in an orbit of approximately since July 3, 2016. On November 3, 2016 the Navy announced that the satellite has finally reached operational orbit.\n\nThe four currently operational MUOS satellites are stationed at longitude 177° W (MUOS 1); 100° W (MUOS 2); 15.5° W (MUOS 3); and 75° E (MUOS 4). MUOS 5 was intended for longitude 72° E. They have a 5° orbital inclination. In the first few months after launch, the satellites were temporarily parked in a check-out position at longitude 172° W.\n\nThe MUOS will include four ground station facilities. Site selections were completed in 2007 with the signing of a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the U.S. Navy and the Australian Department of Defence. The four ground stations, each of which serves one of the four active satellites of the MUOS constellation will be located at: the Australian Defence Satellite Communications Station at Kojarena about 30 km east of Geraldton, Western Australia; Naval Radio Transmitter Facility (NRTF) Niscemi about 60 km from Naval Air Station Sigonella, Sicily, Italy; Naval SATCOM Facility, Northwest Chesapeake, Southeast Virginia at ; and the Naval Computer and Telecommunications Area Master Station Pacific, Hawaii.\n\nConstruction of the ground station in Italy was halted for nearly half of 2012 by protesters concerned with health risks and environmental damage by radio waves. One scientific study 'point[s] to serious risks to people and the environment, such as to prevent its realization in densely populated areas, like the one adjacent to the town of Niscemi.' The system is not considered fully operational until all four ground stations are completed and turned over to the Navy. The other ground stations were turned over in 2012 and 2013.\n\nIn spite of the controversy, the site at Niscemi was completed in anticipation of the launch of MUOS-4.\n\nThe MUOS Waveform with complete red/black operational capability was released in 2012. Until the Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) program cancellation in 2011, the JTRS program would provide the DoD terminals that can communicate with the MUOS WCDMA waveform with a series of form-factor models. The JTRS Handheld, Manpack & Small Form Fit (HMS) AN/PRC-155 manpack built by General Dynamics Mission Systems survived the wider JTRS program cancellation and has shipped several low rate of initial production (LRIP) units. Several non-program of record terminals have also been developing MUOS waveform capatibility such as the Rockwell Collins AN/ARC-210 airborne terminal and Harris Corporation AN/PRC-117G Manpack.\n\nIn 2013, the prime contractor Lockheed Martin and an industry team of radio vendors demonstrated extensive Arctic communications reach near the north pole, believed to be the most northerly successful call to a geosynchronous satellite. WCDMA calls to the far north will be increasingly important where there has been an increase in shipping, resource exploration and tourism without much improvement in secure satellite communications access. Based on the tests, full coverage of the Northwest Passage and Northeast Passage shipping lanes is expected. Several follow-on tests with high quality voice and data including streaming video have occurred in both the Arctic and Antarctic, including a 2015 demonstration from McMurdo Station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088193", "title": "Tracheitis", "text": "Tracheitis\n\nTracheitis is an inflammation of the trachea.\nAlthough the trachea is usually considered part of the lower respiratory tract, in ICD-10 tracheitis is classified under \"acute upper respiratory infections\".\n\n\nBacterial tracheitis is a bacterial infection of the trachea and is capable of producing airway obstruction.\n\nOne of the most common causes is \"Staphylococcus aureus\" and often follows a recent viral upper respiratory infection. Bacterial tracheitis is a rare complication of influenza infection. It is the most serious in young children, possibly because of the relatively small size of the trachea that gets easily blocked by swelling. The most frequent sign is the rapid development of stridor. It is occasionally confused with croup.\nIf it is inflamed, a condition known as tracheitis can occur. In this condition there can be inflammation of the linings of the trachea. A condition called tracheo-bronchitis can be caused, when the mucous membrane of the trachea and bronchi swell. A collapsed trachea is formed as a result of defect in the cartilage, that makes the cartilage unable to support the trachea and results in dry hacking cough. In this condition there can be inflammation of the linings of the trachea. If the connective nerve tissues in the trachea degenerate it causes tracheomalacia. Infections to the trachea can cause tracheomegaly.\n\nThe diagnosis of tracheitis requires the direct vision of exudates or pseudomembranes on the trachea. X-ray findings may include subglottic narrowing. The priority is to secure the patient's airway, and to rule out croup and epiglottitis which may be fatal. Suspicion for tracheitis should be high in cases of onset of airway obstruction that do not respond to racemic epinephrine.\n\nIn more severe cases, it is treated by administering intravenous antibiotics and may require admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) for intubation and supportive ventilation if the airway swelling is severe. During an intensive care admission, various methods of invasive and non-invasive monitoring may be required, which may include ECG monitoring, oxygen saturation, capnography and arterial blood pressure monitoring.\n"}
{"id": "2088194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088194", "title": "Ammonium persulfate", "text": "Ammonium persulfate\n\nAmmonium persulfate (APS) is the inorganic compound with the formula (NH)SO. It is a colourless (white) salt that is highly soluble in water, much more so than the related potassium salt. It is a strong oxidizing agent that is used in polymer chemistry, as an etchant, and as a cleaning and bleaching agent.\n\nThe dissolution of the salt in water is an endothermic process.\n\nAmmonium persulfate is prepared by electrolysis of a cold concentrated solution of either ammonium sulfate or ammonium bisulfate in sulfuric acid at a high current density. The method was first described by Hugh Marshall.\n\nAs an oxidizing agent and a source of radicals, APS finds many commercial applications.\n\nSalts of sulfate are mainly used as radical initiators in the polymerization of certain alkenes. Commercially important polymers prepared using persulfates include styrene-butadiene rubber and polytetrafluoroethylene. In solution, the dianion dissociates to give radicals:\nThe sulfate radical adds to the alkene to give a sulfate ester radical. It is also used along with tetramethylethylenediamine to catalyze the polymerization of acrylamide in making a polyacrylamide gel, hence being important for SDS-PAGE and western blot.\n\nIllustrative of its powerful oxidizing properties, it is used to etch copper on printed circuit boards as an alternative to ferric chloride solution. This property was discovered many years ago. In 1908, John William Turrentine used a dilute ammonium persulfate solution to etch copper. Turrentine weighed copper spirals before placing the copper spirals into the ammonium persulfate solution for an hour. After an hour, the spirals were weighed again and the amount of copper dissolved by ammonium persulfate was recorded. This experiment was extended to other metals such as nickel, cadmium, and iron, all of which yielded similar results.\nThe oxidation equation is thus: (aq) + → 2 (aq).\n\nAmmonium persulfate is a standard ingredient in hair bleach.\n\nPersulfates are used as oxidants in organic chemistry. For example, in the Minisci reaction.\n\nAirborne dust containing ammonium persulfate may be irritating to eye, nose, throat, lung and skin upon contact. Exposure to high levels of dust may cause difficulty in breathing.\n\nIt has been noted that persulfate salts are a major cause of asthmatic effects in women. Furthermore, it has been suggested that exposure to ammonium persulfate can cause asthmatic effects in hair dressers and receptionists working in the hairdressing industry. These asthmatic effects are proposed to be caused by the oxidation of cysteine residues, as well as methionine residues.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088195", "title": "Henry Poole MacKeen", "text": "Henry Poole MacKeen\n\nHenry Poole MacKeen, (June 17, 1892 – April 20, 1971) was a Canadian lawyer and the 23rd Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia from 1963 to 1968.\n\nBorn in Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, the son of former Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia David MacKeen, he served during World War I as an artillery officer, reaching the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and was wounded in 1916. After the war, he received his LL.B in 1921 from Dalhousie University. He was a practicing lawyer and served during World War II as the commanding officer of the Halifax Rifles 2nd Battalion from 1945 to 1946. He was also the Honorary Lieutenant Colonel from 1948 to 1960. He helped to defend Kurt Meyer, Canada's only jailed war criminal. In 1933 he was appointed a King's Council by the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia.\n\nHe was appointed Lieutenant Governor in 1963 and served until 1968. After, he became the first Chancellor of Acadia University.\n\nIn 1969, he was awarded the Medal of Service of the Order of Canada. The Medal of Service of the Order was converted to the Officer level of the Order of Canada in 1972, however as MacKeen died in 1971 his Medal of Service was never converted to an OC. MacKeen's papers are held by the Nova Scotia Archives.\n\nA portrait of MacKeen by Brenda Bury hangs at Government House Halifax. Another portrait of MacKeen hangs in the Halifax office of law firm Stewart McKelvey which is the successor firm to Stewart MacKeen & Covert where MacKeen practised law.\n\nIn 1928, he married Alice Richardson Tilley, the daughter of Leonard Percy de Wolfe Tilley. They had two children: Judith Tilley MacKeen and Henry David MacKeen.\n\n<br>\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2088199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088199", "title": "Love Songs (Elton John album)", "text": "Love Songs (Elton John album)\n\nLove Songs is a compilation album by British singer-songwriter Elton John. The album was first released on 6 November 1995 by John's own label The Rocket Record Company, in conjunction with Mercury Records. The album was released in North America by MCA Records almost a year after the European release, on 24 September 1996. In the US, it was certified gold in December 1996, platinum in March 1997, 2× platinum in December 1998 and 3× platinum in August 2000 by the RIAA.\n\nThe album was a major success upon its release, topping the albums charts in three countries, was certified platinum in 11 countries and multi-platinum in 7.\n\nThe release also spawned a music video compilation, which was originally released on laserdisc, VHS, and VCD.\n\nThis 1995 album is not to be confused with another Elton John album of the same title released in the UK in 1982.\n\nIn a sense, it may be considered an unofficial \"Greatest Hits Volume 4\". On the US version, ten of the fifteen tracks had been released in the period since the \"Volume 3\" collection, including the artist's second tenure on MCA and two songs from the then-recent \"Made in England\". (Two of these tracks, however, were live versions of old songs, namely \"Candle in the Wind\" and \"Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me\"). \"You Can Make History (Young Again)\" and \"No Valentines\" were the two new songs made specifically for this release. The former was about John and Taupin each finding love and idealism in their new life partners. Unfortunately, Taupin's relationship would eventually end and is covered in the lyrics of \"Mansfield\" on the 2001 release, \"Songs from the West Coast\".\n\nThe UK version saw an alternate track order with the inclusion of such songs as \"I Guess That's Why They Call It the Blues\", \"Nikita\", \"True Love\" (a duet with Kiki Dee), \"Please\", \"Song for Guy\", and the original version of \"Candle in the Wind\". In addition, \"Blessed\" is represented as the single edit. The North American version contains the full length version of the song. \"You Can Make History (Young Again)\" and \"No Valentines\" do not appear on this version since they were recorded after its release. Due to a production error, the US CD booklet and cassette lyric sheet provide the lyrics for \"I Guess That's Why They Call It the Blues\" directly after \"Candle in the Wind\".\n\nAll songs written by Elton John and Bernie Taupin, except where noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088203", "title": "Abducens nucleus", "text": "Abducens nucleus\n\nThe abducens nucleus is the originating nucleus from which the abducens nerve (VI) emerges—a cranial nerve nucleus. This nucleus is located beneath the fourth ventricle in the caudal portion of the pons, medial to the sulcus limitans.\n\nThe abducens nucleus along with the internal genu of the facial nerve make up the facial colliculus, a hump at the caudal end of the medial eminence on the dorsal aspect of the pons.\n\nTwo primary neuron types are located in the abducens nucleus: motorneurons and interneurons. The former directly drive the contraction of the ipsilateral lateral rectus muscle via the abducens nerve (sixth cranial nerve); contraction of this muscle rotates the eye outward (abduction). The latter relay signals from the abducens nucleus to the contralateral oculomotor nucleus, where motoneurons drive the contraction of the ipsilateral medial rectus muscle (hence, contralateral to the abducens nucleus that issues the command) ; contraction of this muscle rotates the eye inward (adduction).\n\nThis \"wiring\" pattern suggests that the main function of the abducens nucleus is to generate coordinated movements of both eyes in the same direction. Indeed, electrical stimulation of the abducens nucleus has been shown to generate conjugate eye movements (i.e. both eyes rotate in the same direction, and by the same angle). Such eye movements occur whenever we look between targets located in the distance. Moreover, lesions to the axonal tract of interneurons (in the medial longitudinal fasciculus) have been shown to disrupt conjugate eye movements through the paralysis of the contralateral eye. Importantly, despite the lesions, this muscle remains functional during convergence eye movements. Finally, experiments where the electrical activity of single neurons in the abducens nucleus has been recorded during slow and fast conjugate eye movements have demonstrated very little differences in the discharge patterns of motoneurons and interneurons.\n\nAltogether, it is now well accepted that the abducens nucleus is a key structure for the conjugated movements of both eyes.\n\nDamage to the abducens nerve causes monocular ipsilateral lateral ophthalmoparesis: specifically, loss of the ability to move the ipsilateral eye outward (abduction).\n\nIn contrast, damage to the area of the nucleus results in binocular lateral gaze paralysis: loss of the ability to move the eyes together in the direction of the side with the lesion. This is due to damage to both the motoneurons and interneurons projecting through the medial longitudinal fasciculus to the contralateral medial rectus neurons. Note, however, that the eye contralateral to the lesion can still move in the direction of the lesion during convergence movements.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088205", "title": "Helsinki Senate Square", "text": "Helsinki Senate Square\n\nThe Senate Square (, ) presents Carl Ludvig Engel's architecture as a unique allegory of political, religious, scientific and commercial powers in the centre of Helsinki, Finland.\n\nSenate Square and its surroundings make up the oldest part of central Helsinki. Landmarks and famous buildings surrounding the square are the Helsinki Cathedral, the Government Palace, main building of the University of Helsinki, and Sederholm House (), the oldest building of central Helsinki dating from 1757.\n\nThe Palace of the Council of State (or Government Palace) was completed on the eastern side of the Senate Square in 1822. It served as the seat of the Senate of Finland until it was replaced by the Council of State in 1918, and now houses the offices of the Prime minister of Finland and the cabinet.\nThe main University building, on the opposite side of the Senate Square, was constructed in 1832.\n\nThe Helsinki Cathedral on the northern edge of the Senate Square was Engel's lengthiest architectural project. He was working on it from 1818 until his death in 1840. The Helsinki Cathedral — then called the Church of St. Nicholas — dominates the Senate Square, and was finalized twelve years afters Engel's death, in 1852.\n\nA statue of Emperor Alexander II is located in the center of the square. The statue, erected in 1894, was built to commemorate his re-establishment of the Diet of Finland in 1863 as well as his initiation of several reforms that increased Finland's autonomy from Russia. The statue comprises Alexander on a pedestal surrounded by figures representing law, culture, and peasants. The sculptor was Walter Runeberg.\n\nDuring the Russification of Finland from 1899 onwards, the statue became a symbol of quiet resistance, with people protesting against the decrees of Nicholas II by leaving flowers at the foot of the statue of his grandfather, then known in Finland as \"the good czar\".\n\nAfter Finland's independence in 1917, demands were made to remove the statue. Later, it was suggested to replace it with the equestrian statue of Mannerheim currently located on Mannerheimintie in front of the Kiasma museum. Nothing came of either of these suggestions, and today the statue is one of the major tourist landmarks of the city and a reminder of Finland's close relationship with Imperial Russia.\n\nToday, the Senate Square is one of the main tourist attractions of Helsinki. Various art happenings, ranging from concerts to snow buildings to controversial snow board happenings, have been set up on the Senate Square.\n\nThe United Buddy Bears exhibition, which was displayed in autumn of 2010 on the historic square, was the largest open air art show ever held in Finland.\n\nDigital carillon music () is played daily at 17:49 at the Senate Square. The sound installation was composed by Harri Viitanen, composer and organist of Helsinki Cathedral, and Jyrki Alakuijala, Doctor of Technology. The optimal listening position is at the proximity of the Square's central monument, the bronze statue of Alexander II.\n\nThe broad flight of steps on the north side of the square, in front of the cathedral are so steep that unsuspecting visitors approaching the square from the north often assume that they are approaching a cliff edge: because the steps do not come into view until one is at the very top step, one experiences a moment of vertigo. Locals even refer to the point as the 'cliff edge.'.\n\nSeveral buildings near the Senate Square are managed by the government real estate provider, Senate Properties.\nThe site aspires to get on the World Heritage Site but a single house in its southwest corner prevents it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088208", "title": "Dream House (game show)", "text": "Dream House (game show)\n\nDream House is an American game show that saw contestants competing to win, as the title of the show indicates, a new house. The show originally premiered in primetime on ABC on March 27, 1968, with a daytime edition premiering on April 1, 1968. The primetime series aired weekly until September 19, 1968 and the daytime series aired daily until January 2, 1970, when it was replaced with \"All My Children\". The daytime series was revived for NBC's daytime schedule and premiered on April 4, 1983, running until June 29, 1984.\n\nThe original \"Dream House\" was hosted by Mike Darow with Chet Gould announcing. Bob Eubanks hosted the revival series with Johnny Gilbert as announcer. The ABC version was recorded in New York City, while the NBC run was staged at the network's studios in Burbank, California.\n\nThe first format involved two couples competing in a game of quick recall. The first contestant to buzz-in answered and received five points for a correct response. If the contestant was wrong, however, the other couple could try to answer for ten points. When a contestant gave a correct answer, he or she was locked out of the next question.\n\nTwo minutes before the end of the game, which lasted from four to five minutes, the point values doubled, and at the end was the \"Catch-Up Round\" in which the team that was trailing could choose one last question from 10 to 50 points (if they answered correctly, the other couple got one last shot). The winning couple won a room of furniture.\n\nCouples who won seven rooms of furniture on the daytime version (four on the 1968 primetime version) won their choice of either a new house (worth over $40,000, plus $7,000 to purchase land) or $20,000 in cash.\n\nBeginning in 1969, three couples competed in the first round in which the first couple to buzz-in with a correct answer scored five points. A wrong answer, however, gave the other couples a chance to score ten points. Only during that first round would all contestants be allowed to buzz-in on all questions. The points were doubled during the last two minutes of the round. The two highest-scoring couples advanced to the next round, played exactly the same as the previous two-couple format. Five-time champions were offered an airplane in lieu of attempting to win two more games.\n\nTwo teams of two (usually married couples), one of them a returning champion, competed to win a house worth approximately $100,000.\n\nThe host read a true/false toss-up question open to all four players. A correct answer awarded that couple $50 and their choice of four categories, while a miss gave the money and control to their opponents. Each category had a multiple-choice question with three possible answers. After the couple in control gave their answer, the opponents had the option to challenge and select a different one. The couple with the right answer won $100, or $150 in the event of an unsuccessful challenge. Each team could challenge twice during the round. Once a category had been played, it was removed from the board and a new toss-up was asked. The round continued until all four categories had been used.\n\nThe game was played in two rounds, with the leader after the first round winning a prize. The second round was played the same as round one, except that each team had a one-time opportunity to double the value of the question before the question was asked. The couple leading after two rounds won the game, received a room of furniture, and advanced to the bonus round. Couples kept whatever they earned, win or lose. If the game ended in a tie, one more true/false toss-up question was played to break the tie.\n\nDuring the show's 15-month NBC run, special weeks were set aside for siblings, single couples with children and engaged couples. There was also a week in November 1983 where the cast of \"Diff'rent Strokes\" played for a designated couple, as well as one from May 1984 in which two different celebrity teams played for charity each day.\n\nSeveral rule changes went into effect in April 1984. The couple in control was required to hit their plunger to determine the question value displayed on a \"money machine\", a random light which stopped at $50, $100, or $150. The amount could also be accompanied with \"Prize,\" which awarded a bonus prize to the team that answered correctly, or \"Turnover,\" which gave control of the question to the opposing team. In the second round, a \"Number Off\" space was added to the machine, which allowed the team who answered correctly to remove one extra number from the combination lock if they reached the bonus round. Also, if the winning team led by $500–$950 after two rounds, they originally received a prize, but this was later changed to a $500 bonus. Winning by $1,000 or more was worth a new car. Unlike the first format, there was no double option available in round two.\n\nIn the bonus round, the couple tried to open a set of \"Golden Doors\" by programming the correct three-digit combination into an electronic lock that secured them. The lock displayed three rows of four digits each, and the correct combination consisted of one digit from each row. The couple was given an opportunity to remove incorrect digits before making their guess.\n\nOriginally, each day that a couple reached the bonus round, one incorrect digit was automatically removed from the lock, following the sequence of top-middle-bottom. A later rule change removed one digit for each time the couple returned, thus depriving them of having one eliminated on their first day. A couple could also have a digit removed if they had landed on \"Number Off\" on the Money Machine once the format for the front game was changed.\n\nAfter the initial removal of digits, the couple chose one of three categories and answered three questions in it, each with two possible answers. Each correct response eliminated one more digit – from the top row for the first question, the middle row for the second, the bottom row for the third.\n\nAfter the questions, the couple entered their guess at the combination. Once a digit was chosen, it could not be changed. After making their guess, the couple pressed a button referred to as a \"time release bar,\" which caused a series of four lights built into the frame of the Golden Doors to activate from the bottom up. If the combination was correct, all the lights came on, the Golden Doors opened, and the couple won the house. If not, the topmost section remained dark, a buzzer sounded, and the host revealed the correct combination.\n\nChampions returned to face the Golden Doors each day until they either programmed the winning combination, won enough games to automatically win the house, or were defeated by another couple. Seven victories were initially required to win the house; this threshold was later lowered to five, then raised to six. In a match where a couple was in a position to win the house if they won the main game, a plunger alternately called a \"Golden Circuit Breaker\" and a \"Hotline Switch\" was brought out at the beginning of the second round. If the couple won, the plunger was pushed after the match and the Golden Doors automatically opened.\n\nAny couple that won the house — either by guessing the combination or by winning the requisite number of games — retired undefeated, and two new couples competed on the next show.\n\nReplacing reruns of the cult crime drama \"The Fugitive\", \"Dream House\" began broadcasting on April 1, 1968, at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time. Its competition depended on the local market, as both NBC and CBS went down during that half-hour to allow their affiliates to run local or syndicated programming.\n\nABC used the show as a promotional device; questions were frequently about the network's shows and stars, and Monty Hall appeared in December 1968 to promote the move of his \"Let's Make a Deal\" from NBC to ABC.\n\nThe show ended amid some controversy. In the summer of 1969, \"TV Guide\" reported that none of the houses given away on the series at that point had been completed. Furthermore, according to the report, some winning couples had to borrow considerably more than the $7,000 the show awarded for the purchase of land. Shortly after this article was published, \"Dream House\" began offering the option of $20,000 in lieu of the house, but the damage had already been done and the ratings began to decline. The network cancelled \"Dream House\" in late 1969 and its final episode aired on January 2, 1970; the show's time slot was immediately taken over by \"All My Children\".\n\n\"Dream House\" premiered in the 11:30 a.m. Eastern (10:30 a.m. Central) time slot on April 4, 1983, replacing the 13-week game show \"Hit Man\" (which had been canceled despite the network's ratings increasing in that slot). Airing opposite the second half of the highly rated CBS game show \"The Price Is Right\" on CBS and the ABC soap opera \"Loving\" (which premiered three months later), the series ran for a total of 1¼ years. The final episode aired on June 29, 1984; three days later, NBC began airing a television adaptation of the board game \"Scrabble\", which would occupy the 11:30 a.m. timeslot for the first three years of its nearly six-year run.\n\nThe studio master tapes of the 1968–70 version are not known to exist. They may have been erased by ABC as this was standard procedure for its daytime programs until 1978, although the controversies surrounding the show may also have played a role.\n\nIn 2013, the studio master tapes of the 1983–84 version, which were in the possession of series creator Don Reid, were destroyed by a flood.\n"}
{"id": "2088213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088213", "title": "Reeling In the Years", "text": "Reeling In the Years\n\nReeling in the Years is a television series shown on RTÉ.\n\nEach episode, running for about 25 minutes, reviews the events of a particular selected year, from 1962 to 2009. News archive footage features, along with subtitles as the means of narration, to recount important national and international events of the time. Music from the selected year plays across the footage, with occasional scenes of live performances or music videos, often (but by no means exclusively) by an Irish artist. No advertisements are shown during the broadcast (apart from the occasional old advertisement dating from the relevant year). Each decade takes at least eight months to make.\n\nThe theme tune for the series comes from Steely Dan's 1972 hit \"Reelin' In the Years\". All five series are marked by a knowing attitude, where certain stories that seemed inconsequential at the time are remembered because they have taken on significance in the present day. This has gained the programme a reputation for being very funny. An example is seen in the 1987 episode: Taoiseach Charles Haughey discusses what he would do if he were to win money in the newly formed National Lottery. Haughey, whose lavish lifestyle was later revealed to have been funded by \"donations\" from businessmen, exclaims, \"I might keep a bit for myself!\".\n\nA 2008 poll (conducted by the \"RTÉ Guide\") of Ireland's Top 100 television programmes resulted in \"Reeling in the Years\" being voted \"most popular home-produced TV programme ever\". In 2008, a DVD—\"Reeling in the 80s\"—was released for the Irish market—with follow-up DVDs \"Reeling in the 90s\" and \"Reeling in the 70s\" released in 2009 and 2010, respectively.\n\nThe original series focused on the 1980s and first aired on Monday nights from 6 September to 8 November 1999.\n\nThe second series focused on the 1990s and first aired on Monday nights from 11 September to 27 November 2000 except on 30 October and 13 November.\n\nThe third series focused on the 1970s and first aired on Tuesday nights from 10 September to 12 November 2002.\n\nThe fourth series focused on the 1960s (1962 to 1969 only) and first aired on Friday nights from 10 September to 29 October 2004. It features neither 1960 nor 1961 as these pre-date the official launch of Telefís Éireann, the television arm of the national broadcaster. It was felt, presumably, that there would be too little archive material from which to make an engaging programme about these years. Indeed, the episodes covering the first half of the 1960s are characterised by extensive use of photographs and posters, as opposed to film and video footage, to represent various historical events.\n\nThe fifth series focused on the 2000s and first aired on Sunday nights from 17 October to 26 December 2010 except on 28 November.\n\nThe sixth series focused on the 2010s to be produced in 2021 (broadcast date as yet unknown).\n\nIn the past, RTÉ had said that, because of the number of clips from external companies used in the series, it would be infeasible to release it on VHS or DVD. It claimed that securing \"video clearance\" for each clip and song would make any release prohibitively expensive. RTÉ did consider releasing an altered version of the programme which would only contain the images and music that they owned the rights to, but that \"the programme would only be half as good then, it wouldn't be anything like the shows that went out on air, and we'd end up disappointing people.\"\n\nHowever, in October 2008, RTÉ announced that they would be releasing a DVD of a cut-down version of the 1980s material. \"Reeling in the 80s\" is an altered version of the programme which contains only the images and music that the producers were able to secure rights to, and it runs to about 150 minutes (versus 240 minutes for the original series). It does, however, contain some original material that has been unearthed since 1999, and which has greater significance now, such as footage of former Taoiseach Brian Cowen.\n\n\"Reeling in the 90s\" was released on 13 November 2009, while \"Reeling in the 70s\" was released in November 2010.\n\nThe \"Reeling in the decades\" Boxset was released in 2011 which collected the 70s, 80s and 90s DVDs in one boxset.\n\n\nIn recent years, \"Reeling in the Years\" has been used regularly by RTÉ One as a filler programme during the spring months all the way through to the Christmas period. It currently is shown at 18:30 on Sunday evenings if there is no talent programme or documentary and most bank holidays, when there is no Eastenders it usually fills the 20:00 slot on Mondays or Fridays or even 19:30 slot on Tuesdays or Thursdays. This has led to some interesting parallels with real-life events. When Cian O'Connor won his bronze medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics, RTÉ showed the 2004 episode of \"Reeling in the Years\", complete with Anne Doyle's announcement that O'Connor was to be stripped of his gold medal won at the 2004 Summer Olympics. The next day RTÉ showed the 2005 episode of \"Reeling in the Years\", complete with the announcement that London had secured the 2012 Summer Olympics with then-British Prime Minister Tony Blair reacting by saying what a momentous day it was for neighbouring Britain, followed by footage of the 7 July 2005 London bombings, which occurred the following day.\n\nA website ranked editions of \"Reeling in the Years\" in order of the \"most and least depressing\" – least were 1994, 2004 and 2007; most were 1981, 1986 and 2008.\n\nIn 2020 plans will be made for a new series covering the 2010s decade.\n\nThe Irish language station TG4 broadcast a similar programme called \"Siar Sna\". TV3 aired a programme called series \"Those Were the Days\" with a focus on pop music.\n\nIn Britain, the BBC produced a similar series in the early 2000s, called \"\"I Love...\"\", in which public figures discuss the pop culture of each year.\n\nThe Spanish version of \"Reeling in the Years\" (\"Los Años del No-Do\") began airing in 2013 and is produced by the Spanish state-owned television and radio broadcaster RTVE. The word \"No-Do\" is a shortened name for Noticiarios y Documentales (News and Documentaries). Following the same format of Reeling in the Years, \"Los Años del No-Do\" encompasses the years from 1943 to 1981. It has been associated containing propaganda to support the Spanish caudillo Franco who ruled Spain from 1936 to 1975.\n\nIn Norway, the public broadcaster NRK produced a similar series, \"Back to the xx-ies\" (\"Tilbake til xx-tallet\") covering the 1960s (\"Tilbake til 60-tallet\"), 1970s (\"Tilbake til 70-tallet\"), 1980s (\"Tilbake til 80-tallet\") and 1990s (\"Tilbake til 90-tallet\"). They were produced as four series each of 10 episodes covering one year of their respective decade - 40 episodes in total. Different from the \"Reeling in the Years\" series was that persons prominent in the year covered by an episode also narrated on-screen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088215", "title": "Merced Regional Airport", "text": "Merced Regional Airport\n\nMerced Regional Airport (MacReady Field) is southwest of Merced, in Merced County, California. It is used for general aviation and sees one airline, subsidized by the Essential Air Service program.\n\nThe National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021 categorized it as a \"general aviation\" airport (the \"commercial service\" category requires 2,500 enplanements per year).\n\nOn March 15, 1932 the Merced City Council accepted title to the site of an airport as a gift from the Twenty-Thirty Club and the Crocker-Huffman Company. The airport, an airstrip and of land northwest of the city near the intersection of U.S. Route 99 and California State Route 59, was dedicated on April 3, 1932. The airport site was leased to George Voight for a term of five years, and a subsidiary airline of the Stinson Aircraft Company started Merced's first scheduled airline service. In May 1936 the City of Merced assumed responsibility for the airport; constructing buildings, hangars, and other improvements; expanding the site to .\n\nIn 1940 as the U.S. Army was trying to establish a 30,000 per year basic pilot training facility in the Merced area, Merced Municipal Airport was deemed unsuitable for a major training facility due to lack of room. The United States Department of War would ultimately select an area northeast of Atwater, now the site of Castle Airport, for its Air Corps Basic Flying School. That year, land the Merced Regional Airport now occupies in southwest Merced near Childs Avenue was acquired from delinquent tax rolls. The city council approved the first phase of construction of a new airport shortly after the acquisition. This new city owned airport would be known as \"New Merced Municipal Airport\".\n\nIn 1941 construction delays at the Air Corps Basic Flying School site forced the Army to lease the original Merced Municipal Airport, resulting in the first aircraft assigned to the Air Corps Basic Flying School being stored at Merced Municipal Airport and giving the Basic Flying School its first usable axillary field. After the United States entered World War II, the Civil Aeronautics Authority assumed responsibility for the final phase of construction of the New Merced Municipal Airport. By 1942 the new airport and its two runways; 6/24 and 12/30 each 4000' by 150', was completed by the United States Army Corps of Engineers working under the CAA.\n\nIn 1943 New Merced Municipal Airport was leased to the U.S. Army Air Force, becoming the sixth axillary field for Merced Army Airfield (present day Castle Airport). Under the lease, the airport's name was changed to \"New Merced Municipal Airport Auxiliary Field\". The lease was terminated immediately after the war, and the airport was returned to civil control. In the fall of 1945, the City of Merced sold the original Merced Municipal Airport site near Santa Fe Drive to the Chamber of Commerce for $7,500, leaving New Merced Municipal Airport (near Childs Ave) as the city's primary airport.\n\nIn 1946 United Airlines built offices and a terminal building and began one Douglas DC-3 flight each way a day. That year damage incurred during the Army Air Force's use of the site was repaired, and more improvements were made using federal funds. In 1948 Merced Municipal Airport was annexed to the City of Merced.\n\nDuring the 1950s the airport was used to service United States Armed Forces aircraft, and a land acquisition in February 1955 allowed runway 12/30 to be extended. In 1967 runway 6/24 and its parallel taxiway were closed, and in 1975 a control tower was built.\n\nUnited's DC-3s were replaced by Convair 340s, then Douglas DC-6s, then Boeing 737-200s in 1968-69. United flights to Merced ended in 1979.\n\nOn March 6, 2009 the city council voted to change the name from Merced Municipal Airport to Merced Regional Airport.\n\nBetween 1957 and 2007 Merced Regional Airport hosted the annual Merced West Coast Antique Fly-In. Each year the fly-in drew hundreds of pilots from across the western United States to Merced to display their rare and antique aircraft. The fly-in featured an air show and an antique car show. In 2007, the 50th annual fly-in drew nearly 400 planes and several stunt pilots. Since 2008 the Merced West Coast Antique Fly-In has been canceled due to lack of sponsors and volunteers.\n\nMerced Regional Airport covers 766 acres (310 ha) at an elevation of 155 feet (47 m). Its one asphalt runway, 12/30, is 5,914 by 150 feet (1,803 x 46 m).\n\nIn the year ending December 31, 2015 the airport had 58,650 aircraft operations, average 161 per day: 93% general aviation, 6% airline and less than 1% military. 61 aircraft were then based at this airport: 89% single-engine, 8% multi-engine, and two helicopter. The airport is an uncontrolled airport that has no control tower.\n\nMerced Regional Airport is a base for Medi-Flight Northern California, an air ambulance service provided by Mercy Air, a subsidiary of Air Methods. Medi-Flight shuttles patients between Mercy Medical Center Merced and nearby trauma centers, as well as responding directly to medical emergencies.\n\nBus connections to Yosemite National Park are available on the Yosemite Area Regional Transportation System (YARTS).\n\nThe airport was formerly served by Air Pacific, American Eagle, Golden Gate Airlines, United Airlines, United Express, US Airways Express, Inland Empire Airlines and Great Lakes Airlines. United Airlines had Boeing 737-200s direct to Los Angeles and San Francisco, the airport's only scheduled passenger jets.\n\nThe airport has been used as a filming location for projects including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088217", "title": "Ammonium hydrosulfide", "text": "Ammonium hydrosulfide\n\nAmmonium hydrosulfide is the chemical compound with the formula (NH)HS.\n\nIt is the salt derived from the ammonium cation and the hydrosulfide anion. The salt exists as colourless, water-soluble, micaceous crystals. On Earth the compound is encountered mainly as a solution, not as the solid, but NHSH ice is believed to be a substantial component of the cloud decks of the gas-giant planets Jupiter and Saturn, with sulfur produced by its photolysis responsible for the color of some of those planets' clouds. It can be generated by mixing hydrogen sulfide and ammonia.\n\nSolutions of ammonium hydrosulfide can be prepared by passing hydrogen sulfide gas through concentrated ammonia solution. According to a detailed 1895 report, hydrogen sulfide reacts with concentrated aqueous ammonia solution at room temperature to give (NH)S·2NHHS. When this species is cooled to 0 °C and treated with additional hydrogen sulfide, one obtains (NH)S·12NHHS. An ice-cold solution of this substance kept at 0 °C and having hydrogen sulfide continually passed through it gives the hydrosulfide.\n\nThe common \"stink bomb\" consists of an aqueous solution of ammonium sulfide. The mixture easily converts to ammonia and hydrogen sulfide gases. This conversion illustrates the ease of the following equilibrium:\nAmmonia and hydrogen sulfide each have a powerful and unpleasant smell.\n\nAqueous solutions of ammonium sulfide (CAS registry number 12135-76-1), also known as diammonium sulfide are commercially available, although the composition of these solutions is uncertain as they could consist of a mixture of ammonia and (NH)SH. Ammonium sulfide solutions are used occasionally in photographic developing, to apply patina to bronze, and in textile manufacturing. Also, due to its offensive smell, it is the active ingredient in a variety of pranks including the common stink bomb. It can be used as a selective reducing agent (cf 2,4-Dinitrochlorobenzene), where there are two nitro groups only one of them is selectively reduced.\n"}
{"id": "2088219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088219", "title": "Johnny Walsh (gang member)", "text": "Johnny Walsh (gang member)\n\nJohn \"Johnny the Mick\" Walsh (February 8, 1852-October 16, 1883) was an early New York City gangster and leader of the Walsh Gang. Forming the Walshers in the late 1870s, Walsh's violent tactics would dominate the Bowery in several years. Walsh would soon become involved in what would become a long a bitter feud with Johnny Irving's Dutch Mob during the early 1880s as the two fought over the Bowery. On three separate occasions, the two gang leaders fought each other in knife fights although these proved inconclusive. The police refused to interfere in the gang war, as was general policy at the time, preferring to allow the gangs to wipe each other out. \n\nThe final showdown between Walsh and Irving occurred on October 16, 1883 when, as Walsh was drinking in Shang Draper's saloon on Sixth Avenue, Irving and Billy Porter entered and confronted Walsh. After an altercation between the two, Walsh shot and killed Irving. Porter in turn killed Walsh and was then shot by Draper. Although Porter survived, neither he nor Draper were charged with either Walsh or Irving's death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088221", "title": "Submillimetre astronomy", "text": "Submillimetre astronomy\n\nSubmillimetre astronomy or submillimeter astronomy (see spelling differences) is the branch of observational astronomy that is conducted at submillimetre wavelengths (i.e., terahertz radiation) of the electromagnetic spectrum. Astronomers place the submillimetre waveband between the far-infrared and microwave wavebands, typically taken to be between a few hundred micrometres and a millimetre. It is still common in submillimetre astronomy to quote wavelengths in 'microns', the old name for micrometre.\n\nUsing submillimetre observations, astronomers examine molecular clouds and dark cloud cores with a goal of clarifying the process of star formation from earliest collapse to stellar birth. Submillimetre observations of these dark clouds can be used to determine chemical abundances and cooling mechanisms for the molecules which comprise them. In addition, submillimetre observations give information on the mechanisms for the formation and evolution of galaxies.\n\nThe most significant limitation to the detection of astronomical emission at submillimetre wavelengths with ground-based observatories is atmospheric emission, noise and attenuation. Like the infrared, the submillimetre atmosphere is dominated by numerous water vapour absorption bands and it is only through \"windows\" between these bands that observations are possible. The ideal submillimetre observing site is dry, cool, has stable weather conditions and is away from urban population centres. There are only a handful of such sites identified, they include Mauna Kea (Hawaii, United States), the Llano de Chajnantor Observatory on the Atacama Plateau (Chile), the South Pole, and Hanle in India (the Himalayan site of the Indian Astronomical Observatory). Comparisons show that all four sites are excellent for submillimetre astronomy, and of these sites Mauna Kea is the most established and arguably the most accessible. There has been some recent interest in high-altitude Arctic sites, particularly Summit Station in Greenland where the PWV (precipitable water vapor) measure is always better than at Mauna Kea (however Mauna Kea's equatorial latitude of 19 degrees means it can observe more of the southern skies than Greenland).\n\nThe Llano de Chajnantor Observatory site hosts the Atacama Pathfinder Experiment (APEX), the largest submillimetre telescope operating in the southern hemisphere,\nand the world's largest ground based astronomy project, the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA), an interferometer for submillimetre wavelength observations made of 54 12-metre and 12 7-metre radio telescopes. The Submillimeter Array (SMA) is another interferometer, located at Mauna Kea, consisting of eight 6-metre diameter radio telescopes. The largest existing submillimetre telescope, the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope, is also located on Mauna Kea.\n\nWith high-altitude balloons and aircraft, one can get above even more of the atmosphere. The BLAST experiment and SOFIA are two examples, respectively, although SOFIA can also handle near infrared observations.\n\nSpace-based observations at the submillimetre wavelengths remove the ground-based limitations of atmospheric absorption. The Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite (SWAS) was launched into low Earth orbit on December 5, 1998 as one of NASA's Small Explorer Program (SMEX) missions. The mission of the spacecraft is to make targeted observations of giant molecular clouds and dark cloud cores. The focus of SWAS is five spectral lines: water (HO), isotopic water (HO), isotopic carbon monoxide (CO), molecular oxygen (O), and neutral carbon (C I).\n\nThe SWAS satellite was repurposed in June, 2005 to provide support for the NASA \"Deep Impact\" mission. SWAS provided water production data on the comet until the end of August 2005.\n\nThe European Space Agency launched a space-based mission known as the Herschel Space Observatory (formerly called Far Infrared and Sub-millimetre Telescope or FIRST) in 2009. Herschel deployed the largest mirror ever launched into space and studied radiation in the far infrared and submillimetre wavebands. Rather than an Earth orbit, Herschel entered into a Lissajous orbit around , the second Lagrangian point of the Earth-Sun system. is located approximately 1.5 million km from Earth and the placement of Herschel there lessened the interference by infrared and visible radiation from the Earth and Sun. Herschel's mission focused primarily on the origins of galaxies and galactic formation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088228", "title": "Live in Toronto Canada", "text": "Live in Toronto Canada\n\nLive in Toronto Canada, released in 2001, is the second live album by Ween, released on their own Chocodog label. It was recorded during the now legendary tour with Bobby Ogdin and the Shit Creek Boys on October 23, 1996, at the Phoenix Theatre in Toronto, Ontario. The setlist is divided evenly between \"12 Golden Country Greats\" tunes and previous fan favorites such as \"Push th' Little Daisies\" and \"Buenas Tardes Amigo\". The album exemplifies the Ween live experience, drunkenness and all. The album was reissued on vinyl in 2018 by Schnitzel Records.\n\nThe cover art is a parody of the 1964 Frank Sinatra/Count Basie album \"It Might as Well Be Swing\".\n"}
{"id": "2088229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088229", "title": "Sarandib Planitia", "text": "Sarandib Planitia\n\nSarandib Planitia is a region of relatively un-cratered terrain on Saturn's moon Enceladus. It is located at 4.4° North Latitude, 298.0° West Longitude and is approximately 200 km across. From \"Voyager\" images, Sarandib Planitia is considered part of either the ridged plains unit (Kargel and Pozio 1996) or smooth plains unit (Rothery 1999) of Enceladus, thought to be the youngest terrain on Enceladus. In more recent (and higher resolution) \"Cassini\" images, Sarandib is resolved into a region of relatively low ridges, with a band of rifted terrain cutting through the middle from northwest to southeast. In addition, a series of long-wavelength compression ridges are seen in the western portion of Sarandib Planitia, reminiscent of banded terrain on Europa, like Astypalaea Linea. Only ~20 craters larger than 1 kilometer across (the largest only 4.5 kilometers across) have been found in Sarandib, demonstrating the youthful age of the region.\n\nSarandib Planitia is bounded on the north and west by a band of grooved terrain named Samarkand Sulci. Given the similarity in the spatial relationship between the Diyar Planitia and Harran Sulci, it is likely that the formation of Sarandib Planitia and Samarkand Sulci are related.\n\nSarandib Planitia is named from the old Arabic/Persian/Urdu name for Sri Lanka, an island visited by Sindbad on his 6th voyage in \"Arabian Nights\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2088242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088242", "title": "Central of Georgia Railway", "text": "Central of Georgia Railway\n\nThe Central of Georgia Railway started as the Central Rail Road and Canal Company in 1833. As a way to better attract investment capital, the railroad changed its name to Central Rail Road and Banking Company of Georgia. This railroad was constructed to join the Macon and Western Railroad at Macon, Georgia, in the United States, and run to Savannah. This created a rail link from Chattanooga, on the Tennessee River, to seaports on the Atlantic Ocean. It took from 1837 to 1843 to build the railroad from Savannah to the eastern bank of the Ocmulgee River at Macon; a bridge into the city was not built until 1851.\n\nDuring the Savannah Campaign of the American Civil War, conducted during November and December of 1864, federal troops tore up the rails and converted them into \"Sherman's neckties.\"\n\nOver the years, this railroad steadily acquired other railroads by either lease or purchase:\n\nIn 1888, the Richmond Terminal Company, a Virginia holding company, gained control of the Central. The financial problems of the parent company forced the CofG into bankruptcy, and it was sold at foreclosure three years later, being reorganized as the Central of Georgia \"Railway\" on November 1, 1895.\n\nIn 1907 railroad magnate and financier E. H. Harriman gained a controlling interest in the railway, and in 1909 sold his interest to the Illinois Central Railroad, which he also controlled. In 1932, during the Great Depression, the CofG went into receivership, from which it did not emerge until 1948. In 1956, the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway (\"Frisco\"), seeking a route to Atlantic Ocean ports, gained control of the CofG, but the Interstate Commerce Commission declined to approve a merger of the two roads, so the Frisco sold its CofG stock to the Southern Railway in 1963.\n\nAt the end of 1956 the CofG operated of road and of track; that year it reported 3208 million net ton-miles of revenue freight and 73 million passenger-miles. Those totals do not include the Savannah and Atlanta, the L&W, the Wadley Southern or the Wrightsville and Tennille.\n\nThe CofG became a Southern Railway subsidiary on June 17, 1963. In 1971 the Southern formed the Central of Georgia Railroad to merge the Central of Georgia Railway, the Savannah and Atlanta Railway, and the Wrightsville and Tennille Railroad.\n\nThe famous passenger train the \"Nancy Hanks II\" (1947-1971) ran from Atlanta to Savannah, via Macon. It had the two added on the end to distinguish it from a short lived train the Central sal in the 1890's. Another notable train was the \"Man o' War\" (1947-1971), a Columbus - Atlanta route, via Newnan. Both of these trains were named after prize-winning racehorses. When Amtrak took control of the Southern Railway's passenger service in 1971, The Southern decided to discontinue the aforementioned trains.\n\nInto the mid-1950s, the CofG, with the Alabama & Saint Andrews Bay Railroad, operated passenger trains headed for the Gulf Coast resort city Panama City, Florida.\n\nLong distance inter-state trains operated on Central of Georgia tracks as part of their itineraries:\n\"City of Miami\" (Chicago-Miami), \"Southland\" (Chicago & Cincinnati to St. Petersburg), \"Flamingo\" (Cincinnati-Jacksonville) and \"Seminole\" (Chicago-Jacksonville).\n\nWell into the 1960s, CofG trains remained segregated, long after most Southern railroads abolished racial bars following a desegregation order by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The CofG only operated in Georgia, and some parts of Alabama, and was thus not engaged in interstate commerce.\n\nToday the Central of Georgia exists only as a paper railroad within the Norfolk Southern Railway group. of the CofG's former mainline are currently leased by the Chattooga and Chickamauga Railway from the State of Georgia.\n\nA number of former properties of Central of Georgia are preserved as historic sites. These include the following, listed on the National Register of Historic Places:\n\nEngines\n\nCentral of Georgia Railway 509 (2-8-0) Central City Park Macon, Ga\n\nCentral of Georgia Railway 349 (4-4-0) Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum Chattanooga, Tn\n\nCentral of Georgia Railway 1 (SW-1) Georgia State Railroad Museum Savannah, Ga\n\nCentral of Georgia Railway 223 (2-8-0) Georgia State Railroad Museum Savannah, Ga\n\nCentral of Georgia Railway 109 (RS-3) Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum Chattanooga, Tn\n\nCentral of Georgia Railway 201 (SD7), currently painted as Southern Railway 197, at Virginia Museum of Transportation\n\nRolling Stock\n\nJim Crow Passenger Car(s) 606 and 607 built by the Pullman Company in 1911 To serve The Central Of Georgia's growing passenger demand and both are currently owned by the Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum. \n\nPassenger Car 660 built by American Car and Foundry for service on the \"Nancy Hanks II\" in 1947 and is currently on display in Meridian, Mississippi.\n\nPassenger Car 661 built by American Car and Foundry for service on the \"Nancy Hanks II\" in 1947 and is currently owned by the Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum.\n\nPassenger Car 662 built by American Car and Foundry in 1947 for use on the \"Nancy Hanks II\" and is currently owned by the Southeastern Railway Museum (Currently on lease to TVRM).\n\nJim Crow Passenger Car 527 built by Pullman in 1924, later used on \"The Seminole.\" It is currently owned by the Southeastern Railway Museum. \n\nJim Crow Passenger Car 906 built by Pullman in 1924 as 623, later becoming 528. 528 served on the Man O'War as the only heavyweight, and was painted aluminium to match the lightweight cars from 1951-1954. It was later painted autumn harvest and used on \"The Seminole.\" Finally the car saw service on the Southern Steam Specials before coming to the Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum.\n\nJim Crow Passenger Car 907 built by the American Car & Foundry. 907 was built in 1947 as 543 to serve The Central Of Georgia's growing passenger demand in the Post-War period as a lightweight. It is currently owned by the Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum. \n\nOn April 5, 2012, Norfolk Southern unveiled NS 8101, a GE ES44AC painted in the scheme found on Central of Georgia's diesel locomotives. It was the fourth of 20 units that NS painted in the colors of their predecessors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088243", "title": "The Ballads (REO Speedwagon album)", "text": "The Ballads (REO Speedwagon album)\n\nThe Ballads is a 1999 compilation album by REO Speedwagon. It features some of the band's previously recorded hit ballads as well as two additional songs, \"Just For You\" and \"Til The Rivers Run Dry.\"\n\nREO Speedwagon \n\n"}
{"id": "2088246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088246", "title": "Winterslow", "text": "Winterslow\n\nWinterslow is a civil parish with a population of around 2,000, located about northeast of Salisbury in Wiltshire, England, south of the A30 London Road. It is sited on the Roman road between Old Sarum and Winchester.\n\nSettlements in the parish are the villages of West Winterslow and Middle Winterslow, and the hamlets of East Winterslow and The Common.\n\nThe area has evidence of prehistoric settlements, including Bronze Age features and an Iron Age hillfort at Ashley's Copse.\n\nMiddle Winterslow is located along a Roman road towards Old Sarum. The three settlements (today's West, Middle and East Winterslow) are recorded in the 1086 Domesday Book as Wintreslei, meaning \"Winter's mound or burial place\".\n\nThe Winterslows developed as separate manors, with Middle Winterslow known for a time as Middleton. As recently as 1958, the village around All Saints' church was named on maps as Winterslow, with West Winterslow adjacent to its southeast. On current maps and road signs, both areas are West Winterslow.\n\nThe civil parish elects a parish council. It is in the area of Wiltshire Council unitary authority, which is responsible for all significant local government functions.\n\nAn electoral ward in the same name exists. This ward starts on the outskirts of Salisbury in the south west and stretches in a northeasterly direction to Winterslow. The total ward population taken at the 2011 census was 3,894.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of All Saints at West Winterslow is Grade II* listed. It has 12th-century origins but was rebuilt in the 19th century by T.H. Wyatt.\n\nA chapel of ease dedicated to St John the Baptist was opened at The Common in 1860.\n\nA Methodist chapel was built at The Common in 1810; the present building dates from 1865.\n\nAn Evangelical church, the Gospel Lifeboat Mission, was opened at Middle Winterslow in 1891. The present building is from 1979.\n\nWinterslow Baptist Church, at West Winterslow, is a tin tabernacle built in 1908.\n\nRoche Old Court (early 17th century) and Roche Court (1805), near East Winterslow, are Grade II* listed.\n\nWilliam Hazlitt (1778–1830), writer and critic, lived here. Peter Bellinger Brodie (1778–1854, conveyancer) and his brother Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie (1783–1862, pioneering physiologist and surgeon) were born here.\n\nWinterslow CE Primary School, Middle Winterslow, serves the parish and nearby villages. It was built as a National School in 1856 and educated children of all ages until 1962.\n\nAt Middle Winterslow is a large modern village hall with a tennis court. There is one pub: the Lord Nelson at Middle Winterslow. The Lion's Head at The Common has recently shut down (2018).\n\nRoche Court near East Winterslow has a sculpture park and gallery.\n\nThe Clarendon Way long-distance footpath passes through Middle Winterslow and West Winterslow; its route along the Roman road is shared with the Monarch's Way.\n\nA housing development at Middle Winterslow was proposed in 2011 and met with objections from some residents. As of July 2015 the plans are not yet approved.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088247", "title": "John Sack", "text": "John Sack\n\nJohn Sack (March 24, 1930 – March 27, 2004) was an American literary journalist and war correspondent. He was the only journalist to cover each American war over half a century.\n\nSack was born to a Jewish family in New York City. His work appeared in such periodicals as \"Harper's\", \"The Atlantic\", \"Esquire\" and \"The New Yorker\". He was a war correspondent in Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan and the former Yugoslavia.\n\nA correspondent and later a bureau chief for CBS News in Spain, he authored ten books, including the controversial title \"\", which described cases of persecution of Germans by Jews in post–World War II Polish internment camps.\n\nHe died on March 27, 2004, three days after his 74th birthday, from prostate cancer in San Francisco, California, according to his \"New York Times\" obituary. He was survived by a sister, Lois Edelstein.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088249", "title": "Social problem film", "text": "Social problem film\n\nA social problem film is a narrative film that integrates a larger social conflict into the individual conflict between its characters. Like many film genres, the exact definition is often in the eye of the beholder, but Hollywood did produce and market a number of topical films in the 1930s and by the 1940s, the term \"social problem\" or \"message\" film was conventional in its usage among the film industry and the public. Many characteristics that have grown to define the social problem film revolve around the perceived consciousness of the nation about a certain social issue and integrating that issue into a narrative structure. Social problems such as the horrors of war, suffering of the poor, addiction, the rights of women, and the inhumanity of a certain world are often put on display. The problem with defining this type of film as a genre lies within the ability it has to separate itself from films that display similar style, as a lot of films do address social issues. However, the social problem film differentiates itself by focusing on the problems within the historical context of the current time, dealing with the social issue of a certain era as it applies to that era with a style that is much more didactic than its contemporaries. Furthermore, the social problem film allows further immersion into a certain issue than other genre films. For instance, gangster and prison films will reflect certain features of a social issue but won't actually fully explore the problem in the way that would qualify it for this genre.\n\nAn important fact of the social problem film is its ability to react and display a social problem that is relevant to the current era it was produced in. It specifically addresses an issue while the issue is still part of the national consciousness, often forming an argument for what the problem actually is through the narrative and character development. Early social problem films often blended ideological feelings of the time into a narrative which translated it into a message for audiences to absorb. This can be evidenced within certain sociological experiments that occurred revolving around the ability for a film to change public perception. A prime example of this is the representation of anti-semitism within the film \"Gentleman's Agreement\" and the subsequent sociological study by Russell Middleton that measured perceived anti-semitism before and after seeing the film. Surprisingly the film seemed to positively affect the subjects as the majority of people who participated in the study had markedly less anti-semitic feelings than before they saw the film. Although there are certain factors that need to be considered this study seems to indicate once again the primary didactic nature of the Social Problem Film as well as the tackling of subject matter relevant to the current era of the film and how audiences of the historical period perceived such a message.\n\nThis phenomenon of historical context and audience reaction created an interesting balance between the teaching nature of the film and its ability to contain an interesting narrative. Oftentimes the earlier films of the classical era can be seen as a bit preachy, often appearing less like a fictional feature and more like a public service announcement. This is displayed in the common occurrence of a teaching moment often near the end of the film where a character will literally give a speech often referring to the social message the film is attempting to portray. Examples can be seen through the judges at the end of \"Wild Boys of the Road\" and \"Where Are My Children?\", both of whom provide a lesson in monologue form that almost seems separate from the fictional narrative being presented. This relevance to the problem of the era the film resides in lends a sort of didactic authority to this type of film that others may not have. For instance, the film \"Where Are My Children?\" had trouble getting through the National Board of Review to public release due to reviewers believing that audiences were being provided with misleading information regarding birth control. They believed that the film was more educational in nature rather than a fictional narrative addressing a social issue.\n\nThe social problem film often takes a larger social issue during its respective era and displays it in a much more focused way. The problem will be expressed through a narrative often involving a few characters, often a family or an individual that traverses the film world experiencing the perceived social issue. Oftentimes they will interact directly with social institutions meant to display the social problems. The typifying of these institutions is styled based on the overall ideological message of the film, either being portrayed as ineffective or idealized as a proper solution. These can be seen throughout the development of the social problem film and even into contemporary times as the form of the social problem film changed. Examples of this style of narrative are apparent within films such as \"The Soul of Youth\" in which the larger problem of delinquent children with no home is portrayed through the ineffectiveness of the orphanage the protagonist resides in juxtaposed with the idealized life of the family of the judge he eventually settles in with. Another instance that deserves to be mentioned comes once again from \"Wild Boys of the Road\" in which the film reaches its climax as the protagonists are being dealt with by a judge, bringing the larger social issue into an individualist lens by applying the solution of a nationwide problem to a few individual experiences.\n\nAnother important Social Problem Film dealing with institutions is the alcoholism themed \"Days of Wine and Roses\". The film follows the progressive demise of a couple due to their inability to control their drinking, once again devolving a larger societal problem onto a focused set of characters. It does, however, offer a solution in the form of the institution of Alcoholic's Anonymous which serves as an effective way to treat one's self. A sociological study done by Elizabeth Hirschman revealed that the film's portrayal was indeed relatable to addicts and alcoholics who after watching the film viewed AA as a viable option to address their problem. This effect on the real population indicates the interaction that Social Problem Films hope to have on their audience in comparison to films meant to purely entertain while skimming the surface of certain issues.\n\nA more contemporary instance of the focused narrative of characters and institutions in the Social Problem Film is the ineffectiveness and cruelty of the military hospital in \"Coming Home\", a movie about returning vets from Vietnam. The mistreatment and negligent behavior affecting all vets in the hospital is reduced to the experiences of two or three characters.\n\nOne aspect that is widely seen within the social problem film is the usage of non-actors to portray either background characters or voices of reason within the narrative as well as the desire to film scenes on location. Both of these factors help lend authenticity and relation to the real world which is essential to the genre. Some notable examples are the inclusion of actual Judge Ben Lindsey playing himself in the previously mentioned film \"The Soul of Youth\". This insertion created an environment the audience knew was based in reality and thus lent a sense of authenticity to the didactic nature this genre possesses. The presence of a figure from the real world directly confronts the idea that the messages displayed in social problem films must be confirmed by real-life counterparts. It lends a sense of integrity reminiscent of journalism or a documentary film.\n\nLocation shooting is a factor that although not limited to the social problem film, has grown to exemplify certain factors within the genre. The idea of shooting outside of a studio and in the real environment again strengthens the films authenticity in the same way non-actors do. A film that utilized this style of shooting in order to gain this sense of realism is the previously mentioned \"Wild Boys of the Road\". The film's scenes that are set within the train yard that the children temporarily reside in is shot on location in an actual train yard in Glendale, Ca.\n\nPerhaps the most notable instance of the idea of real-life insertions is the opening scene of the social problem film about Mexican immigration following the instituting of the Bracero Program in 1942 meant to alleviate the shortage of farmhand work in the United States. The film, titled \"Border Incident\", opens with a flyover shot of farmland as an unseen narrator describes the landscape, the lack of labor, and the subsequent creation of the bracero program in response. This is an insertion of a program that actively was occurring during the production of this film. This reality-based narrative combines with the voice over, which mentions borders no less than five times to subtly push an ideology of mutual dependency towards the audience while allowing itself the appearance of being an authentic representation of the situation, showing again the effect real life insertions can have on the social problem films ability to affect its viewers.\n\nMany social problem films contain a theme of transit and the importance of familial relationships. These factors lend further authenticity to the genre as the audience seems to often follow the protagonist as he or she travels a necessary journey to arrive at a viable solution. Internal journeys are often mirrored in literal transportation of the characters. This can be seen in the traveling across the nation in \"Wild Boys of the Road\", the trip to the doctor's office in \"Where Are My Children?\", and the international migration of farmworkers in \"Border Incident\". Similarly, the idea of the family is apparent within this genre, oftentimes the idea of the family is of utmost importance. There is a finality in terms of the protagonist's descent when he or she has lost the trust and support of their family, and thus the social problem is often resolved by a return to these ideals. Although wartime feelings can account for some of this, it is important to note that this theme is maintained throughout the development of the genre. Even in more contemporary social problem films such as \"Coming Home\" and \"The Good Lie\", there is a sense of familial importance, the former in terms of his \"brothers\" who he stands by no matter what, and the latter in the form of their tribe members who travel thousands of miles for a new life.\n\nHistorian Kay Sloan has shown how various reformist groups made social problem shorts and features during the silent era. Generally, these dealt with prohibition, labor relations and concerns over \"white slavery.\" The ideologies of these pre-World War I productions often aligned with concerns over the worker and the interaction filmmakers had with real world problems. This was important to the development of the genre as it was the first foray into displaying issues of the common man but wasn't successful in terms of offering a viable solution. Rather, the didactic nature of these films indicated an upper-middle class solution to labor issues; oftentimes it would take the presence of a non-working class negotiator to resolve the issues laborers in the films dealt with. The discovery of the effect of and utilization of the happy ending was also implemented during this time. The happy ending left a cathartic effect on its audience, leaving them satisfied with the social message being provided. This itself is an imperative to the social problem genre due to its demonstration of directors and filmmakers desire to affect social change through movies. As a genre, however, these Progressive statements did not touch off a long-lasting concern in the film industry, which was solidifying behind standardized product, oligopoly and the star system.\n\nWarner Brothers under Darryl F. Zanuck started making topical films \"ripped from the headlines.\" These \"headliners\" generally were cheaply made, gritty in their realist aesthetic, and foregrounded a working class milieu and New Deal political sympathies. The social problem films of this era reflected the general national consciousness of the New Deal. Many social problem films of the time fed into a populist form of thought meant to instill confidence among the nation in the wake of the Great Depression, supporting the Franklin Delano Roosevelt platform that supposedly would alleviate the unemployment problem the United States faced at that time. Social problem films made during this era put the obligation of finding work on the individual while also displaying the benefits of having a neighborly attitude of helping those in need back to sustainable living. This is particularly displayed in films such as \"Wild Boys of the Road\" where the protagonist runs away from home with friends to try and find work, only to end up arrested and in need of assistance, which is subsequently granted by a Judge. The films interaction with New Deal ideologies is reflected in the confident tone of the judge as he grants aid to the homeless kids presented to him, the progressive nature of neighborly helpfulness is thrust upon the audience without allowing them to contemplate the fact that it took a middle class figure to save the unemployed. Just as the New Deal gave confidence in the short term but lagged in long-term growth for employment so did the social problem films of this time depict a sense of optimism even if they were stuck in the non-progressive narrative of a middle class savior.\n\nMervy LeRoy's \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\" was the most notable of the genre, and its success led Warner Brothers and other studios to copy the formula.\n\nMeanwhile, at Columbia Pictures, Frank Capra made his reputation (among the industry and filmgoing public alike; a rarity in those days) by developing his signature blend of social problem film and screwball comedy. Working with writer Robert Riskin, he would develop, repeat and refine this blend in films like \"Mr. Deeds Goes to Town\", \"Meet John Doe\", and \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\".\n\nThe postwar social problem films marked a noticeable shift away from economic problems to ones of social and psychological adjustment. This is perhaps due to the idea of returning veterans ability to become reestablished in normal society. As the thoughts and feelings of the nation progressed from worrying about unemployment to the horrors of war and rehabilitation of those suffering from addiction, so did the social problem film adapt to the national consciousness of its time. William Wyler's \"Best Years of Our Lives\" chronicled three returning veterans adjusting to civilian life. It was particularly powerful in that it served as a soothing to the anxieties many Americans felt about the returning of veterans to society. The national fear included the idea that these returning veterans would be bitter among their return not feeling properly reciprocated while also changed from the horrors they had seen. Also factoring in was the idea that the nuclear family had been broken up. The film addressed this social problem through its optimistic portrayal of the struggle for normalization, using a protagonist who had lost both hands in the war, notedly played by a non-professional actor who had that same experience, Harold Russell. The film depicts the intense male bonding that occurs during wartime in a positive way, showing the support each of the men have for each other. It also shows the struggles they face upon returning to their pre-war lives, although in an attempt to alleviate national anxiety the film ultimately resolves itself into a happy ending in which everything is reconciled. Although this film follows the general guidelines of a social problem film from the classic era such as usage of non-actors, the importance of historical context, a melodramatic feeling, and the didactic nature of the genre, the identification and solution to the social problem is less of a warning to society and more about increasing positive feelings in a nation reeling from the horrors of war.\n\nBilly Wilder's \"The Lost Weekend\" was about alcoholism, inaugurating a cycle of films dealing with drug and alcohol abuse. Films like \"Gentleman's Agreement\", \"Pinky\" and \"Home of the Brave\" tackled anti-Semitism and racism. The 1944 film \"Gaslight\" based on an earlier play, dramatized the Psychological abuse technique later known as Gaslighting(because of the film).\n\nIn particular \"Gentleman's Agreement\" addresses specific issues that plagued the postwar environment in America. The film follows a journalist as he decides to pass for Jewish in order to understand their experience. One social issue that was integrated within United States society is the categorizing of minorities together as one group; African-Americans, Asian Americans, Jews, and homosexuals were all discriminated against without distinction. Awareness of this problem was raised a bit, however, through the evils of the Nazis being revealed to the nation as a result of this type of hatred. Antisemitism became a topic of discussion among the world as well after the suffering the Jewish people had endured and the social problem film responded through attempted representation of the problem. The efforts in \"Gentleman's Agreement\" were criticized by Jewish critics for not really delving into Jewish culture at all as well as not going deep enough into the effect of the Holocaust. The film was seen as depicting antisemitism as a nasty habit rather that cultural discrimination. However, the film succeeded at a commercial level and was able to affect audiences in a way that reduced their antisemitic feelings.\n\nMcCarthyism, in the form of the House Un-American Activities Committee, dampened some of Hollywood's enthusiasm for left-leaning critiques of American society, but the genre continued nonetheless over the next two decades. Robert Wise's 1951 science fiction film \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" urged international cooperation in matters of violence and world security in an environment of Cold War mistrust and nuclear paranoia: the \"message\" is literally delivered to the Earth by a civilized extraterrestrial. Stanley Kramer's exposés of racism—\"The Defiant Ones\", \"Pressure Point\" and \"Guess Who's Coming to Dinner\"—became synonymous with the genre. Also, \"juvenile delinquency films\" combined the censorious tone of social problem films with exploitation film and melodrama.\n\nA series of Journalistic pieces on the ineffectiveness of mental health facilities also lead to an increase in public awareness about the social problem of mental health care. In particular, the exposé Bedlam 1946 caused outrage among Americans affecting the national attitude of the time, which was already in a fragile place due to Nazi horrors being revealed to the public. This combined with the untrusting environment and cold war tensions was reflected in a bevy of films about mental health, the ineffectiveness of treatment, and the way these sort of people can be helped. The social problem genre reflected this notion particularly well through its 1956 film \"Bigger Than Life\", which was consequently based on another article titled Ten Feet Tall published in The New Yorker\".\" The film tackles the social problems of mental health and addiction as it displays its protagonist in a healthy happy familial relationship until he is forced to take cortisone for a rare disease, he abuses the medication resulting in mental health issues. The hospital and doctors in this film are shown as incompetent willing to believe anything the patient tells them and even supplying him with more cortisone when he shows drug-seeking behavior.\n\nThis film also shows a marked shift from the social problem films of classic Hollywood due to a myriad of factors. In 1948, the Paramount Decrees were instituted after a landmark antitrust case by the United States against the major studios of the time. This resulted in a restriction on many forms of distribution, marketing, and time between film runs. This resulted in a shifting of power from the major studios of the time and thus they needed to find a new way to market their films. The creation of Cinemascope, which widened the aspect ratio allowing for widescreen viewing, and was viewed as the beginning of the end of the classical era of Hollywood. Having access to these new technologies the social problem film too would adapt, \"Bigger Than Life\" exhibited less didactic speech giving and allowed more interpretation from the audience as to what the social problem was.\n\nA big theme of films of the 1970s is the Vietnam War. Films such as \"Apocalypse Now\" and \"The Deer Hunter\" focused on exposing the extreme conditions, both mentally and physically, that soldiers face during deployment. The social problem film, however, returns to its common theme of returning veterans, resulting in the critically acclaimed \"Coming Home\", which followed a woman whose husband was away on tour as she volunteers at the veteran hospital and befriends a crippled soldier. However, the way in which the film interacts with narrative as well as with its audience shows a shift in form that reflects attitudes of the time. The '60s and '70s were a period time when second-wave feminism became apparent, raising awareness about inequalities regarding many social issues, though it mainly focused on white upper-class feminism. This national consciousness of feminist ideals combined with a wartime environment that was largely a failure, as well the inability to fully care for veterans is expressed through \"Coming Home\"'s narrative and characters while also maintaining certain factors of the classic social problem film. The feminization of the Vietnam experience can be seen through the protagonist Luke, who is able to allow Sally to transcend her role as a stereotypical military wife, while also feminizing himself as he progresses into moving back to society. The more passive, a stereotypical feminine quality, he becomes the more he is allowed to leave the horrors of Vietnam behind. This type of characterization differs greatly from the characters we see in earlier returning veteran social problem films as they often portrayed the veteran as ultra-masculine and his wife as a traditional caretaker. Furthermore, the narrative of this film shows a marked difference from early social problem films. Instead of a didactic theme constantly being pushed on the audience, the story goes back and forth between this teaching vibe and following more of a soap opera romance formula. It is sometimes difficult to discern what the film wants us to focus on. However, the film does maintain certain characteristics of the social problem film such as a focused narrative, ending on a didactic speech, and usage of non-actors to portray the veterans at the hospital.\n\nAs the United States transitioned into the contemporary era, the social issues that encompassed the nation have adapted to focus on different aspects of the problems, especially in the case of immigration and the veteran experience, both of which feature heavily in the classic social problem film. For instance, the theme of the film \"Border Incident\" was the immigration of migrant farmworkers from Mexico. The returning veteran social problem films titled \"Best Years Of Our Lives\" and \"Coming Home\" focused on the treatment as well as the rehabilitation of veterans. In the contemporary United States, an immigration social issue which has been relevant for years is the idea of refugee asylum, whereas the returning veteran storylines now often focus on the addiction to war and the inability to function normally without it.\n\nThe Sudanese refugees in particular are of focus as their country is plagued in civil war, yet asylum in the United States had been blocked due to terrorist fears. A contemporary social problem film that addresses this issue is titled \"The Good Lie\" which follows the life of a group of Sudanese children as they escape their village to a refugee camp and come to America as adults. The beginning of the film does a decent job of representing the struggle over 25,000 children faced while trekking across Africa enduring the elements, animals, and soldiers trying to kill them as it follows the protagonists as they make the journey themselves, losing some along the way. It utilizes classic techniques such as location shooting at the refugee camp and the usage of real refugees as background characters. However, the film has much more in common with the form of social problem films such as \"Coming Home\". It not only stars a famous actress in Reese Witherspoon but ultimately utilizes engagement with the narrative much more than trying to preach to its audience. As the protagonist group arrives in America the film experiences a shift from displaying the plight of these refugees to a culture clash of sorts as they struggle to adapt to American customs and realize the ineffectiveness of the bureaucratic systems meant to help them. Like \"Coming Home\", the audience is not being put in a space where the film is meant to be purely educational, rather they are encouraged to discern the social problem from the drama being displayed. This is shown in the frustration of some reviewers who claim the plot seems manufactured and doesn't focus enough on certain social issues. This particular aspect of the changing form of the social problem film is largely due to audiences desire to be entertained as well as satiated with a well-formulated story to engage in.\n\nAnother instance in which this becomes palpable is in the changing representation of returning veterans. The effects of wartime on American society are fluid depending on the situation and national feelings of the time. This is evident as post-WWII films often focused on a return to home for the veterans, encouraging family life and spousal support, as well as the revealing of the capability of humans to commit evil, resulting in forays into addressing these issues. Then during Vietnam, the feminist movement combined with national feelings of regret created both hyper-masculine films depicting the horror of battle but also the returning veterans plight and a more formulaic approach to narrative instead of a didactic one. The current era then is focused on international conflict within the middle east which has created a division in terms of ideology in our country. The social problem film has adapted to encompass these feelings through films such as \"Green Zone\" which addresses the idea of false motivations for entering the war against Iraq. More pertinent to the social problem film genre, however, is the idea of returning veterans. Whereas the treatment of these men has been displayed on screen, the contemporary social problem goes beyond that scope, and rather into the psyches of the soldiers themselves and the systems that perpetuate their situation. This is done through the depiction of war in a way that the 20th century would never consider, as another type of social problem, an addiction. This is the case in \"The Hurt Locker\" a 2008 film depicting the Explosive Ordnance Disposal team in Iraq. Although it did shoot on location in Jordan, utilize non-actors, and focus on a small group of people the movie is much more like more recent social problem films in that it focuses on characterization, storytelling, and filming stylization to portray its social issue more than straightforward preaching. The film is both cinematic and visceral interweaving aspects of the war in documentary style while juxtaposing it with the usage of sound and technological advances to create an intense encapsulating narrative. Again the viewer is meant to see the protagonist's mundane home life compared to his experience on tour, where he seems more at home. The film begins on a quote equating war to a drug and ends on his days on tour counter resetting to 0, indicating both the hardship these men face and how it has shaped them into being more like machines built for a purpose rather than purely motivated soldiers. These scenes show a palpable shift from telling the audience how to feel via ending monologue, to displaying the problem and letting audiences interpret it for themselves.\n\nWith the development of new technologies such as television, it was inevitable that programming about social issues would become apparent. From documentaries for social justice to public broadcasting about local issues, the television is able to be accessed in ways movies can't. Certain programming such as \"The Biggest Loser\" address a specific social problem such as obesity in a setting which is presented as reality. However, in reality, the whole thing is pretty much scripted. Contestants waive their rights to creating their own storyline and are trained to point of collapsing, not a healthy way to address weight loss. This pseudo-reality is problematic in that it presents a certain social problem, along with a viable solution, like diet and exercise, yet it doesn't speak to the cultural issues and systematic factors like cheap fast food in poverty-stricken areas.\n\nThe rise of social media has led to a transformation of many established systems, such as advertising, news, protests, campaigning, and exposure to other cultures. The ability to instantly connect with an event occurring and to share something with the public instantly has led to a new development of networks that can be accessed at the click of a mouse. So just as these other aspects of life were effected so is the idea of the social problem film. The ability for users to obtain, via YouTube, actual real-life video of events occurring around the world makes it tougher for filmic representations to become the didactic entity they need to be in order to fit in the genre. For instance, with over 100,000 results for a search on Iraq war footage, it becomes difficult to depict a sense of reality in which the viewer can relate purely, therefore the filmmaker's artistic influence becomes more apparent. This combined with the development of news programming via television has created a sort of environment where the social problem film was forced to change form, the majority didactic approach was no longer satisfactory as people have access to actual footage, therefore the implementation of deeper characterization and richer narratives became relevant in the more contemporary entries into this genre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088250", "title": "Reading Terminal Market", "text": "Reading Terminal Market\n\nReading Terminal Market is an enclosed public market located at 12th and Arch Streets in Center City Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It opened originally in 1893 under the elevated train shed of the Reading Railroad Company after the city of Philadelphia advocated to move public markets from the streets into indoor facilities for both safety and sanitary reasons. The Reading Railroad Company owned and operated the market space until 1976 when the company liquidated, leaving the market without its parent company and foot traffic from the train. Presently, it still occupies the ground floor and basement levels of the Reading Terminal's former train shed which is now part of the Pennsylvania Convention Center. Vendor stalls occupy the ground floor with entrances on Filbert Street to the South, Twelfth Street to the West, and Arch Street to the North. The stalls are arranged in a grid pattern with an open area in the center with tables and seating. Over one hundred merchants offer fresh produce, meats, fish, artisan cheese, groceries, ice cream, flowers, grilled cheese, baked goods, crafts, books, clothing, and specialty and ethnic foods. Two of the vendors are descendants of original merchants from the initial opening in the late 1800s. The basement floor of the market holds the state-of-the-art refrigerated storage area for vendor use. Currently, the market is open every day of the week, although the Pennsylvania Dutch merchants (a small but significant minority) generally do not operate Sunday through Tuesday.\n\nOpen-air markets have flourished in Philadelphia since its founding. Growth of the city demanded more markets, and the string of open-air markets extending from the Delaware River ran for six blocks, or one full mile, prompting the main street (then called 'High Street') to be renamed 'Market Street' in 1858. Soon after the markets reached their peak growth and capacity, the public began to perceive open-air markets within the city as dirty and unhygienic. Some residents also considered the frenzy of activity along the High/Market Street as a nuisance and traffic hazard. In 1859, city officials bowed to public pressure and dismantled all of them and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania chartered seventeen different market companies. This prompted two indoor markets to open at 12th and Market Streets, Franklin Market and Farmers' Market. These two would be the foundation of the Reading Terminal Market.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution brought with it the expansion of the railroad, and great palatial urban terminals sprang up in major cities. Architect F. H. Kimbal of the Wilson Brothers Architecture & Engineering firm designed the Reading Railroad's headhouse terminal in 1891, prior to its opening in 1893. The rails were elevated to reach the train shed platform built over top of the new consolidated market, which opened a year earlier. George McKay was chosen to be the market's first superintendent while the building was undergoing its final phase of construction.\n\nThe state-of-the-art refrigerated storage area in the basement opened for use in July 1893. The basement storage area consists of 52 separate rooms ranging in volume from for a total of of storage space. The temperature of each room can be controlled individually to meet temperature requirements for different goods: for meat and poultry, for fruits and vegetables. The refrigeration system uses brine water and ammonia, and includes an array of specially designed pumps, compressors, and other equipment in its operation. The storage area was more expensive to maintain and had a larger staff than the market itself, though refrigerating the basement storage area was thought to be well worth the high cost. It allowed merchants to keep seasonal products in stock all year round for the first time. Third parties also leased the storage area for storing other goods. Restaurants and plant and produce sellers around the area leased out space in the basement. Hospitals used the basement area to store perishable medicine. Local Breweries, including Yuengling, used it to store their hops.\n\nIn its first few decades, the Reading Terminal Market was a success. There were 380 merchants in its first year of operations, and the market had nearly full occupancy for the following 60 years. Business, already good, flourished with the innovation of a free market basket service, which allowed suburban housewives to get grocery orders delivered to and held at their nearest train station. Refrigerated trucks allowed the market to reach into some 60 suburban towns as well as seaside resorts along the Jersey Shore.\n\nThe Great Depression of the 1930s brought hardship to the market. By the late 1930s, merchants were under increasing pressure from the AFL and CIO to join their respective labor unions. This led to a series of strikes that further disrupted business. The introduction and proliferation of supermarkets also hurt market business during the 1930s. One of these new establishments opened across 12th street, directly competing with the Reading Terminal Market. Pressure to compete with supermarkets led to fewer stalls being run by farmers, and more being run by middle men reselling a variety of goods.\n\nDespite the turmoil brought on by the depression and new competition, the Reading Terminal Market remained afloat during the 1930s. By some accounts, the market did rather well. According to George H. Eltien, then superintendent, the market was shipping phone orders to 38 states, Canada, and Mexico throughout the decade. Pressure from supermarkets was not hurting all of the merchants. Ten of the market's 64 merchants had been there since its founding in 1892. In 1930, the Reading Terminal Market Merchants Association established as an effort to promote and advertise the market and avoid losing any more business. The Association was responsible for several promotional events including the first annual Food Show and Home Progress Exhibitions. It also helped to fund a 1934 renovation of the market's facade that installed new electric lights and window decorations.\n\nAmerica's involvement in World War II during the 1940s affected the Market primarily in a positive way. In 1944, the most economically straining year of the war, the Market was at 97 percent occupancy. Food shortages brought on by the war increased the demand for the market's goods. On May 9, 1946, the Reading Terminal Market experienced its largest recorded crowd. Over 12,000 people gathered at the market to purchase meat, poultry, and pork products that were unavailable elsewhere due to shortages.\n\nThe suburbanization of America and decline of the railroads in the 1950s and 1960s severely affected the market. The market began running on a deficit in 1954, and by 1959 was only 70 percent occupied, forcing Reading to raise rents. The state-of-the-art cold storage facility was shut down and dismantled, forcing tenants to supply their own storage. Several other events hurt the market and its merchants financially. The Dock Street wholesale market was closed and demolished as part of the urban renewal program in Society Hill. This hurt many resellers at the Reading Market who depended on the Dock Street market for inventory.\n\nThe Reading Railroad Company filed for bankruptcy in 1971, and ceased to function as a railroad business in 1976. The company continued to serve mainly as a real estate business, but paid little attention to managing and promoting the market, and pondered ways to get rid of the market so that it would be easier to sell the terminal building.\n\nIn the 1980s the Reading Company changed its attitude towards the market and began efforts to revitalize it. Those efforts continued after SEPTA Regional Rail trains moved from the train terminal above the market to the new underground Market East Station (now Jefferson Station) below it in 1984. In 1990, ownership of the Reading Terminal and the market passed to the Pennsylvania Convention Center Authority (PCCA), and in 1994, Philadelphia City Council established a new, non-profit Reading Terminal Market Corporation (RTMC) to operate the market. The RTMC and the PCCA continued the revitalization program begun by the Reading Company, recruiting new tenants and increasing promotion of the market. By the mid-1990s to the 2000s, the market was once again living up to its founder's' vision. Over 90% of its leasable space was occupied by profitable and stable vendors. The market is currently open 7 days a week, but not all vendors are open on Sundays. The Pennsylvania Dutch vendors are open Wednesday through Saturday.\n\nToday the market serves as a popular location for local Philadelphians to buy their goods and produce as well as singular culinary treats and unique merchandise; it is listed with such Philadelphia tourist destinations as Independence Hall and the Liberty Bell as well. It is adjacent to two Marriott Hotels, a Hilton Garden Inn, the Pennsylvania Convention Center, SEPTA's Jefferson Station, the Philadelphia Greyhound Terminal, and another Philadelphia landmark, the Fashion District Philadelphia shopping mall.\n\nAs addressed in the official Reading Terminal Market's mission statement, the current organization wants: \nThese values show the current goals that the market community strives for as a union of service providers as well as their identity as a collective non-profit organization.\n\nThe present day market has also continued to evolve in terms of the types of merchants that have their businesses in the market; it has shifted from being a place with only produce, delis and fish counters to a more dynamic merchant selection. In addition to longstanding vendors such as Bassett’s Ice Cream—which first signed a lease at Reading Terminal Market in 1893—the market has innovated in recent years, introducing new types of vendors and experimenting with pop-up food carts. In addition to mainstays such as butchers and fishmongers, the market is home to the non-profit Fair Food Philly’s market stand, a gourmet corn-dog vendor, a winery, and a beer hall. Day-carts—which have typically housed the wares of souvenir sellers and arts and crafts vendors—now may sell foods and beverages. One of the newest vendors to operate a day-cart is a craft distiller of spirits.\n\nBesides the up-and-coming vendors that have made themselves a part of Reading Terminal Market, a variety of events have come out of the continued development of the market. Some of these events include a \"beer-tasting extravaganza\", “Breaking Bread, Breaking Barriers: Food as a Bridge to Cultural Understanding” series and a community gathering benefiting local Syrian refugees who are getting to know their neighborhood.\n\nPhilbert the pig, a sculpture by Eric Berg, is the Market's mascot and donations made to this 'piggy bank' go to support healthy eating programs at \"The Food Trust\".\n\nThe market has been a filming location for several major motion pictures including \"Trading Places\" and \"National Treasure\". More specifically, one of the market's stands, Tommy DiNic's Beef and Pork, was featured on the Travel Channel show \"Man v. Food\" as well as \"Adam Richman's Best Sandwich in America\". Mueller Chocolate Co. was featured on the Food Networks Guilty Pleasures show \"Chocolate Obsessions\" for their Chocolate Tower. The company was also Featured on Andrew Zimmern's Bizarre Foods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088258", "title": "ASM-N-2 Bat", "text": "ASM-N-2 Bat\n\nThe ASM-N-2 Bat was a United States Navy World War II radar-guided glide bomb which was used in combat beginning in April 1944. It was developed and overseen by a unit within the National Bureau of Standards (which unit later became a part of the Army Research Laboratory) with assistance from the Navy's Bureau of Ordnance, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Bell Telephone Laboratories. It is considered the first American fully automated and operational guided missile.\n\nIn January 1941 RCA proposed a new TV-guided anti-shipping weapon, called Dragon, for which an operator would use the TV image sent from the nose of the weapon and operate aerodynamic controls during the weapon's fall. The National Bureau of Standards (NBS) would provide the airframe for use with a standard bomb, and was the same guidable ordnance airframe design used for the earlier, abortive Project Pigeon weapons program. The Pelican was a June 1942 modification using semi-active radar homing. By mid-1943, a modification of the design was proposed to use a new active radar homing system from Western Electric with a (one short ton) general-purpose (GP) bomb, the same basic \"AN-M66\" ordnance unit as used for the heavier USAAF VB-2 version of the Azon radio-controlled ordnance. This Pelican version entered testing in summer 1944 at Naval Air Station New York, where it hit its target ship in two out of four drops.\n\nThe Bat was the production version which combined the original NBS airframe with a AN-M65 GP bomb, the same basic ordnance that was used in the contemporary Azon guided munition, and the Pelican active radar system. Gyrostabilized with an autopilot supplied by Bendix Aviation, the steerable tail elevator was powered by small wind-driven generators. The Navy's Bureau of Ordnance in partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) supervised development and the NBS was in charge of the overall development. Flight tests were conducted at the Naval Air Ordnance Test Station at Chincoteague Island, Virginia. Hugh Latimer Dryden won the President's Certificate of Merit for the development of the Bat, which \"was flight tested by a small unit based at Philadelphia against targets in New Jersey.\" While the NBS developed the Bat's aerodynamic and gyroscopic stabilizing systems, MIT and Bell Labs worked together on its guidance mechanism.\n\nThe antiship variant of the Bat (SWOD, for \"Special Weapons Ordnance Device\", Mark 9 Modification 0) eventually saw combat service beginning in April 1945 off Borneo, dropped by Consolidated PB4Y Privateers (one bomb mounted under each wing) at altitudes of at airspeeds of . Several Japanese ships were sunk and the kaibokan \"Aguni\" was damaged from a range of , which is frequently miscredited as being sunk by a destroyer. Several Bats were also fitted with modified radar systems (SWOD Mark 9 Model 1) and dropped on Japanese-held bridges in Burma – the same targets that the MCLOS-guidance, half-ton (AN-M65 GP bomb) weight VB-1 Azon PGM ordnance was designed to take on – and other land-based targets. The Bat's pioneering radar guidance system was easily confused by radar land clutter, particularly against targets close to shore. About a total of 2,600 Bat missiles were deployed.\n\nAfter the war, the naval designation ASM-N-2 was applied to the unit.\n\nThe Privateer was the primary launch platform for the Bat, but other aircraft were also modified to launch the weapon, including the Vought F4U Corsair, Curtiss SB2C Helldiver, and Grumman TBF Avenger. The primary post-World War II aircraft to carry the weapon was the P-2 Neptune.\n\nThe original NBS test airframe of the Bat was renovated in 2001 to resemble the real missile and is currently on display at the museum of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the successor to the earlier US National Bureau of Standards.\n\nAn unguided version is Featured in the 5.0 update for Battlefield V\n\n[ASM-N-2 BAT RADAR HEAD HOMING]\nhttps://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/0f/2c/75/0fe942dbbd41fe/US2950880.pdf\n"}
{"id": "2088276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088276", "title": "Lupinus mutabilis", "text": "Lupinus mutabilis\n\nLupinus mutabilis is a species of lupin grown in the Andes, mainly for its edible bean. Vernacular names include tarwi \"(tarhui)\", chocho, altramuz, Andean lupin, South American lupin, Peruvian field lupin, and pearl lupin. Its nutrient-rich seeds are high in protein, as well as a good source for cooking oil. However, their bitter taste has made \"L. mutabilis\" relatively unknown outside the Andes, though modern technology makes it easier to remove the bitter alkaloids.\n\nThe origin of \"L. mutabilis\" has been identified in the Andean region of Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia. In this area, the greatest genetic variability in the world was found. The plant has been domesticated for more than 1500 years, mostly because of its high protein content.\n\n\"L. mutabilis\" is an annual plant. The stem is hollow and highly branched. Plant height reaches from 0.5 to 2.8 meters, depending on the environmental conditions and the genomic properties. Due to the high vegetative growth, species from northern South America are taller than species from the southern Andean region. The genome contains 2n = 48 chromosomes and there is a high genomic variation, which leads to big differences in morphology. Several architectural types of \"L. mutabilis\" exist. Most common is the branching in V-form, this type has the highest biomass production. The basal branching type has the positive feature that its infructescence is at the same level. This species is preferably promoted because of its early ripening, stability and the homogeny seed quality.\n\nThe fruit is a long pod, depending on the amount of seed. One pod contains on average 2–3 seeds, but can have up to 9 seeds per pod. The thousand-seed weight (TSW) is around 200 g. Leaves are palmate and have a typical appearance: one leaf is divided in five to twelve leaflets, which have an oval or lanceolate form. The form is typical for Faboideaes. The corolla reaches and contains five petals. Variation in coloration is high and reaches from white to purple. The white coloration is recessive to purple. \"L. mutabilis\" has a strong taproot reaching 3 m length. Like all Leguminosae secondary roots build nodules containing bacteria for nitrogen fixation.\n\nThe growing cycle varies from 150 to 360 days, depending on the genotype, altitude and environmental conditions. Phenological phases are: emergence, first true leaf, formation of the raceme on the central stem, flowering, podding, pod ripening, and physiological maturity.\n\nThe bone-white seed contains more than 40% protein and 20% fat and has been used as a food by Andean people since ancient times, especially in soups, stews, salads and by itself mixed with boiled maize. Like other legumes, its protein is rich in the essential amino acid lysine. The distribution of essential fatty acids is about 28% linoleic acid (omega-6) and 2% linolenic acid (omega-3). It has a soft seed coat that makes for easy cooking.\nIt may not have been more widely used because of its bitter taste, due to the alkaloid content. It contains unusually high amounts of sparteine, which make up nearly half of its alkaloid content. However, the alkaloids are water-soluble and can be removed by soaking the seeds for some days in water. It is also possible to remove the alkaloids by denaturation with heat treatment.\n\n\"L. mutabilis\" contains 42% of protein and 18% fat in average. The high fat content has allowed commercial oil pressing. The protein digestibility and nutritional value are reportedly similar to those in soybeans.\n\nContents in the seed:\n\n\"L. mutabilis\" is able to fix nitrogen from the air. Therefore, succeeding cultures can profit from 60 to of nitrogen per hectare. Incorporation in the flowering stage leads to a higher quantity of organic matter and to an improved soil structure.\n\n\"L. mutabilis\" is a crop for cool climates and exists mainly in valleys at high altitudes, such as the Andes at tropical latitudes. The crop can be grown at an altitude that ranges from 800 to 3000 m. The crop withstands exceptional levels of drought. Mature plants are resistant to frost, whereas seedlings are sensitive to low temperatures.\n\nSowing\n\nIn traditional farming practices minimum tilling is done before sowing. unselected seeds per hectare is sown.\n\nImproved cultivation practices:\n\nIt is recommended to apply phosphorus and of potassium as fertilization before sowing. The sowing of selected seeds in a distance of , either by hand or by seed drill, follows. Plants germinate fast due to the high fat content in the seeds.\n\nCrop rotation aspects\n\nEarly varieties of \"L. mutabilis\", with a growing period of about 150 days, can be cultivated in rotation with potatoes and cereals. Nematode disease of potato can be controlled by alkaloids when cultivated after \"L. mutabilis\".\n\nHarvest\n\nIn traditional farming practices harvest occurs when plants have reached full maturity and the water content of seeds is between 8-12%.\nFrom peasant plots average yield is about per hectare under suitable conditions yield reaches up to per hectare.\n\nDisease control\n\nAlkaloids can act as a pesticide but breeding goals aim for a low alkaloid content. Therefore, other disease control methods must be applied. Since ‘‘L. mutabilis’‘ is a low-input crop, disease control mainly is done by phytosanitary methods. A reduction of soil born saprophytes can be reached by removing dry straw from the field. Instead of green manure the plant residues can be used as fuel. Seed borne diseases can be reduced by translocation of seed production and by the use of certificated seed.\nIf seed production is done by the cultivator, diseases can be controlled by reducing the number of infected seed and by a permanent control of diseases in the field. Another possibility is to treat seed with a fungicide prior to sowing.\n\nSince species with low alkaloid content are already available a further step would be to make them more stable and low alkaloid content is inherited. Other breeding goals are tolerance to diseases and insects, improvement in yield, early maturing and synchronous ripening. Higher resistance could be reached by breeding a variety with high alkaloid content in leaves but not in the seeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088277", "title": "Trustmark Park", "text": "Trustmark Park\n\nTrustmark Park is the home of the Mississippi Braves, Class AA affiliate of the Atlanta Braves and is located in Pearl, Mississippi, USA. The ballpark, which opened April 18, 2005, has capacity for 8,480 fans. There are 5,500 chair-back seats in the reserved seating areas. The grass berm beyond the outfield walls has room for an additional 2,000 general admission customers. On August 13, 2006 a record crowd of 7,652 saw the M-Braves defeat the Huntsville Stars 4–2. The largest crowd to ever see a game at the park was the 2016 Governor's Cup in which 8,542 fans watched the Mississippi State Bulldogs defeat the Ole Miss Rebels, 2-0.\n\nThe ballpark derives its name from the sale of naming rights to Trustmark Corporation headquartered in Jackson, MS.\n\nTrustmark Park features a 360° concourse that allows fans to circle the playing field without missing a pitch. The ballpark is in a recessed bowl with seating starting at the main level and proceeding downward. All support facilities face outward onto the concourse, thus spectators can leave their seats and not be separated from the game action.\n\nRed bricks and exposed steel trusses reflect the feel of a historic ballpark, with modern-day conveniences. The scoreboard located behind the left-center-field wall includes a and video board that features everything from live action to instant replay to commercials.\n\nThe Farm Bureau Grill, beyond the right-field wall, is a full-service restaurant with a capacity for 200+ customers. The Farm Bureau Grill is open during games, and it is also open for lunch Monday through Friday year-round. The restaurant can also be rented throughout the year for special events such as holiday parties, wedding receptions, business functions, etc. There are eight baseball-themed concession stands that offer a wide variety of ballpark treats.\n\n22 luxury suites that seat between 16 and 64 fans are climate controlled and equipped with flat screen televisions, refrigerators, ice makers, serving counters and sliding glass doors that open up to private seating areas. Suites are available for yearly and nightly rentals. The ballpark also includes a picnic pavilion located in the left field corner of the stadium and two party decks located on the suite level. The picnic pavilion can be rented on a nightly basis for groups of 100 to 350+ people. The first and third base party decks are also available on a nightly basis for groups of 30 to 50 fans. Many businesses host employee appreciation functions throughout the year.\n\nThere are 150 closed-circuit video monitors positioned around the ballpark televising the game. A merchandise store and a kids play area is located at the main gate. The team store is open Monday through Friday from 9 AM to 5 PM year-round.\n\nThe field dimensions are down the left-field line, down the right-field line, and to center-field. The playing surface is peppered with a maze of underground pipelines capable of draining up to of rain every hour.\n\nIn 2011, the venue hosted the Conference USA Baseball Tournament, won by Rice.\n\nIt hosted the 2012 tournament, as well, which was won by UAB.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088284", "title": "Nancy Hanks (train)", "text": "Nancy Hanks (train)\n\nThe Nancy Hanks was a popular Central of Georgia Railway and later Southern Railway passenger train in Georgia running between Atlanta and Savannah. It was named after a race horse that was named for Abraham Lincoln's mother. The name is even older than the mid-20th century train derived from that of a short-lived but famous steam special, the \"Nancy Hanks\". The earlier \"Nancy\" operated in 1892 and 1893. \n\n\"Nancy Hanks II\" made its first trip on July 17, 1947. The new train's cars were painted blue and gray and, like the first \"Nancy\", each bore a likeness of the famed trotter on the side.\n\n\"The Nancy\", as it was affectionately known, was an all-coach, reserved-seat train with grill lounge service. The train had an average speed of 48 mph (including stops) and made the journey in 6 hours. It left the Central of Georgia Depot in Savannah daily at 7 a.m., running to Atlanta Terminal Station via Macon Terminal Station, and returned from Atlanta at 6 p.m. (18:00). \n\nBlack and white passengers were separated on this pocket streamliner until the 1960s. Four \"divided\" segregated coaches were built by American Car & Foundry (ACF) for \"Nancy\", and African-Americans were not allowed to eat in the grill-lounge car. The Central of Georgia was the last major Southern railroad to desegregate. Since it ran only in Georgia and did not engage in interstate commerce, it evaded the Interstate Commerce Commission's 1961 order to desegregate.\n\nIn the 1960s the Central leased a dome car from the Norfolk and Western-Wabash line, where it had operated for a number of years; the car was thoroughly renovated for service on the \"Nancy Hanks II\". The dome parlor-lounge car was 85 feet (26 m) long, made of steel and originally was built by Pullman-Standard. It had a dark-blue exterior and interior upholstery in royal blue and gray. In keeping with the racehorse theme, the lounge beneath the dome was branded the \"Saddle & Stirrup.\"\n\nDespite its popularity in Middle Georgia, the \"Nancy\" suffered a marked decline in ridership during the 1960s, in tandem with the larger decline of rail service during this period. While Southern opted to stay in the passenger business when Amtrak took over most passenger service, the \"Nancy\" was not among the routes retained. As a result, the \"Nancy\" made its last run on April 30, 1971, the day before Amtrak came into being. Atlanta's Terminal Station was demolished the following year.\n"}
{"id": "2088293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088293", "title": "William Wilber Wilfred Wilson", "text": "William Wilber Wilfred Wilson\n\nWilliam Wilber Wilfred Wilson (October 6, 1885 in Birtle, Manitoba – January 27, 1964) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1915 to 1922, and again from 1941 to 1949.\n\nThe son of Edmund James Wilson and Mary Ann Dunsmore, Wilson was educated at Manitoba's Wesley College, and worked as an attorney-at-law. In 1909, he married Bertha Cairns. He was the mayor of Russell, Manitoba from 1915 to 1918, concurrent with his early tenure in the legislature.\n\nWilson was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the provincial election of 1915. Running for the Liberal Party, he easily defeated Conservative candidate J.P. Laycock in the constituency of Russell.\n\nWilson was re-elected without difficulty in the 1920 election. During these years, he was a backbench supporter of Premier Tobias Norris's government.\n\nThe Liberals were defeated in the 1922 provincial election, and Wilson lost his seat to Isaac Griffiths of the United Farmers of Manitoba. He sought re-election in 1927, but was again defeated.\n\nWilson served as chair of the Russell School Board from 1935 to 1942.\n\nHe was re-elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1941 provincial election, following a nineteen-year absence. Previously, the United Farmers of Manitoba had evolved into the Progressive Party, and had merged with the Liberals to create the \"Liberal-Progressive Party\". Wilson ran as a Liberal-Progressive, and defeated Cooperative Commonwealth Federation candidate H.J. Peddies by 14 votes in Russell. He again served as a government backbencher, supporting the administrations of John Bracken and, after 1943, Stuart Garson.\n\nWilson again defeated a candidate of the CCF in the 1945 provincial election. He did not run in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2088297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088297", "title": "Paul Byrd", "text": "Paul Byrd\n\nPaul Gregory Byrd (born December 3, 1970), is an American former professional baseball starting pitcher, who is currently a TV sports broadcaster for Atlanta Braves games on Fox Sports Southeast. While pitching in Major League Baseball (MLB), from to , Byrd was known as being the \"nicest guy in baseball.\" Late in his career, he developed an old-fashioned, early twentieth-century windup in which he swung his arms back and forth to create deception and momentum. Byrd became recognizable and well known for his unique delivery.\n\nByrd played his high school career at Saint Xavier High School in Louisville, Kentucky. Byrd attended Louisiana State University where he pitched as part of the Tigers baseball team that won the 1991 College World Series. He was originally drafted in the fourth round of the 1991 Major League Baseball draft by the Cleveland Indians. Byrd spent five years in the minor leagues before being traded to the New York Mets and making his major league debut on July 28, 1995.\n\nAs a member of the Philadelphia Phillies, Byrd was selected for the 1999 Major League Baseball All-Star Game. Byrd's career was revived in 2002, when he won 17 games, despite pitching for a Kansas City Royals team that lost 100 games. Byrd parlayed his 2002 season into a two-year free agent contract with the Atlanta Braves. On July 1, 2003, Byrd underwent Tommy John surgery on his right elbow. He was able to successfully come back from the operation and pitch in his first postseason appearance for the Braves during the 2004 National League Division Series.\n\nIn December 2004, the Anaheim Angels signed Byrd to a $5 million(USD), one-year contract following the trade of right-handed pitcher Ramón Ortiz to the Cincinnati Reds. Byrd went 12–11 with a 3.74 earned run average in 205 innings with the Angels. He was second in the American League with 21 quality starts.\n\nIn 2007, Byrd was 15–8, third best to CC Sabathia and Fausto Carmona on the Indians team.\n\nOn October 8, 2007, Byrd was the winning pitcher in a 6–4 win against the New York Yankees, giving the Cleveland Indians a 3–1 series win in the 2007 American League Division Series. Byrd pitched again on October 16, this time against the Boston Red Sox in the ALCS. He went five innings, giving up two earned runs and striking out four, gaining the victory in an Indians 7–3 win to take a 3–1 lead in the best of seven series.\n\nOn August 12, 2008, Byrd was traded from the Cleveland Indians to the Boston Red Sox for a player to be named later (Mickey Hall). A free agent at the end of the season, he announced on January 14, 2009, that he would sit out the beginning of the 2009 season to spend more time with his family and likely sign a deal with a contending team midseason. Byrd mentioned he would like to sign with a team that is close to his home in Georgia. On August 5, 2009, the Boston Red Sox signed Byrd to a minor-league contract. Byrd made his first major league start of the 2009 season for the Red Sox on August 30, 2009, against the Toronto Blue Jays. Byrd went six innings, giving up three hits, three walks and no runs.\n\nByrd has written a book called \"Free Byrd\" about his life, detailing both his devout Christianity and past struggles with pornography, among other things. Byrd's wife, Kym, is a certified life coach where she helps married athletes with the rigors of their unique marriages. Together, with Paul's help, Kym surveys couples in baseball in hopes of helping those families in need. Through an organization called CRU, Paul and Kym currently travel to various colleges around the United States speaking to students about \"Faith in Sports\" and \"How to Stay Married in a Career Dominated Lifestyle.\"\n\nOn October 21, 2007, Byrd was accused of using HGH by the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". The paper accused him of spending $24,850 on HGH and syringes from 2002 to 2005. Byrd defended himself, claiming that he was being treated for a tumor on his pituitary gland, and took the drugs under medical supervision. Subsequent news reports assert that Byrd began taking HGH before any pituitary gland condition was diagnosed and that one of the medical professionals to have prescribed Byrd HGH was a Florida dentist whose dental license had been suspended for fraud and incompetence. Rob Manfred, then MLB senior vice president for business and labor, asserted that Byrd did not have a therapeutic use exemption (TUE) as he claimed.\n\nOn December 13, 2007, Paul Byrd was cited in the Mitchell Report on illegal use of performance-enhancing substances in baseball.\n\nAs of 2019, Byrd is a TV sports broadcaster with Fox Sports Southeast covering Atlanta Braves games. He does on-the-field interviews and provides analytical color commentary in tandem with the Braves' play-by-play announcer Chip Caray and Jeff Francoeur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088306", "title": "The Very Best of Cher", "text": "The Very Best of Cher\n\nThe Very Best of Cher is the eighth compilation album by American singer-actress Cher, released on April 1, 2003. The album includes many of Cher's most popular songs, such as \"If I Could Turn Back Time\", \"Believe\", \"Gypsies, Tramps and Thieves\" and \"Take Me Home\". It debuted at number seven on the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart and later reached number four on the issue date of May 17. As of November 2011, the album has sold 2.8 million copies in the United States.\n\n\"The Very Best of Cher\" was released by Warner Bros. Records, MCA, and Geffen Records. The original US edition features 21 tracks, while the various later editions typically feature more songs or different selections.\n\nThe album originally coincided with the . The album cover picture is also seen on the DVD \"\" and was originally planned to be the DVD cover of \"\" as well, but was changed at the last minute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088326", "title": "Ingrid Veninger", "text": "Ingrid Veninger\n\nIngrid Veninger (born August 21, 1968) is a Canadian actress, writer, director, producer, and film professor at York University. Veninger began her career in show business as a child actor in commercials and on television; as a teen, she was featured in the CBC series \"Airwaves\" (1986–1987) and the CBS series \"\" (1987–1990). In the 1990s, she branched out into producing, and, in 2003, she founded her own production company, pUNK Films, through which she began to work on her own projects as a writer and director.\n\nVeninger's directorial debut came in 2008, with the release of her low-budget feature film, titled \"Only\", which cost $20,000 to produce. She has written and directed six features films—\"Only\" (2008), \"Modra\" (2010), \"i am a good person/i am a bad person\" (2011), \"The Animal Project\" (2013), \"He Hated Pigeons\" (2015), and \"Porcupine Lake\" (2017)\"—\"all of which have screened at film festivals around the world.\n\nIn 2011, she won the Toronto Film Critics Association's Jay Scott Prize for an emerging artist. In 2013, she won an EDA Award from the Alliance of Women Film Journalists at the Whistler Film Festival. \"The Globe and Mail\" dubbed Veninger \"The DIY Queen of Canadian Filmmaking\".\n\nVeninger was born in Bratislava, before immigrating to Canada in the 1970s with her parents. Veninger got her start in show business in an advertisement for Bell Canada with Megan Follows at age 11.\n\nAs a teen actress, Veninger appeared in a number of films and television series, including the CBC comedy-drama series \"Airwaves\" (1986–1987) and the popular horror series \"\" (1987–1990).\n\nIn 1989, at the age of 21, Veninger branched out into producing by optioning the rights to Margaret Atwood's novel \"Cat’s Eye\". She also worked as an assistant director on Atom Egoyan's \"The Adjuster\" (1991) and produced Jeremy Podeswa’s Gemini-nominated music documentary \"Standards\" (1992), and Peter Mettler's northern lights documentary \"Picture of Light\" (1994). As an actress, she has worked with Meryl Streep, Holly Hunter, Jackie Burroughs, among others.\n\nIn 2000, after working for most of the 1990s as an actress (including a recurring role on the Canadian action series \"La Femme Nikita\"), Veninger attended the Canadian Film Centre, where she produced fellow student Julia Kwan’s award-winning short film, \"Three Sisters on Moon Lake\" (2001), which played at Sundance and the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF).\n\nIn 2002, Veninger collaborated with Atom Egoyan and Peter Mettler, among others, on the Genie Award winning film, \"Gambling, Gods and LSD\". In 2003, Veninger founded her production company, pUNK Films, and began to work on her own projects as a writer and director.\n\nShe is a frequent collaborator of Canadian filmmaker and actor Charles Officer, having worked on numerous projects with him, including the short film \"Urda/Bone\", which screened at the New York Film Festival in 2003 and \"Nurse.Fighter.Boy\" (2008) which premiered at the 2008 Toronto International Film Festival. The short film was later picked up for distribution by Mongrel Media.\n\nVeninger's directorial debut came in 2008, with the release of her low-budget indie film title \"Only\", which screened at a number of local film festivals and cost only $20,000 to produce. Her young son, Jacob starred at the film's protagonist and Veninger appeared in a supporting role as his mother.\n\nHer second film, \"Modra\", which is about returning to the Bratislava region and her home town of Modra, was produced in 2010, starring her daughter Hallie Switzer. MODRA was named by TIFF's Canada's Top Ten as one of the ten best Canadian films of 2010. Upon its release, \"The Globe and Mail\" dubbed Veninger \"The DIY Queen of Canadian filmmaking\".\n\nHer third film \"i am a good person/i am a bad person\" (2011) was screened at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival and prompted the Toronto Film Critics Association to award her the Jay Scott Prize for an emerging artist.\n\nHer fourth film \"The Animal Project\" (2013) screened at numerous festivals, including in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival. The film received mostly positive reviews, with Norm Wilner of \"NOW Magazine\" writing that \"the reigning queen of lo-fi Canadian cinema has upped her game without abandoning any of her characteristic whimsy\". \"The Torontoist\" dubbed Veninger the \"godmother of Toronto’s D.I.Y. filmmaking scene\". The film is currently available for purchase on Vimeo.\n\nIn 2013, as she accepted an EDA Award from the Alliance of Women Film Journalists for \"The Animal Project\" at the Whistler Film Festival, Veninger asked the audience for help funding the Femmes Lab, a workshop she was spearheading to produce 6 female-directed feature films for $6,000. She said the $6,000 investment would not only fund six screenplays to be finished by June, it would guarantee the donor first look at the completed scripts. \"The room was stone silent\", recalled Veninger. Oscar-winning actress Melissa Leo ended up volunteering and put up the money, and the TIFF Bell Lightbox offered workshop space.\n\nFor her fifth feature film, \"He Hated Pigeons\", Veninger raised over $36,000 from 175 backers on Indiegogo. After production, she toured with the film at numerous festivals around the world.\n\nIn 2017, Veninger's sixth film, \"Porcupine Lake\", was screened in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival. The film was based on the script Veninger wrote through her Melissa Leo-funded Femmes Lab, and was also funded in part by Telefilm.\n\nVeninger went into production on her seventh feature film on May 22, 2018, in Barcelona; the film is tentatively titled \"Before We Think\" and will be filmed in several different cities, including Whitehorse, Toronto, Wilmington, among others.\n\nVeninger has been married to film composer John Switzer since 1990. They have two children: Hallie and Jacob, both artists.\n\nIn addition to filmmaking, Veninger works as a part-time contract faculty member at York University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088328", "title": "Teachers (film)", "text": "Teachers (film)\n\nTeachers is a 1984 American satirical comedy-drama film written by W. R. McKinney, directed by Arthur Hiller, and starring Nick Nolte, JoBeth Williams, Ralph Macchio, and Judd Hirsch. It was shot in Columbus, Ohio, mostly at the former Central High School. At the time of its release, the film held a rating of R with the MPAA rating system.\n\nOn a typical Monday morning at John F. Kennedy High School in the inner city of Columbus, Ohio, there is conflict between teachers, a student with a stab wound, and a talk of an upcoming lawsuit. Vice Principal Roger Rubell, Principal Eugene Horn, and lawyer Lisa Hammond, who is in charge of taking depositions for the Calvin case, in which a recent graduate is suing the school for granting him a diploma despite his illiteracy.\n\nAlex Jurel is a veteran Social Studies teacher who takes his job lightly, despite being one of the most popular teachers in school because of his ability to identify and connect with the students. Jurel has been worn down by years of being in-between the rowdy students and the demands of the administration. He is assigned to temporarily take over the duties of the school psychologist, and meets a young man named Eddie Pilikian, to whom he becomes a mentor. During this time, a romance also develops between Jurel and Hammond, his former student.\n\nOther subplots include Herbert Gower, a wandering mental institution outpatient, mistaken for a substitute teacher and put in charge of a U.S. History class, whose brilliant history mind makes it fun, educational, and engaging; gym teacher Mr. Troy’s sexual relationship with a student that ends with Jurel taking her to an abortion clinic, and the death of Eddie's best friend Danny, a schizophrenic and kleptomaniac student who is shot and killed by the police after he draws a gun from his locker during a drug search.\n\nSuperintendent Donna Burke and school lawyer Al Lewis are attempting to avoid bad publicity associated with the Calvin lawsuit. To prove this, they try to figure out which teachers will potentially damage the school's reputation in their depositions.\n\nThe administration recognizes the threat Jurel poses to their social standing and forces him to resign before his deposition, ostensibly for helping the student obtain an abortion. After harsh criticism from Lisa, he finally stands up to Burke and Rubell, reminding them that the school exists for the students and not for the administration and protecting their jobs. He also threatens to sue and petition should he be fired. He proudly walks back into the school, with loud cheers from the school's students and Lisa looking on proudly.\n\n\nThe film opened to mixed reviews, with reviewers feeling it lacked the incisive touch of Paddy Chayefsky's satires (he had previously written Hiller's other dark satire, \"The Hospital\").\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes it has an approval rating of 67% based on 15 reviews.\n\n\nThe theme song by 38 Special was released as a single and reached No. 25 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart. \"Understanding\" by Bob Seger reached No. 17. Joe Cocker hit No. 69 on the Billboard Hot 100 with \"Edge of a Dream.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2088335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088335", "title": "Hrómundar saga Gripssonar", "text": "Hrómundar saga Gripssonar\n\nHrómundar saga Gripssonar or The Saga of Hromund Gripsson is a legendary saga from Iceland. The original version has been lost, but its content has been preserved in the \"rímur\" of \"Hrómundr Gripsson\", known as \"Griplur\", which were probably composed in the first half of the 14th century, but appeared in print in 1896 in \"Fernir forníslenzkar rímnaflokkar\", edited by Finnur Jónsson. These \"rímur\" were the basis for the not very appreciated \"Hrómunds saga\" which is found in the 17th-century MS of the Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection, AM 587b 4°, as well as thirty-eight known later manuscripts. The saga as we now have it contains a number of narrative discrepancies, which are probably the result of the scribe working from a partly illegible manuscript of the \"rímur.\"\n\nAccording to \"Þorgils saga ok Hafliða\", a saga included in the great compilation \"Sturlunga saga\", the original version was composed by the farmer Hrólfr of Skálmarnes and was recited by him at a wedding at Reykjahólar in 1119:\n\nThe saga that we now have is about Hrómundr serving king Óláf King of Warriors (\"Óláfr Liðsmannakonung\") and Hrómund's battles with the berserker Hröngvið, as well as the undead witch-king Þráinn, a draugr (he was a former king of Gaul, \"Valland\"). Þráinn had killed 420 men, including the Swedish king Semingr, with his enchanted sword Mistletoe (\"Mistilteinn\".) Hrómund grapples with Þráinn and wins, burns his body and takes Mistletoe. This first section of the saga corresponds with the saga described in \"Þorgils saga ok Hafliða\". It's been questioned whether \"Þorgils saga\" could have reported such details accurately over a century after the fact, but even if no such saga was told in 1119, the basic tale must have been familiar by the mid-13th century, when \"Þorgils saga ok Hafliða\" itself was written.\n\nSoon afterwards, Hrómundr is slandered to King Olaf and forced to leave his service, but he returns to fight the two kings of Sweden, both named Haldingr or Haddingr, who have invaded Olaf's realm. With them is their champion Helgi Haddingjaskati (Hröngvið's brother) who is aided in battle by his lover Kára's magic. During the battle, she flies overhead in the shape of a swan, and she is probably based on the Valkyrie Kára. Her magical singing causes Helgi's enemies to forget to defend themselves, and Helgi is able to kill all eight of Hrómundr's brothers. When Hrómundr arrives, Helgi accidentally cuts off the swan's leg as he swings his sword, and is no longer protected by Kára's magic. Hrómundr kills Helgi but is severely wounded. His rival at Olaf's court, Vali, gets Mistletoe away from him before Hrómundr kills him as well. After recuperating and finding Mistletoe again, Hrómund slays the last Swedish king Haldingr.\n\nThis section of the saga reflects parts of the lost \"Káruljóð\" which is mentioned in the prose section of \"Helgakviða Hundingsbana II\". This section says that Helgi Hundingsbane and his lover, the Valkyrie Sigrún are reborn as Helgi Haddingjaskati and Kára. It also reflects others of the \"Helgi lays\" preserved in the \"Poetic Edda\"; an episode in which Hrómundr is searched for by a malicious counsellor named Blindr, but is concealed by being dressed as a female servant grinding grain, is very close to an escapade of Helgi in \"Helgakviða Hundingsbana II\".\n\nIt is probably not a historic account of real events since it was remarked by king Sverre of Norway, who heard it, that it was an amusing \"lying tale\" (\"lygisaga\"). Nonetheless, according to \"Landnámabók\", Hrómundr Gripsson was the paternal great-grandfather of Ingolfr Arnarson, the first settler in Iceland. This means that he would have lived in Norway in the first half of the 8th century, and it's not impossible that stories about an ancestor who did exist were handed down by his Icelandic descendants (probably becoming increasingly embellished as time passed).\n\nHrómundr has been connected to Swedish legends of Ramunder hin Onde (Hrómundr the Evil). In these traditions he was a wild and evil Viking who founded the estate of Ramundeboda in the forest of Tiveden, Sweden. His daughter Skaga constructed the Skaga stave church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088352", "title": "List of International Baccalaureate people", "text": "List of International Baccalaureate people\n\nThis is a list of notable people affiliated with the International Baccalaureate, including IB directors-general, chairs of the IB Board of Governors (previously known as the IB Council of Foundation), and notable graduates of one or more of the three IB programmes.\n\n\n\n\nAlumni can register for the mailing list by completing the form on the International Baccalaureate Alumni Network blog.\n"}
{"id": "2088360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088360", "title": "Core (radio station)", "text": "Core (radio station)\n\nCore was a digital radio station broadcasting across the UK on the Digital One and streamed online. It was aimed at 16- to 24-year-olds with a focus on new music.\n\nCore was originally owned by GWR Group (which became GCap Media and then Global Radio after the station's closure). It was launched on the Digital One multiplex on 15 November 1999 at 1pm (GMT), alongside four other stations, Planet Rock, Classic FM, Talk Radio (now TalkSport) and Virgin Radio (now Absolute Radio), with other stations joining the multiplex in the following months.\n\nThe station gradually built up the schedule over the years, to include more DJs and shows. In August 2006, a breakfast show was introduced, presented by Allan Lake, previously from Capital Disney. However, as of 31 March 2007, the station changed to a jukebox format, known by the station as \"Access All Areas.\" This involves the DJs, apart from Ryan Seacrest, who presents the American Top 40, being removed from the station, and the only voice appearing on the station will be the listeners. To encourage interaction, the station used their MySpace account, a new MySpace discussion group, Skype, SMS text, online and a phone message machine to take requests and get audio clips to add to the stations output.\n\nThe presenter lineup prior to the changes was Allan Lake, Nicola Bonn, Sophie Bruce, Philippa Collins, Nick Ludlow, Tim Cocker, Ben Moss, Val Mellon, Sally Hudson, Ben Glover and Kevin Hughes. The syndicated American Top 40 with Ryan Seacrest was broadcast as part of the weekend line-up.\n\nThe station left Sky and Virgin Media on 3 July 2007, with other GCap stations Capital Disney, Chill and Classic Gold.\n\nIn January 2008, it was announced on the website and in email to listeners, that the station was to close on 11 January 2008.\nThe station closed at 23:59 on 11 January 2008. The final song to play on the station was \"So Long & Thanks For All The Fish\" by Hilary Summers, Kemi Omniyi & The R'svp Voices. The online stream continued to play until 01:07am where the final song was Hey There Delilah by The Plain White T's. The DAB station was replaced with BFBS.\n\nThe station created the CoreControl Chart from the most requested songs each day. Core was one of the UK's first radio stations with a presence on MySpace. The station relaunched its website in late 2006 with extra content, a music download service and information on currently playing and upcoming tracks. This aspects will be the basis of the station after the presenters are removed.\n\nThe station won three awards for its interactivity :\n\n\"A Face For Radio\" was launched in spring 2006 with the aim to find a new presenter for the station. Friends of possible candidates made nominations, which were then reduced to a final ten.\n\nThe ten competed in a variety of tasks to demonstrate their presenting skills, whilst gathering friends on MySpace. Each week, the two contestants with the least friends went head-to-head in a challenge to keep their place. Core's Programme Manager, Bern Leckie, decided who stayed in the competition based on their performance.\n\nThe two finalists were Will Goodhand and Matt Treacy. They each broadcast a two-hour show, appealing for listener votes to decide the winner.\n\nWill, a contestant in the UK series of Beauty and the Geek (UK TV series) and a market research account manager, won. In January 2007 he began presenting a short-lived Monday night show, which was removed in March due the axing of presenters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088369", "title": "There She Is!!", "text": "There She Is!!\n\nThere She Is!! (Korean: 떳다 그녀!!) (also known as Tteot-ta geu-nyeo or Tteotta or Ddautta) is a Flash cartoon series produced by a three-person team and hosted on the Korean website SamBakZa. The cartoons became particularly popular during the spring of 2004 when they were exposed to American and European audiences. The series is originated from Comic strip 'One day' (Korean: 어떤날) which has been published from November 2000 until March 2002 on Braille newspaper 'Newspaper that we read together' (Hangul: 함께 읽는 신문) that is published by Korean newspaper Hankook Ilbo. The series is noted for its classic manhwa style elements and its high-quality animation. The first \"There she is!!\" generated a large amount of positive feedback from its online audience, including fan art, which drove SamBakZa to produce more cartoons in the series.\n\nThe plot of the series is the romance between an anthropomorphic bunny and cat, in a world where such relationships are taboo. At the 2004 Anima Mundi animation festival in Brazil, this video won first place in both the \"Web Animation - Professional Jury\" and \"Web Animation - Audience\" divisions, as well as winning the \"Special Award Anima Mundi Web\".\n\nDistribution rights to the series are licensed to Gyeonggi Digital Contents Agency (GDCA).\n\nSamBakZa have moved to the Production Support Center located in Gyeonggi-do Bucheon-si on 2008.<ref name=\"http://www.sambakza.net/xe/BulletinBoard/9707\">http://www.sambakza.net/xe/BulletinBoard/9707</ref> SamBakZa have also stated they may be setting up a registration system in the future on their main page, and will send emails to members when new episodes are released to the public.\n\nSince July 2014, all five episodes have remained in the top 20 of Newground's Best of All time with the original 'There She Is!!' holding the first-place position. Combined, the series has been viewed over thirteen million times on Newgrounds.\n\nDoki: Doki (도키, cf. Korean word \"tokki\" 토끼 \"rabbit\") is a female rabbit who is madly in love with Nabi and considers everyone to be her friends. Although very loving and cheerful, she is somewhat obsessive and willing to go to extremes to get what she wants. She has a habit of befriending animals and putting green ribbons, similar to that of Nabi's, around their necks or tails.\n\nNabi: Nabi (나비, cf. Korean word \"goyang'i\" 고양이, \"kitty\") is a male cat as well as Doki's love interest in the story. He is reluctant to return Doki's love at first, finding her antics annoying and fearing the social repercussions, but grows to tolerate and eventually reciprocate it. He wears a green scarf and seems to have some skill in martial arts. In Step 3 it is shown that he works as a paperboy. \"Nabi\" translates to \"butterfly\", and is a common name for a pet cat in South Korea.\n\nJjintta Set: The Jjintta Set (찐따 세트 Jjintta Seteu, translating as \"Moron Set\") is a gang of three roughneck, shaggy male rabbits. The three are brothers, the children of a female rabbit and a male lion. They appear as minor antagonists in the second episode, but slowly develop a friendship with Nabi. Their members include:\n\n\nBand: While the website's profile does not give any information about them, they are present in Step 2. The band consists of Pi, a female cat keyboardist; and a male rabbit guitarist named Moon\nRed Eyes A tall male bunny wearing sun glasses, and artist. He was originally created as an antagonist.\n\nHana: Hana (하나, translating as \"One\" or common name in Korea.) is a female cat, and the apparent owner of the band. She is shown to be very kind, especially towards Doki and Nabi, and has a loving trust in her bodyguard, Pizza.\n\nPizza: Pizza (피짜, Pijja) is a large male cat, and Hana's bodyguard. He has a noticeable scar over his right eye, but its origin is unknown.\n\nGray Rabbit: Gray Rabbit (회색 토끼 Hoisaek Tokki, literally Gray Rabbit) is a large male rabbit who is in love with Hana. He is often depicted holding a bouquet of flowers. Works as an electrical engineer.\n\nThe first animation in the series was released on the SamBakZa website on April 20, 2003. Its soundtrack is the Korean ska song \"There she is!!\" (떳다! 그녀!!) by Witches (위치스).\n\nThe plot revolves around Doki, a female rabbit, meeting, falling in love with, and chasing Nabi, a male cat, in a world where love between the two species is socially unacceptable. The theme of the short is that all love can be accepted and has a chance. Nabi attempts to cure Doki's infatuation for him, but after seeing the extent of her love, he gives in and finds something he can appreciate in her.\n\nA version with English titling was published in 2004 to high acclaim. The characters names were not disclosed until 2006, in preparation for the last three steps.\n\n\"There She Is!!\" was nominated for both the \"Professional Award\" and the \"Cyber Jury Award\" at the \"Anima Mundi Web Festival\" in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 2004. It won both categories.\n\nThe second short in the series, \"Cake Dance\" (떳다 그녀!! step 2. - 케이크 댄스), was released on the SamBakZa website on February 25, 2005. Its soundtrack is the Korean pop song \"Happy Birthday to Me\" by Bulldog Mansion.\n\nLike its predecessor, it is carried by classic manhwa style elements, but also includes considerable amounts of full-animation action. Nabi carries Doki's birthday cake across various obstacles including a gang of rabbits, the Jjintta Set, who attack him out of Yi-ho's mistaken belief that Nabi forced Doki into the relationship.\n\nIt is also worth noting that near the end of the short, Doki and Nabi (as well as the rest of the party) are ejected from the café, after Doki publicly shows affection for Nabi. The owner of the cafe clearly shows a bias against inter-species relationships, by displaying an \"anti-intermarriage\" sign on the door. This foreshadows some of the events which occur in step four of the series. In the end, Nabi runs into a younger female rabbit, whom the viewer is led to believe is in the same predicament that Nabi was in when the episode began, and he offers to help her safely navigate the streets with \"her\" cake (likely the same little girl who runs past in the very first scene, being teased by a rabbit boy with a fish, probably making fun of her for liking a cat).\n\nIf one clicks on the fish in the moon during the stampede scene, the original comic starring Doki and Nabi (titled \"Only You\") followed by thanks from the creator will appear. This is only in the English version of the short; the Korean version displays what appears to be a snapshot of an animation panel in Flash, presumably from step two.\n\nThe flying fish on the moon is a reference to another SamBakZa animation, \"Hot Fish\", in which Doki and Nabi make an appearance. This is currently officially unavailable due to copyright issues with the soundtrack, \"Sera\" by Jeo Qu-cheon. However, it is available on YouTube.\n\nThe signs on the walls of the subway station read \"Bulldog Mansion\". Clicking on them will give a link to their (now defunct) site.\n\nStep three begins an in-depth trilogy of sequels to the first two videos. It premiered at SICAF (Seoul International Cartoon & Animation Festival) on May 21–25, 2008, and was posted online on May 30. Its soundtrack is the Korean pop song \"3차성징\" (\"Sam-cha Seong-jing\", translating to \"tertiary sex characteristic\") by T.A.COPY.\n\nThis step portrays Doki and Nabi's first date. Nabi begins as an unwilling recipient of Doki's love, but starts to reciprocate as the date goes on. The Jjintta Set and their objections are upset when Doki tackle-hugs Il-ho, then turning the hug into something akin to a nelson. In the end, Nabi asks Doki out on a second date, and their relationship blossoms into a mutual romance, and they share their first kiss. The intermarriage theme is more prominent in this episode, as are the consequences of their relationship: the step ends with a rock thrown through Nabi's window.\n\nClicking the cloud on the top right of the loading screen triggers an alternate opening that focuses on Doki making her way to Nabi's house. Clicking the black poster during the scene with the neighbors opens T.A.COPY's site in another window.\n\nThe scene where Doki befriends the hedgehog is a nod to Hayao Miyazaki's \"Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind\", in which Nausicaä tames Teto the fox-squirrel.\n\nDuring the scene where Doki is chasing Nabi, after all attempts to capture Nabi fail, Doki throws a Poké Ball at Nabi's head. Also referenced just prior is the Chain Mine, as used by the MS18E Kampfer, in the series .\n\nThe fourth short, \"Paradise\", was released August 20, 2008. Its soundtrack is the Korean rock song \"Wolsik\" by Tabu from the album, \"A Lunar Eclipse\".\n\nIn this step, the protagonists deal with social revolt over intermarriage as Doki is attacked by an angry mob. She attempts to flee until her pet hedgehog turns to meet her pursuers. Doki goes back to save it, but is hurt and hospitalized. Fearing that intermarriage opponents will injure Doki further, Nabi abruptly ends the relationship, displaying an anti-intermarriage sign on his door. Doki considers asking him to come with her to \"Paradise\" (implied to be a location that accepts intermarriage), not noticing Il-ho spying on her. Il-ho confronts the detached Nabi to literally knock some sense into him, but his action sparks an attack by intermarriage supporters who assume he is viciously attacking Nabi. Il-ho turns to leave and finds intermarriage opponents in the way. Frustrated, he blindly punches through the crowd, only to hit his brother Yi-ho by mistake. This provokes a riot between intermarriage supporters and opposers.\n\nAs the fight fades, we see Doki standing and crying over her hedgehog, which has stopped breathing and presumably died. Doki tries to contact Nabi, who can't answer since he was arrested alongside Il-ho during the riot. Assuming Nabi is not interested in a relationship with her, Doki loses all hope. She drops her cellphone from the roof of her apartment building and decides to leave for \"Paradise\".\n\nMuch darker in character than the previous episodes, this episode is primarily in black and white, with Nabi's trademark green scarf, Doki's blushing cheeks and trademark pink bow, and the numerous intermarriage protest signs portrayed in gray-scale. As the episode progresses, Nabi's scarf gradually fades in color; when he breaks off the relationship with Doki, his scarf has completely faded to grey. In this use of colour imagery, the influence of SamBakZa's new sponsors and the increase in their technical ability can be seen. Toward the end, Doki's trademark pink bow and cheeks also fade to gray as she loses all hope of Nabi ever loving her.\n\nIt was revealed on Newgrounds that the author thought that people would not like this part of the series because it was too serious.\nBut, in the end it was also accepted by the Newgrounds audience, receiving a large number of views.\n\nThe final step of \"There She Is!!\" debuted on December 9, 2008 with the rest of the series at Joongang Cinema along with other various short flash animations. The website crashed after its release due to unexpected demand. Its soundtrack is the song \"Imagine\" by Brunch. The introduction features a rearrangement of the traditional English song Greensleeves called \"Greensleeves to a Ground\", due to its reference to the colour green and the relevance of the lyrics. The end credits feature an arrangement of the music from the original \"There She Is!!\"\n\nIn this step, Doki ties a green ribbon around a tree branch and leaves for \"Paradise\". Nabi, after his release from custody, sits down on a bench next to the vending machines where he first met Doki (which are now heavily vandalized). Next to him, a small yellow bird abandoned by its owner wanders off. Nabi saves the bird from a car and they arrive at the tree where Doki tied her ribbon. As the wind blows, Nabi sees dozens of green ribbons tied to the branches, representing the hope and wishes of the people wishing for change. (In Asia, tying a ribbon to a tree and making a wish is how you pray to the gods.) Realizing that he isn't alone in his belief that cat/rabbit love should be accepted, Nabi begins to pursue Doki, his scarf regaining its green colour.\n\nAs Nabi is running to the airport, he comes upon another faceoff between the pro- and anti-intermarriage groups. The pro-intermarriage leader sees him and, believing Nabi to be charging the anti-intermarriage group, leads his group into an attack. Nabi is thrown into another riot when the anti-intermarriage group charges. The Grey Rabbit finds Nabi and tries to grab him, but is unsuccessful; this is when Doki's animals charge in, scaring the crowd and promptly ending the riot. Nabi is shown running through the gap, and as he clears the riot, an anti-intermarriage protester is shown falling in love with a pro-marriage member after falling into her arms, depicting a moment of hope for the pro-intermarriage cause. Nabi meets the Jjintta Set on a bridge and Il-ho presents him Doki's second ticket to Paradise, implying that he wants Nabi to join her on the trip. Nabi promptly rips it in two, showing his resolve to stay and fight. Seeing Nabi's change of heart, the Jjintta Set escort him to the airport, with Nabi hitching a ride on Il-ho's motorcycle.\n\nAlong the way, a traffic light begins to turn red. Realizing that this will delay Nabi, Yi-ho pulls ahead and deliberately crashes his motorcycle, forcing the oncoming traffic from both sides to stop. Yi-ho shows joy for what he did, but a police-cat on a police cycle passes him, pursuing the bikers. Il-ho notices the police-cat in the rearview mirror, as Sam-ho pulls up offering to beat up the cop with a baseball bat and a chain, much to the annoyance of Il-ho. As Il-ho and Nabi continue on, Hana and Grey Rabbit pull up beside them in Hana's convertible. After Nabi is lifted into the car by Grey Rabbit, Hana contacts her bodyguard Pizza, who is already at the airport.\n\nAt the airport, Pizza protects Doki from demonstrators on both sides as Nabi arrives. Nabi is confronted by the anti-intermarriage symbol behind Doki, which flickers into a pro-intermarriage sign, representing the fighting protestors. Nabi ignores the signs and the demonstrators and embraces Doki out of love, destroying the arguments of both sides (symbolized by the holographic signs disintegrating). After their reunion, the couple dodge thrown debris with dance-like motions reminiscent of Doki's daydreams in the first animation. As the couple leaves the airport, hope is given for cat/rabbit relationships: Hana smiles at Grey Rabbit's offer of flowers, while a blushing (and injured) Yi-ho is supported by Lip-cat, the feline keyboardist (and Pizza uses a demonstrator's head to wipe egg off of his hand).\n\nAs the song draws to a close, Nabi and Doki clean graffiti off the vending machines where they first met, ending with a toast between them. Nearby, the tree that had once been covered in green ribbons now has green leaves budding, signifying that the people's dreams are starting to become a reality.\n\nSeveral requests have been made for various \"There she is!!\" merchandising, such as T-shirts and DVDs. SamBakZa have not made anything available, although they have indicated that a DVD is forthcoming. amalloc announced on April 4, 2012 that a \"There She Is!!\" DVD is being produced with modified scenes and may contain TSI comic strips. But, the project was suspended due to Amalloc's other works. But he said that he is planning to rework on the project.\n\nOn January 12, 2016, after HD versions of the original five episodes had been uploaded to YouTube, SamBakZa had launched an Indiegogo Campaign (since funded) in order to help fund a new episode of There She Is. The new Episode will primarily feature the Jjintta-set, the three scruffy bunnies, and will explore their origins and why they ultimately decided to help Doki and Nabi find their love.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088377", "title": "Blue Moon of Kentucky", "text": "Blue Moon of Kentucky\n\n\"Blue Moon of Kentucky\" is a waltz written in 1945 by bluegrass musician Bill Monroe and recorded by his band, the Blue Grass Boys. The song has since been recorded by many artists, including Elvis Presley. In 2003, the song was chosen to be added to the United States Library of Congress National Recording Registry.\n\n\"Blue Moon\" is the official bluegrass song of Kentucky. In 2002, Monroe's version was one of 50 recordings chosen that year by the Library of Congress to be added to the National Recording Registry. In 2003, CMT ranked \"Blue Moon\" number 11 in its list of 100 Greatest Songs in Country Music.\n\nMonroe’s earliest-known performance of “Blue Moon of Kentucky” was on the Grand Ole Opry broadcast of August 25, 1945. He first recorded it for Columbia Records on September 16, 1946 at The Wrigley Building in Chicago, Illinois. That recording was released in early 1947. At the time, the Bluegrass Boys included vocalist and guitarist Lester Flatt and banjoist Earl Scruggs, who later formed their own bluegrass band, the Foggy Mountain Boys. Both Flatt and Scruggs performed on the recording, although Bill Monroe supplied the vocals on this song.\n\nThe song, described as a \"bluegrass waltz\", had become a United States wide hit by 1947 and also became enormously popular with other bluegrass, country, and early rockabilly acts. The song was revered at the Grand Ole Opry and others; Carl Perkins played an uptempo version of this song in his early live performances.\n\nThe search for another song to release along with \"That's All Right\" at Sun Records in July 1954 led to \"Blue Moon of Kentucky\" via Bill Black. According to Scotty Moore:\n\nPresley, Moore, and Black, with the encouragement of Sam Phillips, transformed Monroe's slow waltz, in time, into an upbeat, blues-flavored tune in time.\n\nAfter an early rendition of the song, Sun Records owner Sam Phillips exclaimed, \"BOY, that's fine, that's fine. That's a POP song now!.\" As with all of the Presley records issued by Sun, the artists were listed and stylized as \"ELVIS PRESLEY SCOTTY and BILL\".\n\nThe same night that Dewey Phillips first played the flip side of this first release of Presley's music on WHBQ, \"That's All Right\", Sleepy Eye John at WHHM loosed \"Blue Moon of Kentucky\". Bob Neal of WMPS played the record, too. The pop jockeys, entranced by something new, began slipping \"That's All Right\" and \"Blue Moon of Kentucky\" in among the easy-listening pop of Teresa Brewer, Nat Cole, Tony Bennett, and others.\n\nWith Presley's version of Monroe's song consistently rated higher, both sides began to chart across the Southern United States. \"Billboard\" has the song listed only in Memphis, and as number six with \"That's All Right\" at number 7 on October 9 in the C&W Territorial Best Sellers. By October 23, \"Blue Moon\" was in the top 10 in Memphis, Nashville, and New Orleans, with \"That's All Right\" absent from the listings.\n\nFellow Sun Records artist Charlie Feathers has often claimed that he came up with the arrangement of the song used by Presley. While others sources claimed that it was Presley who arranged the song. Monroe, at first, did not care for Presley's version until Monroe received a 15,000 USD royalty check after Presley's success with the song.\n\nThe song was later used in a scene of the 2005 TV miniseries \"Elvis\".\n\nIn 1954, the Stanley Brothers recorded a version of the song using Presley's arrangement with bluegrass instrumentation, neatly bridging the stylistic gap between Monroe and Presley's approaches. Bill Monroe subsequently re-recorded and performed the song using a mixture of the two styles, starting the song in its original time arrangement, then launching into an uptempo rendition.\n\nPatsy Cline recorded \"Blue Moon\" in 1963. Cline's vocals were overdubbed over a different arrangement for the soundtrack to Cline's bio movie \"Sweet Dreams\".\n\nIn 1968, Al Kooper recorded a version for his debut solo album \"I Stand Alone\".\n\nIn 1969, Jerry Reed recorded a version for his album \"Jerry Reed Explores Guitar Country\".\n\nIn 1991, Paul McCartney recorded a version for \"Unplugged (The Official Bootleg)\" which was a combination of both the Bill Monroe and Elvis Presley versions.\n\nIn 2000, John Fogerty recorded a version for a Ricky Skaggs tribute album to Bill Monroe titled \"Big Mon: The songs of Bill Monroe\".\n\nIn 2003, the Psychobilly/Rockabilly band \"Zombie Ghost Train” covered the song on their album Monster Formal Wear\n\nCarl Perkins was inspired by the song to move to Memphis, Tennessee where he enjoyed a more fruitful career.\n\nThe New Orleans traditional jazz band \"Tuba Skinny\" has also recorded the song using the 4/4 timing of the Elvis Presley version: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tM8ZnbS1nhU\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088378", "title": "Corps Hannovera Göttingen", "text": "Corps Hannovera Göttingen\n\nThe Corps Hannovera Göttingen is one of the oldest German Student Corps, a Studentenverbindung or student corporation founded on January 18, 1809 at the Georg August University of Göttingen by students like Georg Kloss. The name was chosen because the founders had their home residences in the Kingdom of Hanover. As a corps it is a founder member (1848) of the Kösener Senioren-Convents-Verband (KSCV), the oldest governing body of such student associations in both Germany and Austria.\n\n\"Hannovera\" commits itself still to the principles of academic fencing as well as the common principles of tolerance and democracy shared by all Corps of the KSCV. Its members wear red and blue couleur (red cap and tricoloured sash) on official occasions. Hannovera's Latin motto is \"Nunquam retrorsum, fortes adiuvat fortuna!\" (engl: \"Never backward, fortune favours the bold\").\n\nCorps Hannovera officially regards the 18th of January 1809 as its founding date though it can be proved that there were similar gatherings of Hanoverian students in Göttingen as far back as 1735.\n\nCorps Hannovera is also a founding member and stringent follower of the \"blaues Prinzip\" or blue principle (along with fellow cartel Corps and ). The blue principle is a social principle which consists of the promotion of gentlemanly conduct and social behaviour in general. Flowing from these ideals Corps Hannovera host several social events in their club house (Corpshaus) which are generally regarded as some of the most coveted and exclusive social occasions in Göttingen.\n\nThe most famous member of \"Hannovera\" was Otto von Bismarck, who probably had the \"wildest\" time of his life in the course of his studies at Göttingen, where, owing to his excessive boisterousness, he was forced to live outside the town walls and was once placed under arrest for a period of ten days in the university jail (in German: \"Karzer\"). Other famous members of Corps Hanovera Göttingen were general Friedrich Balduin von Gagern, the leader of the liberal opposition in the Reichstag, Rudolf von Bennigsen, economist Wilhelm Roscher, poet Ernst Schulze, botanist Heinrich Wendland, surgeon Louis Stromeyer, geologist Otto Volger, fisheries expert Walther Herwig, the Imperial German ambassador to China and Japan Alfons Mumm von Schwarzenstein and Wolfgang Kapp.\n\nThe Corps has some members from the United Kingdom and the United States. One of them was the later physician Mitchell Campbell King from South Carolina, who belonged to the circle of Bismarck's American friends in Göttingen. During his stay at Gottingen in 1856 John Pierpont Morgan joined the Corps, but was \"not a full fledged member\" since he wanted to avoid a smite. Others have worked in the US and Canada like surgeon Hinrich Bitter-Suermann.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088383", "title": "Midwood High School", "text": "Midwood High School\n\nMidwood High School is a high school located at 2839 Bedford Avenue in Brooklyn, New York City, administered by the New York City Department of Education. It has an enrollment of 3,938 students. Its H-shaped building, with six Ionic columns and a Georgian cupola, was constructed in 1940 as part of the Works Projects Administration.\n\nStudents from the two selective programs often attend top-ranked colleges, many on significant scholarships. Typically, the school sends around 3% of its seniors to Ivy League colleges, and 10% of seniors to colleges such as New York University, Boston College, and Johns Hopkins University. The average SAT scores in Midwood High School (2015) were 530 Verbal, 610 Math, and 570 Writing.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported in 1986, that: \"Getting into Midwood High School ... is about as easy as getting into an Ivy League college. More than 12,000 eager eighth graders applied this year for 450 fall openings in Midwood's highly touted programs in the medical sciences and humanities.\"\n\nIn the 1986–87 and 1997–98 school years, Midwood High School was recognized as a Blue Ribbon School of Excellence by the United States Department of Education and was chosen as a \"School of Excellence\" by \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\nAs of the 2014–15 school year, the school had an enrollment of 3,785 students and 160.4 classroom teachers (on a full-time equivalent [FTE] basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 23.6:1. There were 1,849 students (48.9% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and 180 (4.8% of students) eligible for reduced-cost lunch.\n\nThe school occupies a building designed to hold 2,800 students, with an enrollment nearly 1,000 larger. Renowned for its diversity, Midwood students are made up of about 37% Asians, 30% African-American, 24% Whites (Non-Hispanics), 7% Hispanic and 2% Native Americans and other races.\n\nClasses are held in three overlapping sessions, with students arriving and departing at different times. Band practice starts at 8 a.m. and the first group of students breaks for lunch at 8:50 a.m. Advanced Placement courses are in such high demand that an applicant has to have nearly perfect grades to gain admittance.\n\nA new science annex, built across the streets from the original building, opened in the summer of 2008 which can ease the overcrowd problem. The building houses new science labs that replaced the antiquated labs in the original building. The annex also hosts a new library; the library in the original building is now split into two classrooms. The annex is connected to the southern end of the original building by a glass bridge that connects the second and third floors of the buildings.\n\nMidwood High School is the affiliated campus high school of Brooklyn College, a partnership which began with the 1984-85 academic year. It was one of the earliest New York City public high schools to partner a four-year college in the City College of New York (CUNY) system. The campus high school project reflects the college's continuing concern for strengthening public secondary education and building professional working relationships between its faculty and teachers in the city's schools. Its goal is to strengthen the preparation of Midwood High School students for college and expand the constituency from which those students are drawn.\n\nIn this partnership, Midwood High School remains under the jurisdiction of the New York City Department of Education. In matters of curriculum design, school organization and high school–college articulation, the president of Brooklyn College maintains contact with the chancellor of the New York City public schools, the High School Division of the Department of Education and the Midwood High School principal.\" In addition, Students are able to take classes at Brooklyn College and other Colleges in the CUNY system, free of charge, through the College Now program. Through this program, students can obtain both high school and college credits.\n\nMidwood offers 22 Advanced Placement courses, and 5 years ago the school's AP courses offerings were listed by the College Board as among the best in the nation. A high percentage of the students sign up for the Advanced Placement exams, and score in the Upper Quartile. Due to a high demand by students to take AP courses, students are required to apply for AP classes in the spring and go through a competitive academic review process in order to be accepted into AP classes: \n\nMidwood is composed of three institutes – Medical Science, Humanities, and Liberal Arts. Students are placed into classes specifically for their course. Placement in the Medical Science and Humanities Institutes is highly competitive and dependent upon strong academic performance. Students in either one of these institutes are required to take 6 terms of foreign language at Midwood High School, regardless of any acceleration credit from junior high school.\n\nThe Medical Science Institute (Med-Sci) is for students interested in science or the medical field along with mathematical interests. It requires 6 terms of science and 6 terms of math and 6 terms of a foreign language. As of 2011, incoming freshman of the Medical Science Institute must choose from three different tracks: Medical, the Research, or Engineering. The Science Research Program also has its own website, which is part of the main school website.\n\nThe Humanities Institute is for students interested in English language arts, literature, languages, and social studies. It requires two foreign languages, including 2 terms of Latin and 6 terms of another foreign language. Also, 8 terms of English, and 8 terms of social studies. The Humanities Institute is a challenging program that affords students the opportunity to learn about the world, its different societies and cultures. Students in this program are not required to take as many years of math and science as students in the Medical Science Program.\n\nThe Liberal Arts & Science Institute (formally called the \"Collegiate Program\"), serves students who reside in the geographical catchment area. Students in the program choose among four main areas of study: Law/Leadership/Community Service, Pre-engineering/Technology, Performing Arts and Communication/Media Arts. Students in this programs with good grades as 95 or up average may request to switch to either the medical science or humanities program.\n\nThese are supported through the school's courtroom, robotics lab, chemistry lab, drama classrooms, and television studio.\n\nAmong the variety of courses taught at Midwood, the school has its own Law department, with a mock courtroom, housed on the 4th floor of the main building. Through the law department (under the guidance of the Social Studies department) students have the opportunity to take Criminal and Constitutional law courses, participate in , and participate in Moot Court and Mock Trial competitions, in which the school works with select law firms throughout the city as they compete against other schools. Finally, through the department, students have the chance to take internships with the Kings County District Attorneys Office or other law firms in the city.\n\nMidwood has two classes that specialize in introducing students to scientific research, culminating in the creation of projects for the Intel Science Talent Search (formerly the Westinghouse Intel Science Talent Search). In 1999, Midwood had the most semifinalists in the Intel STS and Siemens-Westinghouse Science & Technology Competition of any school in the country. The following year the school tied for first place in STS.\n\nSecondary schools of finalists and semi-finalists (1999-2015)\n\nThe school has been working to provide students with the latest technology for students to use. In addition to having Smart Boards in most of the class rooms, and class sets of IPads, the school has recently invested $1300 in a 3D Printer.\n\nMidwood has several PSAL sports teams. They include teams in baseball, bowling, basketball, cricket, football, golf, cheerleading, handball, lacrosse, soccer, softball, swimming, tennis, track, wrestling, and volleyball.\n\nIn 2018, the boys' lacrosse team won the city championship in their divisions, defeating Columbus High School.\nIn 2017, the girls' volleyball team won the city championship in their division by defeating Cardozo High School. In 2016, the Varsity Boys' Baseball team won the school's first \"AAA\" Division City Championship by defeating Tottenville High School at Yankee Stadium.\n\nMidwood's handball team won 2 consecutive city championships in 2008 and 2009. Midwood Girls' Handball team won finals in 2009 and city championship in 2010. Midwood's lacrosse team has won several city championships, including 2006, 2007, and 2008. The team had made every championship appearance between 2007 and 2011 with 3 championship wins including an undefeated championship in 2011. Midwood HS Football Team who was coached by Alan G. Arbuse, was also back to back 1979 & 1980 City Champions and 1979 Metro Bowl Champions.\n\nMidwood's girls' bowling team had gone into the semi-final in the past three years, and undefeated division championship. The Midwood boys' bowling team has also made the playoffs 3 times in last 4 years. Midwood's girls' swimming team had come into the play off in the past 14 years, and is considered one of the top teams within Brooklyn and New York City. Midwood also started the first Girls' Lacrosse team in Brooklyn.\n\nThe Midwood Boys' Volleyball Team, considered to be one of the best and the \"team to beat\" in the PSAL, has gone undefeated in their division for the past 13 years with 4 city championships in 1996, 2001, 2007, and 2009 (the most Volleyball Championships ever by a PSAL team).\n\nThe Midwood Boys' Track and Field Team won its first-ever indoor track championship in winter 2008. Under coach Marc Cohen, the track and field team also managed to win its first ever outdoor track title in June 2010, upsetting some of the fastest high schools in the city and solidifying the legacy of Midwood Track and Field. They have also won their first-ever Cross Country title in November 2013\n\nThe Midwood Girls' Track and Field Team won their first ever Outdoor title Championship in May 2014.\n\nThe team is given the nickname \"The Midwood Hornet\" or simply \"Hornet\".\n\nMidwood has nearly 100 clubs, the including Key Club, Traditional Cuisine Club, Culture Club, Asian Society, Akiva Club, Philosophy, Amnesty International, Alternative Music Appreciation Club (AMA), Latin Club, Young Democrats, West Indian Society Club Environmental Club, Gay-Straight Alliance (Pride Club), Kpop Club, Anime Club, Black Heritage Alliance (BHA), Young Writer's Club, Women in Power Club, Model Congress, ASPCA Club, Jewish club, Model United Nations, Hellenist Society, Slavic Society, Eastern Orthodox, Snowboard Club, The Midwood Political Action Club (MPAC), Robotic Club and Video Game Club. Students complained that the school didn't have an official Math Team. In response, an unofficial group for students with an interest and talent in math was established.\n\n\"SING!\", an annual student-run inter-school musical theater competition was conceived at Midwood by Bella Tillis, a music teacher, in 1947. It is still being produced at Midwood. It's also a tradition for many New York City High School seniors, juniors, and \"so-fresh\" (freshmen and sophomores working together) who compete against each other to put on the best performance at their own school. The 1989 movie \"Sing\", which starred Lorraine Bracco, was based on \"SING!\". SING has been responsible for hours of dedication and hard work, as well as fierce competition, among New York City's high school students.\n\nIn the summer of 2004, the film \"The Squid and the Whale\" was filmed in Midwood High School's auditorium, using students from the school's Drama Club as extra seat-fillers, in 80s-style costumes. The production also used background scenes on the stage that had been painted for the Drama Club's production of \"Bye Bye Birdie\" two months prior. The film production crew also enlisted the help of a former Drama Club and \"SING!\" lighting manager to help them light the stage for the scene.\n\nThe \"Argus\", Midwood's official school newspaper, publishes articles written by students. It is published monthly. Editors are chosen by Midwood's journalism teacher in June from among the junior Journalism class. It contains different things such as news, features, op-ed, arts & sports, photography, school info, and web info, all per student request/input, as well as updated news about PSAL sport events and other events occurring in and outside the school. The newspaper also has its own website.\n\nMidwood High School offers a new program to most senior students who need to fill up their schedule with 5.5 hours of class under the new department of education law that was taken into effect September 2012. During students free periods, they would be offered a multitude of special programs to do for class credit. Examples include SING, peer tutoring, monitoring for a teacher, and certain clubs that are offered in Midwood High School. Students fill out a time card for the number of hours that they have done in school. Students need to get a certain number of hours to pass the class, and it counts as a class credit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088386", "title": "Mount Perry", "text": "Mount Perry\n\nMount Perry may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2088387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088387", "title": "Cowboy coding", "text": "Cowboy coding\n\nCowboy coding is software development where programmers have autonomy over the development process. This includes control of the project's schedule, languages, algorithms, tools, frameworks and coding style.\n\nA cowboy coder can be a lone developer or part of a group of developers working with minimal process or discipline. Usually it occurs when there is little participation by business users, or fanned by management that controls only non-development aspects of the project, such as the broad targets, timelines, scope, and visuals (the \"what\", but not the \"how\").\n\n\"Cowboy coding\" commonly sees usage as a derogatory term when contrasted with more structured software development methodologies.\n\nIn cowboy coding, the lack of formal software project management methodologies may be indicative (though not necessarily) of a project's small size or experimental nature. Software projects with these attributes may exhibit:\n\nLack of estimation or implementation planning might cause a project to be delayed. Sudden deadlines or pushes to release software may encourage the use of \"quick and dirty\" techniques that will require further attention later.\n\nCowboy coding can be common at the hobbyist or student level where developers might initially be unfamiliar with the technologies, such as testing, version control and/or build tools, usually more than just the basic coding a software project requires.\n\nThis can result in underestimating time required for learning, causing delays in the development process. Inexperience might also lead to disregard of accepted standards, making the project source difficult to read or causing conflicts between the semantics of the language constructs and the result of their output.\n\nCustom software applications, even when using a proven development cycle, can experience problems with the client concerning requirements. Cowboy coding can accentuate this problem by not scaling the requirements to a reasonable timeline, and might result in unused or unusable components being created before the project is finished. Similarly, projects with less tangible clients (often experimental projects, see independent game development) could begin with code and never a formal analysis of the design requirements. Lack of design analysis could lead to incorrect or insufficient technology choices, possibly requiring the developer to port or rewrite their software in order for the project to be completed.\n\nMany software development models, such as Extreme Programming, use an incremental approach which stresses that the software must be releasable at the end of each iteration. Non-managed projects may have few unit tests or working iterations, leaving an incomplete project unusable. As such, agile methodologies have been compared to cowboy coding but agile has formal processes, procedures, measurement, project management and other oversight while cowboy coding has none of this.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088390", "title": "O'Connor Sligo", "text": "O'Connor Sligo\n\nÓ Conchobhair Sligigh (anglicised O'Conor Sligo), Gaelic-Irish family and Chief of the Name.\n\nThe Ó Conchobhair Sligigh were a branch of the Ó Conchobhair Kings of Connacht. \n\nThey were descended from Brian Luighnech Ua Conchobhair (k.1181), a son of Irish High King Tairrdelbach Ua Conchobair and were Lords of Sligo into the 17th century. They were also referred to as Clann Andrias after a son of Brian Luighnech. The family first established themselves in the tuath of Cairbre Drom Cliabh and went on to become Lords of Lower Connacht (\"Íochtar Connacht\"), modern-day County Sligo, by taking advantage of Hiberno-Norman rivalry which led to the removal of FitzGerald dynasty holdings in the area by the House of Burke, who were the Lords of Connaught, and the collapse of their power in the Burke Civil War. In later centuries they attempted to hold off the O'Donnell dynasty of Tyrconnell, eventually having to acknowledge their overlordship before the collapse of the Gaelic order after the Nine Years' War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088391", "title": "Roy Vernon", "text": "Roy Vernon\n\nThomas Royston \"Roy\" Vernon (14 April 1937 – 4 December 1993) was a Welsh international footballer who played for Blackburn Rovers, Everton and Stoke City. Vernon won 32 caps for Wales, scoring eight goals in total, and representing his country in the 1958 World Cup in Sweden.\n\nVernon was born in Ffynnongroew, Flintshire. He made his debut for Blackburn Rovers at the age of 18. He soon became a regular under Johnny Carey and Ewood Park and scored 15 goals in 44 games in 1957–58 as Rovers won promotion to the First Division. He took to the top flight with ease scoring 17 goals in 1958–59 as Blackburn finished in 10th position.\n\nAfter an argument with Blackburn manager Dally Duncan, Vernon signed for Everton in 1960 for £27,000 plus winger Eddie Thomas. He became a prolific goalscorer for the \"Toffees\" after scoring nine goals in his first 12 matches in 1959–60 he then scored 22 in 1960–61, a career best of 28 in 1961–62 and was the top scorer with 24 goals and captain when Everton won the First Division title in the 1962–63 season. His striking partner who scored 22 goals in that title winning year was 'the golden vision' Alex Young.\n\nVernon was a lean player with an aquiline nose, a powerful left foot shot, great skill and a coolness when taking his chances. Brian Labone said of him: \"Taffy Vernon was about 10 stone. Wet through he looked about as athletic as Pinocchio.\" Apart from his success in open play, Roy Vernon was probably the finest and most successful penalty-taker ever to play for Everton. He made 200 appearances for Everton scoring 111 goals.\n\nAfter Everton manager Harry Catterick became 'fed up' with Vernon's off field antics he sold Vernon to Stoke City for £40,000. He made a good start to his career under Tony Waddington scoring five goals in his first ten matches for the \"Potters\" at the end of the 1964–65 season. He scored 11 in 36 appearances in 1965–66 but a string of injuries reduced his effectiveness and after spending a short time out on loan at Halifax Town he moved to South Africa to play for Cape Town City and later Hellenic.\n\nVernon was a heavy smoker, often smoking in the tunnel before the game and immediately after, and was reputed to bet on the horses and the greyhounds in his spare time. He died in 1993 from cancer.\n\nVernon represented Wales at senior and amateur level.\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nBlackburn Rovers\n\nEverton\n"}
{"id": "2088395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088395", "title": "BeOS R5", "text": "BeOS R5\n\nBeOS R5 is the final version of BeOS from Be Inc. It was released in March 2000, and came in two varieties: Professional and Personal.\n\nR5 was the 4th major release of BeOS for a public audience, and the 6th since it left developer-only stages. It changed only slightly from the previous release, BeOS R4.5, and was even seeded to developers as \"R4.6\". Improved POSIX compliance, particularly in the area of networking, was provided. The OS in general was moved towards the new modular media kit over the former audio-only sound subsystem. For end-users, new logos and some new icons were the only major differences.\n\nR5 was the first release of BeOS for x86 to have a freely downloadable version which could be fully installed on a user's hard drive; previous versions had a free Live CD download, which could not be installed. R5 was also to be the last version to support the PowerPC architecture which BeOS had originated on, including the company's own BeBox hardware. According to Be's marketing, it was the first OS to ship with \"legal\" MP3 encoding and decoding support.\n\nPersonal Edition, a 48MB download, was the most commonly used version of R5. Stripped of developer tools (though these were later made available as a separate download), mp3 and Indeo encoders, and RealPlayer, it was installed into a 500MB \"hardfile\" through Windows or Linux, and could be booted either directly from Windows 9x or DOS, or using a boot floppy. Once booted, it could be installed to a real hard drive or partition, and the Be Bootloader could be installed to allow dual-booting. This bootloader uses only the MBR of the hard disk, and will continue to function even if the BeOS is uninstalled.\n\nProfessional Edition was only available commercially, and for the first time in BeOS's history, could not be purchased from the company unless you were a developer. Instead, a number of regional resellers sold it - Gobe Software in the United States, Apacabar and Koch Media in Europe, and Hitachi in Asia. These resellers were responsible for all packaging of the OS, from localisation to CD labelling and packaging. As a result, some variations exist between packaged R5 Professional discs, with some being slipstream updated to the newest patches, and most notably, the inclusion of commercial printer drivers with Gobe releases, and French translations of the user documentation on Apacabar.\n\nThe CD shipped with an ISO9660/HFS hybrid partition, containing documentation, GPL licensed source code, the Personal Edition installer (with the aim of you circulating the installer to friends), a copy of Partition Magic for Windows, and the Mac OS boot-loading code for the PowerPC version. Two separate BFS partitions existed, one for x86, one for PowerPC, and the x86 one is directly bootable from CD.\n\nIn addition to all the features of Personal Edition, Professional Edition includes the full developers tools, including a rebranded CodeWarrior, RealPlayer G2, Fraunhofer MP3 encoders, and support for both encoding Indeo video, and playback/encoding of Indeo Real Time. Additional media on the CD varied by supplier, but always included some sample multimedia files, including two songs composed by Be staff (\"5038\" and \"virtual (void)\") as well as a video of Be staff pushing computer monitors off the roof of their building in Menlo Park.\n\nThree updates for R5 were released during 2000.\n\nR5.01 was mainly a stability fix for R5 Professional, fixing some deadlocks in drivers and critical servers. However, additional POSIX support was again added for networking, although the update neglected to include the newer headers to use some of these functions - they were only available in an updated Developer Tools for Personal Edition download.\n\nR5.02 (marked as R5.01 on personal) contained all of R5.01's updates, as well as some enhanced drivers, and more stability fixes.\n\nR5.03 was solely a security fix, and fixed a remote-access bug in the system's ftpd. The update, however, made a change to the core C library to do this, and in doing so, updated the version of glibc it was based on, again providing slightly more POSIX compatibility.\n\nFollowing the failure of BeIA, Be's Internet Appliance venture, the company ceased operations, and R5 was the last official release. A widely leaked version of BeOS that had been seeded to developers, codenamed Dano, carried many new features, and a build ID indicating it was BeOS R5.1.0.\n\nAnother extremely widely leaked update is a new, fully POSIX compliant, kernel-land networking stack, known internally in Be as BONE. While officially alpha, this brings higher stability to R5, as well as opening up the application base available. The updater for BONE Alpha 7 increases the system version number to R5.04.\n\nZETA was accepted by some BeOS users as a successor to R5, however legal issues surrounding how Magnussoft obtain Be Inc's source code later lead to the discontinuation of the product. However, at least during its protracted release candidate stage, it was dogged with problems that left some people using R5, and in some cases, looking to Haiku for the future of their OS.\n\nHaiku OS, now on its beta release, is now the last surviving successor to BeOS. Although deemed by the developers as beta software, the stability, compatibility with BeOS binaries and feature-completeness make Haiku OS a viable option today. Haiku has even improved on BeOS, and includes features never implemented into BeOS, including: wifi support; the layout kit; a unique package manager; and support for x64 processors and modern hardware.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088397", "title": "Arnold Manoff", "text": "Arnold Manoff\n\nArnold Manoff (April 25, 1914 – February 10, 1965) was an American screenwriter who was blacklisted by the Hollywood movie studio bosses in the 1950s.\n\nAs a result of the blacklist he wrote under a pseudonym through the 1960s. Manoff's experiences while blacklisted were among the inspirations for the 1976 film \"The Front\".\n\nManoff was born in New York City. He did not attend college and quit school at age fifteen. He began writing and won a contest in \"Story\" magazine. In the 1930s he assembled games and songs of the streets of the city for the Works Progress Administration's Writer's Project.\n\nHis first novel, \"Telegram From Heaven,\" published by Dial Press in 1942, recounts the struggle of an unemployed stenographer from the viewpoint of the stenographer, A review of the book in \"The New York Times\" said that Manoff \"has written a readable book, pulsing with life,\" and that he \"knows the life of the submerged poor and he has an intimate sympathy for them.\"\n\nManoff's first screenplay was made into the 1944 film \"Man from Frisco\". Three more of his screenplays were made into movies prior to his being blacklisted: \"My Buddy\" (1944), \"Casbah\" (1948, starring Peter Lorre and Yvonne De Carlo), and \"No Minor Vices\" (1948, starring Dana Andrews, Lilli Palmer, and Louis Jordan.\n\nHis novella \"All You Need is One Good Break\" was published in \"Story\" and produced on Broadway in 1950, in a production starring John Berry. The reviews were described by featured player Lee Grant as \"scathing.\" \"The New York Times\" theater critic Brooks Atkinson called the play \"a tabloid tale about a tenement wastrel\" and said it was \"maudlin when it was not commonplace.\" \"The Brooklyn Daily Eagle\" also panned the play, calling it a \"tiresome, rather whiny business.\" The review praised the performance of Lee Grant, who left the hit play \"Detective Story\" to join the cast. \"All You Need is One Good Break\" closed after four performances but was briefly revived later that year.\n\nIn April 1951, director Edward Dmytryk testified before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) that Manoff and other film writers and directors were members of the Communist Party. Later that year he was again identified before HUAC as a Communist by screenwriter and admitted former Communist Leo Townsend. He was blacklisted.\n\nGrant, who became his wife, was also blacklisted after she gave an impassioned eulogy at the memorial service for the blacklisted actor J. Edward Bromberg, who appeared in \"All You Need is One Good Break\". Her name later appeared in the publication \"Red Channels\", and as a result, for the next ten years, she too was blacklisted and her work in television and movies was limited. In a 2014 interview, Grant said that she knew nothing about Communism and said \"it was one of the big rifts between my husband and myself. He was a Communist. And I didn't have the base for that kind of philosophy. I just couldn't understand it.\"\n\nWhile they were blacklisted, Manoff and fellow writers Abraham Polonsky and Walter Bernstein formed what has been described as a \"kind of collective to help each other survive by writing under the table\" for television, mainly for the historical series\"You Are There.\"\n\nManoff used the pseudonym \"Joel Carpenter.\" In addition to \"You Are There\", he wrote episodes of \"Naked City\", \"Route 66\", and \"The Defenders\". At the time of his death in 1965 he was adapting for film a Bernard Malamud story that was to star Harry Belafonte. Walter Grauman, who directed a Naked City episode written by Manoff, said years later that he was shocked to learn that his real name was not \"Carpenter\" and discovered it by accident. He called Manoff a \"terrific writer.\"\n\nWalter Bernstein described Manoff was \"a talent that never really flourished.\" A number of blacklisted writers produced scripts for the \"You Are There\" series\",\" and author Erik Christiansen writes that \"Arnold Manoff's story is the saddest of the \"You Are There\" team\" and that he had difficulty getting off the blacklist.\n\nThe informal collective of Manoff, Bernstein and Polonsky was dramatized in the 1976 film \"The Front,\" which was written by Bernstein. In an early scene, the Michael Murphy character, modeled on Bernstein, introduces the Woody Allen character to two other blacklisted writers\".\"\n\nIn her 2014 memoir \"I Said Yes to Everything\", Lee Grant wrote that Manoff was known as \"the silver fox\" when she first met him in 1950 during rehearsals for \"All You Need is One Good Break\", because of his white hair that made him look older than his 36 years. He'd already been married three times and had a nine-year-old daughter with his second wife, Ruth. He was married at the time to Marjorie MacGregor, the mother of his two sons, Tom and Michael. Grant recounted that she and Manoff were \"an item\" during production of the play.\n\nGrant wrote that she was living at home before their marriage, and that her parents did not approve. She said that there was a \"Pygmalion\" aspect to their marriage, and that Manoff sought to instruct her on Soviet literature and politics. She wrote that Manoff had little interest in her upbringing and that she never met most members of his family, including his mother.\n\nManoff and Grant had a daughter, Dinah Manoff, who became an actress. They were separated at the time of his death.\n\nManoff died in 1965 of a heart ailment. He was survived by two daughters, two sons, two sisters and his mother.\n"}
{"id": "2088404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088404", "title": "The Story So Far: The Very Best of Rod Stewart", "text": "The Story So Far: The Very Best of Rod Stewart\n\nThe Story So Far: The Very Best of Rod Stewart is a 2001 Rod Stewart career-retrospective compilation album, which summarises his solo work beginning with material from his 1971 breakthrough album \"Every Picture Tells a Story\" until his 2001 album \"Human\". For contractual reasons, only two songs from his Mercury Records tenure (\"Maggie May\" and \"You Wear It Well\") were included (a third song from the Mercury era, \"Reason to Believe\", was included in a live acoustic version from the Warner Bros. album \"Unplugged...and Seated\"). The rest of the material is from different albums released under Warner Bros. Records.\n\nThe compilation was particularly notable for dividing the songs between rock and pop tunes on the first disc (\"A Night Out\") and love songs on the second disc (\"A Night In\"). Also, even though most of the songs included on the album enjoyed big success (29 out of the 34 songs originally reached the Top 10 in the United Kingdom and/or the United States), many hit singles were missed-out, including US Top 10 hits as \"Passion\", \"Infatuation\", \"Handbags and Gladrags\" and \"My Heart Can't Tell You No\". \n\nIn the United States the album was released separately as \"The Voice: The Very Best of Rod Stewart\" and \"Encore: The Very Best of Rod Stewart Vol. 2\", though there are some differences in the content. Warner Bros. Records released \"The Story So Far\" on 12 November 2001 (see 2001 in British music) and the next day \"The Voice\" was released. On 26 August 2003 (see 2003 in music) \"Encore\" was released.\n\nAlbum\n"}
{"id": "2088405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088405", "title": "Nick Catanese", "text": "Nick Catanese\n\nNick Catanese (born June 2, 1971) is an American musician. He is the former rhythm guitarist for Black Label Society. He supported lead player Zakk Wylde, who has commented that \"If I'm Keith Richards, he's Mick Taylor\". Nicknamed \"The Evil Twin\" for his capability to keep up with Wylde, Catanese joined with him when he noticed Wylde's email address in a magazine, and on a whim told Wylde that if he ever needed a guitar player to let him know. Wylde had been discussing with his wife about getting a second guitarist that very day, then got back to Catanese, the two met up and jammed and Catanese joined Wylde on the Book of Shadows tour (Wylde's solo album). When Wylde was looking to form a band in 1998, Catanese recommended drummer Phil Ondich to him. \"Sonic Brew\" was recorded, and in 1999, John DeServio was added to the lineup on bass—Black Label Society was officially formed. Ondich was eventually replaced by Craig Nunenmacher, and several bassists (Steve Gibb, Mike Inez, Robert Trujillo, and James Lomenzo) replaced JD until he ultimately returned to the band in October 2005. Catanese left Black Label Society in December 2013.\n\nNick Catanese also appeared in the movie \"Rock Star\" in 2001. He played guitarist Xander Cummins, of the fictional Steel Dragon tribute band Blood Pollution. The film also featured performances by musicians such as Zakk Wylde, Jason Bonham, Myles Kennedy, Brian Vander Ark, Blas Elias, Jeff Pilson and Ralph Saenz. He also has credits on Black Label Society's concert DVDs, \"Boozed, Broozed and Broken-Boned\" and \"The European Invasion – Doom Troopin\".\n\nCatanese plays Paul Reed Smith electric guitars, and plays Gibson acoustic guitars live with Black Label Society. Nick previously played Washburn guitars, and moved to Paul Reed Smith when his Washburn contract expired on January 7, 2009. PRS later made him an 'Evil Twin' signature model.\n\nCatanese formed the band Speed X with Mike Stone from Queensrÿche (guitar and vocals), Josh Sattler (bass) and drummer Mike Froedge, both from DoubleDrive in 2010, and later formed a with bassist Vinnie Salvatore and drummer Dusty Winterrowd.\n\nIn January 2018, Catanese plead guilty to unlawful sexual conduct with a minor, corruption of minors, and endangering the welfare of children. During his time as an instructor at School of Rock Castle Shannon, he used Instagram to send a picture of his penis to a 14-year-old student and requested nude images from the girl. Catanese was sentenced to five years' probation and must register as a Megan's Law offender for the next 25 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088415", "title": "Shepherd's Bush Empire", "text": "Shepherd's Bush Empire\n\nShepherd's Bush Empire (currently known as O Shepherd's Bush Empire for sponsorship reasons, and formerly called BBC Television Theatre) is a music venue in Shepherd's Bush, west London, run by the Academy Music Group. It was originally built in 1903 as a music hall and in 1953 became the BBC Television Theatre. Since 1994, it has operated as a music venue. It is a Grade II listed building.\n\nThe Shepherd's Bush Empire was built in 1903 for impresario Oswald Stoll, designed by theatre architect Frank Matcham. Ashly's Circus performed at Shepherd's Bush Empire and presented to George Strong a trophy for riding The Bucking Mule \"Sloper' on 8 September 1905. The first performers at the new theatre were The Fred Karno Troupe including Charlie Chaplin (1906). The Empire staged music-hall entertainments, such as variety performances and revues, until the early 1950s, by which time the popularity of these forms of entertainment was declining.\n\nDuring World War II, the Shepherd's Bush Empire narrowly escaped being hit by a flying bomb, which in 1944 hit the neighbouring Shepherd's Bush Pavilion, destroying the original interior. The Pavilion did not re-open until 1955.\n\nIn 1953, the Empire was sold to the BBC, which put it to use as a television studio–theatre, renaming it the BBC Television Theatre. Among the programmes produced there were \"Crackerjack\", \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\", \"That's Life!\", \"The Generation Game\", \"Juke Box Jury\", \"This Is Your Life\", \"Jim'll Fix It\", most of the BBC's light entertainment music shows, such as those starring Cliff Richard, Lulu, Cilla Black, Dusty Springfield, Shirley Bassey, Vera Lynn, Harry Secombe, Petula Clark, as well as the UK's Eurovision Song Contest preliminary heat, \"A Song For Europe\". In 1985, the theatre was turned over for exclusive use by \"Wogan\", which was broadcast three nights a week from the theatre.\n\nThe BBC vacated the building in 1991. It was taken over again, this time in 1993 by entrepreneur Andrew Mahler, who invested over £1m in the building in improvements and refurbishments. In 1994 the building re-opened under its original name of the Shepherd's Bush Empire, since then it has hosted gigs and dance nights.\n\nLive performances filmed at the venue and released on DVD include a King Crimson concert on 3 July 2000, presented on the two-disc set \"Eyes Wide Open\", Siouxsie and the Banshees' \"The Seven Year Itch\" album and DVD recorded over two nights In July 2002, Frank Turner's \"Take to the Road\" DVD, Opeth's first live DVD (Lamentations) recorded at the Shepherd's Bush Empire on Thursday 25 September 2003, a November 2005 concert by indie band The Wedding Present and The Only Ones comeback concert in June 2007. In November 2007, Amy Winehouse recorded . In addition to this, Transatlantic's third live release, \"\", was recorded and filmed at the venue. Folk-rock band Mumford & Sons recorded their album \"Live from Shepherd's Bush Empire\" there. In 2015, Public Image Ltd recorded their album \"Live at Shepherd's Bush Empire\" there.\n\nIn the dance music community it is also known to host raves and hard dance events, such as Frantic or Heat.\n\nThe Empire has a capacity of only 2,000, but it has been chosen as a venue for small gigs, or as a venue for 'surprise' warm-up gigs. Prior to their 1999 tour, the Rolling Stones put in a performance, with Sheryl Crow as support, on 8 June.\n\nDixie Chicks singer Natalie Maines made a controversial remark about George W. Bush at the club in 2003.\n\nWestlife lead vocalist Shane Filan played at the hall as a solo artist in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088428", "title": "Orlando Starz", "text": "Orlando Starz\n\nThe Orlando Starz were a franchise in the Independent Women's Football League from 2000 to 2004 based in Orlando, Florida. The team won a Division championship in 2001, but struggled in 2003, compiling a 1-7 record. However, the Starz received worldwide attention due to Charlotte Chambers, at that time, a 69-year-old defensive back dubbed the \"Gridiron Granny.\"\n\nHer story received play in media outlets throughout the world, and she appeared on numerous sports talk shows, including \"The Best Damn Sports Show, Period\" where she tackled Tom Arnold. She also appeared on Jimmy Kimmel where she tackled Ryan Seacrest, The Steve Harvey Show The Wayne Brady Show, CBS Early Show, David Letterman and many more. She was interviewed and written about in magazines all over the world as well.\n\nThe Starz were off to a 2-1 start in 2004 when owner Marsha Beatty suspended operations due to \"internal conflict.\"\n\nThe league, The coaches, and many of the players were so corrupt, it was impossible to just have fun.\n\nFrom 1999 until 2002 there was another \"Orlando Starz\" football team-this team was a men's Adult Semi Professional football team. The men's Starz donned uniforms much like the NFL Dallas Cowboys with blue and silver. \n"}
{"id": "2088433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088433", "title": "Albert Eisentraut", "text": "Albert Eisentraut\n\nAlbert Eisentraut of Oakland, California (United States), is an artist whose medium is bicycle frames. He has been building handmade bikes since 1959. Additionally, he has trained many better known custom builders through his classes he gave 1973-1992. His students include Bruce Gordon, Joe Breeze, Skip Hujsak, Mark Nobilette, Bill Stevenson and Bill Holland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088435", "title": "Drive wheel", "text": "Drive wheel\n\nA drive wheel is a wheel of a motor vehicle that transmits force, transforming torque into tractive force from the tires to the road, causing the vehicle to move. The powertrain delivers enough torque to the wheel to overcome stationary forces, resulting in the vehicle moving forwards or backwards.\n\nA two-wheel drive vehicle has two driven wheels, typically both at the front or back, while a four-wheel drive has four.\n\nA steering wheel is a wheel that turns to change the direction of a vehicle. A trailer wheel is one that is neither a drive wheel, nor a steer wheel. Front-wheel drive vehicles typically have the rear wheels as trailer wheels.\n\nFront-wheel drive (FWD) vehicles' engines drive the front wheels. Using the front wheels for delivery of power as well as steering allows the driving force to act in the same direction as the wheel is pointing. This layout is commonly used in modern passenger cars.\nA rare example of front wheel drive was the Opperman Motocart. This slow-speed agricultural and light freight vehicle was a tricycle with the front wheel carrying a large tractor tyre. The wheel was powered by a small single cylinder Douglas engine carried on the front mono fork that formed the steering gear.\n\nSee also Front-engine, front-wheel drive layout.\n\nRear-wheel drive (RWD) typically places the engine in the front of the vehicle, with a driveshaft running the length of the vehicle to the differential transmission. However, mid engine and rear engine layouts can also be used.\n\nIt was a common layout used in automobiles throughout the 20th century. At this time, FWD designs were not practical due to complexity (in FWD, engine power and steering must both be combined in the front axle).\n\nFor four-wheeled vehicles, two-wheel drive describes vehicles that transmit torque to at most two road wheels, referred to as either front- or rear-wheel drive. The term 4x2 is also used, to indicate four total road-wheels with two being driven.\n\nFor vehicles that have partial four-wheel drive, the term two-wheel drive refers to the mode when four-wheel drive is deactivated and torque is applied to only two wheels.\n\nThis configuration allows all four road wheels to receive torque from the power plant simultaneously. It is often used in rally racing on mostly paved roads.\n\nFour-wheel drive is common in off-road vehicles because powering all four wheels provides better control on loose and slippery surfaces. Four-wheel drive manufacturers have different systems such as \"High Range 4WD\" and \"Low Range 4WD\". These systems may provide added features such as a varying of torque distribution between axles or varying gear ratios.\n\nCommon terms for this configuration include four-wheel drive, 4WD, 4x4 (pronounced \"four-by-four\"), integral, and all-wheel drive (AWD).\n\n"}
{"id": "2088439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088439", "title": "Sunny Days and Nights", "text": "Sunny Days and Nights\n\nSunny Days and Nights was a radio comedy show on CBC Radio One that aired during the summer of 2004. It was ostensibly a CBC show set in the \"Hundred Lakes\" region of Ontario from the CBC affiliate station CBNR, celebrating its 25th year on air. It was in fact a satire of overly-earnest regional CBC radio programming, and featured the return of the character of Paul Moth (played by Mack Furlong), previously the hapless host of \"The Great Eastern\" radio comedy series.\n\nThe back story for the show was that long-time host Frank \"Sunny\" Day had gone into hiding when a circulated CBC publicity photo of him caused the law to indict him for a Ponzi scheme involving cheese futures. Paul Moth was quickly found as his replacement, and he went around insulting interviewees, inadvertently mocking local festivities and spouting bucolic observation of the rural life that came out more crazed and manic than intentioned by the obliviously self-\"un\"aware host.\n\nThis show was written by Mack Furlong, Steve Palmer, Ed Riche and Glen Tilley (all previously writers for \"The Great Eastern\"), and ran for one 10-week season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088441", "title": "OECD Anti-Bribery Convention", "text": "OECD Anti-Bribery Convention\n\nThe OECD Anti-Bribery Convention (officially Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions) is an anti-corruption convention of the OECD aimed at reducing political corruption and corporate crime in developing countries, by encouraging sanctions against bribery in international business transactions carried out by companies based in the Convention member countries. Its goal is to create a truly level playing field in today's international business environment. The Convention requires adherents to criminalise acts of offering or giving bribe, but not of soliciting or receiving bribes.\n\nA 2017 study found that multinational corporations that were subject to the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention were less likely to engage in bribery than corporations that were based in non-member states.\n\nIn 1989, the OECD established an \"ad hoc\" working group for comparative review of national legislations regarding the bribery of foreign public officials. In 1994, the OECD Ministerial Council adopted the recommendation of the \"Council on Bribery in International Business Transactions\"; The convention was signed on 17 December 1997 and came into force on 15 February 1999. A revised recommendation was adopted in 2009.\n\nCountries that have signed the convention are required to put in place legislation that criminalises the act of bribing a foreign public official. The OECD has no authority to implement the convention, but instead monitors implementation by participating countries via its Working Group on Bribery. Countries are responsible for implementing laws and regulations that conform to the convention and therefore provide for enforcement. The OECD performs its monitoring function in a four-phased examination process, with Phase 4 launched on 16 March 2016. Phase I consists of a review of legislation implementing the conventions in the member country with the goal of evaluating the adequacy of the laws. Phase 2 assesses the effectiveness with which the legislation is applied. Phase 3 assesses how well adherents are enforcing the Convention, the 2009 Recommendation, and any follow-up recommendations from Phase 2. Phase 4 is intended to be a tailored review specific to the needs of the adherent country. The Working Group on Bribery prepares a public report at the end of each phase. These reports are adopted under the principle of \"consensus minus one,\" meaning that the country under examination cannot block publication of the report.\n\nThe Convention is open to accession by any country which is a member of the OECD or has become a full participant in the OECD Working Group on Bribery in International Business Transactions. As of 2017, 43 countries have ratified or acceded to the convention:\n\nCosta Rica, Colombia and Latvia are the most recent states to have ratified the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, having done so on July 23, 2017, January 19, 2013 and May 30, 2014, respectively. Other countries that have participated as observers in the Working Group include China, Peru, Indonesia, and Malaysia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088452", "title": "New Hampshire Route 126", "text": "New Hampshire Route 126\n\nNew Hampshire Route 126 (abbreviated NH 126) is a north–south state highway in eastern New Hampshire. It runs between the towns of Barrington and Barnstead.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 126 is in Barrington at New Hampshire Route 9, where NH 126 is named Barnstead Road. The northern terminus is in the town of Barnstead at New Hampshire Route 28.\n"}
{"id": "2088453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088453", "title": "List of hoverfly species of Great Britain", "text": "List of hoverfly species of Great Britain\n\nThe following is a list of hoverfly (Syrphidae) species recorded in Great Britain.\n\nAlan Stubbs and Steven Falk, in their 1983 work \"British Hoverflies\", divided the family into subfamilies and tribes. These subdivisions are now believed to be, to some extent, artificial groupings, not reflecting the evolutionary relationships within the family, so in need of revision. As no replacement system is yet in place, though, these groupings are retained in this list.\n\nThe six unnamed species listed in Stubbs and Falk (1983) are not included below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088454", "title": "New Hampshire Route 127", "text": "New Hampshire Route 127\n\nNew Hampshire Route 127 (abbreviated NH 127) is a north–south state highway in central New Hampshire. The highway runs from Hopkinton in Merrimack County northward to Sanbornton in Belknap County.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 127 is at U.S. Route 202 and New Hampshire Route 9 in Hopkinton, where the highway is known as Maple Street. The northern terminus of NH 127 is in Sanbornton at New Hampshire Route 132 as New Hampton Road.\n"}
{"id": "2088456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088456", "title": "New Hampshire Route 128", "text": "New Hampshire Route 128\n\nNew Hampshire Route 128 (abbreviated NH 128) is a north–south highway in southeastern New Hampshire. NH 128 runs from the Massachusetts border in Pelham northward to Londonderry, south of Manchester. NH 128 is named Mammoth Road throughout its entire length.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 128 is at the Massachusetts state line in the town of Pelham, where the road continues into Massachusetts as an unnumbered road in the town of Dracut. The road, however, is still named Mammoth Road in Dracut. The northern terminus is at New Hampshire Route 28 in Londonderry. Mammoth Road continues northward along NH 28 and then New Hampshire Route 28A.\n"}
{"id": "2088459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088459", "title": "New Hampshire Route 129", "text": "New Hampshire Route 129\n\nNew Hampshire Route 129 (abbreviated NH 129) is an secondary east–west state highway in New Hampshire. The road runs between Loudon and Gilmanton.\n\nThe southwestern terminus of NH 129 is in Loudon at South Village Road, west of the intersection with New Hampshire Route 106. The northeastern terminus is at New Hampshire Route 107 in Gilmanton.\n"}
{"id": "2088462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088462", "title": "Arnold Palmer (drink)", "text": "Arnold Palmer (drink)\n\nThe Arnold Palmer is a name commonly used for a non-alcoholic beverage that combines iced tea and lemonade. The name \"Arnold Palmer\" refers to the professional American golfer Arnold Palmer, who was known to often request and drink this beverage combination; some attribute the invention of the beverage to the golfer.\n\nAn alcoholic version of the beverage (generally made with vodka) is often referred to as a John Daly. However, MillerCoors began marketing and distributing a commercially available malt-based version of the beverage under the Arnold Palmer Spiked name in early 2018.\n\nIn 2012, an ESPN \"30 for 30 Shorts\" documentary was produced on the drink, featuring Palmer, beverage experts, a group of PGA golfers and comedian Will Arnett discussing the drink's history and popularity. In the film, Palmer attributes the spreading of the drink's name to an incident in which a woman copied his ordering the drink at lunch after a long day of designing a golf course in Palm Springs, California during the late 1960s, saying \"I'll have that Arnold Palmer drink, too.\" Palmer preferred three parts unsweetened tea, to one part lemonade, but when mixed equal parts tea and lemonade, the drink is sometimes called a \"Half & Half\".\n\nAccording to a waitress at Augusta National Golf Club, Palmer ordered his namesake beverage by saying, \"I'll have a Mr. Palmer.\" When Palmer visited the Latrobe Country Club in his hometown, the staff at the snack shack served the beverage to him or his wife, Kit, without prompting. \"Mr. Palmer should never have to order the drink named after him.\"\n\nThe drink has been sold under the Arnold Palmer trademark via a licensing arrangement with Innovative Flavors since 2001. Arizona Beverage Company began marketing and selling the beverage with Palmer's picture and signature on the bottle in 2002 and has handled distribution ever since. The line has expanded to include various flavors including Green Tea, Southern Style Sweet Tea and Pink Lemonade, Zero Calorie, Strawberry, Peach, Mango and Natural Energy. Lemonade combined with iced tea is also sold without the Arnold Palmer trademark by other companies, such as Nestea, Lipton Brisk, Honest Tea (as Half and Half), Nantucket Nectars (as Half and Half), Country Time, Sweet Leaf, XINGtea, Snapple, and Peace Iced Tea (as Caddyshack). It has 43 mg of caffeine per 23 oz drink.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088471", "title": "The National Baseball Association's top 100 minor league teams", "text": "The National Baseball Association's top 100 minor league teams\n\nIn 2001, during the centennial celebration of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, Minor League Baseball tasked baseball historians Bill Weiss and Marshall Wright to develop a list of the top 100 best minor league baseball teams of the century. Their list includes 69 distinct franchises from across the United States and in Canada and Mexico. There are representatives from every decade of the century.\n\nWeiss and Wright developed a statistical formula to evaluate teams. First, a rating was given to each league. They assigned 100 points for Triple-A leagues down to 20 points for Class D leagues. The equivalent classifications of each league were used to adjust for changes in the minor league structure since 1900. Next, individual teams were graded based on winning percentage and total wins in order to assess each team's strength against its league and its season-long performance. The combination of these three metrics resulted in a statistical list of the century's top teams. Weiss and Wright further took into account intangibles such as winning a pennant, significant achievements, or reputation in creating their final list. \n\nOf the 69 franchises to make the list, 14 appeared more than once. The Baltimore Orioles took 6 places on the list, the most of any team, followed by the Ft. Worth Panthers and Toronto Maple Leafs (5), Newark Bears and San Francisco Seals (4); Kansas City Blues, Los Angeles Angels, and St. Paul Saints (3); and Charlotte Hornets, Columbus Senators/Red Birds, Houston Buffaloes, Indianapolis Indians, Memphis Chicks, and Milwaukee Brewers (2). Thirty leagues are represented on the list. The league with the most entrants is the International League with 17. The other top leagues are the American Association (13); Pacific Coast League (10); Eastern League and Texas League (8); California League, Western Association, and Western League (4). Thirty-one teams competed at the Double-A classification level, the most of any class, followed by Class A (24); Class C (12); Class B (11); Triple-A (10); Class D (7); Class A1 and independent (2); and Class A-Advanced (1). Twenty-seven teams competed in the 1920s, the most of any decade, followed by the 1940s (16); 1930s (13); 1900s and 1950s (10); 1910s and 1980s (6); 1970s (5); 1990s (4); and 1960s (3).\n\n"}
{"id": "2088474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088474", "title": "World Service Authority", "text": "World Service Authority\n\nThe World Service Authority (WSA), founded in 1953 by Garry Davis, is a non-profit organization that claims to educate about and promote \"world citizenship\", \"world law\", and World Government. It is best known for selling unofficial fantasy documents such as World Passports.\n\nWSA has an office in Washington, D.C., US. The office in Shanghai, People's Republic of China, closed on 1 January 2010. attorney David M. Gallup was the president of WSA.\n\nThe WSA was founded by Garry Davis, a former Broadway actor and World War II bomber pilot, who officially gave up his U.S. citizenship in 1948 to live as a \"citizen of the world\". It was set up to be the administrative agency of the \"World Government of World Citizens\" which he declared on 4 September 1953. The first office was opened in New York City in 1954. In the past, WSA also had offices in Basel, London and Tokyo.\n\nBesides selling World Passports, the WSA registers customers as \"world citizens\" and sells \"world citizen\" identity documents, such as fantasy birth certificates, identity cards, marriage certificates, political asylum cards, \"International Exit Visas\" and \"International Residence Permits\". The organization's legal department is responsible to assist holders of its documents. The organization also promotes programs, such as \"Mundialization\" – declaring cities and towns as \"world territories\"; \"World Syntegrity Project\" – an attempt to create a world constitution through meetings of citizens; and other programs.\n\nWSA is also involved in a project to establish a World Court of Human Rights. The WSA has also allegedly sold World Government Postal Stamps, which, according to Garry Davis, helped to convey thousands of letters between China and Taiwan in the early 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088475", "title": "Beth (singer)", "text": "Beth (singer)\n\nElisabeth Rodergas Cols, better known as Beth, (; born 23 December 1981 ) is a Spanish singer and actress.\n\nBeth was born in Súria. After finishing school, she studied musical theatre in Barcelona and lived for a time in the United Kingdom, as well as participated in humanitarian missions in Africa.\n\nIn 2002, she entered the musical talent show \"Operación Triunfo\". She finished third, but in a separate vote was selected by the audience to compete in the Eurovision Song Contest 2003. She finished eighth at Eurovision with the song \"Dime\" (Tell Me), which was a number one hit in Spain; that edition of the contest was the most watched TV program in Spain in 2003. She was referred by British commentator Terry Wogan as Kylie Minogue in dreadlocks, which was played on by many British tabloids.\n\nBeth released her first studio album entitled \"Otra realidad\", which included \"Dime\", on 23 April 2003 with Vale Music. It peaked at number one on the weekly Spanish Albums Chart and sold 200,000 copies; it ranked tenth in the year-end albums chart.\n\nIn 2004, Beth released live album and DVD \"Palau de la Música Catalana\", from her first concert tour \"Gira Otra realidad 03-04\".\n\nOn 9 October 2006, Beth released her second studio album, \"My Own Way Home\", this time with Warner Music. Most of the album was composed in London.\n\nOn 18 May 2010, Beth released her first Catalan language album, \"Segueix-me el fil\". At the same time, she developed a career as a theatre actress, and in 2013 she starred in the stage musical \"La Dona vinguda del futur\", produced by the Teatre Nacional de Catalunya and created by Marc Rosich and Guille Milkyway.\n\nBeth's fourth studio album, \"Família\" was released in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088481", "title": "Upotipotpon, Victoria", "text": "Upotipotpon, Victoria\n\nUpotipotpon is a rural area in Victoria, Australia, north-east of the state capital, Melbourne, and km north of Violet Town. The name may derive from the Aboriginal expression \"pootong pootong\", meaning \"plenty of grass\", and was used for a pastoral property taken up in 1841 between the Broken River and Stony Creek.\n\nA small town of the same name used to exist in the area. Between 1882 and 1888, four primary schools were opened in the district, all carrying the Upotipotpon name. They were closed between 1938 and 1951. A post office, Upotipotpon Station, opened around 1902. It was renamed Upotipotpon around 1907 and closed in 1913. In 1911 the population was 240 and in 1933 it was 131. Today, a handful of families remain on farms (including Redwood Farm) scattered around the area.\n\nUpotipotpon is one of the home towns listed on the Australian War Memorial in London.\n\nUpotipotpon is now a stronghold for woodland conservation in Victoria. The agricultural landscape of the area is changing, with olive and farm forestry plantations becoming prominent as well as a number of properties being managed for conservation. It has well-treed roadsides and large patches of woodland vegetation, and a large number of woodland birds. The area has one of the few remaining large populations of grey-crowned babblers in the state.\n"}
{"id": "2088486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088486", "title": "Mashona Washington", "text": "Mashona Washington\n\nMashona Washington (born May 31, 1976) is a retired tennis player from the United States.\n\nHer career-high singles ranking is No. 50, achieaved on November 8, 2004. On July 18, 2005, she peaked at No. 55 in the doubles rankings. Mashona retired from professional tennis in 2012, aged 36.\n\nWashington attended high school in Michigan, moved to Delray Beach, Florida in her sophomore year, graduating from Lake Worth Christian School, Boynton Beach, Florida in 1994, and moved to Houston, Texas, in 1997.\n\nShe is the younger sister of MaliVai Washington, who reached the men's singles final at Wimbledon in 1996.\n\nAs a junior player, Washington won the U.S. Indoor National 18s in 1992, and was a finalist at the U.S. National Hardcourt 16s and US Indoor National 16s in 1991. She turned professional in 1995.\n\nAfter a slow start to her professional career, Washington's breakthrough year came in 2004 when she broke into the world's top-100 for the first time and then finished the year ranked in the top-50. She recorded her first win against a top-10 player when she defeated Maria Sharapova at New Haven, and reached her first top-level singles final in Tokyo where she lost to Sharapova.\n\nShe also came within a hair's breadth of beating Sharapova in the first round of the 2006 French Open. She served for the match at 5–2, but could not hold serve. At 5–4 in the third set, she held match points before the then world No. 4 broke back and won the final set 7–5.\n\nIn 2005, she reached the third round at Wimbledon, where Elena Dementieva beat her 7–5, 6–1.\n\nShe joined the Washington Kastles in 2008.\n\nMashona Washington is now a member of the Boston Lobsters since 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088491", "title": "PGM 500", "text": "PGM 500\n\nThe PGM 500 and PGM 2000 are guided bombs developed by Alenia Marconi Systems and now marketed by MBDA. The PGM 500 carries a 500 lb (227 kg) warhead, and the PGM 2000 a 2000 lb (909 kg) one. The weapons are available with interchangeable laser, TV, or infra-red seekers.\n\nThe PGM 500 is known as the Hakim in United Arab Emirates service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088495", "title": "Kick harness", "text": "Kick harness\n\nThe kick harness, also known as the extra harness or plus harness, is a set of additional connectors that allow arcade PCBs to have extra inputs beyond what the JAMMA wiring standard allows. A typical JAMMA PCB supports only 1 joystick and 3 buttons each for 2 players. JAMMA boards that require this extra harness are referred to as JAMMA+ or JAMMA Plus boards.\n\nThe kick harness is named for its most ubiquitous use in arcades: the additional kick buttons in the game Street Fighter II. Many games, especially fighting games, have adopted similar button layouts. Harnesses for games that do not employ kick buttons, such as trackball and driving games, are still commonly referred to as kick harnesses.\n\nThe harness connects directly to the PCB, having its own ground loop and power connection. In the case of Capcom's CPS-2 system board, the kick harness is a 34-pin connector that plugs into the side of the 'A' Board.\n\nUnlike JAMMA inputs, kick harnesses have not been standardized. Even PCBs requiring functionally identical inputs may require different wiring. For example, Street Fighter II and Super Street Fighter II have the same control panel layout, and are both produced by Capcom, but they have different pinouts due to the configuration of their respective CPS-1 and CPS-2 system boards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088507", "title": "Ginés González García", "text": "Ginés González García\n\nGinés González García (born 31 August 1945) is an Argentine medical doctor who currently serves as the country's Minister of Health under President Alberto Fernández, since 2019. A specialist on public healthcare, González García was also in charge of the Health Ministry under the successive presidencies of Eduardo Duhalde and Néstor Kirchner, from 2002 to 2007.\n\nGonzález García also served as Argentine Ambassador to Chile from 2007 to 2015.\n\nGonzález García was born in San Nicolás de los Arroyos, Buenos Aires Province, and graduated as a surgeon at the National University of Córdoba. He first entered public service as the Minister of Health of Buenos Aires Province from 1988 to 1991. He was appointed Argentina's Minister of Health in January 2002, days after the congressional appointment of interim President Eduardo Duhalde, and ratified in his post by President Néstor Kirchner upon taking office in May 2003.\n\nGonzález García became the focus of a controversy in February 2005, when he was verbally attacked by the head military chaplain, Bishop Antonio Baseotto, because of the minister's public support of the legalization of abortion in Argentina (where interrupting a pregnancy is a serious crime except when the mother's life is in grave danger, or in cases of rape of a mentally impaired woman), as well as his endorsement of sex education and his implementation of a program of free contraception and condom distribution programs. The dispute underscored both the influence of the Roman Catholic Church in Argentina, as well as the factious nature of local church-state relations themselves.\n\nThough González García was not retained in his post by Kirchner's wife and successor, Cristina Kirchner, when she took office in December 2007, and was instead appointed Ambassador to Chile, he was influential in the appointment of a new health minister, Juan Luis Manzur, in July 2009.\n\nOn December 12, 2019, two days after returning as Argentina's Minister of Health, González García issued a protocol expanding hospital abortion access to pregnancies which resulted from rape. In addition, the protocol provides that girls as young as 13 years of age can have abortions in such cases without the consent of either of their parents. The protocol also weakens a doctor's ability to refuse to perform such abortions due to personal objection as well.\n\nIn May 2020, he was admitted to a Buenos Aires hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088515", "title": "Brian Luighnech Ua Conchobhair", "text": "Brian Luighnech Ua Conchobhair\n\nBrian Luighneach Ua Conchobhair, Prince of Connacht, died 23 May 1181.\n\nUa Conchobhair was one of at least twenty-three children of King Tairrdelbach Ua Conchobair of Connacht (reigned 1106–1156). His mother's name is uncertain.\n\nBrian's nickname, \"Luighnech\", is taken from the territory of Luigne in what is now County Sligo. Its ruling family were the O hEaghra (O'Hara).\n\nIn 1156, his father died at Dunmore, County Galway. His brother, Ruaidhri, immediately moved to neutralise any opposition to his succession as king by arresting and imprisoning three of his brothers, including Brian, all considered credible candidates for succeeding Tairrdelbach. Brian seems to have come to terms with Ruaidhri and was released. One of the brothers, Aedh Dall Ua Conchobair, was not so lucky; Ruaidhri had him blinded.\n\nBrian became lord of Cairbre Drom Cliabh (barony of Carbury in what is now County Sligo. During the late 1170s, King Ruaidhri's power as both King and High King of Ireland was under severe strain from both Gaelic-Irish and Anglo-Norman alike.\n\nThis encouraged King Flaithbertaigh of Tyrconnell to mount raids into northern Connacht, an area over which the Cineál Chonaill had long claimed jurisdiction. Brian assembled a force and met him in battle \"on the Saturday before Whitsuntide\", joined by his son, Donogh, his brother Maghnus Ua Conchobair, and members of leading Connacht gentry such as Aed Ó Ceallaigh, Eachmarcach Ó Muireadhaigh, Giolla Críst Ó Roduibh, and many others.\n\nThe Annals of the Four Masters said of the battle:\n\"Flaherty O'Muldory, Lord of Tirconnell, defeated the sons of the King of Connacht ... Sixteen of the sons and chieftains were slain by the Kinel Connell, as well as many others, both of the nobles and the plebeians. They held the Connacians under subjection for a long time after this battle ... slain by Flaherty ... were Brian and Manus, two sons of Turlough More; and Mulrony; and ... two sons of Hugh O'Connor.\"\nThe list of dead included Brian's son, Donogh; Ó Cellaigh, Ó Muireadhaigh, Ó Roduibh, and members of the O'Mulrenin and Mac Giolla Buidhe clans.\n\nBrian was of ancestor of the O Connor Sligo dynasty. Only one member of the family ever succeeded to the kingship of Connacht, but they were Lords of Cairbre until the mid-17th century.\n\n Brian Luighneach Ó Conchobhair, k. 1181.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088521", "title": "Austin Outlaws", "text": "Austin Outlaws\n\nThe Austin Outlaws are a women's football team in the Women's Football Alliance. They are based in Austin, Texas. Home games are played at Chaparral Stadium on the campus of Westlake High School.\n\nFounded in 2001 as a charter member of the Independent Women's Football League, the Outlaws finished 5-1, good enough for the first IWFL championship (playoffs were not held that year).\n\nThe following year of 2002, the Outlaws finished 7-2 and made the IWFL playoffs. After defeating the Corvallis Pride in the qualifier, the Outlaws fell 24-4 to the New York Sharks in the championship game.\n\nIn 2003 the Outlaws moved to the National Women's Football Association, where they would spend their next six seasons. That inaugural season was only as an exhibition team, and the Outlaws finished with a 1-1 record.\n\nFor 2004, the Outlaws became a full-time member of the NWFA. Despite finishing with a 5-3 record (second place in the Southwest Division), the Outlaws missed the playoffs.\n\nIn 2005, the Outlaws again missed the playoffs, finishing at 4-4 and ninth place in the Southern Division.\n\n2006 was the year the Outlaws returned to the postseason, finishing at 6-2 and second place in the South West Division. However, their playoff exit was quick, losing 23-6 to the Chattanooga Locomotion in the first round.\n\n2007 showed the Outlaws with another second-place finish in the Southern Conference West Division at 5-3. That was again not good enough for the postseason.\n\nIn 2008, again the Outlaws finished 5-3 (for third place in the South Central Division this time), and again missed the postseason. After the season, the Outlaws announced their move to the Women's Football Alliance.\n\nThe 2009 season brought a division championship back home to Austin. With a record of 7-1, the Outlaws traveled to Jacksonville to play against the Dixie Blues. Though the Outlaws were defeated, they remain proud that they beat the tough Lone Star Mustangs twice in order to earn that title.\n\n!Totals || 74 || 58 || 0\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> = Won by forfeit\n\n"}
{"id": "2088529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088529", "title": "Boukoleon Palace", "text": "Boukoleon Palace\n\nThe Palace of Boukoleon () or Bucoleon was one of the Byzantine palaces in Constantinople (present-day Istanbul in Turkey.) The palace is located on the shore of the Sea of Marmara, to the south of the Hippodrome and east of the Little Hagia Sophia.\n\nHormisdas is an earlier name of the place. The name Bucoleon was probably attributed after the end of the 6th century under Justinian I, when the small harbour in front of the palace, which is now filled, was constructed. According to tradition, a statue featuring a bull and a lion stood there, giving the port its name (βοῦς and λέων are Greek for \"bull\" and \"lion\" respectively). The palace is accordingly also called the \"House of Hormisdas\" and \"House of Justinian\".\n\nBoukoleon palace was probably built during the reign of Theodosius II in the 5th century. Emperor Theophilos rebuilt and expanded the palace, adding a large façade on top of the seaward walls and in 969 Emperor Nikephoros II built a circuit wall. Boukoleon would remain the main palace for the Byzantine court until the 11th century with the construction of the Palace of Blachernae by the Komnenos dynasty.\n\nBoukoleon was still used for state meetings; 1161 with the sultan of Rum, Kilij Arslan II, and 1171 with the King of Jerusalem, Amalric, and served as a religious meeting place, when Emperor Manuel I Komnenos held a church council in 1166.\n\nBoukoleon housed the regalia of the Byzantine emperors, and the palace chapel included sacred relics. Access to the palace chapel was restricted, but despite this there are indications it was part of Christian pilgrimages.\n\nIn the 1204 sacking of Constantinople during the Fourth Crusade, Boukoleon was taken by Boniface of Montferrat who:\n\"rode all along the shore to the palace of Bucoleon, and when he arrived there it surrendered, on condition that the lives of all therein should be spared. At Bucoleon were found the larger number of the great ladies who had fled to the castle, for there were found the sister of the King of France, who had been empress, and the sister of the King of Hungary, who had also been empress, and other ladies very many. Of the treasure that was found in that palace I cannot well speak, for there was so much that it was beyond end or counting.\" (Villehardouin)\n\nAmong the prizes, then, was Empress Margaret, daughter of Bela III of Hungary, whom Boniface married. During the subsequent Latin Empire (1204–1261), the Bucoleon continued to be used as an imperial residence. After the recapture of the city by Michael VIII Palaiologos, however, the palace, along with the entire Great Palace complex, was gradually abandoned in favour of the Blachernae Palace.\n\nWhen Mehmet II, the Ottoman emperor, entered the city in 1453, it was noted that the then-famous palace still stood, albeit in ruins. Upon his entrance to the palace, he allegedly uttered:\nThe ruins of the palace were partially destroyed in 1873 to make way for the railway line to Sirkeci. The ruins suggest that a balcony looking out to the sea was present, accessible through three marble-framed doorways, still visible today.\n\nIn 2018, it was announced by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality that the palace would be restored by the Cultural and Natural Heritage Conservation Board. It is planned that the palace will become an open-air museum with \"a timber walking trail for visitors, a museum, and a pool.\" \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088532", "title": "Klark Kent (album)", "text": "Klark Kent (album)\n\nKlark Kent is the debut solo album of Stewart Copeland, and the first solo album recorded by any band member of The Police. The album was released in 1980 as a 10 inch EP on green vinyl. It was later re-released on black vinyl as a 12 inch with a grey and black sleeve. It includes the song \"Don't Care\", which had entered the UK Top 50 two years earlier. \n\nCopeland originally intended to record \"Don't Care\" with The Police but Sting had difficulties identifying with the lyrics and felt he couldn't do it justice. Sensing that the song had potential, Copeland went on to record it himself, playing all the instruments and singing. In order not to disrupt the career of The Police, which at the time was an emerging band, Copeland chose to record under the pseudonym \"Klark Kent\". Released as a single by A&M in 1978, \"Don't Care\" reached number 48 in the UK Singles Chart When Klark Kent was subsequently invited to \"Top of the Pops\" to perform the song, Copeland, Sting, Andy Summers, Kim Turner, Florian Pilkington-Miksa and Miles Copeland showed up wearing masks to disguise their identity. Copeland's voice couldn't be heard through the mask, which was also deemed as particularly scary by the show's producers, so he eventually had to drop it in favour of heavy make-up and shades, making his real identity quite clear.\n\nThe success of \"Don't Care\" prompted Copeland to record and release three other singles - \"Too Kool to Kalypso\", \"Away from Home\" and \"Ritch in a Ditch\". Promotional videos were shot for \"Away from Home\" and \"Too Kool to Kalypso\". Eventually the project solidified in an album comprising eight tracks. The \"t\" from \"Ritch in a Ditch\" was omitted from the album version. Like the first two of The Police's albums, \"Klark Kent\" was recorded on a minimal budget at Surrey Sound Studios with Nigel Gray engineering. Some of the music and themes in the album reflect Copeland's songwriting for The Police. They are normally in an upbeat tempo and address with sarcasm issues like suburban living and Third World politics. The song \"Guerrilla\" features some Arab words Copeland learned while growing up in Beirut. The main riff of the song \"Excess\" would be re-used later for the soundtrack of \"Rumble Fish\". \"Theme from Kinetic Ritual\" would later be used by MTV as the opening theme of the show \"The Cutting Edge\". Copeland disseminated a few hints about his real identity in the design of the album. In the inner sleeve there is a collage of pictures where a photograph of The Police performing with Henry Padovani is visible. In all the pictures in the album Copeland can be seen wearing a black and yellow sweater with hooped stripes in reference to how Sting originally earned his nickname. The single \"Don't Care\" also includes the line \"You know I'm fooling with my fake I.D./So you don't need to check my history\". \n\n\"Klark Kent\" was released on CD in Japan in 1986, and re-issued in 1991 on the Pony Canyon imprint. For unknown reasons, these were released with the name \"Klerk Kant\". Rumours suggest that this was due to potential litigation with DC Comics, owners of the \"Clark Kent\" identity. All eight tracks on the EP were later collected in the 1995 album \"Kollected Works\", with all of the Klark Kent single-only tracks.\n\nWhen the \"Klark Kent\" album came out, The Police had just released \"Zenyatta Mondatta\" and were at the peak of their success, and as such it got a lot of media attention. It was widely assumed that this was Copeland working under a pseudonym. Copeland initially denied being Klark Kent, stating that Kent was just a friend and that he helped him making the album. In an interview on Australian TV in 1981 he stated that Kent was a young Hungarian ballet instructor trained by the CIA. Eventually he admitted his involvement. Reviewing the album for \"Smash Hits\" in 1980, Red Starr described the album as \"unpretentious\" and \"light-hearted\" and the songs as \"energetic, utterly straightforward and reasonably tuneful, if a bit lacking in the lyrical department\". He went on to say the musicianship was \"excellent\" and \"relaxed and inventive\".\n\nAll songs written by Klark Kent.\n\n\n\n1980. AMLE 68511. A&M Records. UK\n\n1980. SP 70600. IRS Records. US\n\n1986. D32Y3130. A&M Records. Japan\n\n1991. PCCY-10276. A&M Records. Japan\n\nKollected Works is a compilation of songs that Stewart Copeland wrote under the pseudonym Klark Kent released on CD in 1995. It includes all the songs from \"Klark Kent\", four \"Klark Kent\" non-album single tracks (\"Too Kool to Kalypso\", \"Office Girls\", \"Thrills\" and \"Office Talk\"), a new version of \"Love Lessons\", a song originally recorded by Colts (Stewart Copeland and Derek Holt) in 1986, and two previously unreleased tracks - \"Strange Things Happen\" and \"Stay Ready\". \"Strange Things Happen\" had been recorded around the time of Copeland's journey to Africa prior to producing his LP and film \"The Rhythmatist\" (1985). It was left off the album and an alternative, slightly longer version was given to the soundtrack album of \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2\" in 1986. Like the new version of \"Love Lessons\", \"Stay Ready\" uses a drum machine instead of drums. Both previously unreleased tracks were recorded at The Worried Rabbit Studio in Assyria. Copeland recorded another track under the pseudonym Klark Kent - \"Yo Ho Ho\". The song was released on the IRS compilation album \"Just in Time for Christmas\" in 1992 but is not included on the CD version. \"Too Kool to Kalypso\" would eventually find its way onto Copeland's album \"The Stewart Copeland Anthology\", marking the first release of a song originally recorded as Klark Kent under his real name. \nIn the Police's 1993 box set \"\", Sting commented for the first time on his decision not to sing \"Don't Care\" and why he thought the song was a better fit for Copeland, stating that \"Stewart is good at being arrogant in a funny way. As in the Klark Kent's line 'If you don't like my arrogance, you can suck my socks'\".\n\nIn a retrospective review, Paul Collins of Allmusic panned the \"Klark Kent\" album, arguing that Copeland only recorded it for ego-driven reasons, and that his vocals make the songs unbearable. He concluded \"the album only really succeeds when Copeland sticks to instrumentals\". Despite this, Allmusic also made \"Kollected Works\" an album pick and published a review by Richard Foss declaring it to be \"inventive new wave pop of the highest order\" and \"a record that combined the musical sensibilities of the Police and the lyrical concerns of Weird Al Yankovic\". Foss applauded the album's humor and eccentricity, while contending that the tracks also have plenty of musical depth to make them hold up to repeated listens.\n\nAll songs written by Klark Kent\n1995. IRS Records. 7243 8 29690 2 0\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088537", "title": "John Sleightholme", "text": "John Sleightholme\n\nJohn Sleightholme was the chairman of Derby County Football Club. He is a barrister and deputy coroner, and was nominally made chairman and owner of two-thirds of Derby County in October 2003, in a move arranged by Murdo Mackay. There were also two other directors, Jeremy Keith, who owned one-third of the club, and Steve Harding. Mackay soon became more formally involved by Sleightholme, and he was promoted to director of football.\n\nIn early 2006, the club was facing a boardroom battle between Sleightholme and Keith. Following protests by the Rams Protest Group and RamsTrust, it didn't seem that Sleightholme and Keith would be chairman and chief executive respectively for much longer and, indeed, in April 2006, Sleightholme resigned, stating \"My position has been made untenable. Recently it has come to my attention that meetings have been held, important decisions taken and documents signed without my knowledge. Important information has been withheld from me.\" Keith himself departed later in the month, to be replaced by a new board led by Peter Gadsby.\n\nIn March 2009, Sleightholme gave evidence in the court case against Jeremy Keith, Murdo Mackay, Derby County's former finance director Andrew MacKenzie, accountant Mark Waters and solicitor David Lowe who were all charged in relation to a fraud allegation centred on a loan from a Panama-based company that effectively saved Derby County after their relegation from the Premiership. Mackenzie, Keith, Mackay and Lowe were subsequently jailed for their involvement. Neither Sleightholme or Steve Harding, were implicated in the fraud, not charged with any offence, while Waters was found innocent\n"}
{"id": "2088540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088540", "title": "Shait", "text": "Shait\n\nIn ancient Egypt, Shait was the first season of year, beginning in the month of June. It was the season of inundation, or flooding. The snow on the mountains in Africa melted and ran down the mountains, into the Nile. The waters of the Nile flowed on into Egypt, flooded the land and made it fertile.\n"}
{"id": "2088548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088548", "title": "Fraxinus albicans", "text": "Fraxinus albicans\n\nFraxinus albicans, commonly called the Texas ash, is a species of tree in the olive family (Oleaceae). It is native to North America, where it is found from eastern Texas and southern Oklahoma in the United States, to the state of Durango in Mexico. Its natural habitat is in dry, rocky slopes, often over limestone.\n\nIt is a small deciduous tree growing to 10 m tall, with a trunk up to 30 cm diameter. The leaves are 13–20 cm long, pinnately compound with usually five rounded leaflets 3–7.5 cm long and 2–5 cm broad. The flowers are purple, produced in small clusters in early spring; like all ashes, the Texas ash is dioecious, with male and female flowers on separate trees. The fruit is a samara 1.5–3 cm long, with an apical wing. It is long-lived and drought tolerant.\n\n\"Fraxinus albicans\" is closely related to \"Fraxinus americana\" (white ash), and is sometimes treated as a variety of it. Where they co-occur, \"Fraxinus albicans\" is found in dry habitats while \"Fraxinus americana\" is found in mesic bottoms. \"Fraxinus albicans\" can be morphologically distinguished by its smaller leaves, smaller and more rounded leaflets, and smaller samaras.\n"}
{"id": "2088549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088549", "title": "Canadian–American Hockey League", "text": "Canadian–American Hockey League\n\nThe Canadian–American Hockey League, popularly known as the Can-Am League, was a professional ice hockey league that operated from 1926 to 1936. It was a direct ancestor of the American Hockey League.\n\nFor its first ten years the Can-Am's membership varied between five and six teams. However, when the Boston Bruin Cubs dropped out after the 1935–36 season, the league was reduced to just four active teams (Philadelphia, Providence, Springfield, and New Haven). At the same time, the Rust Belt-based International Hockey League had also been cut down to just four teams; Syracuse, Buffalo, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland. With both leagues at the bare minimum number of teams to be viable, they decided to form a temporary \"circuit of mutual convenience\" known as the International-American Hockey League. For the next two years, the two leagues played an interlocking schedule with the Can-Am clubs serving as the IAHL's Eastern Division and the IHL as its Western Division.\nAt a meeting held in New York City on June 28, 1938, the two leagues formally merged into a unified eight-team circuit operating under the IAHL name with the addition of the EAHL's then three-time defending champion Hershey Bears, which was awarded an IAHL franchise that day to replace the defunct Buffalo club. The league changed its name to the current American Hockey League in 1940.\n\nTwo current AHL franchises have roots in the old Can-Am. The Hartford Wolf Pack is descended from the old Providence Reds franchise, which moved to Binghamton, New York in 1977 before moving to Hartford in 1997. The Utica Comets are descended from the old Springfield Indians franchise, which moved to Worcester, Massachusetts in 1994 before relocating to Peoria in 2005, and to Utica in 2013.\n\n\nThe championship trophy was known as the Henri Fontaine Trophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088550", "title": "Mahasthangarh", "text": "Mahasthangarh\n\nMahasthangarh ( \"Môhasthangôṛ\") is one of the earliest urban archaeological sites so far discovered in Bangladesh. The village Mahasthan in Shibganj thana of Bogra District contains the remains of an ancient city which was called Pundranagara or Paundravardhanapura in the territory of Pundravardhana. A limestone slab bearing six lines in Prakrit in Brahmi script recording a land grant, discovered in 1931, dates Mahasthangarh to at least the 3rd century BC. It was an important city under the Maurya Empire .The fortified area was in use until the 8th century AD.\n\n\"Mahasthan\" means a place that has excellent sanctity and \"garh\" means fort. Mahasthan was first mentioned in a Sanskrit text of the 13th century entitled \"Vallalcharita\". It is also mentioned in an anonymous text \"Karatoya mahatmya,\" circumstantially placed in 12th–13th century. The same text also mentions two more names to mean the same place – Pundrakshetra, land of the Pundras, and Pundranagara, city of the Pundras. In 1685, an administrative decree mentioned the place as Mastangarh, a mixture of Sanskrit and Persian meaning fortified place of an auspicious personage. Subsequent discoveries have confirmed that the earlier name was Pundranagara or Paundravardhanapura, and that the present name of Mahasthangarh is of later origin.\n\nMahasthangarh (Pundranagar), the ancient capital of Pundravardhana is located north of Bogra on the Bogra-Rangpur highway, with a feeder road (running along the eastern side of the ramparts of the citadel for 1.5 km) leading to Jahajghata and site museum. Buses are available for Bogra from Dhaka and take 4½ hours for the journey via Bangabandhu Jamuna Bridge across the Jamuna River. Buses are available from Bogra to Mahasthangarh. Rickshaws are available for local movement. Hired transport is available at Dhaka/ Bogra. Accommodation is available at Bogra. When travelling in a hired car, one can return to Dhaka the same day, unless somebody has a plan to visit Somapura Mahavihara at Paharpur in the district of Naogaon and other places, or engage in a detailed study.\n\nIt is believed that the location for the city in the area was decided upon because it is one of the highest areas in Bangladesh. The land in the region is almost above sea level, whereas Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, is around above sea level. Another reason for choosing this place was the position and size of the Karatoya, which as recently as in the 13th century was three times wider than Ganges.\n\nMahasthangarh stands on the red soil of the Barind Tract which is slightly elevated within the largely alluvium area. The elevation of 15 to 25 metres above the surrounding areas makes it a relatively flood free physiographic unit.\n\nSeveral personalities contributed to the discovery and identification of the ruins at Mahasthangarh. Francis Buchanan Hamilton was the first to locate and visit Mahasthangarh in 1808, C.J.O'Donnell, E.V.Westmacott, and Beveridge followed. Alexander Cunningham was the first to identify the place as the capital of Pundravardhana. He visited the site in 1879.\n\nThe citadel (see map alongside), the fortified heart of the ancient city, is rectangular in plan, measuring roughly long from north to south, and from east to west, with high and wide ramparts in all its wings. Area of the citadel is approximately 185 ha. The Karatoya, once a mighty river but now a small stream, flows on its east.\n\nTill the 1920s, when excavations started, the inside of the citadel was higher than the surrounding areas by over 4 metres and was dotted with several straggling elevated pieces of land. The rampart looked like a jungle clad mud rampart with forced openings at several points. The rampart was higher than the surrounding area. At its south-east corner stood a mazhar (holy tomb). A later day mosque (built in 1718–19) was also there.\n\nAt present there are several mounds and structural vestiges inside the fortifications. Of these a few of note are: Jiat Kunda (well which, according to legends, has life giving power), Mankalir Dhap (place consecrated to Mankali), Parasuramer Basgriha (palace of a king named Parasuram), Bairagir Bhita (palace of a female anchorite), Khodar Pathar Bhita (place of stone bestowed by God), and Munir Ghon (a bastion). There are some gateways at different points: Kata Duar (in the north), Dorab Shah Toran (in the east), Burir Fatak (in the south), and Tamra Dawaza (in the west) At the north-eastern corner there is a flight of steps (a later addition) that goes by the name of Jahajghata. A little beyond Jahajghata and on the banks of the Karatoya is Govinda Bhita (a temple dedicated to Govinda). In front of it is the site museum, displaying some of the representative findings. Beside it is a rest house.\n\nBesides the fortified area, there are around a hundred mounds spread over an area with a radius of 9 km. (See map alongside).\n\nExcavated mounds:\n\nMajor unexcavated mounds:\n\nSystematic archaeological excavation of Mahasthangarh was first started in 1928–29 under the guidance of K.N.Dikshit of the Archaeological Survey of India. The areas around Jahajghata, Munir Ghon and Bairagir Bhita were explored. Excavation was resumed in 1934–36 at Bairagir Bhita and Govinda Bhita. Excavation was carried out in 1960s around the Mazhar, Parasuramer Prasad, Mankalir Dhap, Jiat Kunda and in a part of the northern rampart. In the next phase excavation was carried out sporadically in parts of the east and north ramparts but the final report is yet to be published. In the period 1992–98 excavation was conducted in the area lying between Bairagir Bhita and the gateway exposed in 1991 as a Bangla-Franco joint venture, which is now in its second phase with excavation around the mazhar in the western side of the citadel.\n\nThe excavations have led to the recovery of a large number of items, a few of which are listed here.\n\nInscriptions: A 4.4 cm x 5.7 cm limestone slab bearing six lines in Prakrit in Brahmi script, discovered accidentally by a day labourer in 1931 was an important find. The text appears to be a royal order of Magadh, possibly during the rule of Asoka. It dates the antiquity of Mahasthangarh to 3rd century BC. An Arabic inscriptional slab of 1300–1301 discovered in 1911–12 mentions the erection of a tomb in honour of Numar Khan, who was a Meer-e-Bahar (lieutenant of the naval fleet). A Persian inscriptional slab of 1718–19 records the construction of a mosque during the reign of the Mughal Emperor Farrukhsiyar.\n\nCoins: Silver punch marked coins are datable to a period between the 4th century BC and the 1st–2nd century AD. Some uninscribed copper cast coins have been found. Two Gupta period coins have been reported from a nearby village named Vamanpara. A number of coins belonging to the sultans of 14th–15th century and British East India Company have been found.\n\nCeramics: Mostly represented by a vast number of shards.\n\nSculpture: A 5th century Buddha stone sculpture recovered from Vasu Vihara, a Lokesvara stone sculpture showing blending of Visnu and Avalokitsvara, salvaged from neighbouring Namuja village, a number sandstone door-frames, pillars and lintels (datable to 5th–12th century), numerous Buddha bronze sculpture datable to 10th–11th century, a terracotta Surya discovered at Mankalir Bhita, and numerous other pieces.\n\nTerracotta Plaques: A number of terracotta plaques have been discovered.\n\nMany of these are on display in the site museum, which is open Sunday to Thursday summer:10 am to 6 pm, winter:9 am to 5 pm. Recess:1–2 pm, Friday recess is from 12.30 to 2.30, opens at 9 am in summer, other timings same. Summer timings 1 April to 30 September, winter timings 1 October to 30 March. Books on Mahasthangarh and other archaeological sites in Bangladesh (in Bengali and English) are available at the ticket counter for the site museum.\n\nBairagir Bhita: Constructed/ reconstructed in four periods: 4th–5th century AD, 6th–7th century, 9th–10th century, and 11th century. Excavations have revealed impoverished base ruins resembling temples. Two sculptured sandstone pillars have been recovered.\n\nKhodarpathar Bhita: Some pieces of stone carved with transcendent Buddha along with devotees in anjali (kneeling with folded hands) recovered.\n\nParasuramer Prasad: Contains remains of three occupation periods – 8th century AD findings include stone Visnupatta of Pala period, 15th- 16th century findings include some glazed shreds of Muslim origin, and the third period has revealed two coins of the British East India Company issued in 1835 and 1853.\n\nMankalir Dhap: terracotta plaques, bronze Ganesha, bronze Garuda etc. were discovered. Base ruins of a 15-domed mosque (15th–16th century) was revealed.\n\nBangla-Franco joint venture: Excavations have revealed 18 archaeological layers, ranging from 5th century BC to 12th century AD, till virgin soil at a depth of around 17 m.\n\nGovinda Bhita: Situated 185 m north-east of Jahajghata and opposite the site museum. Remains dated from 3rd century BC to 15th century AD. Base remains of two temples have been exposed.\n\nTotaram Panditer Dhap: Situated in the village Vihara, about 6 km north-west of the citadel. Structural remains of a damaged monastery have been exposed.\nNarapatir Dhap: Situated in the village Basu Vihara, 1.5 km north-west of Totaram Panditer Dhap. Base remains of two monasteries and a temple have been exposed. Cunningham identified this place as the one visited by Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang) in the 7th century AD.\n\nGokul Medh: Also known as Behular Basar Ghar or Lakshindarer Medh, situated in the village Gokul, 3 km to the south of the citadel, off the Bogra-Rangpur road, connected by a narrow motorable road about 1 km. Excavations in 1934–36 revealed a terraced podium with 172 rectangular blind cells. It is dated 6th–7th century. Local mythology associates it with legendary Lakshmindara-Behula. The village Gokul also has several other mound Kansr Dhap has been excavated.\n\nSkandher Dhap: Situated in village Baghopara on the Bogra-Rangpur road, 3.5 km to the south of the citadel, a sandstone Kartika was found and structural vestiges of a damaged building were revealed. It is believed to be the remains of Skandha Mandira (temple consecrated to Kartika), mentioned in \"Karatoya mahatmya\", as well as Kalhan's \"Rajatarangin,\" written in 1149–50. There also are references to Skandhnagara as a suburb of Pundranagara. Baghopara village has three other mounds.\n\nKhulnar Dhap: Situated in village Chenghispur, 700 m west of the north-west corner of the citadel has revealed remains of a temple. The mound is named after Khullana, wife of Chand Sadagar.\n\nFrom the present findings it can be deduced that there was a city called Pundravardhana at Mahasthangarh with a vast suburb around it, on all sides except the east, where the once mighty Karatoya used to flow. It is evident that the suburbs of Pundravardhana extended at least to Baghopara on the south-west, Gokul on the south, Vamanpara on the west, and Sekendrabad on the north. However, the plan of the city and much of its history are still to be revealed.\n\nBhimer Jangal This well-known embankment starts from the north-east corner of Bogra town and proceeds northwards for about 30 miles to a marshy place called Damukdaher bit, under police station Govindaganj (Rangpur District) and it is said, goes oil to Ghoraghat. It is made of the red earth of the locality and retains at places even now a height of 20 feet above the level of the country. There is a break ill it of over three miles from Daulatpur (north west of Mahasthan-garh) to Hazaradighi (south-west, of it). About a mile south of Hazradighi. the stream Subil approaches the jangal and runs alongside it down to Bogra town.\n\nSome people think that the Subil is a moat formed by digging the earth for the jangal but as there is no embankment on the northern reach of the Subil now called the Ato nala. which merges in the Kalidaha bil; north of Mahasthan-garh O'Donnell was probably right in saying that the Subil represents the western of the two branches into which the Karatoya divided above Mahasthan.\n\nOn the Bogra-Hazradighi section of the jangal, there are two cross embankments running down to the Karatoya, about 2 miles and 4 miles respectively north of Bogra town and there is a diagonal embankment connecting these cross bonds and then running along the Karatoya until it meets the main embankment near Bogra.\n\nThis jangal or embankment appears to have been of a military character, thrown up to protect the country on its east. The break roar Mahasthan may be due to the embankment having been washed away or to the existence of natural protection by the bit.\n\nThe Bhima to whom the embankment is ascribed may be the Kaivarta chief of the eleventh century who according to the Ramcharitam ruled over Varendra in succession to his father Rudraka and uncle Divyoka, who had ousted king Mahipala II of the Pala, dynasty. Bhima in his turn was defeated in battle and billed by Ramapala. Mahipala's son.\n\nJogir Bhaban South west of Bagtahali (beyond Chak Bariapara) and some 3 miles west of the khetlal road is a settlement of the Natha sect of Saiva sannyasis, known as Yogir-bhavan, forming the eastern section of Arora village. An account of this settlement is given by Beveridge, J.:1.S.T., 1878; p. 94. It occupies about so, bighas of land and forms the headquarters of the sect. of which there are branches at Yogigopha and Gorakh-kui, both in the Dinajpur District, the former in its south-west part some 5 miles west of Paharpur, J.A.S.B.1875, p. 189, and the latter in its north-west part some 4 miles west of Nekmardan.\n\nThe shrines at Yogir-bhavan are situated in the south-west corner of an en¬closure or-math. One of them called Dharmma-dungi, bears a brick inscription, reading scrvva-siddha sana 1148 Sri Suphala ... (the year =1741 A.D.). 'In front of it is another shrine called `Gadighar,' where a fire is kept burn at all hours.\nOutside the enclose are four temples, dedicated respectively to Kalabhai¬rava, Sarvamangala Durga and Gorakshanatha. The Kalabhairava temple contains a diva linga and bears a brick inscription reading Sri Ramasiddha sana 1173 sala (=1766 A.D.) ample Sri Jayanatha Nara-Narayana. The Sarva¬mangala temple contains three images of Hara-Gauri, one of Mahishamardini, a fragment of an Ashta-matrika slab, a fragment of a three-faced female figure probably Ushnishavijava (Sadhanamala; II. pl. XIV) and a four-armed female figure playing on a vina (evidently Sarasvati, but worshipped here as Sarva¬ mangala). Over the entrance is a brick inscription reading 1089 Meher Natha sadaka sri Abhirama Mehetara (the year =1681 A.D.). In the Durga temple is a stone image of Chamunda, and in the Gorakshanatha one, a Siva lihga. There are three brick built samadhis near the latter temple.\n\nArora South-west of the Dadhisugar and standing on the Masandighi, in Arora village; is Salvan Rajar bari referred to under Baghahali. This Silvan may possibly be the same as king Salavahan, son of Sahila-deva of the Chamba inscription who won the title of Kari-ghata-varsha (= hunjara-ghata-varsha ?) (R. C. Majumdar, vange kambojadhikara,' vanga-rani, Chaitara, 1330.B.S.p. 251, ind. Ant, XVII.pp. 7–13). Beveridge refers to this mound in JA.S.B., 1878, p 95.\n\nThis name of Sahila seems, to occur again in Sahiladitya lakshmam in v. 10 of the Silimpllr inscription (Ep. Ind, XIII, p. 291). If this identification is correct, then the word kaunjanraghatacarshcna in the Bangarh stone inscription (Gauda-raja-mala, p. 35) is really the title or virudha of the Gudapati of the Kumboja family and not the date of the inscription.\n\nTeghar North of Chandnia that the road skirts the bil and comes to Teghar village Which juts out into the bil 'Near about here are several mounds; such as Naras¬patir dhap. Kacher Angina (or glazed courtyard, a term applied to many ruins in these parts) etc. The biggest of these mounds, Mangal-nather dhap, (Fig. 6) is situated close to the point, from which a road branches off to Bihar. It is said that terracotta plaques as well as stone images were found at this site, but were all consigned to the neighbouring dighi.\n\nRojakpur Proceeding westward along the road from Gokul to Haripur, we pass into the western arm of the latter village, already referred to. and meet the Bogra¬ Khetlal road near the Chandnia hat. West of Haripur and south of the Somrai bil is the village of Rojakpur, into which, as already stated, the elevated ground from Chandnia hat extends. On this ground are two mounds called respectively Chandbhita. (probably referring to the Manasa legend) and Dhanbhandar. A little further west is another mound called Singhinath Dhap.\n\nMathura East of Bumanpara and extending up to the garh on the east and the Kalidaha bill on the north, is the village of Mathura, in Which there are several tank and on a ridge overlooking the Gilatala moat, two mounds called Parasuramer Sabhabati and Yogir Dhap.\n\nIn a 2010 report titled \"Saving Our Vanishing Heritage\", Global Heritage Fund identified Mahasthangarh as one of 12 worldwide sites most \"On the Verge\" of irreparable loss and damage, citing insufficient management (poor water drainage in particular) and looting as primary causes.\n\nThere is a local legend that Shah Sultan Balkhi Mahisawar arrived at Pundravardhana in the garb of a fakir (mystic holy pedlar of Islamic philosophy) riding a fish. (Mahisawar is Persian word meaning a 'person who rides a fish'). He came from Balkh in Afghanistan with a retinue. The period of his arrival is variably put at 5th century AD, 11th century AD and 17th century AD. At that time there was a king named Parasuram with his seat and palace in Mahasthangarh. Mahisawar requested Parasuram for a piece of land to spread his prayer mat on which he could pray. The request was granted but the prayer mat started expanding as soon as it was laid on the ground. When the prayer mat reached the area around the palace bewildered Parasuram declared war. In the beginning the battle seemed to be favouring Parasuram. A scavenger Harapala informed Mahisawar that it was difficult to defeat the royal troops because of the pool called Jiat Kunda. A dead soldier bathed in the waters of Jiat Kunda came back to life. On knowing this Mahisawar asked a kite to drop a piece of beef in Jiat Kunda. When this was done, the pool lost its powers. The royal troops were on the verge of defeat. The commander of the royal troops, Chilhan, with a large number of his followers, went over to Mahisawar. Thereafter Parasuram and many members of the royal family committed suicide. There are many variations of this anecdote, some of which are sold in Bengali booklets in and around Mahasthangarh/Pundravardhana.\n\nMahasthangarh dates back to at least 3rd century BC and is acknowledged as the earliest city-site so far discovered in Bangladesh. Somapura Mahavihara at Paharpur in Naogaon District was once the biggest Buddhist monastery south of the Himalayas. It dates from the 8th century AD. Mainamati ruins in Comilla District date back to 6th–13th centuries AD. In neighbouring West Bengal, the ruins of Pandu Rajar Dhibi on the banks of the Ajay River in Bardhaman district date back to 2000 BC. However, this recent archaeological discovery has not yet been properly studied by outside experts and specialists in this field, and as such the historical value of many of the statements must be considered as uncertain. The ruins at Chandraketugarh in 24 Parganas South and Rajbadidanga in Murshidabad district date back to the early years of the Christian era.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088552", "title": "FairVote", "text": "FairVote\n\nFairVote (formerly the Center for Voting and Democracy) is a 501(c)(3) organization that advocates electoral reform in the United States.\n\nFounded in 1992 as Citizens for Proportional Representation to support the implementation of proportional representation in American elections, the organization in 1993 became the Center for Voting and Democracy and in 2004 changed its name to FairVote to reflect its support of such platforms as ranked choice voting (RCV), for single-winner elections, a national popular vote for president, a right to vote amendment to the Constitution, and universal voter registration. FairVote releases regular publications on the state of the U.S. electoral system, including \"Dubious Democracy\" and \"Monopoly Politics\".\n\nNotable members of FairVote's board of directors include its chair, former Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic. The previous chair was former Congressman and 1980 independent presidential candidate John Anderson.\n\nFairVote was founded as Citizens for Proportional Representation in 1992 in Cincinnati, Ohio, by a diverse group of scholars, grassroots activists, civic leaders, and politicians.\n\nThe result of a merger of several smaller groups promoting proportional representation reform into a single, nationalized advocacy group, it originally had co-founder Robert Richie as executive director, co-founder Matthew Cossolotto as president and third co-founder Steven Hill as western regional director based in Seattle and later San Francisco. John Anderson was head of its national advisory board and in 1992 published a \"New York Times\" commentary advocating RCV in presidential elections. The CPR ended its founding year operating in Alexandria, Virginia, with around 200 members.\n\nSince its founding, FairVote has expanded its reach and expressed its platforms to both the public and all levels of government through campaigns, blogs, newsletters, lobbying, interviews, amicus curiae briefs, and numerous media outlets. Notable events include:\n\n\nFairVote is headquartered in Takoma Park, Maryland.\n\nThe stated mission of FairVote is \"a nonpartisan champion of electoral reforms that give voters greater choice, a stronger voice, and a representative democracy that works for all Americans.\"\n\nFairVote concentrates its efforts on electoral reform in the United States through research, education, outreach, and support of policies that foster equal representation and greater transparency within the electoral administration.\n\nThe organization's projects fall into three broad categories: fair access to participation, fair elections, and fair representation. To that end, it sponsors programs like the Democracy Secretary of State (SoS) Project, which scrutinizes practices obstructing the voting process while proposing solutions to hold electoral officials accountable for their actions. The Promote Our Vote project focuses on local ideas to spur participation.\n\nMembers of FairVote regularly write blogs, provide commentary in interviews, and offer internships for interested youth.\n\nFairVote has been covered by many major news outlets, including \"The Washington Post\", \"The New York Times\", and NPR, which tend to call it a nonpartisan voting rights advocacy group. Other commonly used terms include: \"voting rights organization,\" \"election reform advocacy group,\" \"national reform organization,\" and \"election participation and reform group.\" \"The Denver Post\" referred to the group as \"election-protection campaigners.\"\n\nIn his \"New York Times\" profile of FairVote co-founder Steven Hill\",\" Scott James called FairVote a \"left-wing group\". Other writers have claimed that many FairVote policies, such as RCV, are popular in \"liberal enclaves\" and supported by \"populist groups\" such as Common Cause, an advocacy organization, and thus give the group a liberal tilt. Louis Jacobson, a writer for \"Roll Call\", argues that any group supporting the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact will be perceived as liberal-leaning because of Democratic frustration with the Electoral College after the 2000 Presidential Election. But Rob Richie, FairVote's president, has said, \"[FairVote] is definitely not a Democratic stalking horse.\" In addition, FairVote points to John Anderson, who was president of the organization's first advisory board and a current member of the Board of Directors, who ran for President as an Independent in 1980. In fact, before Anderson ran for President, he was a Republican Congressman from Illinois.\n\nReleased in 2013, Reform 2020 is a set of four goals that the group hopes to reach by 2020:\n\n\nFairVote advocates the use of instant-runoff voting (IRV) in single-winner elections. Under this system, voters rank candidates in order of preference, in contrast to the more widely used plurality voting system. This is widely called \"ranked-choice voting\" (RCV) in the United States.\n\nIn 2002, FairVote backed a San Francisco ballot initiative amending Section 13.102 of the city charter to allow RCV in local elections. The city began using RCV to elect local officials on November 2, 2004. Subsequent ballot initiatives supported by FairVote have allowed the use of RCV in the following cities (listed with first year of use):\n\n\nFairVote supports modification of state laws governing the Electoral College so that the president is elected by national popular vote. FairVote advocates the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact, an agreement among states and the District of Columbia to award their electoral votes to the candidate with the highest popular vote total in all 50 states and DC. FairVote has played an active role in lobbying state officials to join the compact. New York Assemblyman Fred Thiele said he first proposed New York's entrance into the compact after being approached by FairVote.\n\nFairVote advocates the use of proportional representation (which they call \"fair representation voting\") in multi-seat assembly and council elections throughout the United States. In this system, each candidate or party controls a share of seats equal to its share of the vote. The organization has proposed combining several congressional districts into one to allow for proportional representation in the United States Congress, as well as in the California and Michigan state assemblies. They advocate for several PR systems, including STV (which they \"also\" call \"Ranked Choice Voting\"), cumulative voting, unordered open list (\"Open Ticket Voting\"), SNTV (\"Single-Vote Method\"), and MMP (\"Districts Plus\").\n\nFairVote has backed the proposed Right to Vote Amendment (House Joint Resolution 44), sponsored by Representatives Mark Pocan (D-WI) and Keith Ellison (D-MN), under which citizens would be guaranteed a constitutional right to vote. FairVote filed a policy brief in support of the legislation, stating, \"We believe that the right to vote is a cornerstone of representative democracy that depends upon broadly defined voter eligibility, universal voter access to the polls, and election integrity.\" FairVote has also advocated universal voter registration, a system in which all citizens of legal voting age would be registered to vote automatically.\n\nFairVote has conducted research on both presidential and Congressional elections. Most of its presidential election research focuses on the electoral college's effects on campaigning. In its 2012 Presidential Election analysis, FairVote documented the large disparity in both time and money spent in swing states (e.g., Florida) versus safe states (e.g., Maryland). In addition, FairVote has begun publishing data on how much time sitting presidents spend in swing states.\n\nFairVote releases two main documents of Congressional research every election cycle. The first is \"Monopoly Politics\", which contains predictions and analysis for each race. FairVote first categorizes each seat according to its competitiveness; seats are labeled Safe Democratic, Likely Democratic, Lean Democratic, Toss Up, Lean Republican, Likely Republican, or Safe Republican. Relatedly, FairVote gives each district a partisanship ranking derived from previous elections. FairVote then predicts what percentage of the vote candidates will receive. Lastly, the research tries to predict incumbent winning percentages for the election cycle. For example, FairVote expects incumbents to do 4.5% better in 2014 than they did in 2012.\n\nThe second major document is \"Dubious Democracy\", an assessment of Congressional elections' fairness. By aggregating Congressional race data since 1982, the research attempts to highlight several elements of Congressional elections — the ratio of competitive to noncompetitive districts, the effects of gerrymandering, and voter turnout — that FairVote believes hurt the democratic process. In the report, every Congressional race is placed on a scale of competitiveness, from Tight (<5% margin of victory) to No Contest (>40% margin of victory), and the percentage of races within each category is tracked over time. In addition, the research tracks voter turnout and wasted votes over time. Lastly, the report follows the success of incumbents in winning reelection over time.\n\nIn addition to Monopoly Politics and Dubious Democracy, after the 2010 midterm elections FairVote released data on the effect of third-party and spoiler candidates. The report found that there were many districts in which the winning candidate did not receive a majority of the vote, a fact the group finds problematic. In addition, the research highlighted races in which Independents garnered a sizable percentage of the vote.\n\nFinally, FairVote created Representation 2020, a project that hopes to achieve parity in the numbers of men and women serving in elected office. The project has three main goals: institutionalizing changes in party rules to recruit and train more women to run for office, creating family-friendly legislative schedules, and replacing single-member districts with multi-member districts with proportional representation. Representation2020 has since become a separate nonprofit called RepresentWomen; it is still closely aligned with FairVote.\n\nFairVote has created two projects that aim to expand and protect voting rights in the United States. The first, Promote Our Vote, tries to provide support and resources for groups focused on expanding voting rights. The group provides electoral research, legal analysis, and communications assistance. In addition, Promote Our Vote creates support for a constitutional right to vote amendment by building up support at the local level, focusing mainly on college campuses.\n\nThe second project is Democracy SoS, which aims to familiarize voters with the important role of state-level Secretary of State officials. To that end, the project has issued reports on state election preparedness, interviewed state election officials, and published voter guides that focus on election reform policies. The project also hopes to popularize its candidate surveys, which include questions about election planning and election integrity.\n\nFairVote has participated in a number of recent court cases as amici curiae to advance fair representation voting, particularly under the California and federal Voting Rights Act. Notable recent cases in which they have been involved include:\n\n\"Sanchez v. City of Modesto\" (2007) dealt with the constitutionality of the California Voting Rights Act of 2001 (CVRA).\n\nAfter the California Superior Court of Stanislaus County declared the CVRA unconstitutional in favor of the City of Modesto, plaintiffs Enrique Sanchez, Emma Pinedo and Salvador Vera appealed to the Fifth Appellate District of the Court of Appeal of California.\n\nAlong with Kathay Feng from the organization California Common Cause, FairVote submitted an amicus curiae brief in favor of the plaintiffs.\n\nFairVote argued that winner-take-all at-large voting systems caused \"vote dilutions in jurisdictions affected by racially polarized voting, even where minority voters cannot form a majority in a single member district.\"\n\nSupporting the CVRA, FairVote viewed the law requiring courts to \"fashion effective remedies to cure vote dilution affecting smaller and dispersed minority populations.\"\n\nAsserting that the CVRA allows California to become more representative of the people, FairVote concluded that the CVRA was an important and constitutional piece of government reform. The Court of Appeal applied rational basis review to CVRA and declared the law constitutional, reversing the lower court's decision.\n\nIn December 2006, the United States Department of Justice alleged that Port Chester's at-large system of electing its board of trustees violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The US government claimed that the at-large electoral system denied the Hispanic population \"an equal opportunity to participate in the political process and to elect representatives of their choice.\"\n\nIn \"United States v. Village of Port Chester\" (2008), US District Judge Stephen Robinson of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York issued a decision that the Village's election system violated the Voting Rights Act and ordered remedial plans from all parties.\n\nThe Defendants of the case, the Village of Port Chester, proposed cumulative voting as a remedy, which \"allows citizens to cast multiple votes for a given candidate for a given seat.\"\n\nIn 2007, the Brennan Center, representing FairVote as amicus curiae, submitted a brief supporting cumulative voting as a remedy, but also proposing another system known as \"choice voting\", a process of ranking candidates. FairVote argued that \"cumulative and choice voting avoid the necessity for deliberately drawing districts along racial lines\" and that a winner-take-all system would not allow the Hispanic minority population to gain representation.\n\nFairVote also argued that cumulative voting is appropriate under the Voting Rights Act, as it \"ensures the equal principle of \"one-person, one vote\"\", is race-neutral, and that it is supported by case law and history. On November 6, 2009, the Court did not accept choice voting but accepted Port Chester's remedy of cumulative voting. On June 16, 2010, Port Chester elected its first Latino to the Board of Trustees.\n\nFairVote Minnesota is an independent ally of FairVote.\n\nFairVote Minnesota, siding with the City of Minneapolis, served as intervenor-respondent in \"Minnesota Voters Alliance v. City of Minneapolis\", a case that was attested at the Minnesota Supreme Court.\n\n\"Minnesota Voters Alliance v. City of Minneapolis\" dealt with the constitutionality of RCV, which was adopted by the City of Minneapolis for its municipal elections.\n\nMinnesota Voters Alliance, a non-profit organization who served as the appellants, argued that the \"method violates their right to vote, to associate for political purposes, and to equal protection under both the United States and the Minnesota Constitutions\".\n\nSiding with the city, FairVote Minnesota stated that instant-runoff voting (IRV) is a form of RCV that allowed voters to rank multiple candidates on a single ballot. They argued that this form of voting had legitimate policy reasons such as simplifying the election process, saving money, increasing voter turn-out, ensuring more diverse representation, and promoting civil election campaigns.\n\nIn their defense of the City of Minneapolis, FairVote argued that the appellants bore a \"\"heavy burden of persuasion\" because they brought a facial challenge to the constitutionality of IRV\" and that \"Minneapolis IRV is constitutional because it is supported by legitimate interests, imposes no burden on the right to vote, and applies to all voters\".\n\nThe Court affirmed the lower district court's ruling that RCV did not infringe on the appellants' constitutional rights, thus rejecting the Minnesota Voters Alliance's challenge to RCV. After the result, Jeanne Massey, executive director of FairVote Minnesota, applauded the Minnesota Supreme Court decision and stated that the Court \"blazed a path that every community in our state can follow toward better elections and a stronger democracy\" and that the decision was \"a resounding endorsement of ranked choice voting\".\n\nJuan Jauregui, the plaintiff, filed a complaint in April 2012 alleging that Palmdale's at-large method of electing members to its City Council resulted in vote dilution for Latino and African American residents.\n\nThe lawsuit claimed that Palmdale's at-large method denied minority residents effective political participation and thus violated the California Voting Rights Act (CVRA). The case was brought up to Judge Mooney of the Superior Court of the State of California in the County of Los Angeles.\n\nIn July 2013, Judge Mooney declared that the CVRA vested the court in implementing appropriate remedies in favor of the plaintiffs.\n\nThe City of Palmdale immediately appealed the decision, reasoning that in 2001 Palmdale residents voted for an at-large election system.\nThe case reached the California Court of Appeal in the Second Appellate District.\n\nOn January 2014, FairVote submitted an amicus curiae brief in support of the plaintiffs.\n\nFairVote argued that fair representation voting, unlike at-large systems, enhanced minority groups to elect at least one candidate of their choice.\nFairVote advocated for a number of alternative methods, such as ranked choice voting, single voting, and cumulative voting.\n\nHowever, the City of Palmdale opposed FairVote's participation, arguing that the amicus brief \"threatens significant prejudice to the City\" as it would continue to delay the certification of the City's November 2013 election. The California Court of Appeal has denied FairVote's application to file as amicus curiae.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088553", "title": "Sagra (festival)", "text": "Sagra (festival)\n\nIn Italy, a sagra (plural: \"sagre\") is a local festival, very often involving food, and frequently a historical pageant and sporting events: when the sporting event is a historical recreation as well, such as a joust or a horse race in costume or armour, it is called a palio.\n\nThe various \"sagre\" almost always have their origins in old country fairs or similar entertainments, but many of them now aim at visitors or even foreign tourists, and some, like the Quintana of Foligno, had lapsed for many years but have been recently revived.\n\nA \"sagra\" is often dedicated to some specific local food, and the name of the sagra includes that food; for example: \"Festival delle Sagre astigiane\", a \"Sagra della Rana\" (frog) at Casteldilago near Arrone, a \"Sagra della Cipolla\" (onion) at Cannara, a \"Sagra della Melanzana ripiena\" (stuffed eggplant) at Savona, a \"Sagra della Polenta\" at Perticara di Novafeltria, a \"Sagra del Lattarino\" at Bracciano, a \"Sagra del Frico\" at Carpacco-Dignano and so on. Among the most common \"sagre\" are those celebrating olive oil, wine, pasta and pastry of various kinds, chestnuts, and cheese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088554", "title": "James Morisset", "text": "James Morisset\n\nLieutenant Colonel James Thomas Morisset (1780 – 17 August 1852), penal administrator, was commandant of the second convict settlement at Norfolk Island, from 29 June 1829 to 1834.\n\nBorn in London in 1780, he was commissioned into the 80th Foot in 1798, saw service in Egypt and British India, and was badly wounded in 1811 in the Peninsular War, leaving his face badly disfigured. He was promoted Lieutenant in 1801. Transferring to the 48th Foot, in 1817 he arrived in New South Wales with his regiment. He was promoted Major in 1819.\n\nIn December 1818 he was appointed as commandant and magistrate at Newcastle. His public works were admired by Governor Macquarie. His attention to prisoners, and attempt to adapt punishments to individual convicts was also praised by Commissioner Bigge. He was regarded as a stern disciplinarian, one historian claiming \"the cat-o'-nine-tails and the triangle … were in daily and almost hourly service\". In 1823 he was appointed commandant at Bathurst where he restored order after clashes with aborigines had led to martial law being declared in the district. He returned to England on leave in February 1825 where, at the age of 43, he married Emily Louisa Vaux.\n\nWhile in England Morisset reported on convict control in New South Wales and applied for the post of commandant of Norfolk Island which was about to be re-established as a penal settlement for the most hardened convicts. He was recommended for this position by Bathurst, the Secretary of State for War and the Colonies, and promoted lieutenant colonel, but Governor Ralph Darling appointed him instead as superintendent of police. The Governor was apparently reluctant to appoint Morisset to Norfolk Island because of the high salary he had been promised and because he insisted in taking his family. Morisset bitterly resented this (?) no proof of this statement, but in 1829 got his way and was appointed commandant of Norfolk Island. At the time the convict population was about 200 but rose to over 550 by 1831, and 700 the next year.\n\nDuring his tenure there the convicts made several attempts at mutiny, and he gained the reputation as a strict disciplinarian. Governor Darling regretted that \"nothing but Severity has been attempted, to effect [the convicts] reformation'. Morisset recommended importing a treadmill, a common form (Producing food) of punishment at the time, but the British government objected on the grounds of expense.\n\nDarling was sympathetic to Morisset, calling him \"a very Zealous Officer\" whose duties were of \"a most arduous nature\". He observed that \"the Conduct of the Prisoners has of late been outrageous in the extreme, having repeatedly avowed … to Murder every one employed at the Settlement, and it is only by the utmost vigilance that they have been prevented accomplishing their object.\" The convicts, he noted \"are Men of the most desperate Character\". Morisset requested to be moved, but the government replied that he \"should be reminded that it was at his own solicitations that he was appointed\".\n\nThe editor of a Sydney newspaper, E. S. Hall, wrote in 1832 that the convicts on Norfolk Island had been \"made the prey of hunger and nakedness at the caprice of monsters in human form … and cut to pieces by the scourge … [and] have no redress or the least enquiry made into their suffering\". \n\nAn abortive mutiny in January 1834, which led to nine deaths and many wounded, resulted in a trial of the ringleaders being held on Norfolk Island instead of in Sydney.\n\nDuring his time at Norfolk Island Morisset was dogged by ill-health, perhaps a result of his old head wound, and in 1834, because of a violent nervous disorder was given a year's leave in Sydney, Foster Fyans being appointed to act in his place. When this leave expired Morisset resigned his post.\n\nMorisset retired to farming near Bathurst, where he was appointed police magistrate. He lost heavily in a bank crash and was forced to sell his property to pay his debts. Although in ill-health he continued as magistrate until his death on 17 August 1852, leaving his wife and ten children in poverty. Emily and the children were not in poverty due to her inheritance from her family and the Morisset family.\n\nThree of Morisset's sons continued his British military tradition by becoming officers in the paramilitary Native Police force which operated against Aboriginal groups resisting British colonisation in Australia. One of these sons, Edric Norfolk Vaux Morisset was Commandant of this force in the early 1860s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088555", "title": "Beresford Richards", "text": "Beresford Richards\n\nBeresford (Berry) Richards (August 26, 1914, Aiegnmouth, Cornwall, England – May 1982) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1943 to 1949. Elected as a candidate of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation, he was twice expelled from that party during his tenure in the legislature.\n\nRichards's father, Beresford Walter Richards, was a member of the Canadian Authors' Association. The younger Richards came to Canada in 1921, and was educated in Athabaska, Alberta and at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in Mining Engineering.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in a by-election held in The Pas on August 17, 1943, to replace former Premier John Bracken after the latter's move to federal politics. Although the CCF had never elected a candidate in The Pas, Richards won an overwhelming victory against three opponents. During this campaign, he ran on a platform advocating socialism as it had been introduced by the Labour government of New Zealand. The CCF was the dominant opposition party in Manitoba during this period, and Richards sat with his party on the opposition benches.\n\nRichards was a charismatic personality, known for a powerful debating style and flamboyant manner of dressing. He was soon appointed to the provincial CCF executive as the party's chief organizer, and built a powerful constituency base within the party. At one time, the CCF organization in The Pas was the largest in the province. Richards was a maverick on the left-wing of the CCF, and the similarity of his views with those of the communist Labor-Progressive Party made him many enemies in his own party.\n\nIn a 1945 letter to the Manitoba CCF executive committee, Richards and fellow maverick Dwight Johnson called for cooperation with other left-wing and progressive parties against the Progressive Conservatives in the upcoming federal election. Their position was identical to that promoted by the Labour Progressive Party, and many in the CCF leadership believed that Richards and Johnson were directly influenced by the LPP. The CCF leadership, including Stanley Knowles and Donovan Swailes, forcefully opposed Richards and Johnson's position. The party was especially upset at Richards's decision to meet with the CCF executive in Portage la Prairie, to discuss the possibility of running a \"united front\" candidate of the left.\n\nRichards and Johnson were soon marginalized in the party. Stanley Knowles accused Richards of holding Communist sympathies at party gathering, and Richards was deliberately left uninformed of executive meetings. Denied the opportunity to promote his position in the CCF newspaper, Richards read a statement in the provincial legislature during the 1945 session, calling for cooperation with other progressive parties and advocating friendly relations with the Soviet Union. In making this statement, he also accused the CCF leadership of suppressing debate within party channels.\n\nRichards later claimed that the party leadership had been \"embarking on a right wing course\" by its actions during this period. Ironically, some CCF members interpreted the Richards-Johnson position as a shift \"away\" from socialism, in that the \"broad left\" coalition they were advocating included left-leaning members of the Liberal Party. Many party members supported Richards and Johnson in their battles against the CCF hierarchy, however, and Richards in particular remained very popular with his riding association.\n\nRichards and Johnson were both suspended from the CCF by the provincial council in 1945, by a vote of 33 to 5. Although the council could not expel members from the party, the two MLAs were immediately expelled from the CCF legislative caucus.\n\nIn the 1945 federal election, Richards supported federal Cooperative Commonwealth Federation candidate Ronald Moore in the riding of Churchill, on the grounds that Moore was the candidate best positioned to defeat the Progressive Conservative candidate. Moore was, in fact, elected.\n\nA few months later, Richards ran for re-election in the 1945 provincial election as an \"Independent CCF\" candidate. He convinced the local CCF organization not to field a candidate against him, and was re-elected over Progressive Conservative candidate Robert Milton by 81 votes.\n\nRichards wrote a conciliatory appeal to the Manitoba CCF after the election, and asked for reinstatement. At the party's general convention in December 1945, he was re-admitted to the party by a delegated vote of 80 to 35. Stanley Knowles continued to oppose him, but was in Britain when the convention took place.\n\nRichards continued to support cooperation among left parties and to advocate friendly relations with the Soviet Union, but he avoided open criticism of the party leadership. In the legislature, he was known as the CCF's most skilled debater.\n\nRichards was nominated from the convention floor for the leadership of the Manitoba CCF in 1948, following the resignation of Seymour Farmer the previous year, but declined to run and Edwin Hansford was elected the new party leader without opposition.\n\nEven after his reinstatement, Richards's views continued to create tensions with others in the CCF. In 1948, he successfully passed a motion at the party's general convention calling for opposition to America's foreign policy in Europe. Similarly, in March 1949, he was the only other CCF caucus member who did not repudiate statements made by St. Clements MLA Wilbert Doneleyko, denouncing the Marshall Plan and plans for an Atlantic Treaty as a new American hegemony. Shortly thereafter, both Richards and Doneleyko signed a letter calling for the CCF to oppose the emerging North Atlantic Treaty Organisation.\n\nAfter this letter was circulated, Stanley Knowles and Donovan Swailes again accused Richards of adopting Communist tactics to disrupt the CCF. At the party's 1949 convention, Richards and Doneleyko were expelled from the party by a vote of 56 to 18. The next day, the party passed a resolution in support of NATO.\n\nRichards again ran as an \"Independent CCF\" candidate in the 1949 election, and was again endorsed by the local CCF association. However, at the behest of the provincial executive, a rival party organization was created in The Pas and an official CCF candidate nominated. Both candidates were resoundingly defeated by Liberal Francis Bud Jobin, who took nearly three times as many votes as Richards.\n\nThe loss ended Richards's political career. He quietly rejoined the CCF in the 1950s, but never again sought provincial or federal office.\n\nLloyd Stinson, who led the Manitoba CCF from 1952 to 1959, once wrote the following about Richards:\nRichards returned to his profession as a mining engineer after leaving politics. In 1986, W.O. Kupsch and S.D. Hanson published a work entitled, \"Gold and Other Stories as told to Berry Richards : Prospecting and Mining in Northern Saskatchewan\".\n"}
{"id": "2088566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088566", "title": "Hamilton Watch Company", "text": "Hamilton Watch Company\n\nThe Hamilton Watch Company is a Swiss manufacturer of wristwatches based in Bienne, Switzerland. The Hamilton Watch Company had its genesis as an American watch design and manufacturing company, which incorporated in 1892 and produced its first watch in 1893.\n\nAfter its formation, the Hamilton Watch Company went on to manufacture and market pocket watches and wristwatches, ending American manufacture in 1969. Through a series of mergers and acquisitions, the Hamilton Watch Company became a diversified conglomerate itself and was subsequently integrated into the Swatch Group.\n\nToday the brand is one of more than twenty watch brands belonging to the Swatch Group, the world's largest watch manufacturer and marketer.\n\nHamilton succeeded three watch firms manufacturing timepieces in the same facilities in Lancaster, PA, including the Lancaster Watch Company. The precursor to the Hamilton Watch Co., the Lancaster, Pennsylvania based Keystone Standard Watch Co., was started by Abram Bitner in 1886 with the purchase of Lancaster Watch Company's factory. Keystone manufactured watches featuring a patented \"Dust Proof\" design that used a small acrylic \"window\" to cover the only opening in the plate of the movement. Keystone existed until 1891 when the company was sold to Hamilton Watch Company.\n\nThe Hamilton Watch Company was established in 1892 after Keystone Standard Watch Company was purchased from bankruptcy. During the same year, Aurora Watch Company of Illinois also merged into Keystone. The name of the new company was originally to be \"Columbian,\" but when it was discovered the Waterbury Watch Company had trademarked that name, a meeting of stock holders was called in November 1892 and a new name selected. The company was named after James Hamilton son of (lawyer)|Andrew Hamilton, a Scottish born attorney who laid out and founded Lancaster, and was the original owner of the Lancaster site on which the factory was situated.\n\nDuring the expansion of the railroads in the U.S., Hamilton maintained over 56% of the market. Railroads purchased all of Hamilton's production. As the market switched from pocket watches to wrist watches after World War I, the company manufactured wrist watches. During World War II, Hamilton retooled its business model to serve the military, dropping its consumer products.\n\nThe Hamilton Watch Company was housed on a complex in Lancaster. Hamilton eventually took possession of Aurora Watch Company's machinery shortly after incorporation.\n\nThe first watch made under the Hamilton name was an 18-size 17-jewel pocket watch in 1893. During Hamilton's first fifteen years, only two size movements were produced — the 18-size and the smaller 16-size.\n\nThe company's first series of pocket watches, the Broadway Limited, was marketed as the \"Watch of Railroad Accuracy,\" and Hamilton became popular by making accurate railroad watches. Hamilton introduced its first wristwatch in 1917, designed to appeal to men entering World War I and containing the 0-sized 17-jewel 983 movement originally designed for women's pendent watches. In 1928 Hamilton purchased the Illinois Watch Company for in excess of $5 million from the heirs of John Whitfield Bunn and Jacob Bunn. Some of the most collectible early Hamilton wristwatches include The Oval, The Tonneau, The Rectangular, The Square Enamel, The Coronado, The Piping Rock, The Spur, The Glendale, The Pinehurst, The Langley, The Byrd, The Cambridge, the Barrel \"B\", and The Flintridge. Many models came in both solid gold and gold-filled cases and, though rare, some wristwatches such as the Grant were made of silver.\n\nDuring World War II, production of consumer watches was stopped, with all watches manufactured being shipped to troops. More than one million watches were sent overseas. The company was extremely successful in producing marine chronometers and deck watches in large numbers to fill the needs of the United States Navy, and other Allied navies as well. The Model 21 Hamilton was built first and had a chain drive fusee, followed by the Model 22. The Model 22 had a traditional mainspring, available in a traditional double box and also in a deck watch. The Model 21 and 22 had a two-day power reserve and the movements of both were marked U.S. Navy Bureau of Ships. The model 22 was also used by the U.S. Army and on the back of some it is marked U.S. Army, but all the model 22 movements are marked U.S. Navy Bureau of Ships. The Model 23 was a 16 size chronograph pocket watch. The Model 4992b was in a 16 size case, with a black dial. It was used as the pocket watch for U.S. military, featuring a 21 jewel railroad grade movement.\n\nIn 1951, Hamilton rebuffed a hostile takeover bid by the Benrus watch company. The fallout from the failed takeover action culminated in Hamilton Watch Co. vs Benrus Watch Co. (206 F.2d 738, 740 (2d Cir. 1953)), a Federal proceeding that is considered to be landmark case in the realm of Federal anti-trust case law.\n\nIn 1955, Hamilton provided a \"celestial time zone clock, permitting flight-type navigation\" for the Astra-Gnome concept of what an automobile would look like in the year 2000.\n\nIn 1957, Hamilton introduced the world's first electric watch, the Hamilton Electric 500. It was available in a variety of non-traditional asymmetrical case styles including the Ventura that was designed by Richard Arbib. The watch was worn by Elvis Presley, who also featured it the movie \"Blue Hawaii\".\n\nIn 1962, Hamilton entered into a joint venture (60% owned by Hamilton) with the Japanese watchmaking firm Ricoh to produce electric watches meant primarily for the Japanese market. The electronic components were produced at Hamilton's Lancaster factory while production of the mechanical works and final assembly were undertaken in Japan. Although production levels of Hamilton-Ricoh watches were high (over 1000 per month), demand was low and consequently, the Hamilton-Ricoh partnership was unable to compete with the substantial market presence of Seiko. The partnership was dissolved in 1965, with the remaining Hamilton-Ricoh electronic movements (marked \"Ricoh 555E\") re-cased as \"Vantage\" and sold in the U.S.\n\nIn 1966, Hamilton acquired the Buren Watch Company of Büren an der Aare, Switzerland, including all factories and technologies that had been developed by Buren up to that point. From 1966 to 1969, Hamilton Lancaster and Buren Switzerland were operated as a joint concern, with Hamilton using a number of Swiss movements for their \"American\" watches and Buren utilizing a number of components manufactured by Hamilton Lancaster. It was during this time that Hamilton started to selectively incorporate the highly innovative Buren Micro-rotor (a.k.a. Micro Rotor/Micro-rotor) movement into small numbers of certain upper tier watches, in addition to their ordinary hand-wind and traditional automatic watches.\n\nThe Buren (now Hamilton/Buren) Micro-rotor was the first patented automatic wristwatch movement to eliminate the sizable external oscillating weight inherent to most automatic winding watches. Instead, it utilized a much smaller weight that was entirely integrated into the chassis of the movement. This design allowed for a substantially slimmer automatic watch that still retained a center sweep second hand. The Micro-rotor concept was also conceived by Universal Genève for use in their Polerouter series of timepieces during this same time. The official title of \"first Micro-rotor movement\" is still in dispute among some horology aficionados, even though Buren patented their design in 1954 while Universal Geneve applied for their patent in May 1955.\n\nIn 1969, the Hamilton Watch Company completely ended American manufacturing operations with the closure of its factory in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, shifting manufacturing operations to the Buren factory in Switzerland.\n\nFrom 1969 to 1972, all new Hamilton watches were produced in Switzerland by Hamilton's Buren subsidiary. In 1971, the Buren brand was returned to Swiss ownership and by 1972, the Buren-Hamilton partnership was dissolved and the factory liquidated, due to decreased interest and sales of the Hamilton-Buren product.\n\nOn May 16, 1974, the Hamilton brand was sold to SSIH (subsequently The Swatch Group).\n\nIn 1971, the Omega & Tissot Holding Company Société Suisse pour l'Industrie Horlogère (SSIH) purchased the Hamilton brand and utilized the Hamilton name for a number of branding efforts, including numerous quartz watches in the 1980s.\n\nThe Hamilton Watch Division became a subsidiary of HMW. The Hamilton Watch Company changed their name to HMW at the time they sold their Watch division to SSIH.\n\nA team led by John Bergey of Hamilton Watch in Lancaster, Pennsylvania developed the Pulsar, the world's first digital watch.\n\nThrough the merger of SSIH and ASUAG Groups in 1984, Hamilton became a subsidiary of The Swatch Group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088570", "title": "Norman Croucher", "text": "Norman Croucher\n\nNorman Croucher is a British mountain climber, a double amputee with two prosthetic legs below the knee.\n\nBorn in 1941 and educated at Redruth Grammar School, both of Croucher's legs were severed below the knee by a train in 1960 after he collapsed in a drunken stupor and fell down an embankment onto a railway line in Wiltshire. He subsequently trained to be a teacher but was still determined to pursue his love of mountaineering in spite of his disability.\n\nHe became the first person fitted with artificial limbs to walk the 900 miles from John O'Groats to Lands End in 1969 which he claimed also hardened his stumps for subsequent mountain climbing.\n\nSix months after the 900-mile walk to Lands End Croucher climbed the Jungfrau and the Mönch mountains in Switzerland and in 1972 he scaled the treacherous west flank of the Eiger. Two years later he also conquered the Matterhorn. He has climbed many other mountains, including peaks in the Himalayas and these are comprehensively listed on his official website.\n\nHis artificial legs are made from aluminium, with a plastic \"flexible foot\" which enables him to wear mountain boots or fit crampons. Writing about him, Chris Bonington was quoted as stating \"There is no one like him, his extraordinary achievements have earned him a place in climbing history.\"\n\nIn a December 1979 article in the \"South American Explorer\", Crouch wrote about the thermal advantages of not having lower legs during high-altitude ascents:\n\nObviously, keeping your feet warm is a problem in high altitude climbing — but only if you have feet. While companions war-dance to keep theirs from freezing, I can stand on ice for hours. Climbing high or in a bivouac, I'm always the joker who doesn't have cold feet.\n\nCroucher concluded his article by noting that there were advantages beyond just being impervious to frozen feet: \"I need take no special precautions against hookworms, leeches and short snakes.\"\n\nTwice voted Association of Disability and Rehabilitation 'Man of the Year' -in 1971 and 1978 - he was also appointed an OBE for his voluntary work with the disabled in 1977. In 1979 he was chosen from nominees from 121 countries as one of only three people in the world to receive an International Award for Valour in Sport. He was the subject of \"This Is Your Life\" in May 1976.\n\nCroucher received an honorary doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 2005.\n\nIn \"Walkabout\", the fourth episode of the American TV series \"Lost\", John Locke incorrectly identifies Croucher as having climbed Mt Everest, a feat later accomplished by New Zealand mountaineer and double amputee Mark Inglis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088578", "title": "A Trip Through the Walt Disney Studios", "text": "A Trip Through the Walt Disney Studios\n\nA Trip Through the Walt Disney Studios was a documentary made in response to requests from members of RKO Radio Pictures for a behind the scenes look at Walt Disney Studios. The film was never intended for public showing; it was only shown to executives at RKO. However, footage from this documentary was recycled into a shorter featurette, \"How Walt Disney Cartoons Are Made\", which was released to public audiences. It was shot in the first week of July 1937.\n\nThe film opens with the Walt Disney Studios sign with Mickey Mouse on it. The camera then pans over to the studio building and parking lot. Before the tour, Walt Disney is at his desk with a snappy outfit with a tie and a boutonniere, with a baby photo of him on the left, and models of the dwarfs on the right and right next to him is lifelong secretary, Dolores Vought.\n\nWhen you see the legendary animator Fred Moore draw Mickey Mouse, he is using a grease pencil instead of a normal lead pencil, because drawings with thin pencil lines wouldn't photograph well.\n\nSome of the other Disney Studio stalwarts seen in the film include, but are not limited to, Norm Ferguson, Webb Smith, Jack Kinney, Hamilton Luske, Jimmy MacDonald, Les Clark, Frank Churchill, Leigh Harline and Oliver Wallace.\n\nThe film can be found on the DVD set \"Walt Disney Treasures: Behind the Scenes at the Walt Disney Studio\". It was also present (along with \"How Walt Disney Cartoons are Made\") on the 2001 DVD release of \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", the film being portrayed in the documentary.\n"}
{"id": "2088579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088579", "title": "List of Nebraska state symbols", "text": "List of Nebraska state symbols\n\nThe following is a list of official symbols of the U.S. state of Nebraska, listed in the order adopted by the Nebraska Legislature:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088601", "title": "Red Lake River", "text": "Red Lake River\n\nThe Red Lake River (French: \"Rivière du Lac Rouge\"; Ojibwe: \"Miskwaagamiiwi-zaaga'iganiiwi-ziibi\") is a river located in northwestern Minnesota. The river begins on the western side of the Lower Red Lake and flows westward. After passing through Thief River Falls, Red Lake Falls, and Crookston, the river merges with the Red River of the North in East Grand Forks. The total length of the river is 193 miles (310.6 km). The term \"Forks\" in Grand Forks comes from this forking (confluence) of the Red and Red Lake rivers near downtown Grand Forks.\n\nAs a tributary of the Red River, the Red Lake River contributed to the heavy flooding of Greater Grand Forks in 1997. The river also caused damage in its own right, albeit less severe, in Crookston.\n\nThe Red Lake River is a popular source of recreation for area residents, and many enjoy the tubing and canoeing the river makes possible.\n\nThe Red Lake River covers a wide variety of terrain. After leaving the Red Lake, the river flows through a marsh in the Red Lake Indian Reservation. The river then flows through a prairie and, then, through farmland. Afterward, St. Hilaire the sides of the river grow steeper, becoming large eroding cliffs. Some parts of the riverbanks are thickly forested.\n\nThe river is relatively smooth for most of the trip. There is a stretch between St. Hilaire and Crookston where there is a chain of rapids, which are easily navigated.\n\nThe Red Lake River is one of the few Minnesota state canoe routes in the area. There are a number of rest areas and camping facilities along the route.\n\nThe Minnesota State Department of Natural Resources (MN DNR) website (see References section) describing the nature of the river mentions three dams on the river (note that this is not to be taken as the total number of dams and/or structures located on this river):\nNote: The Otter Tail Power Company site does not list the above 2 dams as a source of hydropower.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088629", "title": "Amos Cooper Dayton", "text": "Amos Cooper Dayton\n\nAmos Cooper Dayton (1811–1865) was a physician, Baptist minister, author, editor and educator, perhaps best remembered for his religious novels of the late 1850s and his role in the Landmarkism movement.\n\nDayton was born at Plainfield, New Jersey, April 1, 1811, the son of Robert Dayton and his wife. He attended local common schools, then went to college. Dayton graduated from medical college in 1834.\n\nDayton married Lucinda H. Harrison and they had children together.\n\nBy 1839 Dayton and his wife had moved to Mississippi, where they lived in Columbus and Vicksburg, while he had a practiced as a dentist. He stayed there until 1852. Dayton was reared Presbyterian, but was influenced by meeting J.R. Graves. He united with the Baptists in 1852.\n\nJames Robinson Graves, Dayton, and James Madison Pendleton were known as \"The Great Triumvirate\" of the Landmark movement. From 1854 through 1858, Dayton was the corresponding secretary of the Southern Baptist Convention Bible Board. He moved with his family to Nashville, Tennessee to take the position. Both Graves and Dayton were members of the First Baptist Church of Nashville.\n\nDayton made significant contributions to the Landmark movement of the mid-nineteenth century in the area of religious fiction, which \"popularized Landmark tenets.\" His most serious novel, \"Theodosia Ernest, or, The Heroine of Faith\", was published in 1856-1857 in two volumes. The first volume presented issues related to baptism, and the second discussed church polity. \"Theodosia Ernest\" originally appeared as a series in \"The Tennessee Baptist\" in 1855.\n\nIn 1857, R.B.C. Howell, a critic of Landmarkism, became pastor for a second tenure at First Baptist of Nashville, where he served until 1868. Howell had a struggle for control with Graves, described as the greatest controversy for the Southern Baptists until the \"fundamentalist-moderate\" controversy of the last decades of the twentieth century. It resulted in arguments over church discipline, and Graves' being excluded from the church and Dayton's being forced to resign from the Bible Board.\n\nIn 1858, Dayton published \"Pedobaptist and Campbellite Immersions\", a review of numerous Baptist writers on issues related to baptism. It is considered the classic Landmark statement on this topic. He also served as associate editor of \"The Tennessee Baptist\" for about 18 months in 1858-1859.\n\nJ. R. Graves was the most prolific writer and outstanding leader of the Landmark movement. But, the 20th-century theologian J. E. Tull concluded that Dayton's 1858 book was \"the most cogent attack upon 'alien immersions' which the Landmark movement produced.\" \n\nHe published the \"Baptist Banner\" in Atlanta, Georgia (1863–1864). At the time, he was pastor of Houston Lake Baptist Church and First Baptist Church, and the president of Houston Female Institute, all in Perry, Georgia.\n\nDayton died of tuberculosis at Perry, Georgia on June 11, 1865. He was buried in the Evergreen Cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088632", "title": "Baltimore Orioles (minor league)", "text": "Baltimore Orioles (minor league)\n\nThe city of Baltimore, Maryland has been home to two minor league baseball teams called the \"Baltimore Orioles\", besides the four major league baseball teams, (the American Association in 1882–1891, the National League in the 1890s and the so-called \"up-start\" American League charter franchise of two seasons 1901–1902, and the current American League's modern team of the Baltimore Orioles since April 1954).\n\n\"Orioles\" is a traditional name for baseball clubs in Baltimore (after the state bird of Maryland, with the colors of black and orange/gold/yellow). It was used by major league teams representing the city from 1882 through 1899 in the old American Association and the original National League two decades after its founding in 1876, and by a charter team franchise member of the new American League from 1901 through 1902. The American League franchise was later shifted against the city's will to New York City with former famous player and now owner/manager John McGraw in 1903 and renamed the New York Highlanders, which later became the modern New York Yankees, a decade later (in order to give the new A.L. \"bragging rights\" by also having a team in the \"Big Apple\" versus the New York Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers). Their string of championships and hall-of-fame roster of players began in the \"Roaring Twenties\", some baseballers say with the trading of the now famous \"Babe Ruth\", the \"Bambino\", and \"Sultan of Swat\", George Herman Ruth of southwest Baltimore, (formerly briefly with the old, now minor league Orioles of the International League with owner/manager Jack Dunn (1878–1928) in 1914, then traded later in the season to the Boston Red Sox because of new Federal League competition from the neighboring Baltimore Terrapins) now from the also financially pressed Red Sox team in 1919 to the New York Yankees. Since 1923, the Yankees have compiled 27 World Series championships (with the St. Louis Cardinals being second, having won 11 between 1926 and 2011), and the 1980s are the only decade so far in which they have failed to win at least one title.\n\nIn 1903, an Oriole minor league team joined the Eastern League (renamed the International League in 1911, and not to be confused with the present day 'Double AA' level, minor league Eastern League). This Orioles team stayed mediocre for the first few years of its existence, but after the arrival of Jack Dunn (1872–1928), as manager, it won the Eastern League pennant in 1908. This E.L./I.L. Orioles team played at the old American League Park (a.k.a. Oriole Park) at the southwest corner of Greenmount Avenue and 29th Street in the Waverly neighborhood of northeast Baltimore.\n\nThe 1914 season featured the professional debut of local son, George Herman Ruth (\"Babe Ruth\"), but competition from the Baltimore Terrapins of the new Federal League challenge for major league status, with their more modern steel-beamed ballpark across the street, forced Dunn to sell Ruth (to the Boston Red Sox) later in the 1914 season and many of his other players, and eventually temporarily relocate the team to Richmond, Virginia (eventually becoming the present-day Syracuse Mets, still playing in the I.L.).\n\nAfter the Federal League's demise, Dunn returned with an Orioles team in 1916. This team, later in the 1919 I.L. Baseball Season won the International League pennant with 100 victories, the first team to win that many games and went on a championship spree, seldom seen in major or minor league baseball ever since. Featuring another future Hall-of-Fame pitcher in Lefty Grove, the Orioles improved on that in 1920 by winning 110 games, including the last 25 of the season. In 1921, the Orioles won 27 straight games (a record for consecutive victories by a minor league team that would stand until the Salt Lake City team of the western Pioneer League won 29 in 1987). The Orioles won the League by 20 games over the second place team, and had a home record of 70 wins and 18 losses. Despite their impressive record, however, they lost the \"Little World Series\" to the American Association's champion Louisville Colonels, 4 games to 1. The Orioles actually led the fourth game, 12–4, but a riot broke out among the Louisville home crowd in the top of the 9th inning, and the game was forfeited to Baltimore, 9–0. The I.L. Orioles continued to roll over International League opposition for several more seasons straight through to the 1925 Baseball Season.\n\nThe team entered the Governors' Cup playoffs in the International circuit in 1936, 1937, and 1940, but did not win another pennant until the \"war year\" of 1944. The team was leading the League on July 4 of that year, when their home wooden and steel beamed stadium, Oriole Park (formerly Terrapin Park of 1914), burned down. Even after relocating several blocks northwest to the old 1922 football bowl of Municipal Stadium on 33rd Street Boulevard (also known as \"Baltimore Stadium\"), the team seemed to have a hard time recovering from that loss, playing lackluster ball through the rest of the season and losing their last game, only to strangely \"back into the championship\" when the second place team, the Newark Bears, also lost their recent games. The Orioles, under manager Alphonse \"Tommy\" Thomas, went on to win the \"Junior World Series\" that year, four games to two, against Louisville. Six years later, with the shackles of war-time baseball cast off, in 1950, under manager Nick Cullop, Baltimore won the league championship again, only to lose the \"Junior World Series\" to the Columbus Red Birds of Ohio, four games to one. In 2001, the Orioles teams of 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922, 1923, and 1924 were recognized as being among the 100 greatest minor league teams of all time.\n\nAfter the 1953 season, the St. Louis Browns moved to Baltimore and took the name of the Baltimore Orioles. The last minor league/International League Orioles team (of 1916–1953) re-located to Richmond (coincidentally just as had the earlier Orioles team in 1914), this time as the Richmond Virginians from 1954–64, later relocating as today's Toledo Mud Hens franchise in northwest Ohio since 1965.\n\nThe Orioles won the Governors' Cup, the championship of the IL, 2 times, and played in the championship games \"Little World Series\", 5 times.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088636", "title": "Armadillidiidae", "text": "Armadillidiidae\n\nArmadillidiidae is a family of woodlice, a terrestrial crustacean group in the order Isopoda. Unlike members of other woodlouse families, members of this family can roll into a ball, an ability they share with the outwardly similar but unrelated pill millipedes and other animals. This ability gives woodlice in this family their common names of pill bugs, roly polies, slaters, potato bugs, and doodle bugs. The best known species in the family is \"Armadillidium vulgare\", the common pill bug. Pill bugs are not native to the Americas, but instead were introduced from Europe.\n\nPill bugs in the family Armadillidiidae are able to form their bodies into a ball shape, in a process known as \"conglobation\". This behaviour is shared with pill millipedes (which are often confused with pill bugs), armadillos, and cuckoo wasps. It may be triggered by stimuli such as vibrations or pressure, and is a key defense against predation; it may also reduce respiratory water losses.\n\nThe diet of pill bugs is largely made up of decaying or decomposed plant matter such as leaves, and to a lesser extent, wood fibers. Pill bugs will also eat living plants, especially in wet conditions, sometimes consuming leaves, stems, shoots, roots, tubers, and fruits. Pill bugs can be serious pests in certain agricultural systems, particularly in areas that are prone to heavy rains and flood conditions. Pill bugs will feed on numerous crop plants including corn, beans, squash, peas, melon, chard, beet, cucumber, potato, spinach, lettuce, and strawberry, with potential for significant yield loss in strawberry in particular. Some species of pill bugs are known to eat decaying animal flesh or feces. They will also eat shed snakeskin and dead bugs, if necessary. \n\nPill bugs contribute to their ecosystem as decomposers. They are capable of taking in heavy metals such as copper, zinc, lead and cadmium and crystallize these out as spherical deposits in the midgut. In this way, they temporarily remove many of the toxic metal ions from the soil although the toxic metals are returned to the soil when they die. They also provide a food source for birds, toads, spiders, wasps, and centipedes.\n\nThe family Armadillidiidae is differentiated from other woodlouse families by the two-segmented nature of the antennal flagellum, by the form of the uropods, and by the ability to roll into a ball.\n\nWithin the family Armadillidiidae, 15 genera are currently recognized:\n\n"}
{"id": "2088644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088644", "title": "Birger Brosa", "text": "Birger Brosa\n\nBirger Brosa Old Norse: \"Birgir Brósa\" ( d. 9 January 1202) was jarl of Sweden 1174–1202.\nHe was a son of Bengt Snivil and a member of the powerful House of Bjälbo. In the medieval texts he is either called the \"jarl of the Swedes\" or the \"jarl of the Swedes and the Geats\". Birger was appointed to the position of jarl during the reign of Knut Eriksson. He maintained the position during Knut's successor Sverker II until his death in 1202.\n\nBefore 1170, Birger was married to Brigida Haraldsdotter, the daughter of Norwegian King Harald Gille. She had formerly been married to the Danish pretender Magnus Henriksson, who had briefly ruled in Uppsala 1160–1161.\n\nBirger appears to have maintained peace in Sweden during the civil wars that ravaged Denmark and Norway. Many of the pretenders in these kingdoms sought refuge with Birger. Among them were the Birkebeiner chieftains Eystein Meyla and Sverre Sigurdsson who were kinsmen of Brigida Haraldsdotter. Birger's son Philippus was in the service of King Sverre and died as his jarl in 1200. Birger owned estates in Östergötland, Närke, Värmland and Södermanland. He was a great donor to Riseberga Abbey in Närke, where his widow Brigida spent her last years after Birger's death. As soon as he was dead, a civil war broke out.\n\n\nBirger Brosa was portrayed by Stellan Skarsgård in the Swedish 2007 film \"Arn – The Knight Templar\" and 2008 sequel \"Arn – The Kingdom at Road's End\".\n"}
{"id": "2088647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088647", "title": "FC Thun", "text": "FC Thun\n\nFC Thun (\"Fussballclub Thun 1898\") is a Swiss football team from the Bernese Oberland town of Thun. The club currently plays in the Swiss Super League after being promoted in the 2009/10 season. The club plays at the Stockhorn Arena which accommodates a total of 10,000 supporters, both seated and standing. The club's colours are red and white.\n\nFC Thun was founded on 1 May 1898.\n\nIt has played in the Nationalliga B from 1946 to 1950, 1953 to 54, 1955 to 70 and 1997 to 2002. From 2002 to 2008 it played in the Nationalliga A, which was renamed to Axpo Super League. In 2008 the club were relegated to the Swiss Challenge League. Thun is the only club competing in the 2017–18 Swiss Super League that has never won a Swiss football championship.\n\nFC Thun reached for the first time the group stages of the Champions League, and were drawn in Group B alongside European giants Arsenal, Ajax and Sparta Prague. They started their campaign on 14 September 2005 away at Arsenal, where after equalising through Nelson Ferreira, they narrowly lost 2–1 after Dennis Bergkamp scored in the match's dying seconds. On 27 September they hosted the Czech champions Sparta Prague at home, the Stade de Suisse, Wankdorf in Bern, where all the club's European home matches were held, as the Lachen Stadium does not meet Uefa's prerequisites for Champions League venues. Thun's 1–0 victory thanks to Selver Hodžić's 80th-minute winner propelled them into second place in the group. Following a loss to Ajax on 2 November they lost 1–0 at home to Arsenal and with Ajax beating Sparta Prague, FC Thun exited the Champions League. However Thun drew 0–0 with Sparta Prague in their last group match and qualifying for the Uefa Cup Round of 32.\n\nJust three days prior to their Uefa Cup tie against Hamburg SV, Thun sacked their coach, Urs Schönenberger who had guided them to the Champions League group stages and was replaced by Heinz Peischl. Despite this Thun managed a surprise 1–0 over Hamburg SV in the first leg at the Stade de Suisse. However Hamburg were too strong at their home, AOL Arena, and managed to overturn the deficit, winning the second leg 2–0 (2–1 on aggregate).\n\nIn November 2019, PMG, Chien Lee and The Seelig Group invested in the club and became the co-owners of FC Thun football club. \n\n\nSwiss Challenge League/Nationalliga B\n\nSwiss Cup\n\n"}
{"id": "2088649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088649", "title": "Lynching of Michael Donald", "text": "Lynching of Michael Donald\n\nThe lynching of Michael Donald in Mobile, Alabama on March 21, 1981, was one of the last reported lynchings in the United States. Several Ku Klux Klan (KKK) members beat and killed Michael Donald, a 19-year-old African-American, and hung his body from a tree. One perpetrator, Henry Hays, was executed by electric chair in 1997, while another, James Knowles, was sentenced to life in prison after pleading guilty and testifying against Hays. A third man was convicted as an accomplice, and a fourth was indicted but died before his trial could be completed.\n\nHays' execution was the first in Alabama since 1913 for a white-on-black crime. It was the only execution of a KKK member during the 20th century for the murder of an African American. Donald's mother brought a civil suit for wrongful death against the United Klans of America (UKA), to which the attackers belonged. In 1987 a jury awarded her damages of $7 million, which bankrupted the organization. This set a precedent for civil legal action for damages against other racist hate groups.\n\nMichael Donald (July 24, 1961 – March 21, 1981) was born in Mobile, Alabama, the son of Beulah Mae (Greggory) Donald and David Donald, and was the youngest of six children. He grew up in a city and state influenced by the passage in the mid-1960s of federal civil rights legislation that ended legal segregation and provided for federal oversight and enforcement of voting rights. African Americans could again participate in politics in the South; their ability to register to vote also meant that they were selected for juries. Donald attended local schools while growing up. In 1981 he was studying at a technical college, while working at the local newspaper.\n\nIn 1981, Josephus Anderson, an African American charged with the murder of a white policeman in Birmingham, Alabama while committing a robbery, was tried in Mobile, where the case had been moved in a change of venue. There were indications that the jury was struggling to reach a verdict.\n\nAt a meeting in Mobile before Anderson's verdict was announced, members of Unit 900 of the United Klans of America complained that the jury had not convicted Anderson because it had African-American members. Bennie Jack Hays, the second-highest-ranking official in the United Klans in Alabama, reportedly said: \"If a black man can get away with killing a white man, we ought to be able to get away with killing a black man.\" On Friday, a mistrial was declared on all four counts. The prosecutor declared his intention to retry the case. (After two more mistrials on the murder count, Anderson was convicted of murder in 1985 and sentenced to life in prison. He was convicted of assault and robbery in the second trial.)\n\nThe same night as the first mistrial was declared, Klan members burned a three-foot cross on the Mobile County courthouse lawn. After a meeting, Bennie Hays' son, Henry Hays (age 26), and James Llewellyn \"Tiger\" Knowles (age 17), armed with a gun and rope, drove around Mobile looking for a black person to attack.\n\nAt random, they spotted Michael Donald while he was walking home after buying his sister a pack of cigarettes. They lured him over to their car by asking him for directions to a local club, and then forced Donald into the car at gunpoint. The men then drove out to another county and took him to a secluded area in the woods. At this moment, Donald attempted to escape, knocking away Hays' gun and trying to run into the woods. The men pursued Donald, attacked him and beat him with a tree limb. Hays wrapped a rope around Donald's neck and pulled on it to strangle him while Knowles continued to beat Donald with a tree branch. Once Donald had stopped moving, Hays slit his throat three times to make sure he was dead. The men left Donald's body hanging from a tree in a mixed-race neighborhood in Mobile. The tree was on Herndon Street, across from a house owned by Klan leader Bennie Jack Hays, the father of Henry Hays.\n\nWhile the local police chief suspected the Klan, officers first took three suspects into custody based on their possible involvement in a drug deal gone wrong; Donald's mother insisted that her son had not been involved in drugs. The police released the suspects at the conclusion of their investigation. Beulah Mae Donald contacted national civil rights activist Rev. Jesse Jackson, who organized a protest march in the city and demanded answers from the police.\n\nThe FBI investigated the case and it was ready to close its investigation, but Thomas Figures, the Assistant U.S. Attorney in Mobile, asked the Dept. of Justice to authorize a second investigation. He worked closely with FBI agent James Bodman. His brother Michael Figures, a state senator and civil rights activist, served as an attorney to Beulah Mae Donald and also encouraged the investigation. Two and a half years later in 1983, Henry Hays and James Knowles were arrested. Knowles confessed to Bodman in 1983, and additional evidence was revealed during the civil trial initiated by Donald's mother Beulah Mae Donald in 1984. As a result, in 1988 Benjamin Franklin Cox, Jr., a truckdriver, was indicted as an accomplice in the criminal case. Henry's father Bennie Hays was also indicted in Donald's murder.\n\nHenry Francis Hays (November 10, 1954 – June 6, 1997) was convicted of capital murder. The jury voted in favor of life imprisonment but the judge overruled the jury's verdict and sentenced Hays to death. He was incarcerated in the Holman Correctional Facility in Escambia County, Alabama, while on death row. Hays was executed in \"Yellow Mama\", Alabama's electric chair, on June 6, 1997. Among the witnesses to the execution was Michael Donald's brother. The Associated Press reported that Hays was Alabama's first execution since 1913 for a white-on-black crime. Hays is the only known KKK member to have been executed in the 20th century for the murder of an African American.\n\nJames Llewellyn \"Tiger\" Knowles was also convicted of murder; by the end of the trial, he was 21 years of age. U.S. District Court Judge W. Brevard Hand sentenced him to life in prison. He avoided the death penalty by testifying against Hays at trial. Knowles had earlier testified that the slaying was done \"to show Klan strength in Alabama.\" Knowles was released on parole in 2010.\n\nOn May 18, 1989, Benjamin Franklin Cox, Jr., a truck driver from Mobile, was convicted in state court for being an accomplice in the Donald killing. Mobile County Circuit Court judge Michael Zoghby sentenced the then 28-year-old Cox to life in prison for his part in the Donald murder.\n\nThe elder Hays was indicted for inciting the murder and tried some years later. His case ended in a mistrial when he collapsed in court. Judge Zoghby said that because of the illness of the elder Hays, then 71, he had no choice but to declare a mistrial. Hays' lawyer was willing to go forward with proceedings. Hays died of a heart attack before he could be retried.\n\nActing at the request of Beulah Mae Donald, Morris Dees, founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, brought a wrongful death suit in 1984 against the United Klans of America in federal court in the Southern District of Alabama, according to the SPLC. The civil trial brought out evidence that enabled the criminal indictment and conviction of Cox as an accomplice, and of Bennie Jack Hays for inciting the murder.\n\nThe original complaint was considered too vague to hold up, but Judge Alex T. Howard Jr. helped refine the legal theory of \"agency,\" which held the Klan accountable for the acts of its members. This prevented the case from being dismissed before it could go to the jury. In 1987 the Klan was found civilly liable by an all-white jury and sentenced to damages of $7 million in the wrongful-death verdict in the case. The suit became a precedent for civil legal action against other racist hate groups in the United States.\n\nPayment of the judgment bankrupted the United Klans of America and resulted in its \"national headquarters\" being sold for $51,875, the proceeds going to Donald's mother. She died the following year on September 17, 1988.\n\nIn 2006, Mobile commemorated Michael Donald by renaming Herndon Avenue, where the murderers had hanged Donald's body. Mobile's first black mayor, Sam Jones, presided over a small gathering of Donald's family and local leaders at the commemoration.\n\nDonald's murder has been the subject of several works of fiction and nonfiction. The Texan political commentator Molly Ivins told the story of the Donald family in her essay, \"Beulah Mae Donald,\" which appeared in her 1991 anthology, \"Molly Ivins Can't Say That, Can She?\". Ravi Howard wrote a novel, \"Like Trees, Walking\" (2007), based on the murder. He won the Ernest J. Gaines Award for Literary Excellence in 2008 for it. Laurence Leamer wrote a book, \"The Lynching: The Epic Courtroom Battle That Brought Down the Klan\" (2016), chronicling the case.\n\nIn film and television, the 1991 film \"Line of Fire\" (also called \"Blind Hate\") depicts the civil court case related to the murder. Ted Koppel created \"The Last Lynching\", a Discovery Channel television program about US civil rights history that aired in October 2008. It centered on the murder of Michael Donald, the criminal prosecution of his killers, and the civil suit against the UKA. The National Geographic's \"Inside American Terror\" series explored Donald's murder in a 2008 episode about the KKK.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088652", "title": "Songs of Innocence and of Experience", "text": "Songs of Innocence and of Experience\n\nSongs of Innocence and of Experience is a collection of illustrated poems by William Blake. It appeared in two phases: a few first copies were printed and illuminated by Blake himself in 1789; five years later he bound these poems with a set of new poems in a volume titled \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience Shewing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul\". Blake was also a painter before the creation of \"Songs of Innocence and Experience\" and had painted such subjects as Oberon, Titania, and Puck dancing with fairies.\n\n\"Innocence\" and \"Experience\" are definitions of consciousness that rethink Milton's existential-mythic states of \"Paradise\" and \"Fall\". Often, interpretations of this collection centre around a mythical dualism, where \"Innocence\" represents the \"unfallen world\" and \"Experience\" represents the \"fallen world\". Blake categorizes our modes of perception that tend to coordinate with a chronology that would become standard in Romanticism: childhood is a state of protected innocence rather than original sin, but not immune to the fallen world and its institutions. This world sometimes impinges on childhood itself, and in any event becomes known through \"experience\", a state of being marked by the loss of childhood vitality, by fear and inhibition, by social and political corruption and by the manifold oppression of Church, State and the ruling classes. The volume's \"Contrary States\" are sometimes signalled by patently repeated or contrasted titles: in \"Innocence\", \"Infant Joy\", in \"Experience\", \"Infant Sorrow\"; in \"Innocence\", \"The Lamb\", in \"Experience\", \"The Fly\" and \"The Tyger\". The stark simplicity of poems such as \"The Chimney Sweeper\" and \"The Little Black Boy\" display Blake's acute sensibility to the realities of poverty and exploitation that accompanied the \"Dark Satanic Mills\" of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nSongs of Innocence was originally a complete work first printed in 1789. It is a conceptual collection of 19 poems, engraved with artwork. This collection mainly shows happy, innocent perception in pastoral harmony, but at times, such as in \"The Chimney Sweeper\" and \"The Little Black Boy\", subtly shows the dangers of this naïve and vulnerable state.\n\nThe poems are each listed below:\n\nSongs of Experience is a poetry collection of 26 poems forming the second part of William Blake's \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience\". The poems were published in 1794 (see 1794 in poetry). Some of the poems, such as \"The Little Girl Lost\" and \"The Little Girl Found\", were moved by Blake to \"Songs of Innocence\" and were frequently moved between the two books.\n\nThe poems are listed below:\n\nPoems from both books have been set to music by many composers, including Ralph Vaughan Williams, Joseph Holbrooke, John Frandsen, Per Drud Nielsen, Sven-David Sandström, Benjamin Britten, and Jacob ter Veldhuis. Individual poems have also been set by, among others, John Tavener, Victoria Poleva, Jah Wobble, Tangerine Dream, Jeff Johnson, and Daniel Amos. A modified version of the poem \"The Little Black Boy\" was set to music in the song \"My Mother Bore Me\" from Maury Yeston's musical Phantom. The folk musician Greg Brown recorded sixteen of the poems on his 1987 album \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience\" and by Finn Coren in his \"Blake Project\".\n\nThe poet Allen Ginsberg believed the poems were originally intended to be sung, and that through study of the rhyme and metre of the works, a Blakean performance could be approximately replicated. In 1969, he conceived, arranged, directed, sang on, and played piano and harmonium for an album of songs entitled \"Songs of Innocence and Experience by William Blake, tuned by Allen Ginsberg\" (1970).\n\nAmerican composer and producer David Axelrod produced two solo albums, Song of Innocence (1968) and Songs of Experience (1969) which were homages to the mystical poetry and paintings of William Blake.\n\nThe composer William Bolcom completed a setting of the entire collection of poems in 1984. In 2005, a recording of Bolcom's work by Leonard Slatkin, the Michigan State Children's Choir, and the University of Michigan on the Naxos label won four Grammy Awards: Best Choral Performance, Best Classical Contemporary Composition, Best Classical Album, and Best Producer of the Year (classical).\n\nThe composer Victoria Poleva completed \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience\" in 2002, a chamber cycle on the verses by Blake for soprano, clarinet and accordion. It was first performed by the ensemble Accroche-Note of France.\n\nThe Swedish composer David Unger completed \"Night songs op. 24\", a setting of five poems from Songs of Innocence for solo voice and piano in 2013. It was first performed by baritone Anthony Schneider and pianist Rosemary Barnes in Vienna, Austria the same year.\n\nPopular group Tangerine Dream based their album \"Tyger\" on lyrics by William Blake.\n\nPopular rock group U2 released an album called \"Songs of Innocence\" in 2014, and followed it in 2017 with \"Songs of Experience\".\n\nKarl Jenkins' Motets includes a setting of The Shepherd.\n\nThe fictional rock band Infant Sorrow, as featured in the 2008 film \"Forgetting Sarah Marshall\", appears to be named after the Blake poem.\n\nThe Huntington Library and Art Gallery in San Marino, California, published a small facsimile edition in 1975 that included sixteen plates reproduced from two copies of Songs of Innocence and of Experience in their collection, with an introduction by James Thorpe. The songs reproduced were \"Introduction\", \"Infant Joy\", \"The Lamb\", \"Laughing Song\" and \"Nurse's Song\" from \"Songs of Innocence\", and \"Introduction\", \"The Clod & the Pebble\", \"The Tyger\", \"The Sick Rose\", \"Nurses Song\" and \"Infant Sorrow\" from \"Songs of Experience\". Tate Publishing, in collaboration with The William Blake Trust, produced a folio edition containing all of the songs of Innocence and Experience in 2006. A colour plate of each poem is accompanied by a literal transcription, and the volume is introduced by critic and historian Richard Holmes.\n\nWilliam Blake, \"Songs of Innocence and of Experience\" edited with an introduction and notes by Andrew Lincoln, and select plates from other copies. Blake's Illuminated Books, vol. 2. William Blake Trust / Princeton University Press, 1991. Based on King's College, Cambridge, copy, 1825 or later.\n\n\"Songs of Innocence\" Dover Publications, 1971. Based on copy of Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection, Library of Congress, Copy B, ca. 1790.\n\n\"Songs of Experience\" Dover Publications, 1984. Based on \"a rare 1826 etched edition,\" per back cover.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088675", "title": "Probabilistic latent semantic analysis", "text": "Probabilistic latent semantic analysis\n\nProbabilistic latent semantic analysis (PLSA), also known as probabilistic latent semantic indexing (PLSI, especially in information retrieval circles) is a statistical technique for the analysis of two-mode and co-occurrence data. In effect, one can derive a low-dimensional representation of the observed variables in terms of their affinity to certain hidden variables, just as in latent semantic analysis, from which PLSA evolved.\n\nCompared to standard latent semantic analysis which stems from linear algebra and downsizes the occurrence tables (usually via a singular value decomposition), probabilistic latent semantic analysis is based on a mixture decomposition derived from a latent class model.\n\nConsidering observations in the form of co-occurrences formula_1 of words and documents, PLSA models the probability of each co-occurrence as a mixture of conditionally independent multinomial distributions:\n\nwith 'c' being the words' topic. Note that the number of topics is a hyperparameter that must be chosen in advance and is not estimated from the data. The first formulation is the \"symmetric\" formulation, where formula_3 and formula_4 are both generated from the latent class formula_5 in similar ways (using the conditional probabilities formula_6 and formula_7), whereas the second formulation is the \"asymmetric\" formulation, where, for each document formula_4, a latent class is chosen conditionally to the document according to formula_9, and a word is then generated from that class according to formula_7. Although we have used words and documents in this example, the co-occurrence of any couple of discrete variables may be modelled in exactly the same way.\n\nSo, the number of parameters is equal to formula_11. The number of parameters grows linearly with the number of documents. In addition, although PLSA is a generative model of the documents in the collection it is estimated on, it is not a generative model of new documents.\n\nTheir parameters are learned using the EM algorithm.\n\nPLSA may be used in a discriminative setting, via Fisher kernels.\n\nPLSA has applications in information retrieval and filtering, natural language processing, machine learning from text, and related areas.\n\nIt is reported that the aspect model used in the probabilistic latent semantic analysis has severe overfitting problems.\n\n\n\nThis is an example of a latent class model (see references therein), and it is related to non-negative matrix factorization. The present terminology was coined in 1999 by Thomas Hofmann.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2088676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088676", "title": "General classification", "text": "General classification\n\nThe general classification (or the GC) in bicycle racing is the category that tracks overall times for bicycle riders in multi-stage bicycle races. Each stage will have a stage winner, but the overall winner in the GC is the rider who has the fastest cumulative time across all stages. Hence, whoever wins the GC is generally regarded as the winner of the race.\n\nRiders who finish in the same group are awarded the same time, with possible subtractions due to time bonuses. Two riders are said to have finished in the same group if the gap between them is less than three seconds. A crash or mechanical incident in the final 3 kilometres of a stage that finishes without a categorised climb usually means that riders thus affected are considered to have finished as part of the group they were with at the 3km mark, so long as they finish the stage. \n\nIt is possible to win the GC without winning a stage. It is also possible to win the GC race without being the GC leader before the last stage.\n\nThe most important stages of a bicycle race for GC contenders are mountain stages and individual time trial stages. Both of these offer the best chance for a single racer to outperform other racers.\n\nIn many bicycle races, the current leader of the GC gets a special jersey awarded. In the Tour de France, the leader wears a yellow jersey, in the Giro d'Italia a pink jersey, in the Vuelta a España the leader's jersey is red, and in the Tour Down Under the leader's jersey is ochre. It is considered an honor to wear the special jersey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088679", "title": "Timing advance", "text": "Timing advance\n\nIn the GSM cellular mobile phone standard, timing advance (VA) value corresponds to the length of time a signal takes to reach the base station from a mobile phone. GSM uses TDMA technology in the radio interface to share a single frequency between several users, assigning sequential timeslots to the individual users sharing a frequency. Each user transmits periodically for less than one-eighth of the time within one of the eight timeslots. Since the users are at various distances from the base station and radio waves travel at the finite speed of light, the precise arrival-time within the slot can be used by the base station to determine the distance to the mobile phone. The time at which the phone is allowed to transmit a burst of traffic within a timeslot must be adjusted accordingly to prevent collisions with adjacent users. Timing Advance (TA) is the variable controlling this adjustment.\n\nTechnical Specifications 3GPP TS 05.10 and TS 45.010 describe the TA value adjustment procedures. The TA value is normally between 0 and 63, with each step representing an advance of one bit period (approximately 3.69 microseconds). With radio waves travelling at about 300,000,000 metres per second (that is 300 metres per microsecond), one TA step then represents a change in round-trip distance (twice the propagation range) of about 1,100 metres. This means that the TA value changes for each 550-metre change in the range between a mobile and the base station. This limit of 63 × 550 metres is the maximum 35 kilometres that a device can be from a base station and is the upper bound on cell placement distance.\n\nA continually adjusted TA value avoids interference to and from other users in adjacent timeslots, thereby minimizing data loss and maintaining Mobile QoS (call quality-of-service).\n\nTiming Advance is significant for privacy and communications security, as its combination with other variables can allow GSM localization to find the device's position and track the mobile phone user. TA is also used to adjust transmission power in space-division multiple access systems.\n\nThis limited the original range of a GSM cell site to 35km as mandated by the duration of the standard timeslots defined in the GSM specification. The maximum distance is given by the maximum time that the signal from the mobile/BTS needs to reach the receiver of the mobile/BTS on time to be successfully heard. At the air interface the delay between the transmission of the downlink (BTS) and the uplink (mobile) has an offset of 3 timeslots. Until now the mobile station has used a timing advance to compensate for the propagation delay as the distance to the BTS changes. The timing advance values are coded by 6 bits, which gives the theoretical maximum BTS/mobile separation as 35km.\n\nBy implementing the Extended Range feature, the BTS is able to receive the uplink signal in two adjacent timeslots instead of one. When the mobile station reaches its maximum timing advance, i.e. maximum range, the BTS expands its hearing window with an internal timing advance that gives the necessary time for the mobile to be heard by the BTS even from the extended distance. This extra advance is the duration of a single timeslot, a 156 bit period. This gives roughly 120 km range for a cell. and is implemented in sparsely populated areas and to reach islands for example.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088684", "title": "World Fair Trade Organization", "text": "World Fair Trade Organization\n\nThe World Fair Trade Organization (WFTO), is a global association of 401 organizations who are committed to improving the livelihoods of economically marginalised producers. WFTO has members in 76 countries. Members are primarily fair trade enterprises, whose business model is verified by independent audit and peer review. Verification is at enterprise level, which covers all aspects of the business and supply chain. WFTO verification should not be confused with commodity certification systems, such as Fairtrade certification, where only a component of the product is covered. The WFTO product label can only be used by verified fair trade enterprises, which consist of producer cooperatives and associations, export marketing companies, importers, retailers, national and regional fair trade networks and Fair Trade Support Organizations. WFTO is democratically run on a one member one vote basis. WFTO was created in 1989 and was formerly the International Federation of Alternative Traders (\"IFAT\").\n\nWFTO members use commercial activity to achieve a social mission and have been referred to as 'Fair Trade Social Enterprises'.\n\nWFTO's stated mission is \"to enable producers to improve their livelihoods and communities through Fair Trade\". Their five goals are:\n\n\nIn 2017 the WFTO board appointed Erinch Sahan as Chief Executive.\n\nIn 2004 WFTO launched verification scheme and mark. The FTO Mark identifies registered Fair Trade Organizations worldwide (as opposed to products in the case of FLO International and Fairtrade mark) and guarantees that standards are being implemented regarding working conditions, wages, child labor and the environment. These standards are verified by self-assessment, mutual reviews and external verification. The FTO Mark is available to all WFTO members who meet the requirements of the WFTO Standards and Monitoring System and so far over 150 organizations have registered.\n\nThe WFTO logo is for organizations that demonstrate a 100% commitment to Fair Trade in all their business activities. Only monitored WFTO members are authorized to use the logo.\nThe Fair Trade Organization Mark (WFTO Logo) shows that an organization follows the WFTO's 10 Principles of Fair Trade, covering working conditions, transparency, wages, the environment, gender equity and more.\n\nThe WFTO logo is not a product mark - it is used to brand organisations that are committed to 100% Fair Trade. It sets them apart from commercial as well as other Fair Trade businesses, and provides a clear signal to retailers, partners, governments and donors that their core activity is Fair Trade.\n\nThe system was originally designed for marginalised producers currently not catered for by the Fairtrade Certification system, which was designed for commodity products. Due to the variety and complexity of handcrafts, for example, a product standard is technically difficult to apply. The system, then, provides an alternative that will verify that an organisation practices Fair Trade in all its activities. Once certified, the organisation will be able to use the label on all its products.\nFair Trade is a type of partnership based on communication and reverence that ensures fairness in international trade. Since the seventies, there have been several groups and conferences held that discussed the implementation of regulations regarding trade. However, The World Fair Trade Organization (WFTO) was not established until the early nineties. The WFTO has several hundred partnerships across the globe with established practices and procedures meant to protect the groups and individuals associated with Fair Trade.\n\nWFTO prescribes 10 Principles that Fair Trade Organizations must follow in their day-to-day work and carries out monitoring to ensure these principles are upheld:\n\n\nThe WFTO operates in five key regions: Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe and North America & Pacific Rim.\n<br>Members in Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America have come together to form WFTO regional chapters. \n\nThe Cooperation for Fair Trade in Africa - COFTA is the network of Fair Trade producer organisations operating in Africa and working with disadvantaged small-scale producers.\n\nThe Asian chapter of WFTO operates in 20 countries and comprises over 140 fair trade organizations. Member nations include: Bangladesh, China, Cambodia, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam. Their roles in the fair trade operations vary, and included are: producers, cooperatives, retailers, NGO's, and faith-based organizations, amongst others.\n\nWFTO-Europe, formerly known as IFAT Europe (International Federation for Alternative Trade), is formed by 84 members, amongst them Fair Trade organizations, Fair Trade networks and support organizations. It represents the European chapter of the World Fair Trade Organization.\n\nIn 2009, the Network of European Worldshops (NEWS) was integrated into WFTO-Europe.\n\nWFTO-LA is currently composed of 55 members from 13 countries of Latin America. The Regional Office is located in Areguá, Paraguay.\n\nWFTO-PacificRim is currently composed of 23 members from 5 countries around the Pacific - New Zealand, Australia, Japan, Canada, and USA. The Regional Office is located in Irvine, near Los Angeles, California, USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "2088685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088685", "title": "Sura Chamber Choir", "text": "Sura Chamber Choir\n\nSura Chamber Choir (Coro Surá \"in Spanish\") is a musical institution from Costa Rica, regarded as one of the most promising choirs to have emerged from Central America, having participated in concerts all over the world.\n\"Surá\" is the name of a tree in Costa Rica that dates from the pre-Columbian era.\n\nCoro Surá believe that each member of the choir represents a branch of the tree, which in unison, provides the tree itself in the form of harmonious sound.\n\nFounded in May 1988, Coro Surá was the first professional choir in Central America, recording their first CD in 1995, entitled \"Surá\". Members must have graduated from a music program or have significant choral experience.\n\nMs. Angela Cordero\n\n\n\"note* For the year 2003 the choir was invited to perform in Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, and to participate in the spring festival in Moscow, Russia.\"\n\n"}
