{"id": "2053015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053015", "title": "Manganate", "text": "Manganate\n\nIn inorganic nomenclature, a manganate is any negatively charged molecular entity with manganese as the central atom. However, the name is usually used to refer to the tetraoxidomanganate(2−) anion, MnO, also known as manganate(VI) because it contains manganese in the +6 oxidation state. Manganates are the only known manganese(VI) compounds.\n\nOther manganates include hypomanganate or manganate(V), , permanganate or manganate(VII), , and the dimanganite or dimanganate(III) . \n\nA manganate(IV) anion has been prepared by radiolysis of dilute solutions of permanganate. It is mononuclear in dilute solution, and shows a strong absorption in the ultraviolet and a weaker absorption at 650 nm.\n\nThe manganate(VI) ion is tetrahedral, similar to sulfate or chromate: indeed, manganates are often isostructural with sulfates and chromates, a fact first noted by Mitscherlich in 1831. The manganese–oxygen distance is 165.9 pm, about 3 pm longer than in permanganate. As a d ion, it is paramagnetic, but any Jahn–Teller distortion is too small to be detected by X-ray crystallography. Manganates are dark green in colour, with a visible absorption maximum of \"λ\" = 606 nm (\"ε\" = ). The Raman spectrum has also been reported.\n\nSodium and potassium manganates are usually prepared in the laboratory by stirring the equivalent permanganate in a concentrated solution (5–10 M) of the hydroxide for 24 hours or with heating.\n\nPotassium manganate is prepared industrially, as an intermediate to potassium permanganate, by dissolving manganese dioxide in molten potassium hydroxide with potassium nitrate or air as the oxidizing agent.\n\nManganates, particularly the insoluble barium manganate, BaMnO, have been used as oxidizing agents in organic synthesis: they will oxidize primary alcohols to aldehydes and then to carboxylic acids, and secondary alcohols to ketones. Barium manganate has also been used to oxidize hydrazones to diazo compounds.\n\nManganates are unstable towards disproportionation in all but the most alkaline of aqueous solutions. The ultimate products are permanganate and manganese dioxide, but the kinetics are complex and the mechanism may involve protonated and/or manganese(V) species.\n\nManganate is formally the conjugate base of hypothetical manganic acid , which cannot be formed because of its rapid disproportionation. However, its second acid dissociation constant has been estimated by pulse radiolysis techniques:\n\nThe name \"manganite\" is used for compounds formerly believed to contain the anion , with manganese in the +3 oxidation state. However, most of these \"manganites\" do not contain discrete oxoanions, but are mixed oxides with perovskite (LaMnO, CaMnO), spinel (LiMnO) or sodium chloride (LiMnO, NaMnO) structures. \n\nOne exception is potassium dimanganate(III), KMnO, which contains discrete MnO anions.\n"}
{"id": "2053018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053018", "title": "Kaplan–Yorke map", "text": "Kaplan–Yorke map\n\nThe Kaplan–Yorke map is a discrete-time dynamical system. It is an example of a dynamical system that exhibits chaotic behavior. The Kaplan–Yorke map takes a point (\"x, y \") in the plane and maps it to a new point given by\n\nwhere \"mod\" is the modulo operator with real arguments. The map depends on only the one constant α.\n\nDue to roundoff error, successive applications of the modulo operator will yield zero after some ten or twenty iterations when implemented as a floating point operation on a computer. It is better to implement the following equivalent algorithm:\n\nwhere the formula_6 and formula_7 are computational integers. It is also best to choose formula_7 to be a large prime number in order to get many different values of formula_9.\n\nAnother way to avoid having the modulo operator yield zero after a short number of iterations is\n\nwhich will still eventually return zero, albeit after many more iterations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053022", "title": "Antinovel", "text": "Antinovel\n\nAn antinovel is any experimental work of fiction that avoids the familiar conventions of the novel, and instead establishes its own conventions.\n\nThe term (\"anti-roman\" in French) was brought into modern literary discourse by the French philosopher and critic Jean-Paul Sartre in his introduction to Nathalie Sarraute's 1948 work \"Portrait d’un inconnu\" (Portrait of a Man Unknown). However the term \"anti-roman\" (anti-novel) had been used by Charles Sorel in 1633 to describe the parodic nature of his prose fiction \"Le Berger extravagant\".\n\nThe antinovel usually fragments and distorts the experience of its characters, presenting events outside of chronological order and attempting to disrupt the idea of characters with unified and stable personalities. Some principal features of antinovels include lack of obvious plot, minimal development of character, variations in time sequence, experiments with vocabulary and syntax, and alternative endings and beginnings. Extreme features may include detachable or blank pages, drawings, and hieroglyphics.\nAlthough the term is most commonly applied to the French \"nouveau roman\" of the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, similar traits can be found much further back in literary history. One example is Laurence Sterne's \"Tristram Shandy\", a seemingly autobiographical novel that barely makes it as far as the title character's birth thanks to numerous digressions and a rejection of linear chronology.\nAron Kibédi Varga has suggested that the novel in fact began as an anti-novel, since the first novels such as \"Don Quixote\" subverted their form even as they were constructing the form of the novel.\n\nIt was however in the postwar decades that the term first came into critical and general prominence. To the middlebrow like C. P. Snow, the anti-novel appeared as \"an expression of that nihilism that fills the vacuum created by the withdrawal of positive directives for living\", and as an ignoble scene in which \"the characters buzz about sluggishly like winter flies\". More technically however, its distinctive feature was the anti-mimetic and self-reflective drawing of attention to its own fictionality, a parodic anti-realistic element. Paradoxically, such anti-conventionalism would eventually come to form a distinctive convention of its own.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053038", "title": "Showbiz India", "text": "Showbiz India\n\nShowbiz India is a television program that focuses on entertainment from South Asia, specifically from the Indian subcontinent. The show has been on the air since 1998 and its hostess and producer is Reshma Dordi, who was crowned the first Miss L.A. India in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053041", "title": "D. B. Wyndham Lewis", "text": "D. B. Wyndham Lewis\n\nDominic Bevan Wyndham Lewis FRSL (9 March 1891 – 21 November 1969) was a British journalist, author and biographer, known for his humorous newspaper articles\n\nBorn Llewellyn Bevan Wyndham Lewis to a family of Welsh origin then living in Seaforth, he dropped his first name and replaced it with \"Dominic\" following his conversion to Roman Catholicism in 1921. After schooling in Cardiff, he served in the Welch Regiment during World War I. He twice suffered from shell-shock while serving in France and contracted malaria on being assigned to Macedonia. On 29 October 1918, Lewis married Winifred Mary (Jane) Holland, with whom he had one daughter, the future actress Angela Wyndham Lewis. The couple divorced in 1926 and in July 1933 Lewis married Dorothy Anne Robertson, with whom he had two sons.\n\nLewis had originally intended to take up a legal career, but after the war he decided on journalism and joined the \"Daily Express\", where he was briefly the newspaper's Literary Editor. In 1919 he was put in charge of the paper's humorous 'By the Way' column, using the pen name Beachcomber, originated by his predecessor. A selection of these was published as \"At the Green Goose\" in 1923. From there he moved on to the \"Daily Mail\", where he contributed a column called 'At the Sign of the Blue Moon', selections from which were published in 1924 and 1925.\n\nWyndham-Lewis lived in Paris from the mid-1920s while doing historical research for his entertaining biography of François Villon. Later biographies of French subjects included Louis XI, the Emperor Charles V, Ronsard, Molière, Rabelais and Gilles de Rais. He also wrote works on Boswell, Goya and Cervantes.\n\nAfter returning to Britain, Lewis published as 'Mustard and Cress' in the \"Sunday Referee\" until 1935 and then returned as a columnist to the \"Daily Mail\", and later a decade-long column as Timothy Shy for the \"News Chronicle\". In addition, he co-wrote, with Charles Bennett, the screenplay for the first version of Alfred Hitchcock's \"The Man Who Knew Too Much\" (1934). He also supplied the lyrics for the \"Storm Clouds Cantata\", featured in the film's climatic Albert Hall scene. This was followed by various other British film scripts during the 1930s.\n\nWyndham-Lewis also made a name for himself as a compiler of the facetious anthology \"The Stuffed Owl\", co-edited with Charles Lee in 1930. A collection of 'good Bad Verse', it featured excerpts from well-known authors at considerably less than their best as well as many others now forgotten. This was followed in 1936 by \"The Nonsensibus\", \"driven by D.B.Wyndham Lewis\". In 1952 he collaborated with Ronald Searle on \"The Terror of St Trinian's\" (under the pen name 'Timothy Shy').\n\nThough he was often confused with his contemporary, the painter and author Percy Wyndham Lewis, they were not related.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053043", "title": "Arab cuisine", "text": "Arab cuisine\n\nArab cuisine () is the cuisine of the Arabs, defined as the various regional cuisines spanning the Arab world, from the Maghreb to the Fertile Crescent and the Arabian Peninsula. The cuisines are often centuries old and reflect the culture of great trading in spices, herbs, and foods. The three main regions, also known as the Maghreb, the Fertile Crescent, and the Arabian Peninsula, have many similarities, but also many unique traditions. These cuisines have been influenced by the climate, cultivating possibilities, as well as trading possibilities.\n\nThe Arab cuisine uses specific and sometimes unique foods and spices. Some of those foods are:\n\nEssential to any cooking in the Arab world is the concept of hospitality and generosity. Meals are generally large family affairs, with much sharing and a great deal of warmth over the dinner table. Formal dinners and celebrations generally involve large quantities of lamb, and every occasion entails large quantities of Arabic coffee or Arabic tea.\n\n\"Coffee ceremony:\"\nIn the Khaleej (Arab) region, a visitor is greeted by a great table of dried fruits, fresh fruits, nuts and cakes with syrup. Dried fruits include figs, dates, apricots and plums. Fresh fruits include citruses, melons and pomegranate. Arabic Coffee is served the most, but Arabic tea is also a great refresher. Spices are often added in the coffee or other drinks.\n\n\"Dinner guests:\"\nIn the khaleej (Arab) region, a visitor might expect a dinner consisting of a very large platter, shared commonly, with a vast amount of spiced rice, incorporating cooked spicy lamb or chicken, or both, as separate dishes, with various stewed vegetables, heavily spiced, sometimes with a tomato-based sauce. Different types of bread are served with different toppings specific to the region. Tea would certainly accompany the meal, as it is almost constantly consumed. Coffee would be included in the same manner.\n\n\"Tea/coffee ceremony:\" In the Maghrebi region, a visitor might expect a table full of bread-like snacks, including Msemen, Baghrir and other stuffed breads. These are served with honey, rosewater or olive oil. There are also many different cookies and cakes included accompanied by plates with different kinds of nuts. Arabic coffee and Mint tea is often served with it in a traditional Maghrebian teapot.\n\n\"Dinner guests:\" In the Maghrebi region, a visitor might expect a table with different kinds of stews, also called Marqas or Tajines. Dishes such as couscous or other semolina based dishes are much appreciated as well. These main dishes are accompanied by smaller mezze-like plates with salads, sauces and dips. Breads such as Msemen and Khobz are used to eat the stews.\n\n\"Coffee/ Tea ceremony:\"\nIn an average Arab Levantine household, a visitor might expect a table full of Mezzes, breads topped with spices including Za'atar and nuts. In the Levant, Arabic coffee is a much loved beverage, but Arabic tea is also much loved in Jordan and Palestine.\n\n\"Dinner guests:\"\nIn the Levant, a visitor might expect a table with different kinds of mezzes, nuts, dips and oils. Mezzes include Hummus, Baba ghanoush, Falafel, Kibbeh, Kafta, smoked vegetables and Tabouli salads. The nuts can differ from almonds to walnuts, with different spice coatings. The dips and oils include hummus and olive oil.\n\nThere are many regional differences in the Arab cuisine. For instance, mujadara in Syria and Lebanon is different from mujadara in Jordan and Palestine. Some dishes, such as mansaf (the national dish of Jordan), are native to certain countries and rarely, if ever, make an appearance in other countries. Unlike most Western recipes, cinnamon is used in meat dishes, as well as in sweets such as baklava. Dishes including Tajine and Couscous can differ from Morocco to Libya, each having their own unique preparation. Other dishes, such as the Arabo-Andalucian Bastilla or Albondigas have different traditional spice mixes and fillings.\n\nThere are two basic structures for meals in the Arab World, one regular and one unique to the month of Ramadan.\n\nCafés often serve croissants for breakfast. Breakfast is often a quick meal, consisting of bread and dairy products, with tea and sometimes jam. The most common breakfast items are labneh and cream (\"kishta\", made of cow's milk).\n\nLunch is considered the main meal of the day, and is traditionally eaten between 1:30pm and 2:30pm. It is the meal for which the family comes together. Rarely do meals have different courses; however, salads and mezze are served as side dishes to the main meal. The platter usually consists of a portion of meat, poultry or fish, a portion of rice, lentils, bread and a portion of cooked vegetables, in addition to the fresh ones with the mezze and salad. The vegetables and meat are usually cooked together in a sauce (often tomato, although others are also popular) to make \"maraqa\", which is served with rice. Most households add bread. Drinks are not necessarily served with the food; however, there is a very wide variety of drinks such as shineena (or \"laban\"), karakaden, Naqe'e Al Zabib, Irq Soos, Tamr Hindi, and fruit juice, as well as other traditional Arabic drinks. During the 20th century, carbonated soda and fruit-based drinks have also become very popular.\n\nDinner is traditionally the lightest meal, although in modern times, dinner has become more important with regards to entertaining guests due to the hours of the workday.\n\nIn addition to the two meals eaten during Ramadan (one for dinner and one for Suhur before dawn), sweets are consumed much more than usual during the month of Ramadan; sweets and fresh fruits are served between these two meals. Although most sweets are made all year round such as Kanafeh, baklava, and Basbousa, some are made especially for Ramadan, such as Qatayef.\n\nIftar (also called Futuur), or fast-breaking, is the meal taken at dusk when the fast is over. The meal consists of three courses: first, they shall eat a date based on Islamic tradition. This is followed by a soup or anything they would like, the most popular being lentil soup, but a wide variety of soups such as chicken, oats, \"freeka\" (a soup made from whole wheat and chicken broth), potato, \"maash\", and others are also offered. The third course is the main dish, usually eaten after an interval, when Maghreb prayer is conducted. The main dish is mostly similar to lunch, except that cold drinks are served.\n\nSuhur is the meal eaten just before dawn, when fasting must begin. It is eaten to help the person make it through the day with enough energy until dusk.\n\nThe cuisine of Eastern Arabia today is the result of a combination of diverse cuisines, incorporating Levantine and Yemeni cuisines. Bukhari rice (رز بخاري) (Ruz al Bukhari) is a dish eaten in the Hejaz, Saudi Arabia. It is a rice with spicy tomato sauce, flavoured chicken and a fresh salad. It is a very popular dish in the Hejaz district of Saudi-Arabia.\n\nKabsa (كبسة) or makbūs (مكبوس) is a traditional mixed rice dish in many Arab states of the Persian Gulf that originates from Saudi Arabia. It is made of rice (usually long-grain, almost always basmati), meat, vegetables, and a mixture of spices. The spices used in kabsa are largely responsible for its taste; these are generally black pepper, cloves, cardamom, saffron, cinnamon, dried lime (also known as black lime), bay leaves and nutmeg. The meats used are usually chicken, goat, lamb, camel, beef, fish or shrimp. Kabsa is popular in countries in and outside Persian Gulf such as Yemen, Somalia, Jordan, Qatar, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. It is also widely popular in the Khuzestan Province in Iran (Iranian Arabs).\n\nThe cuisine of Yemen is rather distinct from other Arab cuisines. Like most other Arab cuisines, chicken, goat, and lamb are eaten more often than beef. Fish is eaten mostly in coastal areas. However, unlike most Arab countries, cheese, butter, and other dairy products are less common, especially in the cities and other urban areas. As with other Arab cuisines, the most widespread beverages are tea and coffee; tea is usually flavored with cardamom, clove, or mint, and coffee with cardamom. Karakaden, Naqe'e Al Zabib, and diba'a are the most widespread cold beverages.\n\nAlthough each region has their own variation, \"saltah\" (سلتة) is considered the national dish of Yemen. The base is a brown meat is called \"maraq\" (مرق), a dollop of fenugreek froth, and \"sahawiq\" (سحاوق) or \"sahowqa\" (a mixture of chili peppers, tomatoes, garlic, and herbs ground into a salsa. Rice, potatoes, scrambled eggs, and vegetables are common additions to saltah. It is eaten with flat bread known as mulawah, which serves as a utensil to scoop up the food. Other dishes widely known in Yemen include aseed, fahsa, thareed, samak mafi, mandi, fattah, shakshouka, shafut, bint al-sahn, kabsa, jachnun, nasi kebuli, harees and Hyderabadi haleem.\n\nLevantine cuisine is the traditional cuisine of the Fertile Crescent. Although now divided into Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Egypt, and Palestine, the region has historically been more united, and shares most of the same culinary traditions. Although almost identical, there is some regional variation within the Levantine area.\n\nDishes include olive oil, za'atar, and garlic, and common dishes include a wide array of mezze or bread dips, stuffings, and side dishes such as hummus, falafel, ful, tabouleh, labaneh, and baba ghanoush.\n\nIt also includes copious amounts of garlic and olive oil, often seasoned with lemon juice—almost no meal goes by without including these ingredients. Most often foods are either grilled, baked, fried, or sautéed in olive oil; butter and cream are rarely used, other than in a few desserts. Vegetables are often eaten raw or pickled, as well as cooked. While the cuisine does not boast a multitude of sauces, it focuses on herbs, spices, and the freshness of ingredients.\n\nThe Bedouins of the Arabian Peninsula, Middle-East and North-Africa relied on a diet of dates, dried fruit, nuts, wheat, barley, rice, and meat. The meat comes from large animals such as cows, sheep, and lambs. They also eat dairy products: milk, cheese, yoghurt, and buttermilk (Labneh). The bedouins would also use many different dried beans including white beans, lentils, and chickpeas. Vegetables that were used a lot among the bedouins are variants that could be dried, such as pumpkins, but also vegetables that are more heat-resistant, such as aubergines. They would drink a lot of fresh Verbena tea, Arabic tea, Maghrebi mint tea, or Arabic coffee. A daily break to freshen up with drinks is a much loved tradition. The bread that is eaten a lot is called Khobz as well as Khaleej, in the Maghreb regions. Dishes such as Marqa, Stews, Tajines were prepared traditionally among the bedouins. Breakfast consisted of baked beans, bread, nuts, dried fruits, milk, yoghurt, and cheese with tea or coffee. Snacks included nuts and dried fruits.\n\nIn Palestine and Jordan, the population has a cooking style of their own, involved in roasting various meats, baking flat breads, and cooking thick yogurt-like pastes from goat's milk.\n\nMusakhan is a common main dish, famous in northern Jordan, the city of Jerusalem, and northern West Bank. The main component is taboon bread, which is topped with pieces of cooked sweet onions, sumac, saffron, and allspice. For large dinners, it can be topped by one or two roasted chickens on a single large taboon bread.\n\nThe primary cheese of the Palestinian mezze is Ackawi cheese, which is a semi-hard cheese with a mild, salty taste and sparsely filled with roasted sesame seeds. It is primarily used in Kenafah\n\nMaqluba is another popular meal in Jordan and central Palestine. Mujaddara, another food of the West Bank, as well as in the Levant in general, consists of cooked green lentils, with bulghur sauteed in olive oil. Mansaf is a traditional meal, and the national dish of Jordan, having roots in the Bedouin population of the country. It is mostly cooked on special occasions such as Ramadan, Eid ul-Fitr, a birth, or a large dinner gathering.\nMansaf is a leg of lamb or large pieces of mutton, on top of a markook bread that has been topped with yellow rice. A type of thick dried yogurt made from goat's milk, called jameed, is poured on top of the lamb and rice to give it its distinct flavor and taste. The dish is garnished with cooked pine nuts and almonds.\n\nLevantine cuisine is also famous for its wide range of cheeses, including Shanklish, Halloum, and Arisheh. Kishk is also a famous Syrian soup, alongside many soups made of lentils. Lebanese food also has a wide range of dips including Hummous, Baba Ghannouj, and Labneh, and also caters many raw meat dishes. Syrian food could be either extremely vegetarian or a meat lover's paradise. Lemon, oregano, za'atar, paprika, and various other Mediterranean spices and herbs are used in Syrian cuisine. To top it off,\n\nLevantine cuisine also incorporates wines made in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Palestine and the Levantine equivalent of the Greek Ouzo, known as Arak.\n\nIraq is where the first cookbook was ever recorded in history, historically in Baghdad and Mesopotamia. Iraq is one of the oil-rich Arab countries surrounding the gulf and is also part of the Mashriq sharing similarities in cooking and cuisines between both the surrounding regions of the Arab world.\nIraqi cuisine mainly consists of meat, rather than appetizers. In Iraqi cuisine, the most common meats are chicken and lamb. The national dish of Iraq is the Masgouf fish, usually enjoyed with grilled tomatoes and onions.\nIraqi cuisine uses more spices than most Arab cuisines. Iraq's main food crops include wheat, barley, rice, vegetables, and dates. Vegetables include eggplant, okra, potatoes, and tomatoes. Pulses such as chickpeas and lentils are also quite common. Common meats in Iraqi cooking are lamb and beef; fish and poultry are also used.\n\nSoups and stews are often prepared and served with rice and vegetables. Biryani, although influenced by Indian cuisine, is milder with a different mixture of spices, and a wider variety of vegetables, including potatoes, peas, carrots, and onions. Dolma is also one of the most popular dishes.\n\nThe Iraqi cuisine is famous for its extremely tender kebab, as well as its tikka. A wide variety of spices, pickles, and amba are also extensively used.\n\nEgypt has a very rich cuisine with many unique customs. These customs also vary within Egypt itself, for example, in the coastal areas, like the coast of the Mediterranean Sea and Canal, the diet relies heavily on fish. In the more rural areas, reliance on farm products is much heavier. Duck, geese, chicken, and river fish are the main animal protein sources. While Egyptians eat a lot of meat, Egyptian cuisine is rich in vegetarian dishes; three national dishes of Egypt; ful medames, ta'miya (also known in other countries as \"falafel\"), and kushari, are generally vegetarian. Fruits are also greatly appreciated in Egypt: mangos, grapes, bananas, apples, sycamore, guavas, and peaches are very popular, especially because they are all domestically produced and are available at relatively low prices. A famous dessert from Egypt is called Om Ali, which is similar to a bread and butter pudding made traditionally with puff pastry, milk and nuts. It is served all across the Middle East and is also made on special occasions such as Eid. Bread is a staple in Egypt, the most common breads are Eish Baladi.\n\nIn comparison to its Maghreb and Levantine neighbors, the cuisine of Sudan tends to be generous with spices. The Sudanese cuisine has a rich variety in ingredients and creativity. Simple everyday vegetables are used to create stews and omelettes that are healthy yet nutritious, and full of energy and flair. These stews are called \"mullah\". One could have a zucchini mullah, spinach \"Riglah\" mullah, etc. Sudanese food inspired the origins of Egyptian cuisine and Ethiopian cuisine, both of which are very popular in the Western world. Popular dishes include Ful medames, Shahan ful, Hummus, Bamya (a stew made from ground, sun dried okra), and Gurasa (pancake), as well as different types of salads and sweets.\n\nMaghreb cuisine is the cooking of the Maghreb region, the northwesternmost part of Arab world along the Mediterranean Sea, consisting of the countries of Algeria, Libya, Morocco, and Tunisia. In Maghrebi cuisine, the most common staple foods are wheat (for khobz bread and couscous), fish, seafood, goat, lamb, beef, dates, almonds, olives and various vegetables and fruits. \nMoroccan cuisine has long been considered one of the most diverse in the world. This is because Morocco has been interacting with the outside world for centuries. Over the centuries, chefs in Moroccan cuisine in Fes, Meknes, Marrakech, Rabat and Tetouan have been the basis for what is known as Moroccan cuisine today. Moroccan cuisine also ranked first in the Arab world and Africa, and second in the world in 2012 after France.\n\nTunisian cuisine is the style of cooking used by the Tunisian people and is part of the Maghreb and Mediterranean cuisine. Assa on mush, spices, olive oil, chili red pepper, kodaid, wheat flour, lamb, garlic, fish and many other vegetables and spices. Tunisian cuisine offers what is known as a \"solar kitchen\" that relies heavily on olive oil, spices, tomatoes, fish species, and meat. Bread is an essential ingredient in Tunisian cuisine, as it accompanies almost all dishes and is usually used by dipping for broth.\n\nLibyan cuisine derives much from the traditions of Maghreb and Mediterranean cuisines. One of the most popular Libyan dishes is Bazin, an unleavened bread prepared with barley, water and salt. Bazin is prepared by boiling barley flour in water and then beating it to create a dough using a \"magraf\", which is a unique stick designed for this purpose. Pork consumption is forbidden, in accordance with Sharia, the religious laws of Islam. Tripoli is Libya's capital, and the cuisine is particularly influenced by Italian cuisine. Pasta is common, and many seafood dishes are available. Southern Libyan cuisine is more traditionally Arab and Berber. Common fruits and vegetables include figs, dates, oranges, apricots and olives.\n\nLibyan kitchen also includes hot spices, like Tunisia. Bazin – Libyan bread, Bsisa, Couscous, Harissa, Hassaa, Lebrak – Filled grapeleaves with rice and minced meat, Libyan Boureek, Libyan summer salad, Marqa or Tajine, Madrouba, Mbatten, Mbekbka – a unique Libyan soup with pasta or spaghetti. Instead of the European way of boiling pasta or spaghetti in water and then throwing the water away (with all the goodness it contains), the Libyans boil pasta with the sauce, which adds a real pasta flavour to the sauce. You can make it with any type of pasta, and the simplest dish involves frying onions in oil, throwing in the tomato puree, chili powder, turmeric, then adding water and salt and leave to boil, before adding the pasta. But the proper way to do it is to add some lamb chops, chickpeas and garlic to the sauce. Serve hot with a sprinkle of extra virgin olive oil, lemon, fresh chili and crusty bread (optional). One can also add other vegetables such as pumpkin, potato and green pepper, Maglouba, Shakshouka, Sherba, Usban, Zumita and Asida. Desserts and beverages includes, Makroudh, Libyan tea, Ghoriba, Maakroun, Mafruka and Mhalbiya.\n\nAlgerian cuisine is characterized by a wealth derived from land and sea production, a Mediterranean-Maghreb cuisine. It offers a variety of dishes depending on the region and season, which gives a very varied kitchen plate. This kitchen, which uses many products, is still based on vegetables and cereals that have always been produced in abundance in the country, which was formerly called «Roma Bakery» and then «Bakery Europe». In addition, Algeria's rich history has contributed to the abundance of food from different periods and regions of the world. Among all the culinary specialties available in Algeria, the couscous remains the most famous, recognized as a national dish, as well as the traditional pastry called \"Oriental Pastry\" in Western countries. Despite its historical transmission, from generation to generation, there are many, many books devoted to Algerian cuisine. Algerian cuisine combines a variety of ingredients including vegetables, fruits, spices, meat, fish, seafood, vegetables and dried fruits. Vegetables are often used for salads, soups, casserole, couscous and sauces. It is widely used in carrots, pumpkins, potatoes, green beans, beans, kale, eggplant, and truffles.\n"}
{"id": "2053050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053050", "title": "Sodor (fictional island)", "text": "Sodor (fictional island)\n\nSodor is a fictional island featured as the setting for \"The Railway Series\" books by the Rev. Wilbert Awdry (and his son Christopher), begun in 1945, and for the popular television series \"Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends\" since 1984. It is depicted as being located in the Irish Sea, just off the English mainland near Barrow-in-Furness in Cumbria.\n\nThe need for consistency in the locations for \"The Railway Series\" necessitated the creation of a suitable location. Awdry required a setting for his books that would be within Great Britain, but would be sufficiently isolated from the rest of British Railways to allow him to do as he wished with the location.\n\nInspiration came on a visit to the Isle of Man, which forms the Diocese of Sodor and Man in 1950. Awdry noted that while there was an Isle of Man, there was no similar island of Sodor (the name derives from Old Norse \"Suðreyjar\", \"southern isles\", a term that referred to the Hebrides and islands along the west coast of Scotland). A large island would meet the criteria he required, giving him the isolation from changes to the British railway system while giving him somewhere that people could believe in.\n\nBetween them, Awdry and his younger brother George worked out Sodor's history, geography, industry and language (\"Sudric\"). Inspiration came from various sources. Dryaw was an anagram of Awdry. Elsbridge was named after Wilbert's parish of Elsworth in Cambridgeshire. Some place names were Sudric equivalents or near-equivalents of those in the real world (for instance, Skarloey was a rough Sudric equivalent of the Welsh Talyllyn: \"logh\" (Manx) = \"llyn\" (Welsh) = \"lake\"). By the time they had finished, they knew more about Sodor than would ever be used in \"The Railway Series\" stories.\n\nTheir abridged notes were published in 1987 (until out of print in 1992) in a book entitled .\n\nThe bishop of the Isle of Man is known as Bishop of \"Sodor and Man\". This is because the Isle of Man was part of the Kingdom of Mann and the Isles, which included the Hebrides, known in Old Norse as the \"Suðreyjar\", (anglicised as \"The Sudreys\") i.e. \"Southern Isles\" compared to \"Norðreyjar\" (\"The Nordreys\"), or the \"Northern Isles\", i.e. Orkney and Shetland (also known as Zetland). The Sudreys became \"Sodor\", which was fossilised in the name of the Diocese, long after it ceased to have any authority over the Scottish Islands.\n\nThus there is no \"island\" of Sodor; rather, the fictional island takes its name from an archipelago.\n\nAwdry was intrigued to find that although the Bishop had the title \"Sodor and Man\", he had only Man for his diocese. \"Everybody knew that there was an Isle of Man, but we decided to 'discover' \"another\" island – the Island of Sodor – and so give the poor deprived Bishop the other half of his diocese!\" \"(Rev. W. Awdry)\" Hence Awdry sited Sodor in the Irish Sea, between the Isle of Man and Barrow-in-Furness in Lancashire (Barrow later became part of new county of Cumbria during the 1974 re-organisation).\n\nThe historical native language of Sodor is \"Sudric\", a language similar to Manx and which, like Manx, is falling out of use. Manx and Sudric are similar enough to be mutually intelligible.\n\nA lot of the place names on Sodor are clearly based on Manx forms, but often the nouns are inverted to match English word order. Some of the locations have quasi-Manx names, e.g. Killdane, which comes from \"Keeill-y-Deighan\" (Church of the Devil), hills are called Knock and Cronk, while \"Nagh Beurla\", means \"I speak no English\", a distortion of the Manx. The names of some of the 'historical' characters – used in the background but not appearing in the stories – were taken from locations on the Isle of Man, such as Sir Crosby Marown (Crosby is a village in the parish of Marown) and Harold Regaby (Regaby is a tiny hamlet on the parish boundary between Andreas and Bride).\n\nBelow are some words and phrases, and place-names translated into English:\n\nThe Island of Sodor has its own flag, which consists of a blue-white-blue triband with orange fimbriations.\n\nThe Island has no official coat of arms. However, the local military regiment's badge is known. It is: Sable, two gloves Argent saltirewise, charged in fess with the Rose of Lancaster Proper.\n\nSodor is usually shown as much larger than the Isle of Man. The island is roughly diamond-shaped, wide east to west and long north to south. Its north-west coast is separated from the Isle of Man by a sea strait called the Sudrian Sea (Faarkey-y-Sudragh), four miles (6 km) wide. Its north-east edge overrides and replaces the real Walney Island.\n\nThe place names on Sodor are mostly a mixture of Manx and Norse. Its highest mountain is Culdee Fell, which was modelled on Snowdon: the ridge of Devil's Back copies the Clogwyn ridge on Snowdon. The summit is reached by the Culdee Fell Railway, which is based on the Snowdon Mountain Railway in Wales.\n\nThe capital and administrative centre of Sodor is the city of Suddery, however, Tidmouth has grown to be the largest town on the island. One of the more famous settlements on Sodor is Ffarquhar, the terminus of Thomas the Tank Engine's Branch Line.\n\nAll of the other settlements on the island are described in Locations on the Island of Sodor, while the six railway lines from \"The Railway Series\" are described below.\n\nThe Romans did not bother with Sodor. They saw it from their camp at Lancaster and made a landing at what is now Ballahoo, but were driven off. The inhabitants gave no trouble after that and were left alone.\n\nAn Irish missionary named Luoc proved to be more successful. He and some companions set out for Man in coracles, but Luoc fell asleep, was blown off course, and ended up on the shore in Suddery bay. The locals treated him well and he built a \"keeill\". He preached to the locals, and a church, nowadays known as Suddery Cathedral, was built on the site. He is remembered in the city’s motto and coat of arms, the latter of which shows him as a bishop, standing in a coracle holding a crosier. Suddery later became the ancient capital of Sodor. The island was Christianised by men of the \"Iona School\", who arrived on Sodor at different times during the sixth century and settled in the south. One of them, St. Machan, settled in a cave near Culdee Fell, in the north. People came from far around to be baptised in the nearby lake, named Loey Machan, or \"Machan's Lake\" in his honour. St. Machan has since been named the patron saint of Sodor and later becoming an feast day on 30 April.\n\nGodred MacHarold (known in legend as King Orry or Starstrider), the younger son of Harold, the Danish king of Limerick, was King of Sodor and Man from 979 to 989. Seizing his chance after the defeat of the Norsemen at the hands of the Irish, he harried Wales, then landed on Man. There, he pointed to the stars reflected in the water and said to the locals \"There is the path running from my country to this place. That is my road to fame and fortune.\" Godred gave Sodor and Man ten years of peace, and his reign is remembered as a golden age. In Sodor, he is remembered affectionately as King Orry. Godred often fought off attempts by Earl Sigurd of Orkney to reclaim Man in 982 and Sodor in 984 at a ford near what is now Peel Godred (named after him), which has now been replaced by a bridge known as King Orry's Bridge. Sigurd was not captured during either of the battles and returned five years later. Godred and his two elder sons were killed in battle in Man, but his wife, daughter Gudrun and youngest son Harold escaped to Islay.\n\nSigurd fell at the battle of Clontarf in Ireland on 23 April 1014, his heir Thorfinn was an infant at the time, and so Harold took his chance and claimed Sodor and Man, ruling for twenty years before Thorfinn drove him out. Harold's son was killed in battle, but Harold escaped to Iceland, where he married again in 1044. A son, Godred Crovan, was born in 1045. Harold died in an affray in 1047. Ogmund, born in Iceland in 1045, was the son of Sigurd of Cronk and his wife Helga. They returned from Iceland with young Godred Crovan and his mother Gerda. The two boys were brought up together, and later as stepbrothers - after Helga's death, Sigurd married Gerda. Sigurd was the leading man in Sodor when he died in 1063, and Ogmund succeeded him. By the time Thorfinn's grip on power was loosening, Godred had set about regaining his father’s former kingdom, leaving Ogmund in Sodor. Ogmund meanwhile welcomed Thorkell of Norwich to Sodor and settled his men around the island, squeezing the last of Fingal's soldiers from the island. With Sodor secure, Godred completed his goal of conquering the Isles, Dublin and finally Man at the battle of Skyhill in 1079. Ogmund fell in the battle.\n\nAfter two unprovoked invasions, the Sudrians began to regard the Normans as arch enemies. After Godred Crovan's death, the regency of Dublin decided to send Olaf, Godred's heir, to be brought up in the court of King Henry I. Sudrians took a poor view of this, however, and decided to break away. The move was approved by Magnus Barefoot, King of Norway, whose fleet, deployed in the area, was enough to prevent any reprisals from Dublin. Sigmund was elected first king of an independent Sodor. He was crowned at Peel Godred, but chose to make Cronk his capital. He reigned until 1116, and was succeeded by his son Gunnar. Sigmund's descendants reigned for around 160 years until King Andreas and Prince Peter were killed in battle in 1263. Peter left no heir, so the Scots claimed Sodor and invaded. The Sudrians fought them off, but the Scots were one of Sodor's predatory neighbours who had designs on the island. The next 140 years are known as the Regency or Resistance. With the possibility of Scottish attack, a successor with ability rather than royal descent was needed. This came in the form of Sir Harold Marown. His claim to the throne was weak, though, and was only worth a regency.\n\nLater in 1263, Alexander III claimed Sodor and in 1267 bought Man from its last king. With the power struggle between England and Scotland that started in 1290, the land changed hands many times, depending on who had the upper hand at the time. Eventually, Edward III annexed them in 1333 and gave them to the Monatacutes, who, fifty years later, sold them to William le Scrope. Henry IV had Scrope beheaded on 28 July 1399, and gave the islands to the Percy family. Sodor's annexation did not imply possession of occupation, but that many a time the new owners had a large rebellion on their hands, with locals retreating to the hills and often attacking the area between Brendam, Cronk and Rolf's Castle, which was usually occupied. After a rebellion in 1404, Henry IV gave Man to the Stanley family. Sudrians had never acknowledged the Percys, and took great delight in sacking them under the leadership of their regent, Sir Arnold de Normanby. Sir Peter de Rigby was Henry IV's commander, and during the campaign he and de Normanby developed a considerable liking and respect for one other. Upon de Normanby's surrender of Sodor and his regency, Henry showed wisdom and returned its government to de Normanby and the Abbot of Cronk. Some Sudrians were a little reluctant to accept the new order, but Henry created de Normanby Earl of Sodor, showing Sudrians that he respected their former regent whilst bringing the resistance to an end and attaching Sodor to the English Crown.\n\nMichael Colden, Abbot of Cronk, and Sir Geoffrey Regaby had thought about the possibility of the reformation and both thought it wrong for people to be harassed or persecuted. They were also aware of King Henry's wishes and of Cromwell's thievish plans, and were determined to ensure that the Abbey revenues were kept for the Church and Sodor, not wasted. To this period, 1540 onwards, many churches and schools were built on the island where they were most needed, and in many of these the former brethren of the Abbey found employment. Their policy of \"no pressure\" ensured that during the reign of Edward VI relations between Roman Catholics and the Church of England were good, and the Roman Catholic reaction, which swept swiftly through England during Queen Mary's reign, hardly touched Sodor. Colden died in 1565, but his policy was continued by Timothy Smeale, allowing Roman Catholics to worship at their churches. It was on 27 April 1570, when Pope Pius V excommunicated Queen Elizabeth I, that some reluctantly felt that they must be recusants, and worship separately. They made it understood that, while on the subject of religion they could not accept Queen Elizabeth as Head of the Church, this did not make their loyalty to her waver. By 1600, most of the people of that generation had died and as children leant towards the Church of England there remained no ill feeling.\n\nThe Earldom was extinguished by attainder in 1715; but in 1873, Queen Victoria responded to popular petition and restored John Arnold Norramby to the Earldom of Sodor and estates of Ulfstead Castle. The earls of Sodor are active on the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster, but as there is no Duke of Lancaster distinct from the King or Queen of England, the Earl is referred to as a Duke by Sudrians.\n\nSee \"List of fictional monarchs#Island of Sodor\".\n\nThe railways of Sodor include standard-gauge, narrow-gauge, rack railways and 15-inch gauge railways. The first few stories concerned standard-gauge engines (including Thomas the Tank Engine). Stories set in the narrow gauge railways soon followed.\n\nThe standard-gauge railway system consists of a main line and several branch lines. They are linked to and interoperable with each other and with the mainland system, so the standard-gauge engines can visit London (for example) under their own power. In the story \"Gordon Goes Foreign\" several of the engines recount their stories of working in London when they were younger, and later in the same story Gordon pulls a train of mainland rolling stock to London. In the story \"The Fat Controller's Engines\" several of the \"famous engines\" visit London, and run on the mainland permanent way to get there.\n\nThere are two narrow-gauge railways and a 15-inch gauge railway, the Skarloey Railway, in addition to the rack-and-pinion Culdee Fell mountain railway, and the 15 inch-gauge Arlesdale Railway, each isolated from the other. Movements of rolling stock (particularly engines) to and from the narrow-gauge railways is achieved by transporting them on flatbeds on the standard-gauge system, for example when Rheneas is sent away for repairs in a flashback in the story \"Skarloey Remembers\" and later returned in the story \"Gallant Old Engine\".\n\nEach of the narrow-gauge and 15-inch gauge railways links to the standard-gauge system at an interchange station:\n\n\"Research\" conducted by Awdry has revealed most of the known history concerning the railways on the Island of Sodor.\n\nThe first railway on the island, dating from 1806, was a horse-worked plateway from Cros-ny-Cuirn to Balladwail, a port south-east of Crovan's Gate, which is no longer rail-connected. Pack horses brought copper ore from a mine in the mountains down to Cros-ny-Cuirn, where it was loaded into wagons for the journey to the port. In 1820 the Crovan's Gate Mining Company extended the line up the valley to the mine by building a series of five inclined planes. At the same time, the rest of the 1806 line was rebuilt with fish-belly edge rail. The line continued in use until the Skarloey Railway was built, after which it was abandoned, although the overgrown remains can still be seen to this day.\n\nThe second railway, the Cronk and Harwick Railway, was established in 1830 as a coal railway line transporting coal to the Harwick docks as well taking miners to work. In 1854 the coal played out and the mines and railway closed. Its locomotives and rolling stock were sold off to other lines in the UK.\n\nA government-sponsored amalgamation of the standard-gauge railways in the Island occurred in 1914 to build a strategic railway for coastal defence called the North Western Railway. The railways concerned were:\n\nThe North Western Railway has had running rights into Barrow Central Station since the agreement with the London, Midland and Scottish Railway in 1925. There is a Scherzer rolling lift bridge of span and double track over the Walney Channel, designed by Topham Hatt and erected in 1915. The NWR built its headquarters at Vicarstown in 1915, but the administrative offices relocated to Tidmouth in 1926. Until the construction of the Jubilee Road Bridge in 1977, the NWR had rights for a car-ferry and worked an intensive and profitable service. British Rail had running powers over the Bridge to operate the joint NWR/BR suburban service from Barrow to Norramby.\nOn through- or express-trains, engines from the NWR are detached at Barrow and \"Other Railway\" engines take over. Since 1925 the NWR has also had its own loco shed, turntable and servicing facility here. There is also a joint goods-yard for exchange traffic.\n\nWith the nationalisation of the railways across the United Kingdom, the North Western Railway became the North Western Region of British Railways. It was allowed to keep a large degree of independence from the rest of the network, which explains why steam traction survived. The other railways on the island were not affected by the nationalisation. Since privatisation, the railway has again become the North Western Railway Company and, unlike most post-privatisation train companies, is responsible not just for the running of the freight and passenger operations, but also for the maintenance of the track and of the infrastructure of the railway.\n\nAll of the railway lines created in \"The Railway Series\" have their own pages with information on routes and the stations served.\n\nThe Island of Sodor in the \"Thomas & Friends\" television series differs significantly from that in the books. Wilbert and George Awdry's notes have been largely overlooked. The television version of Sodor appears quite larger and has more industry. The connection to the British mainland was not acknowledged until the 2013 feature-length film special \"\", which introduces \"The Vicarstown Rolling Bridge\", connecting Sodor to the mainland Britain.\n\nIn the 2000 film \"Thomas and the Magic Railroad\", the Island was portrayed vastly differently not only to the Railway Series but also to the television series. Sodor was a magical land that was supported by a magical railway line called \"The Magic Railroad\". Without the Magic Railroad, the island would vanish off the face of the Earth. In the film, one could only travel to Sodor via The Magic Railroad or gold dust. This means the only way Diesel 10 and Splodge (Splatter and Dodge) could have arrived on Sodor is via boat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053053", "title": "Command &amp; Conquer (1995 video game)", "text": "Command &amp; Conquer (1995 video game)\n\nCommand & Conquer, also known as Command & Conquer: Tiberian Dawn, is a 1995 real-time strategy video game developed by Westwood Studios and published by Virgin Interactive. Set in an alternate history, the game tells the story of a world war between two globalized factions: the Global Defense Initiative of the United Nations and a cult-like militant organization called the Brotherhood of Nod, led by the mysterious Kane. The groups compete for control of Tiberium, a mysterious substance that slowly spreads across the world.\n\nWestwood conceived \"Command & Conquer\" during the final stages of the development of \"Dune II\", and it expands on ideas explored in that title. Inspired by the events of the era, particularly the Gulf War, the team gave the game a modern warfare setting. The game contains live-action full motion video cutscenes, which star Westwood employees and a single professional actor, Joseph D. Kucan, who plays Kane. The Nintendo 64 port was developed by Looking Glass Studios.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" was a commercial and critical success, selling over three million copies and winning numerous awards. It has been cited as the title that defined and popularized the real-time strategy genre. The game was the first in the \"Command & Conquer\" series, which sold 30 million copies by 2009. To mark the 12th anniversary of the franchise, Electronic Arts, the current publisher and owner of the series, released the game for free in 2007.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" involves players operating as one of two playable factions on a map - the Global Defense Initiative (GDI), and the Brotherhood of Nod - developing bases, gathering resources and using them to produce troops, and then defeating their opponents by eliminating their army and either destroying or capturing their base. Base production and unit training is funded by gathering Tiberium, the game's sole resource, through the use of harvesting units, and processing them into credits through a refinery structure. Each faction has it own type of units, its own superweapon, and its own combat strategy: GDI rely on large-scale strategic attacks with expensive, but sturdy and powerful units; while Nod rely on bigger armies and using unconventional tactics with cheap and unusual units.\n\nProducing units requires establishing a base through a special unit called a Mobile Construction Vehicle (MCV) - MCVs can only be deployed in open flat land, and structures must be placed within close proximity with each other. Bases can be protected with defensive structures, and units are produced in production structures (i.e. Barracks for infantry), with tech buildings helping to unlock more advanced units; construction options function on a tech tree, in that certain buildings must be constructed to unlock new options. Silos can be built to store more resources, as the refinery structures can hold a finite amount, repair facilities can be built to repair damaged vehicles, and power plants are required to keep the base operational - low power slows down unit production, and stops defensive weapons working. In total, the game contain around fifty units and structures.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" features two single-player campaigns, one for each faction, in which the player must undertake a series of missions across a campaign map for their chosen faction. The objective of most campaign missions is usually to destroy units, or destroy / take control of enemy buildings, with each mission beginning with a briefing conducted using a mix of computer animations and live-action full motion video (FMV). At times during the campaign, the player can choose which mission to undertake, which offer different scenarios to overcome.\n\nThe original DOS release features multiplayer with up to four players, a rarity at the time, with internet-based multiplayer being made available in \"Command & Conquer Gold\", which also features SVGA visuals. The game's Sega Saturn and PlayStation ports lack multiplayer support, though the latter was released with the inclusion of the fifteen single-player missions from \"The Covert Operations\" expansion pack. The Nintendo 64 version, while lacking multiplayer support as well, features updated graphics, with 3D models and environments, and four new \"Special Ops\" missions, though the FMV cutscenes were removed and replaced with static images, accompanied by voice acting and sound effects.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" is set in an alternate timeline, and begins with a meteorite crashing near the river Tiber in Italy in the 1990s. The meteorite brings with it an alien substance that scientist call Tiberium, named after its impact site, which can absorb and crystallize precious metals from the surrounding soil, but also terraform its surroundings and produce extremely toxic gases and radiation that is fatal to humans and animals. An ancient, cultic secret society called the Brotherhood of Nod, who claims to have foreseen the potentials of this new substance through their self-proclaimed messianic figure known only as Kane, invests in the development of technology to harvest and refine Tiberium crystals, way ahead of the scientific community's own research, and use the resources it gathers to accumulate a rapidly growing army of followers worldwide.\n\nBy 1995, Tiberium has spread across the planet, with Nod having control of nearly half of substance that is growing, and conducting terrorist campaigns in wealthy countries, while establishing footholds in some of the poorer nations. To counter Nod, who are deemed a threat, the United Nations Security Council authorizes a bill for the formation of a multi-national military taskforce called the Global Defense Initiative, with the specific task of intervening against Nod across the globe. The conflict between the two sides eventually culminates in a world-wide war between GDI and Nod by 1996, with Kane focused on operations in Africa, while GDI conduct military operations in Europe to stabilise the region.\n\nWith the UN calling for GDI to assist in combating Nod in Europe, the player assists as a GDI commander under the command of General Mark Jamison Sheppard. After establishing a beachhead within Nod's territory in Eastern Europe, GDI focus on controlling Poland and Belarus and removing troops from occupied lands in Germany. However, Kane uses media manipulation to convince the world that GDI deliberately attacked and massacred the citizens of the Polish city of Białystok. Although Solomon denies GDI's involvement, the UN cuts funding to the military outfit, forcing GDI to mount defensive operations against a sudden surge of Nod attacks, including protecting bases and leading Tiberium scientist Dr. Ignatio Mobius. However, Nod soon finds themselves on the defensive upon learning that it was a ruse designed by Solomon and the UN to lure them into a false sense of security, with new funding allowing GDI to bring forth new combat units to help in battle. Eventually GDI locates Kane's main base of operation at a complex called the Temple of Nod in Sarajevo, Bosnia, with Solomon ordering his forces to launch a final assault to defeat him. GDI succeeds, with the complex destroyed by GDI's superweapon, the space-based Ion Cannon, ending the conflict, though leaving some experts to question if Nod will cease operating.\n\nWith Nod engaged in open warfare across the globe, Kane gives orders for his forces to secure territory in Africa, with his second-in-command Seth assigning the player, a new recruit, to assist in the Brotherhood's operations. After successfully conducting operations in Northern Africa through the use of both conventional and unconventional warfare, hitting GDI targets, eliminating warlords, and securing a set of codes for nuclear missiles, Seth attempts to send the recruit to attack the United States military, but is executed by Kane for initiating a rogue operation. Upon combating the chaos Seth created, and countering GDI's efforts to re-establish themselves in Northern Africa, Kane assigns his recruit to lead the charge in securing the rest of the continent, eventually culminating in them establishing a Temple of Nod in South Africa and securing control of GDI's Ion Cannon. With the cannon secured, Kane denotes victory in Africa, and makes plans to achieve the same in Europe, allowing the recruit to use the cannon to destroy one of four historical landmarks with the hijacked Ion Cannon - the White House, the British Houses of Parliament, the Eiffel Tower, or the Brandenburg Gate - thus shattering GDI's public image.\n\nWestwood Studios began developing \"Command & Conquer\" in early 1993, after conceiving the game near the end of \"Dune II\"’s development. The team sought to build on the foundation laid by their earlier game, and Westwood co-founder Brett Sperry later said that \"\"Command & Conquer\" was the net result of the \"Dune II\" wish list.\" Following the success of \"Dune II\", Sperry believed that \"it was time to build the ultimate RTS\" with an original intellectual property. He later said that he was \"fanatical about calling the game 'Command & Conquer',\" because he believed that the title was an ideal summary of the gameplay.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" originally took place in a high fantasy world before being redesigned. The team changed to a modern warfare setting because of the political climate of the mid-1990s, and they later cited the Gulf War as a key influence in this decision. Westwood co-founder Louis Castle said that \"[w]ar was in the news and the threat of terrorism was on everyone's mind\". The setting was further influenced by Sperry's belief that future wars would not be \"nation-to-nation\", but would rather be \"fought between Western society and a kind of anarchistic terror organization that doesn't have a centralized government.\" The team sought to make the player feel like their computer was \"a terminal to a real battlefield\", going so far as to make the installation process resemble hacking a \"military infrastructure\". However, Castle noted that the team \"created [a parallel universe] to avoid dealing with the sobering issues of a real war.\"\n\nIn a retrospective, Paul Mallinson of \"Computer & Video Games\" (\"CVG\") wrote that the game's production was \"speedy, focused and fun\". Castle said that, because the company was creating other titles at the time, development of \"Command & Conquer\" was not a \"working party\"; but lead programmer Joe Bostic later said that it was \"so much fun that I would sometimes marvel that I actually got paid as well.\" The game's playtesters were enthusiastic about the game during development, which Castle later said had encouraged the team to work harder. The team created live-action FMV cutscenes for the game. These cutscenes contain no professional actors aside from Kucan, who played Kane and was heavily involved in their production. The cast is made up of Westwood team members, and a low budget meant that filming took place in \"spare rooms\" and warehouses. Castle later said that the team \"had no illusions that we were as good as TV or film,\" but that the cutscenes were not intentionally campy. He credited Kucan with \"taking [a] ragtag group of people who had no business in front of a camera and making something reasonably good.\" To replace the spice from \"Dune II\", the team introduced Tiberium, which was inspired by the 1957 B-movie \"The Monolith Monsters\". Castle said that the team's goal in both cases was to create \"a central resource that everybody was fighting over.\" As with \"Dune II\", the soundtrack was composed by Frank Klepacki.\n\nTo create the game's landscapes, the artists took digitized photographs of real world terrain and manipulated them with rendering techniques.\n\nThe game was released for DOS in 1995. In 1996, the game received a Windows 95 re-release titled \"Command & Conquer: Gold\" (also known as C&C 95), featuring SVGA visuals. A port for the Macintosh was released in 1996, with the Sony PlayStation and Sega Saturn versions following in 1996–97, and the Nintendo 64 version arriving on June 29, 1999. Due to a deal between Virgin Interactive and Sega, the console version was a Saturn exclusive until 1997. In 2007, \"Command & Conquer\" was released as a free download by Electronic Arts. The game's PlayStation version was later released on the PlayStation Network in Europe.\n\nIn 1996, Westwood released an expansion pack \"The Covert Operations\", adding 15 new missions, and unlocking an easter egg mini-campaign involving dinosaurs. A spin-off game titled \"Command & Conquer: Sole Survivor\" focuses entirely on online multiplayer, putting the players in control of single units in modes such as deathmatch and capture the flag.\n\nIn 2008, an unofficial patch was released to keep C&C working on both 32 and 64 bit versions of Windows XP and higher. The patch fixes several bugs in the game, and adds upgrades like higher resolution and support for language packs.\n\nA 3DO Interactive Multiplayer version of C&C was announced to be in development, but this port was never released.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" was a commercial hit. In the United States, PC Data declared it the fourth-best-selling CD-ROM product across all categories for October 1995, and #7 in the computer game category the following month. It was absent from December's top 10 in the country.\n\nBy April 1996, \"Command & Conquer\" had sold 500,000 copies worldwide, and Westwood Studios reported sales above 1 million units by September of that year. Domestically, the game was the seventh-best-selling computer game for the first half of 1996. The game was particularly popular in France and Germany, and sold 200,000 copies in the latter country by November 1996. Sales across all platforms reached 1.7 million units by February 1997, and the game went on to sell more than three million.\n\nCritical reception of \"Command & Conquer\" was highly positive. It was named the best strategy game of 1995 by \"PC Gamer US\" and—tied with \"\"—\"Computer Gaming World\", and the year's top real-time strategy title and overall \"Game of the Year\" by \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\". In 1998, \"Command & Conquer Gold\" was nominated at the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences' first annual Interactive Achievement Awards in the category \"Computer Strategy Game of the Year\".\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\"'s Bob Strauss offered the game effusive praise, writing: \"If you liked playing with toy soldiers as a kid, you'll think you've stepped on a land mine and gone to heaven\". Strauss believed that its cutscenes, voice clips and \"nonstop action\" served to \"[enliven] the usually stodgy war game genre\". After highlighting its multiplayer and citing its installation process as \"the coolest [...] I've ever seen\", he concluded that the game \"makes other war simulations look as flat as \"Risk\".\" A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" called it \"a game that any strategy fan has to pick up.\" While complaining at the lack of a high-resolution mode, he applauded the gameplay for its combination of simple and intuitive control with deep and complex strategy, and said the full motion video cutscenes add considerably to the game's depth. He also complimented the soundtrack and fast pace. Peter Smith of \"Computer Games Magazine\" called \"Command & Conquer\" \"an adrenaline rush in a box\", writing: \"Everything about this game shouts quality.\" Smith lauded the game's music and sound effects, gameplay and story, and even its install program. Smith noted some minor problems, citing issues with the game's artificial intelligence, but finished by saying that \"Westwood has really raised the bar with this one.\" Chris Hudak of \"GameSpot\" wrote: \"Starting from the load-screens and straight on 'til morning, \"Command & Conquer\" is one of the finest, most brilliantly-designed computer games I have ever seen.\"\n\nMartin E. Cirulis of \"Computer Gaming World\" wrote that \"Command & Conquer\" \"remains mainly a good, networkable version of \"Dune II\"\". Cirulis found the game's interface intuitive and described its online component as \"sophisticated and easy-to-use\", also praising its story for being \"as interesting as the actual tactics and gunfire\", and commented that he \"would buy \"C&C2\" just to see where things are going to end up\". However, according to him, the developers failed \"to correct major shortcomings\" in \"Dune II\", as its fog of war does not fit with the real-world setting, also finding fault with design choices in the game's missions, which he believed were structured like \"puzzles\" that allowed for only one way to win. Nevertheless, he concluded that it remained \"the best-looking and sounding strategy game yet\" despite its flaws, and that it was \"more than entertaining enough to make up for its shortcomings.\" Writing for \"PC Gamer US\", T. Liam McDonald wrote that the game \"has all the playability of \"Dune II\", but with more diverse units, more unusual scenarios, and impressively executed wraparound cutscenes.\" McDonald called its combat a \"satisfying blend of action and strategy\", and noted that this, combined with an attention to \"little details\", made the game a \"success\", also praising its cutscenes as \"terrifically executed\". Although he was disappointed that the game lacked \"fancier terrain or another zoom level\", McDonald concluded: \"This game is a whole lot of fun, so get it, play it, and love it like your own child.\"\n\nThe \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" review team gave the Saturn version their \"Game of the Month\" award, citing the excellent translation of the PC version, accessible gameplay, and numerous strategic options, though they criticized that the soldier graphics are too small. All four of them gave identical scores to the PlayStation version, though they noted it had marginally exceeded the Saturn version by including additional missions. Rich Leadbetter of \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" also praised the game's accessibility, as well as the mission design, effective point-and-click control with the gamepad, and strong AI for both enemy and allied troops. However, he said the game could have been done on the Sega CD, and objected to the omission of the PC version's multiplayer mode, contending that had it been included \"Command & Conquer\" would have been one of the Saturn's best games. Major Mike reviewed both the Saturn and PlayStation versions in the same issue of \"GamePro\". He described them as largely the same, and said they both suffer from inaccurate cursor movement, but recommended them for their strong gameplay, sound effects, and graphics, especially the full motion video. \"Next Generation\" deemed the Saturn version \"the triumphant high point of [the] real-time strategy genre for home consoles.\" Like Leadbetter, the reviewer highly criticized the removal of multiplayer support, but argued that the lowered graphics resolution would only be noticeable to players of the PC version, and identified the remixed redbook soundtrack and added transparencies as improvements over the PC version. Reviewing \"Command & Conquer\"’s Sega Saturn port, \"Next Generation Online\" commented that it did little to improve the core game, and noted its lower resolution and missing multiplayer functionality as significant negatives. However, the review still called it one of the console's best games and a \"must-buy for Saturn owners\". \"CVG\"’s Kim Randell wrote that the Saturn version is \"up there with AM2's finest games\" and \"a joy to play\", as it \"thrives on deceptively simple gameplay\" despite its unimpressive graphics and sound, and adding that the later missions are \"masterpieces of gaming design\". Randell believed that the port's missing multiplayer mode would have made it as good as \"Virtua Fighter 2\" and \"NiGHTS Into Dreams\", but that it \"isn't far off this realm of excellence\" without it.\n\n\"Game Informer\"'s three reviewers praised the Saturn and PlayStation ports of \"Command & Conquer\". While the magazine's Andy McNamara wrote that \"the best way to play \"C&C\" is on the PC\", he called the console version a \"fantastic port\" marred only by \"rather clumsy\" controls and the inability to save in the middle of a mission. Andrew Reiner agreed, calling it a \"flawless PC port\" that \"perfectly\" recreates the thrills of the original; but he was displeased that it did not feature multiplayer support. Jon Storm summarized it as \"an excellent addition to any PlayStation or Saturn library.\" Glenn Rubenstein noted in his review that the score he was giving the Saturn version was the highest \"GameSpot\" had yet given to any console game, even exceeding \"Super Mario 64\" and \"Tomb Raider\". He said the game had converted well to Saturn, and in particular contested the way other critics counted the omission of multiplayer against it, saying that such a feature was beyond the console's capabilities. He concluded, \"With its mix of in-depth strategy, tactical action, and slick storytelling, \"Command & Conquer\" brings console strategy games out of the shadow they've lived in for so long.\" Though he noted the PlayStation version had the advantage of additional missions, he held it to be slightly inferior to the Saturn version due to the faster speed at which it plays. He also criticized the lack of multiplayer, noting that the PlayStation Link Cable could have been used (apparently unaware that a similar link cable was available for the Saturn). A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" wrote: \"Just like the ported Saturn version, PSX [PlayStation] \"C&C\" adds little to the existing game.\" The review's author cited the lower resolution and lack of multiplayer as low points, but noted that the addition of the \"Covert Operations\" missions \"adds to the overall replay value\".\n\nReviewing the Nintendo 64 version of \"Command & Conquer\", Erik Reppen of \"Game Informer\" wrote that it \"has done an amazing job of completely reworking the old levels into a 3D polygonal format.\" Although he said that the game \"offers plenty to keep you entertained\", he disliked the heavy sound compression and the loss of the FMV cutscenes present in earlier versions. IGN's Aaron Boulding opened his review by saying: \"To their credit, Looking Glass developed \"Command & Conquer\" with all of the elements you want from a quality RTS.\" Boulding praised the gameplay and the \"Special Ops\" missions, but noted that most of the units were distinct from the PC version. He was less happy with the port's graphics, calling them \"hit and miss\", though he lauded the audio effects and voice work. Boulding also said the controls were well handled, though a bit complicated, and concluded: \"\"Command & Conquer\" is a fine game and may get a little addictive for anyone who never got into the PC version of the game. But for anyone who ran through the old version, the N64 won't offer much in the way of new thrills beyond the new N64 missions and the 3D world.\"\n\n\"Next Generation\" commented that, while earlier ports had trouble recreating the mouse controls of the original, the Nintendo 64 version \"handles it beautifully\". The review's author stated that the controller's analog stick \"allow[s for] the same simple point and click interface as the PC\", adding that \"the entire interface is equally responsive and well planned.\" The reviewer praised its graphics and audio, even calling the voice acting \"the most competent [...] ever to appear en masse on the platform\", but disliked its lack of multiplayer support, and concluded that the port \"keeps the spirit of the game perfectly while adapting it wonderfully to the limitations of the N64\". James Bottorff of \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" believed that advancements in the real-time strategy genre rendered the Nintendo 64 port outdated, despite its new \"bells and whistles\". However, Bottorff wrote that those who had not played earlier \"Command & Conquer\" releases would find it \"highly addictive\", adding that its \"controls are surprisingly good for a PC port.\"\n\nOn November 14, 2018, EA announced they will release a remastered version of \"Command & Conquer\" (along with its expansion packs) and its prequel, \"\", in collaboration with Petroglyph Games.\n\n\"Command & Conquer\" spawned the \"Command & Conquer\" franchise, which sold 30 million copies in total by November 2009. The story of the game continued in the , including an action title \"\" that revisits the original game's First Tiberium War. In 1996, Westwood launched the prequel series \"\", telling the story of a global conflict between the Western nations and the Soviet Union which took place instead of World War II.\n\nThe game has also been cited as a large influence on the real-time strategy genre overall. In 1996, \"Computer Gaming World\" ranked \"Command & Conquer\" as the 48th best game of all time, opining that despite being not \"as complete a design as \"Warcraft II\"\", the game set \"a new standard for great multiplayer play\". That same year, \"Next Generation\" ranked it as the 49th top game of all time for how \"it brought war gaming out of prehistoric, hexagonal mire and made it cool\". \"CVG\"’s Mallinson wrote in 2002 that \"hundreds of other strategy games\", from \"StarCraft\" to \"Age of Empires\", had borrowed concepts from \"Command & Conquer\" and \"the RTS genre is still thriving, and that is all thanks to \"Command & Conquer\"\". Bruce Geryk of GameSpot commented that \"the name [\"Command & Conquer\"] is nearly synonymous with RTS gaming\"; and GameSpy's Mark Walker wrote that \"\"Warcraft\" and \"Dune II\" were little more than warm up acts\" for \"Command & Conquer\", which \"blew open the genre\", and credited the title with popularizing real-time strategy games in the years following its release. Dan Adams of IGN wrote that the game, alongside \"\", \"cemented the popularity\" of the real-time strategy genre in the wake of \"Dune II\". Polish web portal Wirtualna Polska ranked it as the seventh most addictive game \"that stole our childhood\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2053056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053056", "title": "Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun", "text": "Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun\n\nCommand & Conquer: Tiberian Sun is a 1999 real-time strategy video game developed by Westwood Studios, published by Electronic Arts, and released exclusively for Microsoft Windows on August 27, 1999. The game is the sequel to the 1995 game \"Command & Conquer\", and featured a number of improvements on the original including a change to in-game perspective, balancing of units between playable factions, additional resources for gathering, new graphic effects and a new soundtrack. The main story of the game focuses on a new conflict between the Global Defense Initiative (GDI) and the Brotherhood of Nod, 30 years after the previous war between the two sides, after Kane returns from the dead with a plan that GDI seek to thwart.\n\nThe game suffered numerous delays during development, with a number of additional features added to the game within the expansion pack \"Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun - Firestorm\", including a multiplayer global war mode. \"Tiberian Sun\" was a commercial success and received positive reviews from critics, despite some of the technical bugs in the game. The game was later succeeded by the 2007 sequel \"\", while the game and its expansion were later licensed by Electronic Arts as freeware on February 12, 2010.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" sees players taking on opponents by building bases, gathering resources, creating armies, and then defeating their opposition by wiping out their units and either capturing or destroying their bases. Gameplay functions similar to the 1995 game, though both playable factions in the games received significant changes to balance out units but retaining notable differences with new structures and units for each - GDI rely on heavy strategic attacks, with new technologies including special defensive walls and units that can traverse bodies of water; Nod rely on unconventional, fanatical methods of attacks, with new technologies including deployable units for defensive purposes and units that can burrow under the ground and emerge behind enemy defences.\n\nThe game operates on a new isometric game engine featuring varying level terrain to give the impression of a true 3D environment, and dynamic lighting that simulates day/night cycles and special effects such as ion storms. Some buildings and armored units are rendered with voxels, although infantry is still rendered as sprites. Tiberium, the game's sole resource required to fund construction of structures and units, now consists of two types - the standard green tiberium, and a more valuable blue tiberium - while bridges in the game that are destroyed can be repaired by using a faction's engineer unit on a special hut building connected to the bridge. Crates can be found that convey bonuses such as extra credits, or healing a set number of damaged units.\n\nWhile the game features network and online multiplayer modes, the game's campaign mode allows players to choose one of two factions who conduct missions across three different theatres of war - North America, Europe, and North Africa. Each faction's campaign features different missions, though a number of these include optional side missions which can be undertaken, and if completed confer a bonus that reduces its difficulty, ranging from additional units, to a reduction in enemy units.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" takes place within an alternate timeline involving two factions - the Global Defense Initiative (GDI), and the Brotherhood of Nod - and an alien substance called \"Tiberium\", and occurs after the events of \"Command & Conquer\". Tiberium has become a serious problem for the world since its arrival in the 1990s, not only in causing a conflict between GDI and Nod over control of the valuable crystals it creates from leeching precious metals from the soil - leading to the First Tiberium War - but also allowing the substance to slowly spread and terraform the planet's ecology and landscape, including causing mutations in humans, the formation of new alien lifeforms, and the development of new weather patterns called Ion Storms. By the 21st century, GDI is focused on researching the means to combat Tiberium's spread, making use of an orbital space station called the \"Philadelphia\" to command its forces, while Nod has splintered following the presumed death of its leader Kane, with both factions working to develop new technology to provide each with equal strength in their armies, including armoured walkers, cyborgs, advanced defensive measures, and armoured infantry.\n\nThe campaigns of \"Tiberian Sun\" focus on a new global conflict erupting in 2030, when Kane returns and re-energises Nod, forcing GDI to combat their efforts, and resulting in the Second Tiberium War. GDI's campaign focuses on the efforts of a commander who must combat the sudden surge of attacks, working alongside a faction of mutants known as \"The Forgotten\", in order to thwart Kane's latest plans with Tiberium. Nod's campaign focuses on the efforts of an officer who escapes execution by a de facto leader, controlled by GDI, and works to reunite Nod in order to complete Kane's plans. Much of the appearances of units and buildings are influenced by science fiction elements.\n\nGDI commander Michael McNeil is recalled from a training exercise to assist in combating Nod, after being informed by his superior, General James Solomon, that Kane has returned. McNeil is assigned with initially pushing out Nod forces from GDI territories in North America, led by Nod general and drug lord Vega, before Solomon assigns him to assist a recon team in securing a ship of alien origin that the Brotherhood have taken an interest in. Although the ship is secured, GDI finds it cleaned out by Vega and proceed to track him down, coming across a mutant named Umagon who requests their help in rescuing Tratos, the leader of the Forgotten, who can help explain what Vega stole. Discovering that the ship contained an alien database called the Tacitus that Kane sought, McNeil pursues Vega to his base in Central America. Cornered and learning that Kane has no further use for him, Vega takes a fatal drug overdose before his base is nuked, informing McNeil before he dies that the Tacitus is already being shipped to Nod's base in North Africa.\n\nLearning that Nod is pursuing after GDI's research in Northern Europe, focused on creating sonic crystals that can help combat Tiberium's spread, McNeil is assigned to reclaim an important GDI base in the region before pursuing after the stolen crystals. However, GDI soon learns that Kane has developed chemical missiles that can accelerate the spread of Tiberium across the continent, forcing McNeil to combat the imminent threat it poses along with eliminating a factory developing a new aircraft for the Brotherhood. Eventually, GDI moves towards Egypt to combat Nod at their main base in Cairo, only to learn that Kane's ultimate plan is to launch an ICBM missile containing a warhead of pure, concentrated Tiberium, that can transform the entire planet. Against the advice of Solomon, McNeil launches a direct assault on Kane's base, ultimately destroying the missile and killing Kane, ending the conflict once again, and securing the Tacitus for GDI's research team to analyze.\n\nAnton Slavik, an officer of Nod's elite unit called \"The Black Hand\", is arrested by the Brotherhood's new leader Hassan as a spy of GDI. Before he can be executed, Slavik is rescued by a member of his crew, posing as a Nod journalist, and begins working to reunite Nod in Northern Africa, with the assistance of the Brotherhood's AI CABAL. Shortly after capturing Hassan and ending the internal conflict within the Brotherhood, Slavik charges him for treason, revealing him to be a GDI puppet. Before Hassan is executed, Kane announces his return, fully reuniting Nod's splinter factions. Pleased with Slavik's work, Kane assigns him to disrupt a GDI excavation at Nod's former temple in Sarajevo, in order to prevent them locating an alien database and a special project housing it. However, Slavik finds the project missing, having been taken by Vega. Forced to North America to retrieve it, Slavik and his crew recover the missing project and the database (the Tacitus), but are tricked by GDI into attacking a research facility, leading to them being captured.\n\nImprisoned in a base in Northern Europe, Slavik receives a message from CABAL that a Nod strike force has arrived to rescue him, and executes a plan that leads to his escape. Learning from Kane that he has completed a new missile that will give Nod an ultimate victory and shape the future of the planet, Slavik implements operations to disrupt GDI's research into a new advanced battle walker, and captures a member of a highly advanced GDI base in order to infiltrate it. With Kane's plan nearing completion, Slavik attacks the base, captures it, and uses anti-satellite weapons to destroy the Philadelphia. Kane then launches his missile, achieving ascension and vanishing, while transforming the Earth into a Tiberiumized planet that he had envisioned as humanity's evolutionary future.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" was announced after the release of the original \"Command & Conquer\", with a trailer featured on its discs. After Virgin Interactive Entertainment was facing financial difficulties and was selling some of its assets, Electronic Arts acquired Westwood Studios in 1998 and published \"Tiberian Sun\", and had no direct part in its development. \"Tiberian Sun\"s development was troubled before and after the acquisition, and was delayed numerous times - first for November 1998, then for spring 1999, then ultimately summer 1999. This resulted in a number of engine and gameplay features being omitted from the game, some of which were later included in \"Firestorm\" expansion pack, as well as numerous bugs which have not been fixed even after the patching period.\n\nSeveral images and references in the \"Tiberian Sun\" \"rules\" file indicate that more features were planned for the release. A former Westwood employee, Adam Isgreen, who was working for Petroglyph Games at the time, elaborated upon them in March and May 2007. Drop-pods were intended to be customizable for GDI before deployment. Lighting was intended to make a huge difference for day/night play, as units spotted by light posts/towers would be susceptible to enemy fire at greater ranges, and in turn would suffer a reduction in their own range ability. Westwood planned the Hunter/Seeker Droid option to support selection of target types, but ultimately the droid was made to attack at random. Developers also did not have enough time to finalize balanced differences in terrain types.\n\nWhile art direction and balancing worked out according to plan, during development many other problems occurred. For example, the dynamic battlefield with terrain alteration and forest fires was very ambitious, but had to be reduced as it led to unsolvable path finding problems. Also a \"loadout\" screen was to be implemented, allowing commanders to pick units to take into battle before missions. The idea did not fit into the final project, so it was cut although fully developed. Other unpolished ideas were kept in leading to a lot of feature creep. The game also had planning troubles in post production. Storage and network requirements for the digitized video did not meet the demands. The studio was working with professional actors for the first time. Recording started early when plot lines where not fully developed, but also not subject to change as re-recording would be too expensive and interfere with localisation schedules. The game engine's shift to make it look more 3D and destructible bridges took over ten times longer to program as originally estimated. Adding repairable bridges that can also be passed underneath complicated systems such as path-finding, Z-buffering, rendering, unit behavior, and AI. The bridges became a core element that was used excessively in map design.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" featured full motion video cutscenes as with the 1995 game, though while the franchise's cutscene director Joseph D. Kucan reprised his role as Kane, the cast of characters created for the game involved a number of well-known Hollywood actors - GDI characters included the actors Michael Biehn and James Earl Jones; Nod characters included Frank Zagarino; and Forgotten characters included the actors of Christine Steel, Christopher Winfield, and Nils Allen Stewart.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" features a futuristic and ambient soundtrack by Jarrid Mendelson and Frank Klepacki, who composed the signature themes for the movie sequences, as well as the game's with the intention to differ from the original Command & Conquer in order to capture the mood for each mission. Klepacki and Mendelson's soundtrack was released on CD, with only 16 tracks, on November 9, 2005, by EA Recordings (E.A.R.S), excluding the five remaining tracks and the Firestorm tracks.\n\n\"Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun – Firestorm\" is an expansion pack developed by Westwood for \"Tiberian Sun\", and published by Electronic Arts on March 7, 2000. The expansion pack brings a number of gameplay elements missing from the main game, as well as two new campaigns set after the events of the GDI campaign of the main game, a selection of new units, and the inclusion of a third faction for Skirmish mode and multiplayer. One of the more notable elements brought in by the expansion pack was the return to FMV briefings directed towards the player and a linear storyline combining the campaigns. The game's story focuses on a crisis that slowly emerges when both GDI and Nod try to make use of the AI CABAL to help them with their operations, unaware it is using them for its own schemes.\n\nIn 2034, several months after the Second Tiberium War has concluded, GDI conducts a salvage operation to recover important technology from Kane's former Temple in Cairo, including the alien database known as the Tacitus. Shortly after it is recovered, an ion storm hits the transport carrying it and causes it to crash. Because of a communication blackout with the space station Philadelphia, GDI officer General Cortez assumes temporary command from a ground base, and assigns a commander to recover the database and any survivors at the crash site, whereupon the core is sent to a GDI research team led by Cortez's ex-wife Dr. Boudreau, who is working to find the means to counter the spread of Tiberium before the planet becomes too toxic for humans to live on.\n\nMeanwhile, Black Hand leader Anton Slavik faces opposition from several Nod council members to allow him to lead the Brotherhood, and assigns a task force to help him reactivate the Brotherhood's AI CABAL. Once active, CABAL assigns a Nod commander to cause disruptions against GDI settlements, as well as eliminating the mutant leader Tratos, forcing GDI to quell the resultant riot that erupts. Slavik becomes concerned over the assignments his commander received from CABAL and soon orders the AI to be shut down, only for it turn against Nod. GDI, seeking another way to translate the Tacitus with Tratos dead, acquires a core belonging to CABAL in order to use the AI, and soon learn the database is missing a segment. Upon the segment being recovered and connected to the database, CABAL betrays GDI and attacks them with cyborgs, forcing Cortez to order the evacuation of Boudreau's team.\n\nWith both GDI and Nod seeking to stop the crisis being caused by CABAL, Cortez orders his forces to prevent the AI from securing humans to be processed into more cyborgs, while Slavik assigns a team to raid a GDI base and secure an EVA unit to replace the rogue AI. Eventually, both sides form a ceasefire in the wake of CABAL's actions, deeming the AI too great a threat to ignore. Both sides launch operations to counter CABAL's forces, and eventually destroy his core, ending the crisis. Boudreau eventually manages to unlock the Tacitus and acquires a vast amount of data, allowing Cortez to provide good news to the rest of GDI command as the communicaiton blackout ends. Meanwhile, Slavik assumes full command of Nod, making certain to continue the Brotherhood in following the visions and prophecies of Kane. Unknown to both sides, CABAL's memory feeds into a hidden cryobunker, where Kane resides, recovering from his wounds inflicted towards the end of the Second Tiberium War.\n\n\"Firestorm\" follows the events as they unfolded in the GDI ending of \"Tiberian Sun\", with its campaigns no longer structured into two competing storylines but consisting of two different narratives over the same series of events. With Nod fractured into feuding warlords following Kane's death, Anton Slavik is determined to keep Kane's ideology alive through the resurrection of Nod's highly advanced artificial intelligence, CABAL (Computer Assisted Biologically Augmented Lifeform). Meanwhile, the Global Defense Initiative continues its ongoing campaign to stop the spread of Tiberium and its monstrous mutations by retrieving the extraterrestrial Tacitus device, and decides to take control of CABAL to help it decode the device (after Nod, under orders from CABAL, assassinated Tratos, leader of the Forgotten and the only other individual on Earth with the knowledge necessary to translate the Tacitus). Unbeknownst to both GDI and Nod, CABAL has two cores and intentionally allows each faction to take possession of one so that it can simultaneously manipulate both factions to do its bidding. After securing the Tacitus, CABAL goes rogue and attempts to conquer the world through the systematic assimilation of human populations into cyborg armies, forcing GDI and Nod to unite temporarily against it. Upon successfully defeating CABAL, GDI is able to recover the Tacitus and finds a large portion of it having already been translated, bringing new hope to combating Tiberium infestation; in the Nod ending, the defeated CABAL appears to merge with the consciousness of a resurrected/recovering Kane.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" was highly anticipated since the beginning of its development. It was the fastest selling game on the EA games label, selling 1.5 million copies within a month. In the German gaming magazine PC Player issue 01/2000, \"Tiberian Sun\" received a special award as \"Most Hyped Game in 1999\" (the year the game was released). The earlier \"Command & Conquer\" games had been commercial successes in Germany, with sales between 500,000 and 700,000 units in the region. Within eight days of release, it received a \"Platinum\" award from the Verband der Unterhaltungssoftware Deutschland (VUD), indicating sales of at least 200,000 units across Germany, Austria and Switzerland. This performance set records in Germany, according to the VUD. The committee raised it to \"Double-Platinum\" status (400,000 sales) by the end of June 2000, which made it the third computer game ever to receive the designation. \"Tiberian Sun\" sold over 1 million copies by October 12, after having shipped 1.5 million for its launch. It sold 2.4 million before the release of \"Red Alert 2\".\n\nIn the United States, \"Tiberian Sun\" sold 419,533 copies by the end of 1999, for revenues of $18.62 million. This made it the region's sixth-best-selling and fourth-highest-grossing computer game of 1999. It sold another 283,544 units ($8.08 million) in the country during 2000. In the United Kingdom, it remained the sixth-best-selling computer game of all time by 2006.\n\n\"Tiberian Sun\" was voted #29 in PC Gamer Magazine's Readers All-Time Top 50 Games Poll in the April 2000 issue. GameGenie.com rated the game 5/5, and stated: \"This game is worth much more than what you pay, because if you look at everything that has been put together in this game, you'll see how truly awesome it is. My point, and bottom line, is that just about anyone can enjoy this game. They may not sit down and play it for hours on end every day like a large number of war gamers will, but they still can watch the movies and play around with the units enough that they'll have fun. I heartily recommend this game to everyone.\"\n\nDaniel Erickson reviewed the PC version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Westwood has fine tunes \"Command & Conquer\", but that's not enough to please the RTS-crazed gaming public.\"\n\n\"GameSpot\" noted that the new soundtrack is \"catchy\", and stated that the game is an excellent sequel to the original Command & Conquer.\n\nDespite some of the game's technical issues, many reviewers considered the interactive environment, new graphics, new array of units, new concepts, single-player (story wise) and the popular multi-player to be the significant high-points of \"Tiberian Sun\", and credited it with high rankings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053059", "title": "Infernal (Danish band)", "text": "Infernal (Danish band)\n\nInfernal (occasionally stylized with metal umlaut as Infërnal) is a dance-pop group from Denmark, consisting of members Lina Rafn and Paw Lagermann. They made their Danish debut in 1997 with the release of the track \"Sorti de L'enfer\", and have gone on to international chart success in recent years. Their most successful single to date has been \"From Paris to Berlin\", which charted well in many European countries throughout 2006 and 2007. In addition to the original single, an alternate version was released in the UK titled \"From London to Berlin\", supporting England in the 2006 Football World Cup.\n\nInfernal have released four studio albums, with the 1998 debut album \"Infernal Affairs\" reaching double platinum sales in Denmark. Their mainstream breakthrough came with \"From Paris to Berlin\" from 2004, and the success continued with \"Electric Cabaret\" in 2008, certified with double platinum and platinum, respectively.\n\nPaw Lagermann and Lina Rafn have made a comeback in 2012 as a duo called Paw&Lina with the hit single \"Stolt af mig selv?\"\n\nInfernal started out as a three-piece band in 1997 with Lina, Paw, and Søren Haahr, but Søren left the group in 2000. Initially they were known for their unconventional style of singing as well as their experimental blend of different genres of music. In recent years they have turned towards more songwriting and their sound have gone from a subgenre club-sound to dance-oriented pop-sound aimed at the charts. An example of their early musical experiments is their track \"Kalinka\" which is based on the Russian Drobushki folk melody. From 1998 to 2004, the band released four albums in their native Denmark, three studio albums, one of them being a re-issue and one remix/live compilation album. All of them spawned Top 10 hits in Denmark, for example \"Sunrise\", \"Muzaik\", \"Kiss The Sky\", \"Kalinka\" and \"You Receive Me\", the latter being the theme song for a Danish season of the TV show \"Big Brother\".\n\nIn 2004, their third studio album \"From Paris to Berlin\" was released. With the release of the title track, \"From Paris to Berlin\", they went on to major international chart-success. \"From Paris to Berlin\" became the only song released by a Danish act nominated at the Nordic Music Awards 2005. Ahead of the World Cup 2006, \"From Paris to Berlin\" was re-recorded for the English market with lyrics celebrating the English football squad, titled \"From London to Berlin\". However, the song was withdrawn from radio airplay and TV following England's knockout from the World Cup. In July 2006, \"From Paris to Berlin\" climbed to #2 in the UK charts and remained in the top five for seven weeks, becoming the 6th best selling single in the UK in 2006.\n\nThe following single released in the UK was \"Self Control\". It was a cover of a 1984 song by Italian pop singer Raf, which was also covered by Laura Branigan that same year. The Infernal version stalled at #18 in the UK charts, and #14 in Ireland. The single wasn't released in Spain, due to a similar version being released by Spanish singer Soraya Arnelas. Instead, they released \"Ten Miles\" in Spain, which topped the Spanish singles charts in November 2006. \"I Won't Be Crying\" served as the third single in Europe but failed to build momentum and gain significant airplay in the UK. It still went on to become a moderate hit in Europe and became the band's most watched video on YouTube, passing 3,000,000 views.\n\nOn 28 May 2007, the band released a new version of their \"From Paris to Berlin\" album, this time in Europe and Asia. The new album contained two new songs and a bonus DVD on the Japanese edition. Counting sales of both first and second versions, \"From Paris to Berlin\" has sold more than one million copies worldwide.<br>\nAfterwards, \"Ten Miles\", was released in Europe. The song became an unexpected hit for the duo, surpassing the peak of \"I Won't Be Crying\" in Europe and reaching Top 5 in Poland.\n\n\"\"We are experimenting with the sound and the direction of the album. The only thing we know is that we want it to be a little less feathers&sequins and a bit more jeans&T-shirt’ish. I don’t know how that sounds. We only know what feeling we are trying to create.\"\"\n\n— Lina Rafn on the creation of the forthcoming 2010 album.\nThe band announced in February 2008 that their next album, \"Electric Cabaret\", would be released worldwide on 11 August 2008. The lead single, \"Downtown Boys\", was premiered at Boogie Prisen, a Danish award show on national TV. The single was released on 14 April 2008 and peaked at number #2 on the Danish Singles Chart, surpassing the peaks of \"Self Control\" and \"I Won't Be Crying\", and #1 for four weeks on the Danish Airplay Chart, being their first single to top this chart. On 13 June, 2008, the full track list and album cover were released.\nThe album met positive reviews, stating that stand-out tracks from the album include \"Punk Disco\" and \"Redefinition\". \"Electric Cabaret\" was Infernal's first album to be released digitally through the band's official website, allowing fans from countries where the band is not signed to buy their music legally.\n\nOn 26 June 2009 Lina Rafn announced that Infernal had started working on new material for their forthcoming fifth studio album, which was at that time scheduled to be released \"sometime in 2010.\" The overall sound of the album was described as, \"less feathers&sequins and a bit more jeans&T-shirt’ish.\" In November 2009, Paw Lagermann said that they had written three songs with Thomas Troelsen, who had previously co-written \"Dead or Alive\" from \"Electric Cabaret\", including one outtake from the previous album, which had been reworked. He also revealed that they recorded 16-18 potential songs for the album, some of which would remain instrumental tracks. On 4 April 2010, Lagermann revealed that the album \"Fall from Grace\" would be released in late September 2010. He also said that the lead single off the album, \"Love Is All...\", would be released in early May 2010. On 10 July 2010, the entire \"Fall from Grace\" track list was posted by Infernal themselves on their official website.<br>\n\nOn 15 September 2010, Infernal released the second single off \"Fall from Grace\", \"Alone, Together\". The single was released in Scandinavian iTunes Stores and their own Music Store that utilizes the music downloading service Klicktrack. In the first two weeks after its release, \"Fall from Grace\" sold only 1,850 copies in Denmark.\n\nOn 27 April 2012 Infernal released a new version of Love Is All... for the UK audience.\n\nOn 10 November 2012 Infernal released a brand new single \"Can't Go Back\". after the release of \"Can't Go Back\" when asked if this was a single from a new album Infernal said no and annouced that \"Fall from Grace\" would in fact be their last full album as the process of creating album can be very stressful for Lina who with her band mate Paw create the music as well as write the lyrics for the songs. so the band will just focus on new sings and release them going forward that way they are still creating new music and can focus on touring more.\n\nOn 4 January 2013 the record lable EMI released a Compilation Album \"De første fra Infernal\", which translates as \"The first From Infernal\".\n\nOn 9 September Infernal released a new Live EP \"Put Your Fucking Hands Up\".\n\nIn early 2017 Infernal released their first promotional single \"Hurricane\" from their forthcoming album, which they plan to release later this year. The official Hurricane Remix reached #2 on the Danish Dance Chart in February 2017 and spent 14 weeks in the Dance Chart top 10.\n\nSince then two more promotional singles have been released, titled \"Weightless\" and the newest single \"Holding on\" was released in May 2017.\n\nIn December 2017 Infernal released a new single through streaming platforms, \"Not Alone (Alo Elo Ele)\". The single entered the Danish iTunes download chart in the top 30 and is noted to have a different sound to previous singles. As of February 2018 the single has reached #9 on the Danish dance chart.\n\nOn 16 March 2018 a new single \"Fist Up\" was released.\n\nA tour was announced through their official Facebook page and will take commence from Autumn 2018.\n\nOn 18 May 2018 Infernal released their new single \"Made You love Me\".\n\nOn 12 October 2018 Infernal released a new single called 'Don't U Know That I Care'\n\nOn 21 December 2018 Infernal released another single, \"WeToo\"\n\nOn 12 July 2019 Infernaled released a new single, \"1000 Colours\". A track they wrote for the 25th anniversary of Danish brand REMA 1000. But after a positive response to it they decided to release it as a single.\n\nOn 15 November 2019 Infernal released a new single called 'Techno Tombola' in aid for their tour they was on at the time.\n\nin the middle of the COVID-19 Pandemic that was happening around the world Infernal annouced on Monday 4 May 2020 that a new single which would be released 8 May 2020. On 7th May 2020 Infernal annouced the title of their new single called 'We Luv' also they annouced the song is the official Vi Elsker Anthem!\n\nNotes\n\nA \"Waiting for Daylight\" was re-released in 2001 as \"Muzaik\" with re-recorded versions and previously unreleased songs.\nB \"From Paris to Berlin\" was re-released in an international, UK, US and Taiwan editions from 2005 to 2007.\nPaw Lagermann and Lina Rafn of Infernal have made recordings as a duo under the name Paw&Lina. A version of the Infernal album \"Electric Cabaret\" with a commentary track stretching over the entire album done in Danish was released crediting Paw & Lina and was also made available for download\n\nThe duo Paw&Lina also had a comeback in 2012 with the hit single \"Stolt af mig selv?\" that reached #8 in the Danish Singles Chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053063", "title": "Josef Müller (CSU politician)", "text": "Josef Müller (CSU politician)\n\nJosef Müller (27 March 1898 – 12 September 1979), also known as \"Ochsensepp\" (“Joe Ox”), was a German politician. He was a member of the resistance during World War II and afterwards one of the founders of the Christian Social Union (CSU). He was a devout Catholic and a leading figure in the Catholic resistance to Hitler.\n\nBorn in Steinwiesen, Upper Franconia, Müller was a lifelong Catholic. He entered the legal profession after serving as a mortar-man on the Western Front from 1916 to 1919. He was discharged as a senior sergeant.\n\nMüller became politically active during the Weimar Republic as a member of the Bavarian People’s Party.\n\nDuring the Nazi period he worked as an attorney defending many Nazi opponents. He also was part of the Catholic resistance and was in contact with resistance figures in the Abwehr (German military intelligence) such as Admiral Canaris, Hans von Dohnanyi and Hans Oster.\n\nEarly in the war (1939–1940), Müller made a number of trips to the Vatican under the identity \"X\". He carried correspondence between the German resistance and British intelligence that sought co-operation in a coup to replace Hitler's regime with an anti-Nazi civilian government supported by the German military. The correspondence and related intelligence passed through an intermediary to the hands of Pope Pius XII, who would review it and in turn forward it to Lord Halifax in Britain. Dohnanyi summarized the material into a report, containing list of individuals slated to assume roles in a post-coup civilian government. Despite Müller's urgings, Dohnanyi failed to destroy this document and during the purges following the failed assassination attempt on Hitler in July 1944, it fell into the hands of the Gestapo, which led to the arrests, trials and executions of many resistance members.\n\nThe Pope's Private Secretary, Robert Leiber, acted as the intermediary for Pius and met with Müller, who visited Rome in 1939 and 1940. The Vatican considered Müller to be a representative of Colonel-General Beck and agreed to offer the machinery for mediation between the German Resistance and the Allies. Hans Oster, Wilhelm Canaris and Hans von Dohnányi, backed by Beck, told Müller to ask Pius to ascertain whether the British would enter negotiations with the German opposition which wanted to overthrow Hitler. The British agreed to negotiate, provided the Vatican could vouch for the opposition's representative. Pius, communicating with Britain's Francis d'Arcy Osborne, channelled communications back and forth in secrecy. The Vatican agreed to send a letter outlining the bases for peace with England and the participation of the Pope was used to try to persuade senior German Generals Halder and Brauchitsch to act against Hitler. Negotiations were tense, with a Western offensive expected, and on the basis that substantive negotiations could only follow the replacement of the Hitler regime. The British government had doubts as to the capacity of the conspirators. Nevertheless, the resistance were encouraged by the talks, and Muller told Leiber that a coup would occur in February. Pius appeared to continue to hope for a coup in Germany into March 1940. The negotiations ultimately proved fruitless. Hitler's swift victories over France and the Low Countries deflated the will of the German military to resist Hitler. Muller was arrested during the Nazis first raid on Military Intelligence in 1943. He spent the rest of the war in concentration camps, ending up at Dachau.\n\nAfter his arrest in 1943 he was interned at the concentration camp Flossenbürg. Unlike fellow inmates Canaris, Oster and Bonhoeffer, who were executed in April 1945, Müller was spared at the last moment, at the foot of the scaffold, through the intervention of Johann Rattenhuber who convinced Ernst Kaltenbrunner that keeping Müller alive might help Germany negotiate more favourable surrender terms. Instead, Müller was transferred to Tyrol in late April 1945 along with 138 other \"special prisoners\" (\"Sonderhäftlinge\") and \"kin prisoners\" (\"Sippenhäftlinge\"), persons of prominence the Nazi SS had hauled off in the final days of the war to Niederdorf, South Tyrol, where they were to be hidden and used as bargaining chips. They were liberated by the Fifth U.S. Army on 5 May 1945.\n\nAfter the war, he advocated forming a new Christian party of both Catholics and Protestants. With Adam Stegerwald, he was one of the founders of the Christian Social Union (CSU), serving as the party's first chairman from 1946 to 1949. Müller belonged to the more liberal wing of the party and was the main opponent of the more conservative wing under Alois Hundhammer. He was one of the patrons of the young Franz Josef Strauß.\n\nAfter the CSU had won the first postwar elections in 1946, Hundhammer opposed Müller's nomination as minister-president of Bavaria and proposed for Hans Ehard to be elected as a compromise candidate instead. Once elected, Ehard appointed Hundhammer as minister of culture, but in 1947, Müller entered the cabinet as well as minister of justice. From 1950 onwards, he also was deputy prime minister. He resigned from the government in 1952.\n\nHe died on 12 September 1979, in Munich.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053075", "title": "2005 Kyrgyz presidential election", "text": "2005 Kyrgyz presidential election\n\nPresidential elections were held in Kyrgyzstan on 10 July 2005. The result was a landslide victory for acting President Kurmanbek Bakiev, marking the end of his interim government formed after the previous president, Askar Akayev, was overthrown in the revolution in March 2005.\n\nOn Thursday 24 March 2005, President Akayev fled the country as protesters overran government buildings. The Prime Minister Nikolai Tanayev also resigned within the same day creating a power vacuum. The constitution clearly states “If the President becomes unable to carry out their duties for reasons such as death, illness or impeachment, the Prime Minister shall carry out their duties until the election of a new head of state. This must take place within three months of the termination of their Presidency.” This therefore presented the Kyrgyz parliament with a legal problem. Ishenbai Kadyrbekov, the Speaker of Parliament immediately assumed power, unconstitutionally. The next day, opposition leader Kurmanbek Bakiyev was appointed Prime Minister and thus Interim President.\n\nThe interim period was one of increasing political tension and a breakdown in the rule of law. The new unicameral parliament – elected amid allegations of fraud – went into session on 22 March. However, its mandate was revoked just two days later, with the Supreme Court declaring the old chamber the rightful body. This decision was then once more revoked by an agreement between the rival chambers. The “old” parliament dissolved itself, and the “new” parliament gained recognition as the legitimate body (although a number of individual seats remained in dispute and subject to review by courts). This drew some protests from people who argued that the uprising was in direct relation to the rigged election which had created the new legislature. Additionally Bermet Akayeva and other politicians were allowed to sit in the new chamber for a significant period, before also having their mandates declared null and void.\n\nThe former President, Akayev refused to resign until April, creating a legally questionable period whereby two heads of state existed (The parliament had allowed Bakiyev to take over without impeaching Akayev or initiating any legal process that formally ended his Presidency). The former leader's lawyers are still claiming that he legally remains President of Kyrgyzstan.\n\nAn upsurge in violence also occurred following the revolution. On 1 June hundreds of people forced their way into Kyrgyzstan's Supreme Court, ejecting protesters who had held it for more than a month. The occupation was being held in support of candidates who lost during the parliamentary elections in April. The sit-in had prevented the court from operating. After an hour of clashes, unarmed police and soldiers reportedly managed to separate the two groups, whilst one witness said they had seen several injured people taken away in ambulances.\n\nKyrgyz legislator Jyrgalbek Surabaldiev was shot dead in Bishkek on 10 June, following an attack on another politician Bayaman Erkinbayev in April. During the same day protesters, allegedly demonstrating against Erkinbayev, were fired on in the southern city of Osh. At least one person was killed, and five others were injured as a result of the violence.\n\nThe Central Election Commission completed registering presidential candidates on 13 June. Elections had last been held on October 29, 2000, with the next previously scheduled for late 2005. The 2000 election was marred by allegations of fraud, heightened by the high percentage of the vote for President Akayev - 74%. His nearest rival was Omurbek Tekebayev who polled 14%. Former Vice-President and opposition leader Felix Kulov had initially decided to run in the 2005 poll, but later withdrew from the race. This followed an agreement with acting President Bakyiev, whereby Kulov would become Prime Minister should the interim leader win the election. Urmatbek Baryktabasov, a businessman from eastern Karakol, was refused registration for the election, after authorities cited his alleged Kazakh citizenship. More than 100 Kyrgyz protesters demanding his registration subsequently stormed Bishkek's main government building, occupying it for several hours.\n\nSix candidates were registered: acting President Kurmanbek Bakiev; businessman Akbaraly Aitikeev; ombudsman Tursunbai Bakir uulu; former Interior Minister Keneshbek Duishebaev; Democratic Movement of Kyrgyzstan head Jypar Jeksheev; and Non-governmental organization activist Toktaim Umetalieva. Former Jalalabad Province Governor Jusupbek Sharipov, a seventh candidate, withdrew from the race on 23 June. He said that he wished to support Bakiev-Kulov, and work towards national unity.\n\nThe candidates met each other in a series of televised head-to-head debates from 4 July, culminating in a gathering of all individuals on Friday 8 July.\n\nOver 80 international organisations requested accreditation for the election including: Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (369 observers), Commonwealth of Independent States Mission (261), National Democratic Institution (32), “Future without corruption” PU (24), Shanghai Cooperation Organization, International Democratic Institution, embassies and other organisations. In total, 810 observers and 187 foreign correspondents intend to cover the ballot.\n\nThe OSCE declared the process as \"tangible progress toward meeting OSCE and other international commitments\" in its internet press release the following day. However, election monitors observed a \"small number of serious irregularities,\" particularly during vote counting. Kimmo Kiljunen, head of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly delegation, told a news conference in Bishkek on 11 July. Representatives of the CIS-EMO however stated \"It is impossible to say that the presidential elections in Kyrgyzstan were fair and met the international standards in full\". The group had previously said that the disputed 2005 Kyrgyz parliamentary elections were \"free and fair\".\n\nMaksim Maksimovich, the lawyer of former President Akayev, claimed he could not vote in Moscow because his name had not been included on a voter list. His daughter, Bermet Akaeva however voted without incident in Bishkek. She claimed to have voted for the candidate who would not lead the country into catastrophe, according to RIA-Novosti news agency.\n\nWith Bakiev expected to easily win, the authorities feared a low turnout. However by 17:00 (Bishkek time) the Central Election Commission declared that around 53 percent of voters had participated. The law states that one vote over 50 percent is needed for the election to be deemed valid. The preliminary results of the ballot show that after 1,967 polling stations out of 2,181 (90.19%) returned results Bakiev has secured a landslide.\n\nBakiyev was sworn into office in Bishkek on 14 August.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053128", "title": "The Christmas Invasion", "text": "The Christmas Invasion\n\n\"The Christmas Invasion\" is a 60-minute special episode of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast on BBC One on 25 December 2005. This episode features the first full-episode appearance of David Tennant as the Tenth Doctor and is also the first specially produced \"Doctor Who\" Christmas special in the programme's history.\n\nIn the episode, principally set in London, the alien race the Sycorax invade Earth, demanding that either humanity surrenders or one third of them will die.\n\nThe newly regenerated Tenth Doctor, suffering side effects from his regeneration, crash lands the TARDIS in London. He exits to meet Jackie and Mickey, and collapses in front of them. They take him to Jackie's flat where they put him to bed. The Doctor tells them that his regeneration has gone wrong and theorises that the energy of his regeneration is luring an unseen foe to him. He passes out again and is returned to bed.\n\nThe Mars space probe \"Guinevere One\" is intercepted by a giant spaceship heading for Earth. When the probe's broadcast is shown on Earth, the face of a Sycorax appears. He demands Earth's surrender and uses blood control to cause a third of the world's population to go into a hypnotic state. The Sycorax threatens to make these people commit suicide unless half of the world's population is given to the Sycorax as slaves. Harriet Jones, the Prime Minister, attempts further negotiations with the Sycorax, and finds herself teleported aboard the ship.\n\nRose, Mickey, and Jackie evacuate the Doctor to the TARDIS as the Sycorax ship approaches London. Before Jackie can return with additional supplies, the TARDIS is detected by the Sycorax and is teleported aboard their ship. Rose buys enough time for the Doctor to finally recover, after inhaling the fumes from a dropped flask of tea. The Doctor shuts down the Sycorax blood control and then challenges the Sycorax leader to a sword fight for the Earth. The leader severs the Doctor's hand. Since the Doctor is still within the first 15 hours of regeneration, he re-grows his hand and then forces the Sycorax leader to submit. The leader attempts to attack the Doctor from behind. The Doctor hits a sensor with a satsuma he found, triggering part of the wing to fold and dropping the leader to his death.\nThe Doctor orders the Sycorax to leave Earth and never return before taking Rose, Mickey, and Harriet back to Earth. As the Sycorax ship moves away, Harriet orders Torchwood to destroy the ship. The Doctor becomes furious with Harriet, who tries to justify her actions by reminding the Doctor that he is not always there to save them. The Doctor threatens to bring down her government with six words. He whispers to Harriet's aide: \"Don't you think she looks tired?\" \n\nAfter choosing a new outfit, the Doctor joins Rose, Jackie, and Mickey for Christmas dinner. They watch Harriet on television fending off rumours about her health, with a vote of no confidence looming.\n\nThis special was the first full episode starring David Tennant as the Tenth Doctor; he was only shown briefly at the end of \"The Parting of the Ways\" for the regeneration sequence. A , set between \"The Parting of the Ways\" and \"The Christmas Invasion\", was shown as part of the Children in Need charity telethon on 18 November 2005. The Christmas special is a tradition in British television series. While this is the first story for \"Doctor Who\" clearly labelled as a Christmas special, the seventh episode of \"The Daleks' Master Plan\", titled \"The Feast of Steven\", was written as a Christmas episode, even featuring a fourth wall-breaking Christmas wish to the viewers by William Hartnell. Christmas specials became an annual staple for Doctor Who, until 2018, where it was replaced by a New Years special. Although not shown at Christmas, \"The Unquiet Dead\" was set on Christmas Eve, 1869.\n\nThe Tenth Doctor speaks with an Estuary English accent, in contrast to the Ninth Doctor's Northern one. In a 23 December interview on BBC Radio 1, Tennant explained that a line had been scripted for the Christmas special explaining that the newly regenerated Doctor had imprinted on Rose's accent, \"like a chick hatching from an egg,\" but the line was cut from the final programme. \n\nThe episode's opening shot is a repeat of the opening shot of \"Rose\". The cone-shaped building which has all its glass blown out from the ship's shockwave is 30 St Mary Axe, also known as the Swiss Re Building or \"The Gherkin\". The climactic scenes of the episode were shot on location at Wallis House, Brentford, one of the Golden Mile's few remaining Art Deco buildings. Parts of the episode were filmed at the Clearwell Caves in Gloucestershire.\nThe prototype of the Sycorax swords was auctioned on eBay to raise funds for the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity. It raised £920.51. During the live broadcast, the front page of the official BBC website stated: \"THE CHRISTMAS INVASION is on BBC One NOW. HARRIET JONES SAYS: Switch this website off for Britain.\" The tie-in website \"Who is Doctor Who?\" was also updated with a message from Mickey referencing the Guinevere One website, and an appeal to the Doctor to bring back Rose.\n\nThe song playing during the wardrobe sequence, \"Song for Ten\" (named in reference to the Tenth Doctor), was composed by Murray Gold for the episode and sung by Tim Phillips. The closing credits had a new theme arrangement restoring the traditional \"middle eight\" section of the theme which had been omitted in the 2005 series. This was performed by the BBC National Orchestra of Wales, conducted by Gold. This arrangement was subsequently used for the closing titles of the 2006 series.\n\nVarious pieces of music featured in this episode were released in December 2006 as part of the (produced by Silva Screen). These included the \"Song for Ten\", the music played behind Harriet Jones' speech and the music played as the spaceship arrives over London.\n\nLachele Carl reappears as the reporter seen in \"Aliens of London\" / \"World War Three\". She is later seen in \"The Sound of Drums\", \"The Poison Sky\", \"Turn Left\", \"The Stolen Earth\" and \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story \"Revenge of the Slitheen\".\n\nOvernight ratings for the episode gave a peak viewing audience of 9.8 million viewers, and an average of 9.4 — the second highest rated programme of the evening, behind \"EastEnders\". This episode was the highest-rated episode of the Tenth Doctor era, with final ratings at 9.84 million, up until the \"Voyage of the Damned\", which achieved an audience of 13.8 million viewers. It is considered one of the best Christmas specials of the show. In 2014, over 7000 readers of Radio Times voted \"The Christmas Invasion\" as the greatest \"Doctor Who \" Christmas special with over a quarter of the votes going to it, 24.92%, a whole 10% more votes than the second favourite.\n\nImmediately after \"The Christmas Invasion\", digital viewers were able to press their red button to view a special interactive episode, \"Attack of the Graske\" written by Gareth Roberts and starring Tennant as the Doctor.\n\nThe Canadian presentation on the CBC on 26 December 2005 was hosted by Piper, who was attired for the occasion in a red Roots \"Canada\" sweatshirt. The episode was scheduled in a 90-minute-long slot; as the episode and the presentations took less than the allotted time, the rest of the broadcast was filled with the start of two episodes of the animated programme \"Creature Comforts\", which was set for the following 30-minute slot. The special premiered on BBC America in 2007. Unlike the Sci-Fi version, the episode was edited down to fit inside a one-hour timeslot with commercial breaks.\n\nThis episode was released together with \"New Earth\" as a basic DVD with no special features on 1 May 2006, and as part of a second series boxset on 20 November 2006. This release included an in-vision commentary with Russell T Davies, Julie Gardner (Head of Drama for BBC Wales) and Phil Collinson, recorded before the story aired. This commentary was also made available as an MP3 on the BBC \"Doctor Who\" website.\n\nThe ten Christmas specials between \"The Christmas Invasion\" and \"Last Christmas\" inclusive were released in a boxset titled \"Doctor Who – The 10 Christmas Specials\" on 19 October 2015.\n\nOn 3 December 2005, the annual Christmas edition of the BBC's listings magazine \"Radio Times\" was released, to tie-in with \"The Christmas Invasion\". This was the first time \"Doctor Who\" had featured on the Christmas edition cover in the show's forty-two-year history, and the first Christmas cover for an individual BBC television drama since \"EastEnders\" in 1986. The Christmas \"Radio Times\" cover usually features artwork of a generic Christmas scene. As confirmed by Russell T Davies in the episode commentary, the \"Doctor Who\" section of that issue of the \"Radio Times\" contains a hidden message explaining what saves the Doctor: many of the paragraphs in the articles have an oversized first letter, which taken consecutively spell out \"A cup of tea\" (in the manner of an acrostic).\n\nA novelisation of this story written by Jenny T. Colgan including the storyline from was released in paperback and digital formats 5 April 2018 as part of the \"Target Collection\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053131", "title": "Java BluePrints", "text": "Java BluePrints\n\nJava BluePrints is Sun Microsystems' best practices for Enterprise Java development. This is Sun's official programming model for Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE) Software Development Kit (SDK). It began with Java Pet Store, the original reference application for the Java EE platform. This became the \"de facto\" source code for using Enterprise JavaBeans and all the latest components of the Java EE platform.\n\nJava BluePrints began as J2EE BluePrints and was started by Connie Weiss, Jeff Jackson, Jim Inscore, Nick Kassem, and Rick Saletta. The original engineers included Inderjeet Singh, Greg Murray, Sean Brydon, Vijay Ramachandran, Elisabeth White, and Nick Kassem. Nick Kassem is the author of the original book. The idea of Java Pet Store came from Connie Weiss and Greg Murray who were both animal lovers. After the first year, Nick Kassem left the team and Inderjeet Singh became lead architect. The Java BluePrints team was led by Larry Freeman from J2EE 1.2 in 2000 up until Java EE 5 in 2006.\n\nThroughout its existence, Java BluePrints has offered all of its content for free and has been focused on promoting developer success. Java Pet Store became the symbol for J2EE's ascendency; Microsoft created a competing .NET Pet Shop to showcase its competing technology. Since then, many technologies such as Tapestry, Spring, and others have implemented their own versions of the Pet Store application as a way to demonstrate best practices for their given technology.\n\nWith the arrival of J2EE 1.4 technology, web services became a standard part of the Java EE specification. Java BluePrints came out with a second application: the Java Adventure Builder reference application. This application never became as popular as Java Pet Store but then again, it never became as controversial.\n\nThere have been three Java BluePrints books, and the Core Java EE design patterns which are hosted on the Java BluePrints site have become the standard lingua for Java EE application development. Java BluePrints was the first source to promote Model View Controller (MVC) and Data Access Object (DAO) for Java EE application development. Before this, the MVC design pattern was widely promoted as part of Smalltalk.\n\nThe latest Java BluePrints offering is the Java BluePrints Solutions Catalog. It covers topics as diverse as Java Server Faces, Web Services, and Asynchronous Javascript and XML (Ajax). Articles are smaller and more focused and include sample code that shows how a solution is implemented. Its focus is on the J2EE 1.4 SDK.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053135", "title": "Michael Hainisch", "text": "Michael Hainisch\n\nMichael Arthur Josef Jakob Hainisch (; 15 August 1858 – 26 February 1940) was an Austrian politician who served as the first President of Austria from 1920 to 1929, after the fall of the monarchy at the end of World War I.\n\nHainisch was born and named after his father who was a factory owner. His mother Marianne Hainisch was a leader in the suffrage movement.\n\nHe started out as a lawyer and an official of the Treasury and of the Education Department, but then retired to his estates in Lower Austria and Styria, where he carried on model farming, became a leader of the Austrian branch of the Fabian movement, and one of the founders of the Central People's Library. In later years he moved away from radical socialism to become a conservative agrarian.\n\nHainisch held aloof from political parties. He was chosen president because of his personal authority, although he was not a member of the parliament. He was an independent candidate. He was elected and assumed office in 1920, and stayed for two periods until 1928. He was married to Emilia Figdor, the descendant of a prominent Viennese assimilated Jewish family. Emilia's father, Gustav, was a town councillor of the city of Vienna.\n\nAs a president, he worked hard to improve the dire situation Austria found itself after the war.\nHe did a lot to develop the agricultural sector, encouraged the electrification of the railway, tried to develop more tourism especially in the Alps. Trade with neighbouring countries such as Germany was encouraged. He also became a protector of local traditions and culture and initiated the creation of the law of protected monuments.\n\nHe became also an honorary member of the Akademie der Wissenschaften (Academy of Sciences).\n\nIn 1928, main parties proposed to amend the constitution in order to reelect Hainisch for a third term. Federal Chancellor Ignaz Seipel proposed a one-year term for Hainisch, but Hainisch declined a third term. He subsequently served as Commerce Minister from 1929 to 1930.\n\nControversially, he supported Pan-German ideas and later supported the Anschluss of Austria to Nazi-Germany in 1938, as did many of his compatriots. He died in February 1940, just nearly two years after the Anschluss and a few months after World War II started.\n\nHe was a fertile author of works on sociology and politics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053136", "title": "Ballad stanza", "text": "Ballad stanza\n\nIn poetry, a ballad stanza is the four-line stanza, known as a quatrain, most often found in the folk ballad. This form consists of alternating four- and three-stress lines. Usually only the second and fourth lines rhyme (in an a/b/c/b pattern). Assonance in place of rhyme is common. Samuel Taylor Coleridge adopted the ballad stanza in \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner,\" alternating eight and six syllable lines.\n\nThe longer first and third lines are rarely rhymed, although at times poets may use internal rhyme in these lines.\n\nA more modern example:\n"}
{"id": "2053144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053144", "title": "Clinterty Agricultural College", "text": "Clinterty Agricultural College\n\nClinterty Agricultural College was a small further education college near Aberdeen in Scotland, which became part of Aberdeen College (now North East Scotland College).\n\nClinterty College was founded in 1968 with the purchase of Meikle Clinterty and the following year Mains of Tertowie farms near the village of Blackburn in Aberdeenshire. Initially classes were taught in surplus school provision in Bucksburn and students ferried out to the farm at Meikle Clinterty for practical activities. The first principal of the college was John Telfer. John had originally travelled around Aberdeenshire running agricultural day release classes from the back of his Morris Minor Traveller and he was probably the most influential individual along with James Michie the Director of Education in Aberdeenshire, involved with the development of Clinterty.\n\nConstruction of the new college started in 1973 on a green-field site near the village of Blackburn, and opened its doors to students in September 1975. The college provided training and education in Agricultural Skills, Crop & Animal Husbandry, Mechanisation and Agricultural & Construction Plant Engineering. \n\nThe college developed with the appointment of a Vice Principal/ Farm Director Douglas Brown and Heads of Departments, Bill Beattie Engineering and Mechanisation and Ian Jackson Extra Mural. New college buildings including teaching block, engineering workshop and hostel were complete in 1975. New innovative courses in Recreation and Tourism, Outdoor Pursuits, Horticulture, Arboriculture, Equine Studies and Small Animal Care were introduced during the 1980s. \n\nThe college had three distinct farm units: Meikle Clinterty, which was mainly used as a pig unit, a new dairy unit was built at Clinterty in an area known as the Haughs, and Mains of Tertowie farm housed the beef and sheep units. After the majority of the farms and land were sold Clinterty continued to offer courses in subjects such as small animal care and service engineering.\n\nIt is anticipated that Clinterty will cease to operate as an active educational centre in summer 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2053148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053148", "title": "Outwood Windmill", "text": "Outwood Windmill\n\nOutwood Windmill is a Grade I listed post mill in Outwood, Surrey. Built in 1665 by Thomas Budgen, a miller from Nutfield in Surrey, it is Britain's oldest working windmill.\n\nThe windmill was one of a pair, as there was a smock mill built alongside in 1797. This mill had the tallest smock tower in the United Kingdom, until its collapse in 1960.\n\nOutwood Windmill was built for Thomas Budgen (1640–1716) in 1665. The original deed for its erection is still in existence. Thomas Budgen borrowed the money to finance the building of the windmill from two of his brothers-in-law. He was able to repay them within two years. The builders of the mill are traditionally said to have watched the Great Fire of London glowing in the distance, some away. In 1678, Thomas Budgen was convicted under the Conventicle Act as a seditious preacher, and fined £20.\n\nJohn Budgen took the mill on his father's death, and in 1715 was paying Quit Rent on the mill, a malthouse and a brick kiln. John Budgen died in 1765 and the rent was paid by his widow until she died in 1768, when Ezekiel Budgen took the mill. Ezekiel Budgen was involved in a quarrel with his brother Isaac, which led to William Budgen (Ezekiel's nephew) being granted a piece of land near the mill in 1796 with liberty to erect a windmill upon it. By 1806, the mill was in the possession of John Jupp. William Jupp took the mill sometime before 1880 and ran it until he died in 1934. In 1929, the Windmill Section of the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings recognised the mill as \"of paramount importance\". A new pair of Spring sails were needed in 1931. The Society paid for Thomas Hunt, the Soham millwright, to make and fit these at a cost of £80. William Jupp agreed not to sell the mill for demolition as a condition of the work being done. Publicity generated at the time led to an increase in orders at the mill. On 30 October 1931, a meeting was held to appeal for funds to replace the older pair of sails. Hilaire Belloc, who at the time owned Shipley windmill in Sussex, was the main speaker. Sir Joseph Rank was one of the subscribers. In 1933, a pair of sails was purchased secondhand These had previously been on the Black Mill, Forncett End, Norfolk, which had been demolished in September 1932. These replaced a pair of sails that had been on the mill for in excess of sixty years. William Jupp died in 1934.\n\nStanley Jupp then took the mill. In the 1930s the mill was little used and started to deteriorate. Plans were drawn up for further restoration, but were postponed due to World War II. Milling ceased in 1949 when the breast beam cracked and the windshaft dropped causing the sails to touch the roundhouse roof. Temporary repairs were made by millwrights E Hole & Son of Burgess Hill, followed by extensive repairs, including a new breast beam and prick post, in 1952. One of the sail stocks was found to be defective in 1955 and a new pair of spring sails was fitted. A grant of £750 from the Ministry of Works was given to enable the work to be carried out, on condition that public access would be given by appointment. The older of the two stocks broke in January 1956. E Hole & Son fitted a new stock and sail on 25 October 1958. William Jupp ran the mill until 1962. In the autumn of 1962, the mill was bought by the Thomas brothers.\n\nOn 12 June 1964, the mill was caught in a severe thunderstorm. The mill was tailwinded, and only saved when the new owners turned the mill so that the wind was side on to the mill. In 2003, the mill was offered for sale, with a price tag of £600,000. On 5 January 2012, a sail was damaged in a gale.\n\nOn 24 November 1796, William Budgen was granted leave to erect a windmill on a plot of land near the post mill. (In the ' Sights and Sounds of Britain ' Lyntone ' Flexidisc , from 1972 , \" Presented by \" Johnny Morris , but with words unattributed to him , this second mill's building date was given as 1870 ) . \n\nThe smock mill was run by the Budgen family until 1885 when Edward Scott, of Woolpits Mill, Nutfield bought the lease of the mill for £1,225. The mill was later worked be Edward's son, and in 1903 one of the sails broke whilst the mill was at work. It was worked with only two sails until 1914, assisted by a portable steam engine as necessary. In 1950, the preservation of the mill was proposed. A survey undertaken in 1953 showed the mill to be suffering from rot to the cant posts and sills at the south west side (facing the prevailing weather) and the cost to be prohibitive. The mill collapsed in the early hours of 25 November 1960.\n\n\"Outwood Mill\" is a post mill on a single storey roundhouse. It has four Spring sails controlled by elliptical springs, carried on a wooden Windshaft with a cast iron poll end. The mill drives two pairs of millstones, arranged Head and Tail and is winded by tailpole.\n\nThe oak trestle is composed of two crosstrees, four quarterbars and the main post. The crosstrees are long and square in section, as are the quarterbars. The main post is high, and tapers from square at the base to diameter at the Samson Head. The whole is housed in a roundhouse of diameter with high walls.\n\nThe body of the mill measures by in plan, and the mill is tall to the roof. All the milling machinery is housed within the body. The Crown Tree bears a date of 1880, possibly indicating its replacement in that year. The body weighs about .\n\nThe mill has carried a number of sails over the years. In 1905, it is known to have had odd sails, one pair being double shuttered Spring sails of length, and tapering from wide at the heel to at the tip. The other pair were narrower, tapering from at the heel to at the tip. These were carried by an oak windshaft with a cast iron poll end. The sails currently on the mill span . The windshaft is long, and tapers from diameter at the neck to diameter at the tail. The windshaft carries a diameter wooden Head Wheel with 108 cogs and a composite Tail Wheel, with a cast iron centre and wooden rim. The Tail Wheel has 84 cogs. The Head stones are diameter Peak stones, and the Tail stones are French Burr stones. Both wheels drove additional machinery in the past, the Head wheel driving an oat crusher (now no longer in place) and the Tail Wheel driving the sack hoist.\n\n\"Outwood Smock Mill\", also known as \"High Mill\", was a tall smock mill of five storeys, with a stage at first-floor level. It was built on a low brick base less than high. The cant posts were long, and the mill stood high to the top of the cap. This made it the tallest smock ever built, although not the tallest smock mill (Union Mill, Cranbrook takes that honour). Unusually, the ground floor was above ground level, at a height of about . The smock was across the flats at the base, and at the curb. The cap was by in plan, and winded by a five bladed fantail. The four sails were Spring Patents, spanning , carried in a cast iron Windshaft. The Brake Wheel was diameter, driving a diameter cast-iron Wallower. This had replaced an earlier Wallower of diameter which bore a date of 1864, indicating that the mill had three wallowers in a working life of 117 years. The wooden Upright shaft was sixteen-sided, across the flats, with a dog clutch allowing the windmill to be disconnected when the mill was being driven by the portable engine. The wooden Great Spur Wheel was diameter, with 120 cogs. The mill drove four pairs of overdrift millstones, one pair bearing a date of 1859.\n\nThe windmill does not appear to be open to the public as of May 2013.\n\nThe following millers were associated with Outwood windmills.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053153", "title": "Billy Hill", "text": "Billy Hill\n\nBilly Hill may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053166", "title": "Enrique Bunbury", "text": "Enrique Bunbury\n\nEnrique Ortiz de Landázuri Izarduy (a.k.a. Enrique Bunbury), born 11 August 1967, is a Spanish singer-songwriter. He has been described as \"by far, the most international star of Spanish rock.\"\nBunbury was born in Zaragoza, Aragon, Spain. He got involved in music in the early 1980s, making his debut in a high school band called Apocalipsis, and later played along with Proceso Entrópico. In 1984, Bunbury joined a group called Zumo de Vidrio, debuting as a lead vocalist. After adopting the nickname of Bunbury, taken from the Oscar Wilde stage play The Importance of Being Earnest, the musician founded the band Héroes del Silencio, becoming a major number in the Hispanic rock scene.\nThe band eventually broke up in 1996 and Bunbury started his solo career in 1997 with an electro-rock album, Radical Sonora with his new band: Copi (piano), Del Moran (bass), Ramon Gacias (drums) and former Héroes del Silencio guitarist Alan Boguslavsky.\n\nKnown for reinventing himself, Bunbury released in 1999 the album \"Pequeño\", which sounded very different from anything he did before. His band also suffered changes, Boguslavsky was replaced by Rafa Dominguez, and the new faces, Ana Belén Estaje (violin), Luis Miguel Romero (percussion), Javier Iñigo, Javier Garcia Vega & Antonio Ríos in the metal instruments.\n\nThis band was known as the \"Huracán Ambulante\" (\"Wandering Hurricane\") and recorded with Bunbury the rest of his solo discography.\n\nIn 2005, after 8 years together, Bunbury dissolved the band and recorded a new album in 2006 with Nacho Vegas.\n\nIn 2007, Héroes del Silencio agreed to participate in a 10 concert exclusive worldwide tour in ten cities around the world, simply called \"Tour 2007\" to celebrate the 20th anniversary of their first performances and it has also been 10 years since their disbanding in 1996. The first concert took place in Guatemala City on 15 September, followed by Buenos Aires (21 September), Monterrey, Mexico (25 September), Los Angeles (28 September), Mexico City (4 & 6 October), Zaragoza, Spain (10 & 12 October), Seville, Spain (20 October) and Valencia, Spain (27 October) which closed the '07 Tour.\n\nThe solo career of Bunbury unlike Héroes del Silencio has been very different in the musical sound, keeping the essence of rock, experimenting with various rhythms from electronic music and Middle Eastern music in the early stages of his solo career, to cabaret music, rancheras, blues, flamenco and tango, to salsa, milonga, boleros and cumbia in one of his last works which honors Latin America. According to La Banda Elastica, \"Rock gods exist... and Enrique Bunbury belongs among them.\" He is known for his powerful, operatic voice which can range from F2-A5 with the ability to hit C3. Bunbury is a baritone. In 2019 Bunbury was honored with the Icon Award at the 2019 SESAC Latina Music Awards.\n\nA documentary directed by Alexis Morante will be released in 2016 named \"El camino más largo\", the film chronicles the 2010 tour Bunbury did of the United States.\n\nHe is a vegan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053169", "title": "Bloomfield Road", "text": "Bloomfield Road\n\nBloomfield Road is a football stadium in Blackpool, Lancashire, England, which has been the home of Blackpool F.C. since 1901.\n\nThe record attendance at Bloomfield Road is 38,098, when Blackpool played Wolverhampton Wanderers on 17 September 1955.\n\nThe stadium hosted three matches of the 2005 UEFA Women's Championship. It has also been the venue for the final of the Northern Rail Cup, a rugby league tournament.\n\nBefore moving to Bloomfield Road, Blackpool had called two other grounds home during their short existence. Firstly, between 1896 and 1897, they played their fifteen home Football League matches at Raikes Hall Gardens (also known as the Pleasure Gardens). In 1897, they moved to the Athletic Grounds at the present-day Stanley Park, which hosted thirty-two League matches over two seasons. After a short spell back at Raikes Hall Gardens in 1899, during their season out of the League, and again for all but the first home game of the 1900–01 campaign, Blackpool made the permanent move to Bloomfield Road.\n\nThe ground was originally known as Gamble's Field, so-named for the farmer who owned the land, when South Shore F.C. played there in the Lancashire League in 1899.\n\nThe first competitive game played at the ground took place on 21 October 1899, when South Shore played the 1st South Lancashire Regiment. A comment at the time was: \"The new ground was not quite finished on Saturday and the linesman had plenty to do besides watching the game to keep the spectators from getting over the line. The grandstand was not up, but it is expected to be ready for next Saturday. A bar is going to be erected and two dressing tents.\" The official opening of the ground did indeed occur on 28 October 1899, when South Shore entertained Newton Heath in an FA Cup tie.\n\nWhen Blackpool F.C. merged with South Shore F.C. in mid-December 1899, the former club moved into the latter's ground and changed the name to Bloomfield Road. Additionally, the two clubs amalgamated with the Lancashire League fixtures of Blackpool, because they were deemed easier than those of South Shore.\n\nThe first game after the merger took place on 23 December. Horwich R.M.I., with only ten men in their line-up, were the visitors. Blackpool won 8–0. The ground, at this time, had a small wooden grandstand along the western side of the pitch, which seated about three hundred spectators. A perimeter fence ran around the rest of the pitch to keep supporters off the playing surface. Walking to the game would have been very different from today. Coming from the south, supporters would have had to navigate their way through row after row of allotments along Central Drive from Waterloo Road. All behind the west side of the ground were railway sidings and tracks. Henry Street was only partially built up, and behind the north end of the ground lay open space and the town's waste-disposer and the corporation stables.\n\nAfter this match, Blackpool returned to play at their Raikes Hall ground, where the Christmas Day game against Oswaldtwistle Rovers resulted in a \"better attendance than ever\". Raikes Hall was used for the season's remaining home games, and it was not until a practice match on 25 August 1900 that the club – then back in Division Two — returned to Bloomfield Road.\n\nAt this time there was only one stand at the ground, a small structure on the western side, which held about 300 seated. Gainsborough Trinity were the first visitors to Bloomfield Road for a Football League game. On 8 September 1900, they drew 1–1 with \"the Seasiders\", in front of what was a \"good\" attendance of \"just under 2,000\". It was noted that the ground \"conveyed the impression that at some remote period of its history it had been a ploughed field\".\n\nOnce again, Blackpool returned to playing their home games at Raikes Hall for the remainder of the season. \"We shall not easily forget Saturday's match, or rather, to be more accurate, the conditions under which it was played\", one critic said. \"Unfortunately for the club, the game had to be played at Bloomfield Road, and if there is one ground in this town unsuitable for the purpose for which it is used, this is surely the one. It is out of the way, all the players and most of the committee and the spectators declared that it was impossible to play on such a pitch; and the provision for the Press was absolutely nil.\" In addition, commenting on the attendance, it was thought that \"the figure would have been nearly double had Raikes been available\".\n\nThe only reason that the opening fixture was played at Bloomfield Road is that, with it being the tail end of the summer season, Raikes Hall Pleasure Gardens were still being used to entertain the public and as such the football field was unavailable. In fact, it had been agreed pre-season that Raikes Hall would be permanently used as the home ground, but that \"as soon as certain improvements are completed, a move will be made to the South Shore ground\". These improvements were not made to the satisfaction of the club, and they remained at Raikes Hall.\n\nIt was not until the start of the 1901–02 season that Bloomfield Road became the permanent home of Blackpool Football Club. The club won its first League game at Bloomfield Road on 12 October 1901, defeating Doncaster Rovers 3–1.\n\nIn 1906, the local Press were pleading with the club to provide a decent Press box, as they found themselves watching the games from the touchline. The following year, a paddock was built in front of the stand to up the capacity. A decade later, however, a serious fire all but destroyed it, necessitating a complete rebuild. Two years later, the Spion Kop, the former South Stand, was built, holding about a thousand standing spectators. Along the east side of the ground, the concreted East Paddock was built, costing roughly £3,000, which nearly broke the club but raised the ground to have a capacity of 18,000.\n\nAlso in 1906, a 2,000-capacity stand was constructed on the north side of the ground. Named the Motor Stand and made Bloomfield Road one of the only grounds in England to have stands on all four sides of the ground. Partly erected, it was opened for the first time on 10 November for the visit of West Bromwich Albion. The club organist a whist drive at the Conservative Club to help defray the expense. The stand was borrowed from the Blackpool Corporation and practically filled the north side of the ground. It was purchased from the council in June 1908 at a cost of £100.\n\nOn 13 January 1917, a fire in the West Stand, likely caused by the dressing-room heating system, badly damaged the structure. When the fire brigade arrived, the stand was a blazing inferno with a northerly wind causing the flames to completely destroy the entire southern end, including both the original secretary's office, the boardroom – including club records – many silver cups and a collection of historical photographs that adorned the office. It resulted in a rebuilding programme that eventually saw the ground constructed along the lines that remained for the rest of the century.\n\nIn 1925, a new South Stand was built to provide a new boardroom, offices, dressing rooms, baths and refreshment bars. It cost just over £13,000 and held 4,000 people, bringing the total ground capacity to well over 20,000. Also this year, a new directors' box was built in the North-West Corner of the ground. It was used for the first time for the visit of Southampton on 29 August 1925. Ernest Lawson commented in the \"Gazette & Herald\": \"It's a nice box they have placed themselves in; it must be for safety, for it is far enough out of the way! But of what are they frightened?\" He offered an answer at a later date: \"The Let Me Smoke railway stokers are a choking nuisance. Now we know from what the directors are protecting themselves.\" He was referring to the smoke that regularly drifted in at the north-west corner of the ground, caused by steam trains passing by. Lawson added: \"The crowd do, however, have the last laugh when the wind comes in from the east!\"\n\nAn England v. Ireland amateur international was staged at the ground on 12 November 1927.\n\nFor the opening game of the 1929–30 campaign, a visit of Millwall Athletic on 31 August, the new West Stand was opened for the first time. Eventually, the playing surface was extended by twenty yards to the north to make room for a paddock in front of the South Stand.\n\nAlso in 1929, Eli Percival, a general dealer whose business was based on Elizabeth Street, gifted the club the oak panelling that lined the walls of the Bloomfield Road boardroom until 2003. The wood had been salvaged from the wreckage of Horatio Nelson's one-time flagship , which was wrecked near the Metropole Hotel on 16 June 1897.\n\nWith promotion to Division One in 1930 the locals raised some money to build a massive terrace at the north (Tower) end of the ground which could hold around 12,000 standing spectators, increasing the ground's total capacity to over 30,000. The original hill was constructed largely out of cinders and sand and packed together with railway sleepers to hold the extra spectators. The stand was opened for the visit of eventual champions Arsenal on 30 August 1930, and a record 28,723 paid £1,896 to watch the proceedings. \"The Gunners\" also helped set the record twice in the two seasons that followed: 29,576 in 1930–31 and 30,218 in 1931–32. The stand had the club's name painted on its rear. The Motor Stand, which had previously occupied the spot, was moved into the North-West Corner, where it stayed until 1985. The East Stand (or \"Scratching Sheds\") was covered once the team's fortunes increased.\n\nOn 17 October 1932, the only full international game took place at Bloomfield Road: England v. Ireland. The attendance was 23,000.\n\nFK Austria Wien were the first continental side to visit Bloomfield Road. The friendly, which took place on 9 December 1935, attracted a crowd of over 5,000. The hosts won 4–3.\n\nOn 11 January 1936, Blackpool hosted Margate in the FA Cup in what is believed to be the first game captured on film at Bloomfield Road. The tie, which Blackpool won 3–1, was filmed by the Tower Company and was later shown at the Winter Gardens and Grand Theatre.\n\nOn 12 May 1937, Bloomfield Road hosted a series of events as part of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. The day started at 9.45am with a parade of all the children taking part, followed by a civic ceremony by the mayor. A display of national dances in costume took place before the ensemble Grand Finale Parade. A thousand children from the junior schools of Blackpool formed a living Union Jack on the pitch during the national anthem.\n\nLancashire rivals Burnley travelled to Bloomfield Road on 2 December 1944 to contest a Football League North fixture during World War II. The programme noted that the ground had been loaned by kind permission of Air Commodore A. Macgregor. The Royal Air Force had requisitioned the ground for the war years, as they had done previously during World War I. \"Pool\"s considerable debts were virtually cleared by the time the hostilities ended. The visitors won 2–0.\n\nOn 18 October 1950, Bloomfield Road hosted a Football League versus Irish League exhibition match. Liverpool's centre-forward Albert Stubbins netted five times in the Football League's 6–3 victory.\n\nWith an extension of the East Paddock, the capacity of the ground was raised to 38,000 in 1954. Additional seating in the West Stand was also added around this time.\n\nThe record attendance at Bloomfield Road occurred when Wolverhampton Wanderers visited on 17 September 1955. In front of 38,098, the hosts won 2–1.\n\nOn 24 May 1957, Barcelona approached Blackpool to play a match at Bloomfield Road. The kick-off was scheduled for 10 o'clock in the evening, but the game actually got underway at 10.40pm. As the hosts entered the stadium, the visiting Spanish support greeted them with firecrackers. Blackpool rested nine players, but managed a 3–3 draw with the visitors, who had beaten Real Madrid 6–1 in their previous match. Blackpool's goals came from Ken Smith, Ernie Taylor and Sandy Harris.\n\nTo inaugurate the new floodlighting system at the ground, a friendly was held against Hearts, then the Scottish League champions. The system was one of the most modern in the country, and, because of the town's geographical location, special safeguards had been made so that the 145-feet-high pylons could withstand the coastal weather. The manufacturers guaranteed that the galvanised tubular-steel towers would not only resist corrosion but would also be able to withstand winds of between 90 and 100 miles per hour. In addition, the piles for each pylon had been sunk to a depth of 37 feet to ensure they had a firm base. Each of the pylons at that time carried thirty-six 1,500-watt lamps giving a combined power of 216 kilowatts.\n\nBloomfield Road hosted its 1,000th Football League game on 10 September 1960, with a visit by Lancashire neighbours Bolton Wanderers. The game was the first to be televised in England. It was broadcast on ITV, billed as \"The Big Game\", and three cameras were sited at the back of the Spion Kop. Coverage was scheduled for the last five minutes of the first half and the whole of the second. \"The Trotters\" won by a single goal.\n\nThe capacity of the ground was reduced to 30,000 in the late 1960s when new seating was installed. During the following decade, the board introduced seats in the East Paddock, a move that proved so unpopular that it was reversed within twelve months.\n\nA roof was put up over the Spion Kop at the north end of the ground, with painted on its rear; however, it was taken down in 1981 after only twenty years. The council thought it was dangerous, but the club could not afford to repair the roof, so it was torn off, leaving the visiting fans exposed to the elements for the next two decades. A knock-on effect was the removal of seats that had been put into the East Stand. These seats were supposedly a very poor idea as the first three rows were below pitch level, thus providing a poor vantage point from which to watch games.\n\nThe final Christmas Day fixture at Bloomfield Road occurred in 1965, with the visit of Blackburn Rovers. The Football League announced: \"Christmas Day matches were dropped from our calendar when it became obvious to all concerned — spectators, players and officials alike — that people preferred to spend the day at home.\"\n\nAmmonia was thrown on the Spion Kop towards the end of a 7 October 1968 Division Two derby with Blackburn Rovers. Numerous fans were injured by the indiscriminate throwing of the substance. Several were taken to hospital, and four spectators – including a police officer – were detained overnight. The incident made front-page headlines nationally as \"alarming and frightening developments\" in football hooliganism. \"A night of soccer madness and the madness did not end in the ground, for further incidents occurred outside.\"\n\nThe Kop Shop opened for the first time for the visit of Everton on 19 September 1970. Located in a disused ticket office in the north-east corner of the ground, the shop was run by the supporters' club and made available a full range of football souvenirs, including badges, pens, scarves and pennants.\n\nOn 24 August 1974, 17-year-old Blackpool fan Kevin Olsson was fatally stabbed behind the Spion Kop after a game against Bolton Wanderers.\n\nOn 17 March 1986, the club's directors announced that they were ready to sell the Bloomfield Road ground as a site for a supermarket. A lucrative deal was being discussed with a Manchester development company. Forthcoming safety measures meant that both the West and South stands would likely be condemned the following year, otherwise the club would have to spend £2 million on improvements. With the sale, the directors wanted to clear the football club's debts and move to nearby Blackpool Borough's rugby ground on Princess Street. The scheme was rejected by the town council the following month, at which point the board of directors decided to put the club up for sale.\n\nIn the summer of 1989, the club had to spend \"\"thousands\"\" on repairs to the ground, with the South Stand roof being the main concern. Further safety work was necessary in order for the stadium to continue staging League football. Also that year, the North-West Stand was condemned in the wake of stricter safety standards. Demolition began almost immediately, and temporary seating was installed to accommodate visiting support to the ground.\n\nBloomfield Road became the first ground in England to witness police in full riot gear. Before, during and after the Third Division encounter with Birmingham City there were numerous disturbances and skirmishes around the town and police reinforcements were drafted in from all over the Fylde. At the game, visiting fans began rioting on the open Spion Kop terracing, which was allocated exclusively for away supporters. After some delay, the police finally entered the terraces and restored order.\n\nIn the 1990s, with Bloomfield Road defining the word \"decrepit\", new safety measures reduced the capacity from 18,000 to 12,000, and then down to 9,000. The western half of the Kop was closed, with the eastern half open only to visiting support and the East Paddock became segregated. The atmosphere came almost exclusively from the south end, unless there was a large away following.\n\nOn 10 August 1991, seven days before the season kicked off with the visit of Walsall, county council inspectors were at the ground to give the club's new police control box the final go-ahead. Chief executive David Hatton commented: \"We are working on the match being on at home next week as planned. We had a visit from the county council on Friday and it was very encouraging.\"\n\n2 November 1991, a draw with Scarborough marked a year's passing since Blackpool were last beaten in the League at Bloomfield Road.\n\nFormer chairman Owen Oyston submitted plans, on several occasions, to build a new 40,000 all-seater stadium adjoining a large entertainment complex. Outline planning permission for the new ground, which was to be built at nearby Whyndyke Farm, was granted in June 1992.\n\nThe \"Golden Gamble\" match-day draw scheme was introduced for the first time for the visit of 4 September 1993 visit of Barnet to Bloomfield Road. Fans could purchase lottery tickets for £1 before each home game, and a draw at half-time by the guest of the day gives punters a chance to win 50% of the gross take, up to £2,000. The scheme is still in operation today. This fund-raising scheme followed \"Goldbond\", a weekly draw that was launched three years earlier.\n\nOn 16 October 1993, full plans for the club's proposed new multi-purpose stadium were submitted to the town's mayor by Owen Oyston and Stanley Matthews. The plans included a 20,000 capacity stadium with retractable roof, 92 executive boxes in the North and South stands, and a twelve-storey luxury hotel with 115 rooms with balconies overlooking the pitch. Leisure facilities included and Olympic-sized swimming pool, indoor five-a-side football area, gymnasium and keep-fit area. Every seat would have access to restaurants, bars and fast-food outlets. However, in 1996 Oyston was convicted of rape and jailed for six years, and nothing further was heard about the move to Whyndyke Farm.\n\nA supplement in Blackpool's matchday programme for the visit of Cardiff City on 11 March 2000 revealed the long-awaited plans for the redevelopment of the ground. It confirmed that plans had been submitted to the borough council and both the chief executive and principal planning officer said that the proposals were both \"realistic and attractive\". The architects TTH and developer Ballast Wiltshire were both involved in the Stadium of Light development in Sunderland. The overall capacity was announced as 15,254.\n\nOn 23 May 2000, the club was given the go-ahead for the redevelopment of Bloomfield Road. A unanimous vote by the resort's councillors sealed the fate of plans to replace the existing stadium with an £11 million state-of-the-art structure.\n\nIn 2000 and 2001 respectively, the Spion Kop and West Stand were demolished to make way for the new stands. The Kop was closed after the 8 May visit of Colchester United. The pitch was moved slightly north and west to make room for expansion on the south and east sides of the ground in future years.\n\nOn 7 August 2001, a pre-season friendly against Spanish side Athletic Bilbao was held at Bloomfield Road. The game ended 2–2.\n\nThe West Stand was completed in the summer of 2002 and was officially opened on 6 August, with former \"Seasiders\" player Keith Walwyn the guest of honour for a friendly against Blackburn Rovers. Lord Pendry unveiled a plaque above the main entrance celebrating the Football Foundation's contribution to the new stadium. The South Stand, meanwhile, was granted a reprieve which meant it would re-open for visiting supporters for the forthcoming 2002–03 campaign. All matches would be all-ticket for visiting support. If a club requested more than the 1,500 allocation, Blackpool would open the East Paddock north section, thus allowing a further 1,000 away support.\n\nOn 25 June 2003, fans were allowed into the ground to take a final look around the South and East stands before their demolition. Former \"Pool\" player Dave Durie was also in attendance.\n\nIn July 2003, Bloomfield Road was granted a licence to hold marriage ceremonies.\n\nThe stadium was used for two matches during the 2005 UEFA Women's Championship. Blackpool Rugby League Club used the stadium for their home matches in National League Two in the 2005 and 2006 seasons and since 2005 it has staged the annual National League Cup final.\n\nThe stadium hosted a 2004–05 Victory Shield match between England under-16 team and Scotland under-16 team on 26 November 2004.\n\nOn 22 September 2005, Bloomfield Road hosted its 2,000th Football League match. Brentford were the visitors for a game that ended goalless.\n\nOn 11 October 2007, England under-16s drew 2–2 with Northern Ireland under-16s in a Victory Shield 2007-08 match at Bloomfield Road. The match was televised live on Sky Sports.\n\nIn January 2007, Blackpool chairman Karl Oyston reacted angrily to news that the town had lost out to rank outsiders Manchester in the race for the UK's first supercasino. He was concerned that the news could drive potential investors away from purchasing space in the South Stand. Oyston had previously insisted that work would only begin on the long-awaited structure when office space had been sold.\n\nIn March 2008, following news that Whyndyke Farm is to be the home for a new psychiatric hospital to replace the Parkwood unit at Victoria Hospital, and that the site is also earmarked for new housing, Karl Oyston confirmed that plans for a move to a new stadium at Whyndyke Farm were unlikely to ever be revived.\n\nOn 25 April 2009, after his Nottingham Forest team drew 1–1 with Blackpool at Bloomfield Road, Billy Davies complained about the state of the stadium and its pitch: \"It is a disgrace and so are some of the surroundings. It was not rolled and not prepared properly. It was not a pitch on which to play football.\" After the season ended, the pitch was relaid.\n\nThe FA chose the stadium to host England women's opening Group 5 qualifying game for the 2011 World Cup against Malta on 25 October 2009, which England won 8–0 in front of a crowd of 3,681.\n\nOn 2 May 2010, Bloomfield Road experienced its highest attendance for thirty years. 12,296 (11,192 home; 1,104 away) people watched Blackpool's 1–1 draw with Bristol City as the hosts secured a final-day play-off spot. This beat the previous high of 10,427, when Rotherham United visited on 20 August 1980.\n\nOn 24 May, at the civic reception held in the club's honour after they gained promotion to the Premier League, manager Ian Holloway thanked the fans \"for making our ground somewhere to feel safe and express yourself.\"\n\nOn 26 May, Karl Oyston revealed that work would begin on the East Stand, which would complete the Bloomfield Road redevelopment, \"as soon as is realistically possible\". Work commenced on 14 June. In addition, the seating in the North and West stands will be replaced gradually through the season due to the fading of their tangerine colour, as well as electronic turnstiles, a new pitch sprinkler system, large video screen, new media and medical facilities, new floodlighting, further hospitality areas in the South Stand and enlarged dugouts. The pitch was also relaid.\n\nA webcam was fitted so fans could keep track of the progress of construction in the East Stand.\n\nWigan Athletic were in line to be the first visitors to Bloomfield Road as a Premier League ground on 14 August, but on 12 July it was announced that the East Stand would not be ready in time; as a result, the fixture was reversed.\n\nThe club requested 1,500–2,000 fans to test the temporary East Stand with free entry to the Lancashire Senior Cup game against Morecambe on 25 August in order for the safety certificates to be issued.\n\nThe then-current England coach, Fabio Capello, was present at Bloomfield Road for its debut hosting of a Premier League game. Fulham were the visitors on 28 August 2010, and the Italian was reportedly in attendance to watch \"the Cottagers\" Bobby Zamora.\n\nOn 20 November 2010, Prince William attended the fixture between Blackpool and Wolverhampton Wanderers while in town for the stag party of one of his friends. Scotland manager Craig Levein was also in attendance.\n\nThe ground was chosen to host Carlisle United's home FA Cup third round tie in January 2016 against the famous Yeovil Town, with the Cumbrians' Brunton Park affected by flooding in the city.\n\nIn June 2019, the ground came into the control of Simon Sadler, after he acquired a controlling 96.2% stake in Blackpool F.C..\n\nThe main entrance to the ground used to be on Bloomfield Road, via the South Stand; however, the development of the ground that began in the first few years of the 21st century meant it is now from Seasiders Way, via the Matthews Stand on the west side of the ground.\n\nThis stand, called the Westinghouse Sir Stanley Matthews Stand, is the main stand. It was redeveloped between 2001 and 2002. It is named after Sir Stanley Matthews. The players' tunnel, which was formerly located in the South Stand, is now in this stand, and behind the main seating is a hospitality balcony with executive boxes at the rear from the south end to the Directors' Box at the halfway line, from which point to the north-west corner is the Stanley Matthews Hospitality Suite. The stand also contains office space as well as all the club offices and main reception. The club's nickname, \"Seasiders\", is spelled out in capital letters on white seats amongst the tangerine majority. After its rebuilding, the stand was originally known as The Pricebusters Matthews Stand.\n\nIn October 2009, a replica of the club's crest, measuring 4 metres (13 feet) in diameter, was mounted at each end of the West Stand's facade, overlooking Seasiders Way.\n\nThe television-camera gantry is now situated on this stand.\n\nThis stand is at the north end of the ground. Within the stand, blocks A to C and the front rows of blocks D and E are the Spion Kop (now called Clifton Quality Meats Stand) and the rear of blocks D and E contain the club's Family Stand (now the Check in Family Stand). It replaced the old Spion Kop and is connected to the West Stand by the North-West Corner stand. It is named after Stan Mortensen, who is the only player in history to score a hat-trick at Wembley in an FA Cup Final. The club use both \"The Kop\" and \"North Stand\" on tickets for this stand. The abbreviation \"B.F.C.\" is spelled out by white seats. There is no hospitality balcony at the rear of the stand, with additional rows of general seating and office space behind, which during matches are \"blacked out\". The stand also houses the \"Safehands Green Start Nursery\" and offices for Blackpool Primary Care Trust. Behind the stand is a statue of Mortensen, which was unveiled on 23 August 2005 by his widow and Jimmy Armfield. The statue, which is life-size, shows \"Morty\" in the pose of scoring a goal. It cost £25,000, which was paid for by the club, Blackpool Council and Blackpool fans.\n\nThe original Kop had a roof installed over it in the 1960s, but it was pulled down again in the 1980s.\n\nThis stand, which is named Brands Scaffolding North-West Stand, joins the West Stand and the North Stand (The Kop) together, it has the same number of rows as the West and has the rest of the hospitality balcony directly above.\n\nIn 2009, Blackpool supporters raised money for a memorial plaque for Kevin Olsson, who was stabbed to death on the Kop on 24 August 1974. On the 35th anniversary of his death, the plaque was unveiled on the exterior wall of this corner.\n\nKnown in its former guise as the East Paddock or the \"Scratching Sheds\", this stand has a current capacity of 5,120 all-seated. The street that runs behind it (running parallel with Central Drive) is called Back Henry Street (it being the back side of Henry Street) — a name preserved by a Blackpool supporters' messageboard.\n\nThere was an incident in 2005 when Sheffield Wednesday supporters jumped up and down on the previous temporary stand full and some of its middle section gave way; however, nobody was injured.\n\nIn December 2007, following a home match against Stoke City, the stand was slightly damaged due to the appearance of a small hole in the floor. The stand had to be re-floored and following an inspection by the Safety Advisory Group, the capacity was reduced to 1,563 for the next home match against Coventry City on 22 December 2007. The stand passed an inspection after the Coventry game, and the capacity was restored to 1,965.\n\nIn January 2008, the club applied for planning permission to build a six-row extension to the East Stand which would increase the stand capacity by an additional 972 seats to 2,937. They were granted permission in April 2008. On 8 July 2008, the club confirmed that they still proposed to go ahead with the extension. However, no work has yet been done and the capacity remains at about 1,750.\n\nOn 14 November 2009 it was revealed that the football club hope to work with Urban Regeneration Company ReBlackpool to build a new East Stand that would contain both seating and office or retail space rather than, as originally planned, for just seating. This will mean a larger stand is to be built, which will require additional land to be acquired.\n\nSix months later, in May 2010, Karl Oyston stated that work on the new East Stand would begin almost immediately. On 14 June the temporary seating comprising the East Stand was removed, to be replaced with a 5,120-seat covered temporary stand which, at the start of the new season, raised the capacity to 16,220.\n\nThe Stand was generally closed for the 2015–16 season and was only opened for large away support; smaller away support were given Blocks A and B of the North Stand.\n\nFor the 2019–20 season, away supporters are now back in the East Stand with home supporters returning to the North Stand's Blocks A and B. \n\nThe previous 1925 main stand was demolished in 2003. This is the two-tiered stand that abutted Bloomfield Road.\n\nOn 14 January 2003, Blackpool chairman Karl Oyston promised the redevelopment of the South Stand would go ahead but insisted he would not be pressured into making any rash decisions. He revealed that he spent the previous day in talks about the project but vowed he would make an announcement only when the time was right and all plans had been finalised.\n\nIn the summer of 2006 the club announced that building of the South-West Corner of the ground, which would seat 582, would begin on 23 September 2006. Whilst the central corridor redevelopment has been completed, including the demolition of the Bloomfield Road bridge (which was located to the west of the ground, towards Bloomfield Road's junction with Lytham Road) and the construction of Seasiders Way, building work did not commence. Work did eventually begin on the hotel on land formerly occupied by the Tangerine Night Club, which had been announced by the club to be built at the same time as the South-West Corner. It is leased by Travelodge and opened in May 2008. The club-owned ground on which the hotel stands was purchased by the Oyston family for £650,000, only to be sold to the hotel chain for £6.5 million after the lease had been agreed. The original supporters' social club, which later became known as \"Morty's Bar\", was built adjacent to the ground and opened in 1966. The location was a temporary measure until more suitable accommodation could be found. Land subsequently became available across Bloomfield Road and, after much delay, was purchased from British Rail in early 1973. After months of negotiations with various national breweries by both the directors and representatives of the supporters' club, Watney Manns agreed to finance the project. Plans were submitted to Blackpool Corporation and final approval was given in April 1974 and work commenced in September. A fire ripped through the building in November 2002, and its demolition was discussed.\n\nThe continued delays for building work to commence became a source of controversy with the club's fans. In a radio phone-in on BBC Radio Lancashire on 6 February 2008, Karl Oyston stated that, \"The South will be built as and when it is right for the football business. I know we need to progress as a club and it is top of our agenda, believe me, but it wasn't right to do it now.\" He also confirmed that the club had no immediate plans to start building the stand. On 14 May 2008, Blackpool-based radio station Radio Wave 96.5 announced on their website and news bulletin that work was to commence on the South Stand in the summer. However, this prompted an immediate response by the football club, who issued a statement on their official website expressing their disappointment that a local Press agency had issued a media report about the development. And they denied the report was true, stating that \"the story about the South Stand developments is a complete fabrication\", adding that \"any future communications and announcements to be made with regards to the South Stand will come from the club itself.\" A week later it was claimed that the club looked certain to begin building work in summer 2008 and it was confirmed that the club had a number of options, including building a temporary stand, a permanent stand or a mix with a permanent South-West Corner and a temporary South Stand, with Karl Oyston stating, \"I've made it very clear to the board that if we don't increase our capacity by one of the scenarios that I've outlined to them – and I've outlined every scenario that I believe is available – then we will struggle.\" Adding that \"The preferred option is obviously to build a permanent South-West and South. The worst-case scenario fallback is to build a temporary south.\" It was also stated that building a new South Stand and South-West Corner will now cost about £6–8 million and would raise the capacity of the stadium by 3,000. An Oystons Estate Agency sign was also erected advertising retail space for lease, a pub/restaurant and \"hotel with hospitality suites for match days\" in the new South Stand.\n\nOn 8 July 2008, the club released a statement from club president Valeri Belokon stating that work on both the new South Stand and the South-West Corner would begin immediately, with Belokon and the Oyston family in a full partnership to fund the building of the stands. It was confirmed that the total capacity of the two new stands will be 3,500. Four weeks later, on 5 August, after no work appeared to have begun, the club issued a further statement in which they confirmed that work was continuing at the design stage and that work would begin on the site by the end of the month with the structure of the stand beginning about three months later. Fletcher, King Howard Associates, the construction project managers, further confirmed that this was part of a 40-week programme with the stand due to be completed by May 2009.\n\nIn April 2009, \"<nowiki>'Pool</nowiki>\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s first-choice goalkeeper, Paul Rachubka, revealed that work commencing on the South Stand was a contributing factor to his signing a two-year extension to his contract.\n\nOn 22 June the club confirmed that steelwork had started arriving, with Project Manager Brendan Flanagan saying, \"There is a lot happening on site at the moment. The steelwork is on site, and the pre-cast terracing is due in on Wednesday and it won't be long before we see something rising from the ground. We are aiming to start work on the roof for the South-West Corner towards the third week of July.\" On 15 July it was revealed that the club were negotiating with Blackpool Council about opening at least part of the stand before work on it is complete, in the hope that at least 1,000 seats would be available to use by mid-September.\n\nIt was revealed on 21 July that the club had submitted revised plans to Blackpool Council, with an increase in the number of hotel rooms to 56, half of which will have balconies overlooking the pitch. The revised plans also included enhancements to the external look of the stand in order that it will fit in better with the rest of Blackpool's Central Corridor. It was also revealed that the cost of £8.5m for the stand will include £2.5m to fit out the hotel and about £500,000 on the new supporters bar. Karl Oyston said, \"About half the hotel rooms will overlook the pitch. These will double up as hospitality boxes on match days and the hotel will be linked through to the function rooms in the West Stand. The only undefined use is the first floor of the South Stand, which may be allocated to leisure or community use. The ground floor will be a supporters' bar and a reception area for whatever goes in on the first floor. We have also made this application in order to improve the external appearance of the stand so that it will sit better with the improvements that have been made to Bancroft Park and Central Corridor. We will continue to work closely with the council in order to try and make Central Corridor look as appealing as we can because it's currently the main gateway into Blackpool.\"\n\nThe hotel, which houses a second-floor restaurant named Rowley's Bar & Bistro, is understood to have made a £182,000 loss in 2013. It is run by Sam Oyston, son of chairman Karl. The source of the hotel's four-star accreditation is not specified on its website.\n\nOn 12 November 2009 it was confirmed that Blackpool F.C. had submitted a document to Blackpool Council, to be heard on 19 November, applying for permission to bring the South Stand into operation in December.\n\nAfter work began on the stand, the club published photographs of the ongoing development on its website on a regular basis.\n\nOn 10 March 2010, the club announced the opening of the stand would be for the next home game, ten days later, against Crystal Palace. Valeri Belokon and Jimmy Armfield formally cut the ribbon to confirm the opening of the £8.5 million structure.\n\nOn 1 May 2011, a nine-foot-tall bronze statue of Armfield was unveiled in front of his stand, exactly forty years after he retired from playing.\n\nThe club shop is located in the South Stand.\n\nThis corner contains 815 seats, houses a large video screen, and the players' families' hospitality balcony. The club's hall of fame, originally unveiled by Jimmy Armfield in the North Stand in 2006, was moved to the South-West Corner in July 2019.\n\nWork began on the South-East Corner of the ground in early June 2011, restoring a section of the ground that had been lost eight years earlier when the South Stand was demolished, and adding 500 seats to the capacity. It will also house the hotel entrance and a restaurant.\n\nThe stadium capacity is 16,616. Figures taken from the Safety Certificate document issued by Blackpool Council in November 2018.\n\nPast averages (note that the capacity fluctuates):\n2013–14: 14,217 (82%)\n2012–13: 13,916 (80%)\n2011–12: 12,764 (79%)\n2010–11: 15,782 (97%)\n2009–10: 8,611 (91%)\n2008–09: 7,842 (81%)\n2007–08: 8,861 (92%)\n2006–07: 6,877 (73%)\n2005–06: 5,820 (61%)\n2004–05: 6,031 (59%)\n2003–04: 6,326 (62%)\n2002–03: 6,991 (69%)\n2001–02: 5,701 (56%)\n2000–01: 4,459 (44%)\n1999–00: 4,841 (43%)\n1998–99: 5,116 (45%)\n1997–98: 5,212 (46%)\n1996–97: 4,987 (46%)\n1995–96: 5,818 (60%)\n1994–95: 4,744 (46%)\n1993–94: 4,761 (49%)\n1992–93: 5,501 (53%)\n\nPaul Burgess, who formulated his career as a groundsman at Bloomfield Road when he was a 14-year-old on work experience, is head groundsman at Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabéu Stadium. Burgess was approached by the Spanish club in 2009 after concerns were raised about the state of \"Los Blancos\" pitch. At age 17, while studying at Myerscough College, he was offered a permanent job at Bloomfield Road, where he remained for eighteen months. After his spell at Blackpool, Burgess joined Arsenal as assistant groundsman in 1996. He was promoted to Highbury's head groundsman four years later. He remained in the position when \"the Gunners\" moved to the Emirates Stadium in 2006. A Blackpool fan, who used to sell programmes outside the ground on matchdays, on 22 May 2010 Burgess was working on the Bernabeu pitch for the Champions League Final while \"the Seasiders\" were playing in their Championship play-off Final at Wembley.\n\nOther past Bloomfield Road groundsmen include John Turner, Keith Wadeson, Stan Raby and Gary Lewis. The man in the role today is Harry Bradley.\n\nEven in the early days of Bloomfield Road's existence, advertising was in evidence around the ground, with \"Winter Gardens\", the town's entertainment complex, emblazoned above the southern half of the West Stand.\n\nFor around fifty years after Bloomfield Road's 1899 opening, adverts were restricted to hoardings around the ground. Eventually, however, the sloping corrugated-iron roofs of the East and West stands were painted to expand the advertising and, in turn, revenue options. Around 1950, the \"Oh Be Joyful\" slogan of Dutton's Brewery, based in Blackburn, was painted on the roof of the West Stand. This was replaced in the 1970s by Whitbread's \"Whitbread Tankard. Cool, refreshing flavour\".\n\nAcross the ground, on the East Stand, several advertisements graced the roof of the original structure between the 1950s and the point at which it was demolished. In the mid-1950s, the roof featured three black-on-white adverts; the northern quarter was given over to the \"Evening Gazette\" and \"The Green\", while the middle two quarters featured an advert for Harold \"The Riley Man of the North\" Smith's Premier MG Garage on Bolton Street. The southern portion consisted of an advert asking patrons \"Have You Tried Ismail's Tea?\", in reference to the town's tea and coffee merchants Ismail & Co. Ltd., located on Birley Street. Above that, on a stanchion attached to the rear slope of the roof, was a billboard for Morrell's Steelworks.\n\nThe \"Evening Gazette\" and \"The Green\" adverts remained until the 1980s; however, that of Harold Smith's garage – which, along with the former two, was repainted in the reverse colours of white-on-black – was halved in length and re-branded \"Premier Garage South Shore\" in the mid-1960s. The Ismail & Co. Ltd advert, meanwhile, was amended. During the 1969–70 season this was joined, to its northern side, by an advert for Vauxhall & Bedford, which led to the Premier Garage advert being halved in size. Around 1976, the \"Evening Gazette\" and \"The Green\" paint was changed to black-on-green firstly, then black-on-white, while the Premier Garage and Vauxhall & Bedford sections were repainted to feature an advert for Lancaster-based Oliver Rix's British Leyland Garages in tangerine lettering on a blue background. Ismail & Co. Ltd.'s advert remained.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the entire East Stand roof was painted tangerine and featured, in black lettering, an advert for Coucher & Shaw, a local solicitors company.\n\nThe last of these was the club's shirt sponsors between 1997 and 2001 – Telewest. Not long before this, however, the television-camera gantry, which was originally erected on the West Stand, was moved to the East Stand, somewhat negating the effectiveness of Telewest's advert.\n\nAfter the western half of the Spion Kop was closed to supporters in the 1980s, billboards were introduced on the empty steps.\n\nBlackpool South railway station is roughly half a mile from Bloomfield Road, although this station is only served by local services. Blackpool North, which is served by services from York and Leeds (via Burnley), Liverpool and Manchester, is over two miles away. The number 11 bus runs from the bus station opposite Blackpool North towards Lytham St Annes. Fans can alight at the Bridge House pub and walk to the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053178", "title": "Falcon Express Cargo Airlines", "text": "Falcon Express Cargo Airlines\n\nFalcon Express Cargo Airlines was a cargo airline based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It was established in 1995 and operates express parcel services throughout the Persian Gulf, mainly for FedEx, UPS, TNT and Aramex. It also operated scheduled chartered cargo operations for DHL between Bahrain and Jeddah. Its main base was Dubai International Airport.\n\nFalcon Express Cargo Airlines operated freight services to the following international scheduled destinations (February 2010): Dubai, Bahrain, Doha, Jeddah, Riyadh, Kuwait, Salalah. Falcon Express Cargo Airlines ceased operations in September 2012.\n\nThe Falcon Express Cargo Airlines fleet includes the following aircraft (February 2010):\n\n"}
{"id": "2053193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053193", "title": "Privy Council of Japan", "text": "Privy Council of Japan\n\nThe was an advisory council to the Emperor of Japan that operated from 1888 to 1947.\n\nModeled in part upon the Privy Council of the United Kingdom, this body advised the throne on matters of grave importance including: \nThe Privy Council had both judicial functions and certain executive functions. However, the council had no power to initiate legislation.\n\nThe Privy Council of Japan was established by an imperial ordinance of Emperor Meiji dated 28 April 1888, under the presidency of Itō Hirobumi, to deliberate on the draft constitution. The new constitution, which the emperor promulgated on 11 February 1889, briefly mentioned the Privy Council in Chapter 4, Article 56: \"The Privy Councilors shall, in accordance with the provisions for the organization of the Privy Council, deliberate upon important matters of State when they have been consulted by the Emperor.\" \nThe Privy Council consisted of a chairman, a vice chairman (non-voting), twelve (later expanded to twenty-four) councilors, a chief secretary, and three additional secretaries. All privy councilors including the president and the vice president were appointed by the emperor for life, on the advice of the prime minister and the cabinet. In addition to the twenty-four voting privy counselors, the prime minister and the other ministers of state were \"ex officio\" members of the council. The princes of the imperial household (both the \"shinnōke\" and the \"ōke\" ) over the age of majority were permitted to attend meetings of the Privy Council and could participate in its proceedings. The president had extraordinary power, as it was he who called and controlled the meetings of the Council. The Council always met in secret at the Tokyo Imperial Palace, with the emperor in attendance on important occasions. The Council was empowered to deliberate on any matters upon which the emperor desired an opinion.\n\nAssessments on the importance of the Privy Council vary from claims that it was the single most powerful agency in the Meiji government (probably true legally and theoretically), to allegations that it was completely insignificant in terms of national politics (probably also true in terms of actual practice).\nDuring its early years, many members of the Privy Council were simultaneously members of the elected government; however in its later years, the Privy Council essentially replaced the \"genrō\" and the \"Genrōin\" as a very conservative “old boys” club, often at odds with the party-dominated elected government. After the Privy Council challenged the government by attempting to reject several government decisions, and by attempting to assert itself on certain foreign policy issues, it became clear that the balance of power was with the elected government. The Privy Council was thenceforth largely ignored, and it was not even consulted when Japan decided to attack the United States in 1941. \n\nThe Privy Council was abolished with the enforcement of the current postwar Constitution of Japan on 3 May 1947.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053194", "title": "Publius Autronius Paetus", "text": "Publius Autronius Paetus\n\nPublius Autronius Paetus was a politician of the late Roman Republic who was involved in the conspiracy of Catiline.\n\nHe was elected consul in 66 BC (to serve in 65 BC), alongside Publius Cornelius Sulla, but before they could take office both were accused of electoral corruption by Lucius Aurelius Cotta and Lucius Manlius Torquatus. They were found guilty, their election was declared void and their accusers were elected consuls in their place.\n\nSome sources claim that Autronius conspired with Catiline to murder Paetus and his co-consul on the day of their installation, January 1, 65 BC, but the plot collapsed when Catiline gave the signal before all the conspirators were assembled. Autronius was implicated in the failed conspiracy, and, after his old friend Cicero refused to defend him, he was convicted and sent into exile in Epeirus. When Cicero himself was exiled in 58 BC, he was concerned that Autronius might attempt to kill him. However, this conspiracy is not described consistently in contemporary sources. Modern historians doubt this account, and question whether this conspiracy existed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053204", "title": "Iriver H100 series", "text": "Iriver H100 series\n\nThe iriver H100 series (originally iHP-100 series) is a series of discontinued portable digital audio players (DAP) made by iriver and originally released in October 2003. The models in the H100 series differ mainly in hard drive storage capacity. The players were succeeded by the iriver H300 series.\n\n\nIt is possible to upgrade the firmware on H100 series players. These upgrades generally contain bug fixes and new features. The latest official version of the H100 series firmware was 1.66.\n\nThe H100 series is equipped with a 1.8 inch (45 mm) form factor hard drive manufactured by Toshiba. Storage density has increased since their introduction, making it possible for users to replace the factory drives with higher capacity aftermarket models. Opening the case of the player voids the warranty. However, after the case has been opened the upgrade consists of simply unplugging the old drive and inserting the new one.\n\nAs of December 2005, the H120 can be upgraded with a 30GB single-platter drive (giving a 50% storage increase) and the H140 can be upgraded with an 60GB double-platter drive (giving a 50% storage increase). Due to differing physical sizes, the two drive types cannot be used interchangeably (i.e. a double-platter drive will not fit in an H120 casing).\n\nAs of 2008 The H140 can be upgraded using a ZIF to ATA conversion cable to take a larger capacity 1.8 inch non ata hard disk drive. The 240GB MK2431GAH ZIF drive has been used in the H140 and the 160GB MK1634GAL ZIF drive has been used in the H120.\n\nAs of 2012, the H120 can be upgraded to a 120GB SSD drive using a 50Pin Series 1.8\" CF ATA SSD.\n\nAs of 2018, the H120 can be upgraded to a 128gb Micro SD drive using a 1.8\" IDE to SD adaptor.\n\nThe battery used in the H100 series is physically similar to the battery used in iPods and other DAPs. It is possible to replace the factory battery with a higher capacity one (up to 2200 mA·h has been reported) for greatly increased playback time. In some instances the polarity of the battery leads must be reversed, and the installation process will void the warranty.\n\nUsers have succeeded in adding an RTC chip to the player's main circuit board, allowing the device to display the current date and time as well as adding alarm clock functionality, accurate filesystem timestamping and last.fm logging. Note that Rockbox is the only firmware known to be able to utilize an RTC-modified H1xx.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053207", "title": "Granville O. Haller", "text": "Granville O. Haller\n\nGranville Owen Haller (January 31, 1819 – May 2, 1897) was a noted Indian fighter, United States Army officer, and wealthy postbellum businessman in the Seattle, Washington area. During the American Civil War, he was charged with the defense of south-central Pennsylvania during the early days of Gettysburg Campaign prior to the arrival of the Army of the Potomac.\n\nHaller was born and raised in York, Pennsylvania. After Haller graduated in 1838 from the York County Academy, the board of trustees recommended him for an appointment to the United States Military Academy. Not receiving Senator James Buchanan's appointment to West Point (it going instead to future Civil War general William B. Franklin), Haller responded to a summons to go to Washington, D.C., where he was commissioned as a lieutenant in the U.S. 4th Infantry Regiment.\n\nHaller fought Seminole Indians in Florida in 1840–1841 and later served with distinction at Monterrey, Veracruz, and other battles during the Mexican–American War, officering in the same regiment as Ulysses S. Grant. He distinguished himself in the Battle of Churubusco, where he took a key part in the assault on Molino del Rey. In 1852, the Army promoted Haller to major and transferred him in 1853 to Washington Territory, stationed at Fort Dalles, Oregon with U.S. 4th Infantry units. He took part in the Northwest Indian wars of 1855-56 and the San Juan Islands' Pig War border crisis between the United States and Great Britain in 1859.\n\nAfter the Civil War started, Haller commanded George B. McClellan's headquarters guard during the Peninsula Campaign and again in the Maryland Campaign. In May 1863, he returned to his native York to recover from illness contracted in the field. In June, Maj. Gen. Darius N. Couch appointed Haller to command the defenses of Adams and York counties in south-central Pennsylvania. During the Gettysburg Campaign, Haller retreated from Gettysburg to Wrightsville, Pennsylvania, where his militia and that of Col. Jacob G. Frick burned the Columbia-Wrightsville Bridge to prevent passage over the Susquehanna River by a Confederate brigade under John B. Gordon.\n\nAccused by naval officer Lt. Clark Henry Wells of disloyal conduct and sentiments after the Battle of Fredericksburg, Haller was dismissed from the Army in July 1863. Wells alleged that Haller had toasted him \"Here's to a Northern Confederation and a Southern one while Lincoln is President\", blamed the President for casualties at Fredericksburg, and in a later dispute offered that a \"Black Republican\" would be a more suitable quarters-mate for him; Haller denied giving such a toast entirely, and protested that he did not blame the government for \"disasters\" at Fredericksburg but only the change in strategy caused by Lincoln's removal of General George B. McClellan. He and his wife eventually returned to the American West, settling on Whidbey Island in Coupeville, Washington Territory in 1866 where he built a home on Front Street and started a business that extended credit to pioneer families. In 1879, Haller's case of dismissal was re-examined by Congress. Following a six-day long court of inquiry in Washington, D.C., he was exonerated and his commission reinstated with a promotion to colonel.\n\nFollowing the reinstatement, Haller accepted assignments to the Indian Territory in Oklahoma and sold his assets in Coupeville. After retiring from the Army in 1882, Haller returned to the Pacific Northwest and settled in Seattle where he built a three-story, eighteen-room mansion named \"Castlemount\" and became part of the growing city's business and industry community.\nHaller died at the age of 78 and was buried in Seattle's Lake View Cemetery. His wife, Henrietta, died in 1910. Their son, Theodore, continued to live at Castlemount after the deaths of his parents but the mansion was eventually torn down along with the downtown Seattle Haller Building in the 1950s. Haller School in West Seattle had been donated by Haller's son, Morris, but later became a school annex and then American Legion Hall. Haller's home in Coupeville, Washington Various other points of interest bearing Haller's name exist in the state of Washington: In Port Townsend, Washington, there is a Haller Fountain, on Whidbey Island there is a Haller Road, and a Haller Street exists in both Coupeville and Arlington, Washington. \n\nAs of 2018, the future of Haller's now-deteriorating home in Coupeville is uncertain. The home, one of thirty other buildings on Whidbey Island left from the area's early settlement era dating between the 1850s and 1870s, is the subject of a campaign by a local historic preservation group intending to purchase and restore the house. The group, Historic Whidbey, with backing from the National Park Service, has plans to turn Haller House into a \"Territorial Heritage Center\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053213", "title": "Laurencekirk", "text": "Laurencekirk\n\nLaurencekirk (, , ), colloquially known as \"The Lang Toun\" or simply \"The Kirk\", is a small town in the historic county of Kincardineshire, Scotland, just off the A90 Dundee to Aberdeen main road, which bypassed it in 1985. It is administered as part of Aberdeenshire. It is the largest settlement in the Howe o' the Mearns area and houses the local secondary school; Mearns Academy, which was established in 1895 and awarded the Charter Mark in 2003.\n\nIts old name was Conveth, an anglification of the Gaelic \"Coinmheadh\", referring to an obligation to provide free food and board to passing troops. Laurencekirk is in the valley between the Hill of Garvock and the Cairn O' Mount. The famous landmark of the Johnston Tower can be seen on the peak of the Garvock.\n\nLaurencekirk was, in the past, known for making snuff boxes with a special type of airtight hinge (known as a \"Laurencekirk hinge\") invented by James Sandy.\n\nLaurencekirk Golf Club (now defunct) first appeared in the early 1900s. The club closed at the time of WW2.\nLewis Grassic Gibbon wrote much about The Mearns and the surrounding area in his book \"Sunset Song\". A tribute centre can be visited at Arbuthnott a few miles from Laurencekirk.\n\nFred Urquhart worked on the land at Laurencekirk in the Second World War, and his short stories make use of his observations of rural life here.\n\nThe Edinburgh to Aberdeen Line passes through the town. The station, which closed to passengers in 1967, was re-opened on 17 May 2009. The opening of this station has affirmed Laurencekirk's status as a commuter town providing links to Aberdeen, Dundee and beyond.\n\nLaurencekirk has three public houses; the Crown, The Royal and the Western.\n\nLaurencekirk Primary school was built in 1999 and Mearns Academy, the senior school, opened in a new building in August 2014. The Community Centre, Library and Police Station are housed within the Mearns Campus. There are two public parks, both with children's play areas, and in addition the memorial park houses a bowling green and a skate-board facility.\n\nThere are two churches, a Church of Scotland and St Laurence's Church, an Episcopalian Church which is part of the Diocese of Brechin. In 1693 the Episcopalians had been driven from the parish kirk in the aftermath of the Glorious Revolution. A new meeting house was built at nearby Redmyre, though this was destroyed in 1746. The Episcopalians built a chapel dedicated to St Laurence in Laurencekirk 1791 which took in the congregations of Redmyre and Luthermuir. The current St Laurence' was opened in 1873 and now also serves the congregations of Drumtochty, Fasque and Drumlithie. its archives are held at the University of Dundee as part of the Brechin Diocese's Archives.\n\nRepresentations are being made for a grade separated junction (flyover) at the south end of the A90 Laurencekirk bypass and a petition has been presented to Parliament in Edinburgh.\n\nJohnston Tower was built to commemorate the Duke of Wellington's victory over Napoleon in the Peninsular War. It is situated on the Garvock Hill alongside a wind farm. The neighbouring residence, Johnston Lodge, was built in 1780 by James Farquhar, MP for Aberdeen Burghs and later for Portalington. The house was later owned by Lord Gardenstone.\n\nAlongside the commercial enterprise of the local newspaper, The Observer The Kincardineshire Observer (often referred to as The Squeeker) which was first published in 1902, Laurencekirk has a Local Community Radio Station in Mearns FM. \nBroadcasting from nearby Stonehaven in the Townhall, Mearns FM helps to keep Laurencekirk up to date with local and charity events, as well as playing a wee bit of music. Staffed completely by volunteers, Mearns FM is run as a not for profit organisation, broadcasting under a Community Radio licence, with a remit to provide local focus news events and programming. Jointly funded by local adverts and local and national grants. Mearns FM has one of the largest listening areas of any Community Radio Station owing to the Mearns' distributed population, Mearns FM was set up to try to bring these distant communities together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053227", "title": "Dean Gallo", "text": "Dean Gallo\n\nDean Anderson Gallo (November 23, 1935 – November 6, 1994) was an American Republican Party politician, who was a member of the United States House of Representatives, representing from 1985 until his death from prostate cancer in Denville, New Jersey in 1994.\n\nGallo was born in Hackensack, New Jersey, the son of Dean and Selma Gallo. He grew up in Boonton, New Jersey, attended public schools in Parsippany-Troy Hills, New Jersey, and was a 1954 graduate of Boonton High School. He spent his career as a Realtor and real estate developer, and was an owner of Gallo & DeCroce, a firm he started with another future elected official, Alex DeCroce.\n\nGallo was elected to the Parsippany-Troy Hills Township Council in 1967, and served as Council President from 1968-71. He was elected to the Morris County Board of Freeholders in 1971 to fill an unexpired term, and elected to a full three-year term in 1972. He was the Freeholder Director from 1973-75. In 1974, Gallo considered running for Congress in the 5th district, which included parts of Morris, Somerset, Essex and Mercer counties. The Republican incumbent, Peter Frelinghuysen, was retiring after 22 years. He instead endorsed Assembly Minority Leader Thomas Kean, who narrowly lost the GOP primary to Millicent Fenwick.\n\nIn 1975, Gallo became a candidate for the New Jersey General Assembly in the 24th Legislative District, which included part of Morris County and Summit in Union County. Gallo won the Republican primary by a more than 2-1 margin against four other candidates, W. Thomas Tintle, Gerard R. Hughes, Jack Newberger and Raymond F. Bonnell. In the general election, he defeated two-term Democratic Assemblyman John J. Sinsimer by 6,605 votes, 26,277 to 19,672. Gallo faced Sinsimer again in 1977 and won by an even greater margin, 15,505 votes, 33,306 to 17,801. He was re-elected by equally impressive margins in 1979, 1981, and 1983. Gallo was elected Assembly Minority Leader in 1981 and was re-elected to a second term in 1983.\n\nNew Jersey's congressional map drawn after the 1980 census was thrown out in 1984 on the grounds that the variations in district populations were too large. A panel of federal judges substituted a new map that significantly altered the 11th District, home to 11-term Democratic incumbent Joseph Minish. Democratic-tilting towns in Essex, Hudson, southern Bergen and Passaic counties were cut out. To make up for the loss in population, the district was pushed further into heavily Republican Morris County, and also absorbed several equally Republican areas in Sussex and Warren counties while retaining the more Republican areas of Essex County. Gallo immediately jumped into the race; the redrawn 11th included his home in Parsippany. Minish was thought to face very difficult odds for reelection, but opted to run in the 11th after considering a run in another district. \n\nUltimately, Gallo defeated Minish by 27,624 votes, 133,662 (56%) to 106,038 (44%). He was undoubtedly helped by Ronald Reagan's landslide reelection bid that year. Gallo's campaign was managed by Assemblyman (and later Congressman) Bob Franks. He was easily re-elected in 1986, 1988, 1990 and 1992 in what became one of the most Republican districts in the Northeast. Gallo served on the House Appropriations Committee, and joined the House Republican leadership as a Deputy Minority Whip.\n\nIn 1994, Gallo faced a primary challenge from Dr. Joseph Pennacchio, a considerably more conservative Republican. Pennacchio spent over $200,000 of his own money attacking Gallo. Gallo won 26,492 (65.28%) to 10,917 (26.90%) in a four-candidate race.\n\nThe 1994 primary turned out to be Gallo's final campaign. He had been treated for prostate cancer in 1992 and the cancer returned in 1994. He withdrew as a candidate for re-election on August 29, 1994, and died on November 6, 1994 at age 58. Assemblyman Rodney Frelinghuysen was named to replace Gallo on the ballot, and was elected two days after Gallo's death.\n\nThe Dean and Betty Gallo Prostate Cancer Center at the Cancer Institute of New Jersey is named in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053235", "title": "John Menzies", "text": "John Menzies\n\nJohn Menzies plc ( , ) is the holding company of Menzies Aviation, an aviation services business based in Edinburgh, Scotland, providing ground handling, cargo handling, cargo forwarding and fuelling.\n\nThe company was founded by John Menzies (1808–1879) of Edinburgh, a Victorian entrepreneur, who built up his small newsagent business (established when he was 25 years old) into a national chain. Menzies died at his townhouse, 3 Grosvenor Crescent in Edinburgh's West End, and was buried in Warriston Cemetery, on the north side of the city.\n\nThe retail business expanded throughout Scotland, with High Street and station bookstalls opening in every part of the mainland. In 1941, its branch in Greenock was destroyed outright in the Greenock Blitz. It would be over thirty years before it reopened a branch in the town. In 1973, John Menzies opened its flagship branch on Princes Street.\n\nLike its Glasgow outlet on Buchanan Street, it operated over two floors and incorporated a music section. In August 1988, the business purchased sixty six of the Martin Retail Group's largest stores in England, doubling John Menzies' floor space overnight.\n\nThese stores, which had previously traded as Martin the Newsagent, Lavells Newsagents, Lewis Meeson, RS McColl, Sperrings, and House of Andrew, were quickly rebranded as Menzies' stores.\n\nIn January 1998, it closed its principal branch in Edinburgh, although the head office continued to occupy the building. The whole retail operation was sold to \"WHSmith High Street\", and some to \"WHSmith Europe Travel Retail\", in May 1998, to enable Menzies to concentrate on its distribution business.\n\nIn January 2007, John Menzies merged its newspaper and magazine wholesale distribution businesses in Northern Ireland into a joint venture with Eason & Son, to be called EM News Distribution. The company formerly ran High Street and railway station shops, particularly in Scotland, through a retail division which dealt in newspapers, magazines, books, stationery and other products. This was sold to rival WH Smith in March 1998.\n\nOn 31 January 2017, Menzies Aviation completed the acquisition of specialist aircraft fueller Aircraft Services International, Inc (ASIG) from BBA Aviation plc for US$202m. A planned merger between the Menzies Distribution and the DX Group collapsed in August 2017. In July 2018, John Menzies announced that it had sold the division to private equity company Endless LLP, with the former owner retaining a 10% share in the business.\n\nThe name Menzies is traditionally pronounced , as the \"z\" is historically the letter (yogh). Even in Scotland (where the name \"Menzies\" originated), the name of the retail stores was increasingly pronounced as \"John MEN-zeez\". National television and radio advertising for the retail business used the latter pronunciation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053238", "title": "Queen's Royal College", "text": "Queen's Royal College\n\nQueen's Royal College, referred to for short as QRC, or \"The College\" by alumni, is the oldest secondary school in Trinidad and Tobago. The college is noted for its famous German Renaissance architecture and tradition of multi-faceted education, which continues to produce some of Trinidad and Tobago's leading thinkers, athletes, artists and politicians.\n\nThe origin of QRC goes back to the Stuart Grammar School, at the corner of Duke and Edward Street in Port of Spain, whose Principal was Edward Stuart. In 1859, when a new \"collegiate school\" was being contemplated, Stuart was invited by the colonial government to be part of the enterprise. The Queen's Collegiate School opened later that year opposite what is now Lord Harris Square, then known as Billiards Orchard.\n\nThe intention was, as Governor Arthur Hamilton-Gordon told the Legislative Council in 1870, \"that its advantages should be open to those of every race and every religion, and that the education given should be of a decidedly superior character.\"\n\nIn 1870, the school became the Queen's Royal College and was housed in the supper room of the Prince's Building.\n\nWhen the Government Farm moved from St Clair in 1899, part of the land was reserved as a new home for QRC through the intervention of acting Governor Sir Micah Fields.\n\nThe school, referred to in those days as Royal College, had 120 pupils, who did not wear a uniform but had to wear a hat or cap bearing the college crest. They learned algebra, geometry, arithmetic, Latin, French, English, geography, history and Greek or Spanish.\n\nToday in Queen's Royal College uniforms are worn, as at almost all government schools, and QRC projects and involvements usually involve a blue theme, due to the well-known uniform of blue shirtjack and long khaki pants. In 2009, the school implemented a new uniform for formal occasions as existed in the past. Its principal is David Simon.\n\nArchitecture and history of main block\nThe foundation stone was laid on 11 November 1902 by Courtney Knollys, who was the acting Governor of the day. The structure was designed by Daniel M. Hahn, who was Chief Draughtsman of the Public Work Department and an Old Boy of Queen's Royal College, during the period when the school was housed at the Princess Building. The architecture of the building is German Renaissance in style, evident by the solid appearance. Constructed at a cost of 15000 British pounds, the original building accommodated six classes for 30 boys each. The lecture hall could hold over five hundred persons at a time.\n\nNotwithstanding the German origin of the plan, a legacy perhaps of Mr Hahn's student days in Berlin, the design of the interior is very definitely tropical with a delightfully aristocratic touch from the days when European school architecture was austere.\nQRC was not free at some point but after a couple years it became free.\n\nThe main building itself is one of the Magnificent Seven, a group of historic buildings built in the early 1900s. The North and South buildings, known as the North Block and Science Block respectively, were built during the late 1930s. Later came the West Block, and every student, past and present, will remember the controversial \"painting pink\" of the block. The school has its own pavilion and cafeteria, both located on the edge of its spacious field, used in all seasons for various sports. The school in standings is the best nationally and regarded as the best as well by most citizens.\n\nSons of this Royal School, rejoice;\nBless the day when each did hear\nOur Fair Mother's gentle voice\nCome and whisper to the ear \n\"The College is thine.\"\n\nNot to all the palm of knowledge\nNor to the most the fame of glory;\nBut the youngest of the College\nCan add this to his life's story\n\"The college is mine.\"\n\nWhen we've left the halls of learning \nAnd shall tread Life's sterner way, \nThough we mourn our youth with yearning \nStill we claim the right to say \n\"The College is mine.\"\n\nIf we've learnt what masters taught \nOr to work or play or sing, \nAnd have thence a vision caught, \nThis our school to God we bring, \n\"The College is Thine.\"\n\nQueen's Royal College as a secondary school in Trinidad & Tobago consists of classes from Form One through Form Six. The school can be termed a \"seven-year\" school but qualification into Form Six is based on the student's performance at the CSEC (Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate) examinations. Classes are categorized by name according to the word \"ROYAL\" but excludes the letter \"A\" perhaps due to the stigma of an \"A\" and the negative effects of a stratified class system based on student academic performance. Form One consists of three classes, 1R, 1O and 1Y whereas, Forms 2 through 5 consists of xR, xO, xY and xL where x represents the class number. External students can also gain access into the Sixth Form Level based on their qualifications and other academic factors. On average, up to ten external students enter the Sixth Form level per year.\n\nThe following subjects applies to both Lower Six (year one) and Upper Six (year two). Subjects are usually divided into Unit 1 and Unit 2 with the exclusion of Caribbean Studies which is usually assigned to the first year in Form Six or Lower Six and Communication Studies to the second year in Form Six or Upper Six. All subjects are of the Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE) format and students are allowed to do a minimum of four subjects, but exceptions are sometimes accepted.\n\nAs of July 2012\n\nBUSINESS STUDIES\n\n\nMODERN STUDIES\n\n\nSCIENCE STUDIES\n\n\nCOMPULSORY SUBJECTS\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053243", "title": "Adam Shore", "text": "Adam Shore\n\nAdam Shore is an American musician and the original vocalist for glam metal band Warrant. He sang on early Warrant demos such as \"You've Got A Broken Heart\" and \"Tease Machine\". He also co-wrote the Warrant song \"Thin Disguise\" (which was originally a B-side) with his replacement Jani Lane, with Lane ending up on the final recording.\n\nShore went on to front several other bands including Hot Wheelz (later Shake City), which also featured former Warrant drummer Max Asher before switching to percussionist Jaycee Cary. \n\nShore was also featured on several songs of Warrant guitarist Erik Turner's \"Demos for Diehards\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053255", "title": "Elizabeth Jolley", "text": "Elizabeth Jolley\n\nMonica Elizabeth Jolley AO (4 June 1923 – 13 February 2007) was an English-born Australian writer who settled in Western Australia in the late 1950s and forged an illustrious literary career there. She was 53 when her first book was published, and she went on to publish fifteen novels (including an autobiographical trilogy), four short story collections and three non-fiction books, publishing well into her 70s and achieving significant critical acclaim. She was also a pioneer of creative writing teaching in Australia, counting many well-known writers such as Tim Winton among her students at Curtin University.\n\nHer novels explore \"alienated characters and the nature of loneliness and entrapment.\"\n\nJolley was born in Birmingham, England as Monica Elizabeth Knight, to an English father and Austrian-born mother who was the daughter of a high ranking Railways official. She grew up in the Black Country in the English industrial Midlands. She was educated privately until age 11, when she was sent to Sibford School, a Quaker boarding school near Banbury in Oxfordshire which she attended from 1934 to 1940.\n\nAt 17 she began training as an orthopaedic nurse in London and later in Surrey. She began an affair with one of her patients, Leonard Jolley (1914–1994), and subsequently became pregnant. Leonard Jolley was already married to Joyce Jolley, who was also pregnant. Elizabeth moved in with the Jolleys, and her daughter Sarah was born five weeks before the birth of Susan Jolley, the child of Leonard and Joyce.\n\nElizabeth and Leonard subsequently emigrated to Australia in 1959 after they had married. They eventually had three children and Leonard was appointed chief librarian at the Reid Library at the University of Western Australia, a job he held from 1960–1979. Leonard told his family in England that it was Joyce and Susan with whom he had moved to Australia. For several years, Elizabeth wrote letters purportedly from Joyce and Susan to Leonard's British relatives. Leonard eventually asked his former wife to tell their daughter Susan that he had died.\n\nElizabeth and Leonard lived in the riverside Perth suburb of Claremont. In 1970 they also bought a small orchard in Wooroloo, a town in the Darling Ranges approximately 60 kilometres inland from Perth.\n\nElizabeth Jolley worked at a variety of jobs including nursing, cleaning, door-to-door sales and running a small poultry farm, and throughout this time she also wrote works of fiction including short stories, plays and novels. Her first book was published in 1976, when she was 53.\n\nFrom the late 1970s, she taught writing at the Western Australian Institute of Technology, later Curtin University, and one of her students was another Australian novelist, Tim Winton. Her students have won many prizes including \"several \"Australian\"/Vogel Awards (for a first novel), several different Premier's Awards, the Commonwealth Poetry Prize and the Miles Franklin Award\".\n\nShe developed dementia in 2000, and died in a nursing home in Perth in 2007. Her death prompted many tributes in newspapers across Australia, and in \"The Guardian\" in the United Kingdom. Her diaries, stored at the Mitchell Library in Sydney, will be closed until after the deaths of her children or 25 years after her death.\n\nAndrew Riemer, the \"Sydney Morning Herald\"'s chief book reviewer, wrote in his obituary for her, \"Jolley could assume any one of several personas – the little old lady, the Central European intellectual, the nurse, the orchardist, the humble wife, the university teacher, the door-to-door salesperson – at the drop of a hat, usually choosing one that would disconcert her listeners, but hold them in fascination as well\".\n\nOn 16 November 2007, the performance of Johannes Brahms's \"A German Requiem\" by the West Australian Symphony Orchestra, chorus and soloists, under conductor Lothar Zagrosek, was dedicated to Jolley, for whom the Requiem had been a great source of joy and inspiration.\n\nJolley began writing early in her twenties, but was not recognised until much later. She had many rejections by publishers, 39 in one year alone. Delys Bird suggests that it was the post-modern features of her writing – \"motifs repeated within and between novels and short stories, self-reflexivity and open-endedness\" – that made it hard for them to be published at that time. She suggests that her eventual success owes a little to \"the 1980s awareness of 'women's writing'\", which had been catapulted to the mainstream after the success of other Australian female writers such as Helen Garner and Germaine Greer.\n\nIn the 1960s some of her stories were accepted by the BBC World Service and Australian journals, but her first book \"Five Acre Virgin\" was not published until 1976. Soon following were \"Woman in a Lampshade\" and \"Palomino\", but it would not be until much later that these books would receive either positive reviews or high circulation.\n\nShe lapsed in her writing, discouraged by earlier failures, and was only to be published again in 1983 with \"Miss Peabody's Inheritance\" and \"Mr Scobie's Riddle\". The latter won The Age Book of the Year and high acclaim, especially in Australia and the United States. A year later, \"Milk and Honey\" was awarded Christina Stead Prize for fiction in the New South Wales Premier's Literary Awards. In 1986, \"The Well\" won the top Australian literary prize – the Miles Franklin Award. \"The Sugar Mother\" was, as Riemer writes, \"her characteristically idiosyncratic way of fulfilling a commission to write a novel commemorating the bicentenary of 1988\".\n\nLater in her career she wrote an autobiographical fiction trilogy, \"My Father's Moon\" (1989), \"Cabin Fever\" (1990) and 'The George's Wife\" (1993). In an article in \"The Age\" newspaper, 20 February 2007, written after her death, literary critic Peter Craven, was reported as saying, \"She was a master of black comedy and she went on to write a wholly different form of autobiographical fiction that was lucid, luminous and calm\".\n\n\"Lovesong\", her third last novel, is, Riemer suggests, \"the riskiest book she wrote\". It deals with the subject of paedophilia and demonstrates \"an admirable refusal to be deflected from what she must have seen as the demands of her art and vocation\".\n\nIn 1993, a diary she kept before her novels were published which recorded the experience of buying a hobby farm was published as \"Diary of a Weekend Farmer\". A partly autobiographical collection of pieces, \"Central Mischief\", appeared in 1992. She also wrote numerous radio plays broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, and several of her poetic works were published in journals and anthologies during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nJolley was made a Professor of Creative Writing at Curtin University in 1998.\n\nOn 8 February 2008, Curtin University Library launched the online Elizabeth Jolley Research Collection, a virtual research centre for scholars interested in studying her and her work.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053256", "title": "Oath of Allegiance (United Kingdom)", "text": "Oath of Allegiance (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Oath of Allegiance (Judicial or Official Oath) is a promise to be loyal to the British monarch, and his or her heirs and successors, sworn by certain public servants in the United Kingdom, and also by newly naturalised subjects in citizenship ceremonies. The current standard wording of the oath of allegiance is set out in the Promissory Oaths Act 1868.\n\nVariants of the basic oath of allegiance are also incorporated into a number of other oaths taken by certain individuals.\n\nThe current standard oath of allegiance is set out from the Promissory Oaths Act 1868 in the following form:\n\nUnder the Oaths Act 1888 (51 & 52 Vict. c.46), consolidated and repealed by the Oaths Act 1978, those who choose to may make a solemn affirmation instead of swearing an oath.\n\nThe Victorian promissory oaths of allegiances, are set out in the Promissory Oaths Act 1868 in the following form:\n\n\n\n\nIn general, this oath is sworn to the crown, monarch, sovereign, or regent, as represented by the incumbent king or queen, currently Elizabeth II. This oath also specifies that this same oath to the queen, is equally sworn to her \"heirs and successors\", in the plural, rather than a single heir and successor. This indicates that any oath given to the queen is equally given to all of her heirs and successors to the British throne, in the event that any one of them should accede to the throne. Thus, the pledge of loyalty to the Crown made in the oath does not end at the death of the current monarch.\n\nThis oath to the queen, her heirs and successors is now administered in citizen ceremonies to immigrants becoming naturalized British subjects.\n\nMembers of the judiciary (justices of the peace, district judges, circuit judges etc.) swear their allegiance to the queen, and to her heirs and successors; police officers in England and Wales pledge their allegiance to the queen, but not her heirs and successors. Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) do not swear an oath of allegiance. The PSNI in 2001 replaced the Royal Ulster Constabulary, whose members pledged their allegiance to the queen, but not her heirs and successors. The Scottish police have never pledged allegiance. Members of the Privy Council only swear allegiance to the \"Queen's majesty\", not to the queen's heirs and successors.\n\nThe oath of allegiance has its origins in \"Magna Carta\", signed on 15 June 1215.\n\nOnce the terms had been finalised on 19 June, the rebels again swore allegiance to King John. The later Bill of Rights (1689) included the Oath of Allegiance to the crown, which was required by \"Magna Carta\" to be taken by all crown servants and members of the judiciary.\n\nOver the following centuries this evolved into three separate oaths: of supremacy (repudiation of the spiritual or ecclesiastical authority of any foreign prince, person or prelate), allegiance (declaration of fidelity to the Sovereign), and in 1702, abjuration (repudiation of the right and title of descendants of James II to the throne). Oaths of allegiance were exacted from the Lords by Henry IV and Henry VI in 1455 and 1459, and an oath of supremacy was introduced under Henry VIII in 1534. Elizabeth I introduced an Act of Supremacy in 1563 requiring an oath to be taken by all future members of the House of Commons. A new oath of allegiance appeared under James I (prompted by the \"Gunpowder Plot\") under the Popish Recusants Act 1605 and the Oath of Allegiance Act 1609. This oath required recognition of James I as lawful King and renunciation of the Pope. The 1609 Act required Commons MPs to take the oath of allegiance and of supremacy, but this was not a \"parliamentary\" oath, as it was not taken in Parliament, and there were no consequences if not sworn.\n\nAfter the Restoration, oaths of supremacy and allegiance were imposed upon all MPs and peers in Parliament. In 1689, in an Act passed by William III and Mary II, old oaths of supremacy and allegiance were replaced with shorter ones, almost to its modern form. The exiled King James II died in 1701, and King Louis XIV of France and the adherents of the Stuart claim proclaimed James's son rightful king. The Act of Settlement 1701 was quickly passed to address the new situation. It extended substantially the old oaths, and added an oath of abjuration of the Pretender's title. This oath pledged support for the Hanoverian succession and for the exclusion of the Stuarts.\n\nThe Oaths of Allegiance etc and Relief of the Jews Act 1858 prescribed a single form of the oath in place of the former three. This single form retained a declaration of allegiance and a promise to defend the Hanoverian succession. A declaration relating to the supremacy of the sovereign was also included and the oath continued to be made ’on the true faith of a Christian’ However, both of these latter elements disappeared from the revised version of the single oath that was subsequently prescribed in the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866, which repealed much of the earlier pieces of legislation insofar as they related to oaths taken by Members of Parliament.\n\nFinally, in the Promissory Oaths Act 1868 a further curtailment to the oath was made, thereby establishing the form of the oath still used today. The direct religious content has disappeared along with the declarations relating to the supremacy of the sovereign. In its current form, the oath conforms fairly closely to the medieval (feudal) oath of allegiance.\n\nAfter the general right to affirm was guaranteed in 1888, the Oaths Act 1909 introduced a change to the ordinary method of taking oaths, which provided for oaths to be sworn on the Bible: in case of a Christian, on the New Testament, and in the case of a Jew on the Old Testament. This Act also established the usual form of taking the oath, with the phrase \"I swear by Almighty God that …\". Section 1 of the Oaths Act 1888 (on the right to affirm) was replaced in the Administration of Justice Act 1977.\n\nThe Oaths Act 1961 extended the 1888 Act, but did not apply to parliamentary oaths. All of the provisions in the Oaths Acts of 1838, 1888, 1909, 1961 and 1977 were repealed and consolidated in the Oaths Act 1978, although the form of wording of the oath set out in the 1868 Act was preserved. The 1978 Oaths Act contains provisions relating to the manner of administering the oath, the option of swearing with uplifted hand, the validity of oaths, the making of solemn affirmations and the form of affirmation. The current Oath of Allegiance or Official Oath is set out in the Promissory Oaths Act 1868.\n\nThe Oath of Allegiance or Official Oath is made by each of the following office-holders as soon as may be after their acceptance of office:\n\n\nThe Oath in England is tendered by the Clerk of the Privy Council, and taken in the presence of Her Majesty in Council, or otherwise as Her Majesty shall direct, and in Scotland is tendered by the Lord President of the Court of Session at a sitting of the court.\n\nOn appointment a new privy counsellor takes the oath of allegiance, or affirms loyalty:\n\nUnder the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866, members of both Houses of Parliament are required to take an Oath of Allegiance upon taking their seat in Parliament, after a general election, or by-election, and after the death of the monarch. Until the oath or affirmation is taken, an MP may not receive a salary, take their seat, speak in debates or vote. The usual wording of the oath is:\n\nMembers who object to swearing the oath are permitted to make a \"solemn affirmation\" under the terms of the Oaths Act 1978:\n\nThe oath or affirmation must be taken in English although the Speaker has allowed Members to recite Welsh, Scottish Gaelic, Irish, Scots, Ulster Scots and Cornish forms in addition, and texts of the oath and affirmation in Braille are available for use by Members of both Houses with impaired sight. While the oath is taken, the new member holds a copy of a sacred text. While there is no set list of sacred texts for use, this is normally a copy of the New Testament or Bible for Christians, or, for Jews, the Tanakh. Muslims or Sikhs have been sworn in the usual manner except with the Qur'an (in an envelope, to avoid it being touched by one not of the faith) and Guru Granth Sahib respectively. Mohammad Sarwar, a Muslim, took the oath in this way in May 1997. Religious restrictions in the oath effectively barred individuals of certain faiths (e.g. Roman Catholics, Jews and Quakers) from entering Parliament for many years. The restrictions were lifted by the Oaths Act 1888 after the six-year effort (1880–1886) of the noted atheist Charles Bradlaugh to claim his seat.\n\nAfter a general election, the new Parliament is opened by the Royal Commission in the House of Lords, in the presence of Members of both Houses, after which the House of Commons meets to elect a Speaker and the Lords commences oath taking.\n\nFollow the Demise of the Crown (the death or abdication of the current monarch), all Members of Parliament and members of the House of Lords take an oath of allegiance to the new Sovereign at the first meeting of Parliament under a new monarch. The House votes an Address to the Crown in response to the official notification of the previous monarch's demise, expressing condolences upon the death of the previous monarch and pledging loyalty to his or her successor.\n\nAt the start of a new Parliament, after the Commons Speaker has taken the oath, MPs come forward one by one to swear or affirm at the despatch-box, in order of seniority.\nIf two or more MPs enter the House at the same election their seniority is determined by the date and/or time they took the oath.\n\nThe Principal Clerk of the Table Office at the despatch box offers a choice of affirmation or oath cards to read. The MP takes the oath or affirms, then moves along the Table to the Clerk Assistant and signs the Test Roll, a parchment book headed by the oath and affirmation which is kept by the Clerk of the House of Commons.\n\nAfter the initial swearing in process, most MPs and Members of the Lords are able to sit and vote in each House. Any remaining MPs or Members of the Lords can take the oath at later sittings. When the majority of MPs and Members of the Lords have been sworn in, both Houses of Parliament are ready to hear the Queen's Speech at the State Opening starting the business of the session.\n\nMPs who have been elected at a by-election are accompanied from the bar of the House by two sponsors. The new Member will have collected a certificate relating to his or her election from the Public Bill Office to hand to the Clerk of the House before taking the oath or making the affirmation.\n\nSection 84 of the Scotland Act 1998 requires Members of the Scottish Parliament to take the Oath of Allegiance at a meeting of the Parliament. Members of the Scottish Government and junior Scottish Ministers are additionally required to take the Official Oath.\n\nSection 20 of the Government of Wales Act 1998 requires members of the National Assembly for Wales to take the oath of allegiance. A Welsh form of the Oath is prescribed by the National Assembly for Wales (Oath of Allegiance in Welsh) Order 1999:\n\nThe Welsh wording is:\nThe corresponding affirmation is:\nThe Scottish Gaelic wording is:\nThe Cornish wording is:\nThose elected to the House of Commons, to the Scottish Parliament, or to the Welsh Assembly who refuse to take the oath or affirmation are barred from participating in any proceedings, and from receiving their salaries. Members of the House of Commons could also be fined £500 and, have their seat declared vacant \"as if [they] were dead\" if they attempt to do so. Under the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866, any peer voting, or sitting in the House of Lords without having taken the oath, is subject, for every such offence, to a penalty of £500. Members of the Scottish Parliament must take the oath within two months of being elected, failing which they cease to be members and their seat is vacated.\n\nOn 1 April 1998, the House of Lords Information Office published a list of 260 peers who had not made the oath of allegiance as members of that House and were therefore not allowed to sit, speak or vote in the Lords. These were listed as 35 Conservatives; 4 Labour; 2 Liberal Democrats; 46 Cross Benchers; and 173 of undeclared political alliances. By rank, these were listed as 3 Royal Dukes (the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York); 12 other Dukes; 16 Marquises; 48 Earls; 32 Viscounts; 3 Countesses; and 152 Lords. Following the later reform of the House of Lords, these are no longer listed as members of the House of Lords.\n\nAlthough an oath of allegiance is required of members of the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly, there is no requirement for members of the Northern Ireland Assembly to take an oath of allegiance, or any other oath, nor is there any form of voluntary oath prescribed for those who may wish to swear one. However, members are required to sign the Assembly's roll of membership, designate their identity as \"Nationalist\", \"Unionist\" or \"Other\", and take a Pledge of Office. Ministers can be removed from office if the responsibilities of the pledge are not met. Members pledge:\n\nJudges and magistrates on being sworn in, are required by various statutes to take two oaths: the oath of allegiance and the judicial oath, (collectively; the judicial oath). Judges of Hindu, Jewish, Muslim and Sikh religions can omit the words \"I swear by Almighty God\" and replace it with an acceptable alternative.\n\nJudges' first Oath of Allegiance:\nJudges' second Judicial Oath:\nMagistrates' first Oath of Allegiance:\n\nMagistrates' second Judicial Oath:\nJudicial oaths are enshrined in a number of statutes:\n\n\nA notary public seeking admission to the roll in England and Wales must swear the Oath of Allegiance and the Oath of Office, which is prescribed by s. 7 Public Notaries Act 1843.\n\nEngland and Wales:\n\nScotland:\n\nPolice in Scotland do not swear an oath of allegiance. Prior to the 1 April 2013 the following declaration was made:\n\nThe Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012 replaced the previous declaration with the following:\n\nNorthern Ireland:\n\nNorthern Ireland police do not swear an oath to the monarch.\n\nUntil September 2001:\nFrom November 2001:\nAny person being ordained as a priest or deacon of the Church of England, or taking up any \"perpetual curacy, lectureship, or preachership\", is required by the Clerical Subscription Act 1865 to take an Oath of Allegiance and Supremacy. This is now, by the Promissory Oaths Act 1868, the same as the usual Oath of Allegiance. Canon C13 now requires the oath of allegiance to be made by anyone appointed archbishop or bishop, priest or deacon, or to be licensed or admitted to any office in the Church of England.\n\nAll persons enlisting or commissioning in the British Armed Forces, except Royal Navy Officers, are required to attest to the following oath or equivalent affirmation:\n\nUntil recently no oath of allegiance was sworn by members of the Royal Navy, which is not maintained under an Act of Parliament but by the royal prerogative. This is still the case for officers as, by nature of the Navy's authority deriving from the Crown and not Parliament, the loyalty of naval officers to the Sovereign is taken for granted.\n\nThe Oath of Allegiance, with the addition of the words \"on becoming a British citizen\" (or other type of British national, as appropriate), is also used at citizenship ceremonies, where persons being registered or naturalised in the United Kingdom are required to swear or affirm their allegiance to the Queen, her heirs and successors, and additionally make a pledge to follow the laws of the country and uphold its democratic values. The applicants are then presented with their certificate of citizenship.\n\nCitizenship Oath of Allegiance:\nCitizenship Pledge\n\nThe principle of swearing an oath, or form of promise, is well exemplified in the constitution of the World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM), Article II, paragraph 2: \"Adherence to a promise and law,\" the principles of Duty to God, Duty to others and Duty to self. The Scout Promise; On my honour I promise that I will do my best—To do my duty to God and the King (or to God and my Country) …… This is in line with the majority of international Scout oaths to \"\"God and my Country\".\" In order to accommodate many different religions within Scouting, \"God\" may refer to a higher power, and is not specifically restricted to the God of the monotheistic religions. WOSM explains \"Duty to God\" as \"Adherence to spiritual principles, loyalty to the religion that expresses them, and acceptance of the duties resulting therefrom.\" Wording variations are allowed in order to accommodate different religious obligations and national allegiances.\n\nThere have been several private Member's bills in recent years concerning the parliamentary oath. None has been successful. The following have occurred since the passing of the Oaths Act 1978:\n\n21 July 1988 Presentation and first reading\n13 January 1998 Presentation and First Reading\n29 July 1998 Motion for leave to introduce a Bill. Negatived on division (137 to 151)\n14 November 2000 Motion for leave to introduce a Bill. Negatived on Division (129 to 148)\n\nA Motion to introduce a bill entitled \"Treason Felony, Act of Settlement and Parliamentary Oath Bill\" was moved by Kevin McNamara on 19 December 2001. It did not progress further than its first reading.\n\nRepublicans have expressed opposition to a compulsory oath made to an unelected monarch.\n\n\nAccording to \"The Parliamentary Oath\" even if the entire country were to vote in a general election for a party whose manifesto pledge was to remove the monarchy, it would be impossible by reason of the present oath, and current acts of parliament, for such elected MPs to take their seats in the House of Commons, or be raised to the House of Lords, without taking this Oath of Allegiance to the ruling monarch, and to her heirs, and successors. However, there would be nothing to prevent a Parliamentary majority debating a republic or from seeking to renegotiate the constitutional settlement since freedom of speech is guaranteed by article 9 of the Bill of Rights 1689.\n\nThe requirement to take the oath/affirmation is also enshrined in the Code of Conduct for MPs. Should an MP take part in parliamentary proceedings, without having sworn the oath, or affirmation, the penalty is £500 for every offence, together with vacation of his or her seat. Before 1997, MPs who did not take the oath, whilst unable to receive their salary, were entitled to the other facilities of the House. After the 1997 general election, the Speaker, Betty Boothroyd, made a new ruling on entitlement to salary, allowances and services as they relate to Members who have not taken the oath. This removed the right of any such MPs to the services of the House. Following the 2001 general election, and the election of four Sinn Féin members, the following Speaker, Michael Martin, re-iterated his predecessor's comments.\n\nAn Early Day Motion to change the Oath of Allegiance was brought before the House of Commons by 22 Members of Parliament, on 12 June 2008. Early Day Motion (#1780) read as follows:\n\nAlex Salmond of the Scottish National Party, as the first party leader to be sworn into the Scottish Parliament in 2011, before raising his right hand to swear allegiance to the Queen, the SNP leader said: \"The Scottish National Party's primary loyalty is to the people of Scotland, in line with the Scottish constitutional tradition of the sovereignty of the people.\"\nThe Scottish Socialist Party, who advocate the abolition of the monarchy have made a number of protests during their Oaths of Allegiance in the Scottish Parliament. Their former leader Tommy Sheridan swore an oath of allegiance to the Queen with a clenched fist in 1999, Rosie Kane held her own protest during the oath ceremony, during which she swore allegiance with the words \"My oath is to the people\" written on her raised hand, Colin Fox sang Robert Burns' \"A Man's A Man for A' That\" at his protest, before being moved to the end of the queue by presiding officer Sir David Steel.\n\nCampaign group Republic also challenges the oath of allegiance. Represented by human rights lawyer Louise Christian, their campaign is seeking to change the law so MPs et al, can swear allegiance to the country and people, rather than the monarchy: \"It is vital we challenge offensive and discriminatory oaths of allegiance - if our elected MPs ignore our calls we’ll take this issue to court.\"\n\nThe Irish republican party Sinn Féin follows a policy of abstaining from the House of Commons; this is because its members refuse to recognise the legitimacy of the British Parliament, as a body that legislates for Northern Ireland. The party is also opposed to the British monarchy, and as a result, even if its members wished to take up their seats, they would likely refuse to take the oath, and so would be denied the right to sit in Parliament. As absentees Sinn Féin MPs are denied their salaries, worth around £1.5 million over the five years to 2009, but can claim staff costs and additional accommodation allowances.\n\nIt is unknown whether Sinn Féin MPs would reconsider their policy of abstentionism if the oath were abolished, or if a new oath or pledge were adopted without any mention of the monarch or the crown. From 1922 a similar situation pertained with respect to the Irish Free State Oireachtas (parliament), which Sinn Féin boycotted because it did not recognise the state. Fianna Fáil split from Sinn Féin in 1926 by proposing to enter the Oireachtas if it could do so without taking the Oireachtas oath of allegiance to George V. Although the oath was abolished in 1933, Sinn Féin continued to boycott each Oireachtas until 1986.\n\nIn 1999 the Sinn Féin member of parliament Martin McGuinness challenged the legitimacy of the Oath of Allegiance required of British MPs by taking the matter to the European Court of Human Rights. The application was deemed inadmissible on the basis that the requirement of an oath to the reigning monarch was \"reasonably viewed as an affirmation of loyalty to the constitutional principles which support... the workings of representative democracy in the respondent State\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053279", "title": "Poor Law Amendment Act 1834", "text": "Poor Law Amendment Act 1834\n\nThe Act has been described as \"the classic example of the fundamental Whig-Benthamite reforming legislation of the period\". Its theoretical basis was Thomas Malthus's principle that population increased faster than resources unless checked, the \"iron law of wages\" and Jeremy Bentham's doctrine that people did what was pleasant and would tend to claim relief rather than working.\nThe Act was intended to curb the cost of poor relief and address abuses of the old system, prevalent in southern agricultural counties, by enabling a new system to be brought in under which relief would only be given in workhouses, and conditions in workhouses would be such as to deter any but the truly destitute from applying for relief. The Act was passed by large majorities in Parliament, with only a few Radicals (such as William Cobbett) voting against. The act was implemented, but the full rigours of the intended system were never applied in Northern industrial areas; however, the apprehension that they would be was a contributor to the social unrest of the period.\n\nThe importance of the Poor Law declined with the rise of the welfare state in the 20th century. In 1948, the PLAA was repealed by the National Assistance Act 1948, which created the National Assistance Board to act as a residual relief agency.\n\nAlarmed at the cost of poor relief in the southern agricultural districts of England (where, in many areas, it had become a semi-permanent top-up of labourers' wages – the Allowance System, Roundsman System, or Speenhamland System), Parliament had set up a Royal Commission into the operation of the Poor Laws. The Commission's findings, which had probably been predetermined, were that the old system was badly and expensively run. The Commission's recommendations were based on two principles. The first was less eligibility: conditions within workhouses should be made worse than the worst conditions outside of them so that workhouses served as a deterrent, and only the neediest would consider entering them. The other was the \"workhouse test\": relief should only be available in the workhouse. Migration of rural poor to the city to find work was a problem for urban ratepayers under this system, since it raised their poor rates. The Commission's report recommended sweeping changes:\n\n\nMalthus' \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\" set out the influential doctrine that population growth was geometric, and that, unless checked, population increased faster than the ability of a country to feed it. This pressure explained the existence of poverty, which he justified theologically as a force for self-improvement and abstention. He saw any assistance to the poor—such as given by the old poor laws—as self-defeating, temporarily removing the pressure of want from the poor while leaving them free to increase their families, thus leading to greater number of people in want and an apparently greater need for relief. His views were influential and hotly debated without always being understood, and opposition to the old Poor Law which peaked between 1815 and 1820 was described by both sides as \"Malthusian\".\n\nOf those serving on the Commission, the economist Nassau William Senior identified his ideas with Malthus while adding more variables, and Bishop John Bird Sumner as a leading Evangelical was more persuasive than Malthus himself in incorporating the Malthusian principle of population into the Divine Plan, taking a less pessimistic view and describing it as producing benefits such as the division of property, industry, trade and European civilisation.\n\nDavid Ricardo's \"iron law of wages\" held that aid given to poor workers under the old Poor Law to supplement their wages had the effect of undermining the wages of other workers, so that the Roundsman System and Speenhamland system led employers to reduce wages, and needed reform to help workers who were not getting such aid and rate-payers whose poor-rates were going to subsidise low-wage employers.\n\nEdwin Chadwick, a major contributor to the Commission's report, developed Jeremy Bentham's theory of utilitarianism, the idea that the success of something could be measured by whether it secured the greatest happiness for the greatest number of people. This idea of utilitarianism underpinned the Poor Law Amendment Act. Bentham believed that \"the greatest good for the greatest number\" could only be achieved when wages found their true levels in a free-market system. Chadwick believed that the poor rate would reach its \"correct\" level when the workhouse was seen as a deterrent and fewer people claimed relief. A central authority was needed to ensure a uniform poor law regime for all parishes and to ensure that that regime deterred applications for relief; that is, to ensure a free market for labour required greater state intervention in poor relief.\n\nBentham's argument that people chose pleasant options and would not do what was unpleasant provided a rationale for making relief unpleasant so that people would not claim it, \"stigmatising\" relief so that it became \"an object of wholesome horror\".\n\nWhen the Act was introduced, it did not legislate for a detailed Poor Law regime. Instead, it set up a three-man Poor Law Commission, an \"at arms' length\" quango to which Parliament delegated the power to make appropriate regulations, without making any provision for effective oversight of the Commission's doings. Local poor-rates payers still elected their local Board of Poor Law Guardians and still paid for local poor law provisions, but those provisions could be specified to the Board of Guardians by the Poor Law Commission; where they were, the views of the local rate-payers were irrelevant. The principles upon which the Commission was to base its regulations were not specified. The workhouse test and the idea of \"less eligibility\" were therefore never mentioned. \"Classification of paupers\" was neither specified nor prohibited (during passage of the Act, an amendment by William Cobbett forbidding the separation of man and wife had been defeated), and the recommendation of the Royal Commission that \"outdoor relief\" (relief given outside of a workhouse) should be abolished was reflected only in a clause that any outdoor relief should only be given under a scheme submitted to and approved by the Commissioners.\n\nThe Poor Law Commission was independent of Parliament, but conversely, since none of its members sat in Parliament, it had no easy way of defending itself against criticism in Parliament. It was recognised that individual parishes would not have the means to erect or maintain workhouses suitable for implementing the policies of \"no outdoor relief\" and segregation and confinement of paupers; consequently, the Commission was given powers to order the formation of Poor Law Unions (confederations of parishes) large enough to support a workhouse. The Commission was empowered to overturn any Unions previously established under Gilbert's Act, but only if at least two-thirds of the Union's Guardians supported this. Each Union was to have a Board of Guardians elected by rate-payers and property owners; those with higher rateable-value property were to have multiple votes, as for the Select Vestries set up under Sturges-Bourne's Acts. The Commission had no powers to insist that Unions built new workhouses (except where a majority of Guardians or rate-payers had given written consent), but they could order improvements to be made to existing ones. The Commission was explicitly given powers to specify the number and salaries of Poor Law Board employees and to order their dismissal. It could order the \"classification\" of workhouse inmates and specify the extent to which (and conditions under which) out-door relief could be given.\nClause 15 of the Act gave the Commission sweeping powers:\nThat from and after the passing of this Act the Administration of Relief to the Poor throughout England and Wales, according to the existing Laws, or such Laws as shall be in force at the Time being, shall be subject to the Direction and Control of the said Commissioners; and for executing the Powers given to them by this Act the said Commissioners shall and are hereby authorized and required, from Time to Time as they shall see Occasion, to make and Issue all such Rules, Orders, and Regulations for the Management of the Poor, for the Government of Workhouses and the Education of the Children therein, ... and for the apprenticing the Children of poor Persons, and for the Guidance and Control of all Guardians, Vestries, and Parish Officers, so far as relates to the Management or Relief of the Poor, and the keeping, examining, auditing, and allowing of Accounts, and making and entering into Contracts in all Matters relating to such Management or Relief, or to any Expenditure for the Relief of the Poor, and for carrying this Act into execution in all other respects, as they shall think proper; and the said Commissioners may, at their Discretion, from Time to Time suspend, alter, or rescind such Rules, Orders, and Regulations, or any of them: Provided always, that nothing in this Act contained shall be construed as enabling the said Commissioners or any of them to interfere in any individual Case for the Purpose of ordering Relief.\n\nGeneral Rules could only be made by the Commissioners themselves and had to be notified to a Secretary of State. Any new General Rules had to be laid before Parliament at the start of the next session. General Rules were those issued to the Guardians of more than one Union. Therefore, there was no provision for Parliamentary scrutiny of policy changes (e.g., on the extent to which out-door relief would be permitted) affecting a number of Poor Law Unions, provided these were implemented by separate directives to each Union involved.\n\nThe Act specified penalties which could be imposed upon persons failing to comply with the directives of the Poor Law Commission (£5 on first offence; £20 for second offence, fine and imprisonment on the third offence). However, it did not identify any means of penalising parishes or Unions which had not formed a legally constituted Board of Guardians. Poor Law Unions were to be the necessary administrative unit for the civil registration of births, marriages and deaths introduced in 1837.\n\nThe Act did give paupers some rights. Lunatics could not be held in a workhouse for more than a fortnight; workhouse inmates could not be forced to attend religious services of a denomination other than theirs (nor could children be instructed in a religious creed objected to by their parent(s)); they were to be allowed to be visited by a minister of their religion.\n\nThe central body set up to administer the new system was the Poor Law Commission. The Commission worked in Somerset House (hence epithets such as \"The Bashaws of Somerset House\") and was initially made up of:\n\nChadwick—an author of the Royal Commission's report—was Secretary.\n\nThe Commission's powers allowed it to specify policies for each Poor Law Union, and policy did not have to be uniform. Implementation of the New Poor Law administrative arrangements was phased in, starting with the Southern counties whose problems the Act had been designed to address. There was a gratifying reduction in poor-rates, but also horror tales of paupers ill-treated or relief refused. Some paupers were induced to migrate from the Southern to Northern towns, leading to a suspicion in the North that the New Poor Law was intended to drive wages down. By 1837, when roll-out of the new arrangements reached the textile districts of Lancashire and Yorkshire, trade was in recession. The usual response to this was for hours of work to be reduced, with pay reducing correspondingly and out-door relief being given to those who could not make ends meet on short-time earnings. This was clearly incompatible with a policy of \"no out-door relief\", and, despite assurances from the Poor Law Commission that there was no intention to apply that policy in the textile districts, they were not believed and a number of textile towns resisted (or rioted in response to) efforts to introduce the new arrangements. This resistance was eventually overcome, but outdoor relief was never abolished in many Northern districts, although the possibility existed. Policy officially changed after the passing of the Outdoor Labour Test Order, which \"allowed\" outdoor relief.\n\nAfter 1834, Poor Law policy aimed to transfer unemployed rural workers to urban areas where there was work, and protect urban ratepayers from paying too much.\n\nIt was impossible to achieve both these aims, as the principle of less eligibility made people search for work in towns and cities. Workhouses were built and paupers transferred to these urban areas. However, the Settlement Laws were used to protect ratepayers from paying too much. Workhouse construction and the amalgamation of unions was slow. Outdoor relief did continue after the PLAA was introduced.\n\nThe board issued further edicts on outdoor relief:\n\nThe implementation of the Act proved impossible, particularly in the industrial north which suffered from cyclical unemployment. The cost of implementing the Settlement Laws in operation since the 17th century was also high and so these were not implemented fully: it often proved too costly to enforce the removal of paupers. The Commission could issue directives, but these were often not implemented fully and in some cases ignored in order to save on expenses (Darwin Leadbitter 1782–1840 was in charge of the commission's finances).\n\nThe PLAA was implemented differently and unevenly across England and Wales. One of the criticisms of the 1601 Poor Law was its varied implementation. The law was also interpreted differently in different parishes, as these areas varied widely in their economic prosperity, and the levels of unemployment experienced within them, leading to an uneven system. Local Boards of Guardians also interpreted the law to suit the interests of their own parishes, resulting in an even greater degree of local variation.\n\nThe poor working-class including the agricultural laborers and factory workers also opposed the New Poor Law Act because the diet in workhouses was inadequate to sustain workers' health and nutrition. The \"Times\" even named this act as \"the starvation act.\" Even more, the act forced workers to relocate to the locations of workhouses which separated families.\n\nFierce hostility and organised opposition from workers, politicians and religious leaders eventually led to the Amendment Act being amended, removing the very harsh measures of the workhouses to a certain degree. The Andover workhouse scandal, in which conditions in the Andover Union Workhouse were found to be inhumane and dangerous, prompted investigation by a Commons select committee, whose report commented scathingly on the dysfunctionality of the Poor Law Commission. As a consequence Government legislation replaced the Poor Law Commission with a Poor Law Board under much closer government supervision and parliamentary scrutiny.\n\nCharles Dickens' novel \"Oliver Twist\" harshly criticises the Poor Law. In 1835 sample dietary tables were issued by the Poor law Commissioners for use in union workhouses. Dickens details the meagre diet of Oliver’s workhouse and points it up in the famous scene of the boy asking for more. Dickens also comments sarcastically on the notorious measure which consisted in separating married couples on admission to the workhouse: \"instead of compelling a man to support his family [they] took his family from him, and made him a bachelor! \" Like the other children, Oliver was \"denied the benefit of exercise\" and compelled to carry out the meaningless task of untwisting and picking old ropes although he had been assured that he would be \"educated and taught a useful trade.\"\n\nIn the North of England particularly, there was fierce resistance; the local people considered that the existing system there was running smoothly. They argued that the nature of cyclical unemployment meant that any new workhouse built would be empty for most of the year and thus a waste of money. However, the unlikely union between property owners and paupers did not last, and opposition, though fierce, eventually petered out. In some cases, this was further accelerated as the protests very successfully undermined parts of the Amendment Act and became obsolete.\n\nAccording to a 2019 study, the 1834 welfare reform had no impact on rural wages, labor mobility or the fertility rate of the poor. The study concludes, \"this deliberately induced suffering gained little for the land and property owners who funded poor relief. Nor did it raise wages for the poor, or free up migration to better opportunities in the cities. One of the first great triumphs of the new discipline of Political Economy, the reform of the Poor Laws, consequently had no effects on economic growth and economic performance in Industrial Revolution England.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053291", "title": "Sewer Shark", "text": "Sewer Shark\n\nSewer Shark is a first-person rail shooter video game, and is the first on a home console to use full motion video for its primary gameplay. It was originally slated to be the flagship product in Hasbro's Control-Vision video game system, which would use VHS tapes as its medium. However, Hasbro cancelled the Control-Vision platform, and Digital Pictures later developed the game for the Sega CD expansion unit. \"Sewer Shark\" is one of the first titles for the Sega CD and one of its best-selling games, leading Sega to eventually bundle it with Sega CD units. It was later ported and released for the 3DO in 1994. A port was also planned for the SNES-CD, but that system was cancelled.\n\n\"Sewer Shark\" takes place in a post-apocalyptic future where environmental destruction has forced most of humanity to live underground. The player takes on the role of a rookie pilot in a band of \"sewer jockeys\", whose job is to exterminate dangerous mutated creatures to keep a vast network of sewers clean for \"Solar City\", an island paradise from which the evil Commissioner Stenchler (Robert Costanzo) gives his orders and critiques. The player's copilot, Ghost (David Underwood), evaluates the player's performance throughout the game, while a small robot named Catfish (voiced by Robert Weaver) scouts ahead and gives directions. The player is later assisted by Falco (Kari G. Peyton), a female jockey who believes that there is a hidden route to the surface. Falco is later captured by Stenchler, who threatens to mutate her into one of his mindless minions. This plot is thwarted when Ghost and the player reach Solar City.\n\nThe objective of \"Sewer Shark\" is to travel all the way from the home base to Solar City without crashing or running out of energy, and while maintaining a satisfactory level of performance as judged by Ghost and Commissioner Stenchler. As in other rail shooters, the ship mostly flies itself, leaving the player to shoot ratigators (mutant crosses between rats and alligators), bats, giant scorpions and mechanical moles. Along the way, Catfish gives the player directions. If the player takes a wrong turn or misses a turn, they eventually hit a dead end and crash, ending the game. Later in the game, Catfish is replaced by a \"crazy lookin' thing\", which visually guides the player through the sewers.\n\nThe ship has a limited amount of energy, which depletes slowly during flight and while firing. Scorpions also rob the ship of energy if the player fails to shoot them down. This energy can be partially replenished at recharge stations. In later areas, the ship encounters occasional pockets of hydrogen that the player must have Catfish detonate to pass through safely.\n\nAt certain times, Ghost or Stenchler interrupt the player to give direct feedback. If the player is doing well, they are allowed to continue and are occasionally given a promotion in the form of a new call sign. A poor performance will eventually cause the game to end.\n\n\"Sewer Shark\" is often referred to as an interactive movie due to its use of full motion video to convey the action, and the navigation aspect of the game is frequently compared to \"Dragon's Lair\", since turns are gates that the player must pass through to continue playing.\n\nThe game originated on the cancelled VHS-based Control-Vision video game console. The video was split into four distinct tracks that were interleaved frame-by-frame, and the hardware would switch between tracks to, for example, show a turn being taken or ignored, along with the outcome of that decision (e.g. crashing into a wall). In converting the game to the Sega CD platform, Digital Pictures maintained this approach by having the console read all four tracks worth of data as a single continuous stream to minimize seek time on the CD. To work within the console's limitations, the developers wrote a custom video codec to highly compress the data streams so they could be read in realtime from the CD. This codec was also used in \"Night Trap\" and the \"Make My Video\" series, and an improved version was later used in \"Prize Fighter\".\n\nThe video footage in \"Sewer Shark\" was directed by visual effects artist John Dykstra.\n\nAccording to Digital Pictures president Tom Zito, \"Sewer Shark\" cost $3 million to develop.\n\n\"Sewer Shark\" is one of the Sega CD's best-selling games, with more than 100,000 units sold prior to having been bundled with the system.\n\nThe game is on the Associated Press list of top ten video games from 1993. They called it \"bizarre and wildly entertaining\" and a must-have game for all Sega CD owners.\n\nAccording to the \"Review Crew\" retrospective feature on DefunctGames, Sewer Shark received generally positive reviews among most of the major game magazines at the time. The site quotes GamePro Magazine as saying \"Sewer Shark is an awesome hybrid of hot shoot-em-up video game action and state-of-the-art CD graphics...\", although Electronic Gaming Monthly gave the game a 6 out of 10, saying \"Whoopie! Another full motion video CD game with no plot real game play. ... Guiding a crosshair in a repetitive maze in order to blast rodents and bats is not my idea of hot shooter action! ... wait 'til next year.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote that \"It is one of the first games to incorporate humans in live-action, full-motion video footage. And with the promise of movie-quality pictures, audiophile sound, and fast frames-per-second animation, CD-ROM figures to be the shape of games to come.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2053292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053292", "title": "Laurentian Library", "text": "Laurentian Library\n\nThe Laurentian Library (Biblioteca Medicea Laurenziana or BML) is a historic library in Florence, Italy, containing more than 11,000 manuscripts and 4,500 early printed books. Built in a cloister of the Medicean Basilica di San Lorenzo di Firenze under the patronage of the Medici pope Clement VII, the library was built to emphasize that the Medici were no longer merchants but members of intelligent and ecclesiastical society. It contains the manuscripts and books belonging to the private library of the Medici family. The library is renowned for its architecture, designed by Michelangelo, and is an example of Mannerism.\n\nA \"Codex Laurentianus\" identifies any of the book-bound manuscripts in the library. The library conserves the Nahuatl Florentine Codex, the Rabula Gospels, the Codex Amiatinus, the Squarcialupi Codex, and the fragmentary Erinna papyrus containing poems of the friend of Sappho.\n\nThe Laurentian Library was commissioned in 1523 and construction began in 1525; however, when Michelangelo left Florence in 1534, only the walls of the reading room were complete. It was then continued by Tribolo, Vasari, and Ammannati based on plans and verbal instructions from Michelangelo. The library opened by 1571. In this way, the library integrates parts executed by Michelangelo with others built much later in an interpretation of his instructions. The Laurentian Library is one of Michelangelo's most important architectural achievements. Even Michelangelo's contemporaries realized that the innovations and use of space in the Laurentian Library were revolutionary.\nThe admirable distribution of the windows, the construction of the ceiling, and the fine entrance of the Vestibule can never be sufficiently extolled. Boldness and grace are equally conspicuous in the work as a whole, and in every part; in the cornices, corbels, the niches for statues, the commodious staircase, and its fanciful division, in all the building, as a word, which is so unlike the common fashion of treatment, that every one stands amazed at the sight thereof. – Giorgio Vasari.\nThe two-story quattrocento cloister remained unchanged by the addition of the library. Because of this, certain features of Michelangelo’s plan, such as length and width, were already determined. Therefore, new walls were built on pre-existing walls and cloisters. Because the walls were built on pre-existing walls, recessing the columns into the walls was a structural necessity. This led to a unique style and pattern that Michelangelo took advantage of.\n\nThe vestibule, also known as the \"ricetto\", is 10.50 m long, 10.50 m wide, and 14.6 m tall (34.5 by 34.5 by 48 feet). It was built above existing monastic quarters on the east range of the cloister, with an entrance from the upper level of the cloisters. Originally, Michelangelo planned for a skylight, but Clement VII believed that it would cause the roof to leak, so clerestory windows were incorporated into the west wall. Blank tapering windows––framed in pietra serena, surmounted by either triangular or segmental pediments, and separated by paired columns set into the wall––circumscribe the interior of the vestibule.\n\nLit by windows in bays that are articulated by pilasters corresponding to the beams of the ceiling, with a tall constricted vestibule (executed to Michelangelo's design in 1559 by Bartolomeo Ammannati) that is filled with a stair that flows up to (and down from) the entrance to the reading room, the library is often mentioned as a prototype of Mannerism in architecture.\n\nThe plan of the stairs changed dramatically in the design phase. Originally in the first design in 1524, two flights of stairs were placed against the side walls and formed a bridge in front of the reading room door. A year later the stairway was moved to the middle of the vestibule. Tribolo attempted to carry out this plan in 1550 but nothing was built. Ammannati took on the challenge of interpreting Michelangelo’s ideas to the best of his abilities using a small clay model, scanty material, and Michelangelo’s instructions.\n\nThe staircase leads up to the reading room and takes up half of the floor of the vestibule. The treads of the centre flights are convex and vary in width, while the outer flights are straight. The three lowest steps of the central flight are wider and higher than the others, almost like concentric oval slabs. As the stairway descends, it divides into three flights.\n\nThe reading room is 46.20 m. long, 10.50 m. wide, and 8.4 m. high (152 by 35 by 28 feet). There are two blocks of seats separated by a centre aisle with the backs of each serving as desks for the benches behind them. The desks are lit by the evenly spaced windows along the wall. The windows are framed by pilasters, forming a system of bays which articulate the layout of the ceiling and floor.\n\nBecause the reading room was built upon an existing story, Michelangelo had to reduce the weight of the reading-room walls. The system of frames and layers in the walls’ articulation reduced the volume and weight of the bays between the pilasters.\n\nBeneath the current wooden floor of the library in the Reading Room is a series of 15 rectangular red and white \"terra cotta\" floor panels. These panels, measuring on a side, when viewed in sequence demonstrate basic principles of geometry. It is believed that these tiles were arranged so as to be visible under the original furniture; but this furniture was later changed to increase the number of reading desks in the room.\n\nIn the \"ricetto\", critics have noted that the recessed columns in the vestibule make the walls look like taut skin stretched between vertical supports. This caused the room to appear as if it mimics the human body, which at the time of the Italian Renaissance was believed to be the ideal form. The columns of the building also appear to be supported on corbels so that the weight seems to be carried on weak elements. Because of the seeming instability of the structure, the viewer cannot discern whether the roof is supported by the columns or the walls. This sense of ambiguity is heightened by the unorthodox forms of the windows and, especially, by the compressed quality of all architectural elements, which creates a sense of tension and constrained energy.\n\nThe use of the classical orders in the space is particularly significant. The recessed columns superficially appear to be of the austere and undecorated Doric order, typically considered to have a more masculine character. The Doric order would be placed at the base in a hierarchy of orders such as found in Roman buildings like the Colosseum, with the Ionic, Composite and Corinthian being progressively lighter and more decorative and feminine. However, closer examination establishes that the Composite order is used, but with the characteristic decorative acanthus leaves and diagonal volutes of the capitals stripped off, leaving the top of the column denuded. In architectural terms, it is an act of violence that is unprecedented in mannerism, and a sophistication that would not have escaped contemporary observers.\n\nThe dynamic sculpture of the staircase appears to pour forth like lava from the upper level and reduces the floor space of the vestibule in a highly unusual way. In the central flight, the convex treads vary in width which makes the entire arrangement disquieting.\n\nIn sharp contrast to the vestibule and staircase, the reading room’s evenly spaced windows set between pilasters in the side walls let in copious amounts of natural light and create a serene, quiet, and restful appearance.\n\nMark Rothko stated that the vestibule and the walls in the staircase of the library influenced his 1959 Seagram Murals.\n\nIn 1571, Cosimo I, Grand Duke of Tuscany, opened the still-incomplete library to scholars. \nNotable additions to the collection were made by its most famous librarian, Angelo Maria Bandini, who was appointed in 1757 and oversaw its printed catalogues.\n\nThe Laurentian Library houses about 11,000 manuscripts, 2,500 papyri, 43 ostraca, 566 incunabula, 1,681 16th-century prints, and 126,527 prints of the 17th to 20th centuries.\nThe core collection consists of about 3,000 manuscripts, indexed by Giovanni Rondinelli and Baccio Valori in 1589, which were placed on parapets (\"plutei\") at the library's opening in 1571. These manuscripts have the signature \"Pluteus\" or \"Pluteo\" (\"Plut.\").\nThese manuscripts include the library Medici family collected during the 15th century and re-acquired by Giovanni di Medici (Pope Leo X) in 1508 and moved to Florence in the 1520s by Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici (Pope Clement VII).\nThe Medici library was joined by collections by Francesco Sassetti and Francesco Filelfo and manuscripts acquired by Leo X and by the library of the Dominican convent of San Marco.\n\nThe library conserves the Nahuatl Florentine Codex, the major source of pre-Conquest Aztec life. Among other well-known manuscripts in the Laurentian Library are the sixth-century Syriac Rabula Gospels; the Codex Amiatinus, which contains the earliest surviving manuscript of the Latin Vulgate Bible; the Squarcialupi Codex, an important early musical manuscript; and the fragmentary Erinna papyrus containing poems of the friend of Sappho.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053312", "title": "Acid catalysis", "text": "Acid catalysis\n\nIn acid catalysis and base catalysis, a chemical reaction is catalyzed by an acid or a base. By Brønsted–Lowry acid–base theory, the acid is the proton (hydrogen ion, H) donor and the base is the proton acceptor. Typical reactions catalyzed by proton transfer are esterfications and aldol reactions. In these reactions, the conjugate acid of the carbonyl group is a better electrophile than the neutral carbonyl group itself. Depending on the chemical species that act as the acid or base, catalytic mechanisms can be classified as either specific catalysis and general catalysis. Many enzymes operate by specific catalysis.\n\nAcid catalysis is mainly used for organic chemical reactions. Many acids can function as sources for the protons. Acid used for acid catalysis include hydrofluoric acid (in the alkylation process), phosphoric acid, toluenesulfonic acid, polystyrene sulfonate, heteropoly acids, zeolites. \n\nStrong acids catalyze the hydrolysis and transesterification of esters, e.g. for processing fats into biodiesel. In terms of mechanism, the carbonyl oxygen is susceptible to protonation, which enhances the electrophilicity at the carbonyl carbon.\n\nIn industrial scale chemistry, many processes are catalysed by \"solid acids\". Solid acids do not dissolve in the reaction medium. Well known examples include these oxides, which function as Lewis acids: silico-aluminates (zeolites, alumina, silico-alumino-phosphate), sulfated zirconia, and many transition metal oxides (titania, zirconia, niobia, and more). Such acids are used in cracking. Many solid Brønsted acids are also employed industrially, including sulfonated polystyrene, solid phosphoric acid, niobic acid, and heteropolyoxometallates.\n\nA particularly large scale application is alkylation, e.g., the combination of benzene and ethylene to give ethylbenzene. Another major application is the rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime to caprolactam. Many alkylamines are prepared by amination of alcohols, catalyzed by solid acids. In this role, the acid converts, OH, a poor leaving group, into a good one. Thus acids are used to convert alcohols into other classes of compounds, such as thiols and amines.\n\nTwo kinds of acid catalysis are recognized, specific acid catalysis and general acid catalysis.\n\nIn specific acid catalysis, protonated solvent is the catalyst. The reaction rate is proportional to the concentration of the protonated solvent molecules SH. The acid catalyst itself (AH) only contributes to the rate acceleration by shifting the chemical equilibrium between solvent S and AH in favor of the SH species. This kind of catalysis is common for strong acids in polar solvents, such as water.\n\nFor example, in an aqueous buffer solution the reaction rate for reactants R depends on the pH of the system but not on the concentrations of different acids.\n\nThis type of chemical kinetics is observed when reactant R is in a fast equilibrium with its conjugate acid RH which proceeds to react slowly with R to the reaction product; for example, in the acid catalysed aldol reaction.\n\nIn general acid catalysis all species capable of donating protons contribute to reaction rate acceleration. The strongest acids are most effective. Reactions in which proton transfer is rate-determining exhibit general acid catalysis, for example diazonium coupling reactions.\n\nWhen keeping the pH at a constant level but changing the buffer concentration a change in rate signals a general acid catalysis. A constant rate is evidence for a specific acid catalyst. When reactions are conducted in nonpolar media, this kind of catalysis is important because the acid is often not ionized.\n\nEnzymes catalyze reactions using general-acid and general-base catalysis.\n"}
{"id": "2053318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053318", "title": "Robert Guérin", "text": "Robert Guérin\n\nRobert Guérin (28 June 1876 – 19 March 1952) was a French journalist, and the 1st President and one of the founders of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). A journalist with \"Le Matin\" newspaper, Guérin was actively involved in football through his role as secretary of the Football Department of the Union des Sociétés Françaises de Sports Athlétiques. He brought together representatives of the first seven member countries in Paris for the signing of FIFA's foundation act and agreement of the first FIFA statutes. On 23 May 1904, Guérin (then just 28) was elected president at the inaugural FIFA Congress and remained in his post for two years, during which time another eight associations came on board, including the Football Association.\n"}
{"id": "2053320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053320", "title": "Fiona (singer)", "text": "Fiona (singer)\n\nFiona Eileen Flanagan (born September 13, 1961), known by the stage name Fiona, is an American rock music singer-songwriter and actress best known as the love interest in the 1987 Bob Dylan vehicle, \"Hearts of Fire\".\n\nOf Irish descent, Fiona was born in Phillipsburg, New Jersey after her parents moved from Dublin to the United States.\n\nAt the age of 18, she moved to New York City where she began her career as a singer in several bands. In the mid-1980s, she was signed to Atlantic Records. Her self titled debut album was released in 1985. The album peaked at #71 on that year's \"Billboard\" 200 chart and remained charted for a week. The album's sole single, \"Talk to Me\", reached #12 and #64 on \"Billboard\"'s Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks and Hot 100 charts respectively. That same year, she also guested on Aldo Nova's \"Twitch\". Around this time, Fiona made her acting debut in the \"Miami Vice\" second season episode \"Little Miss Dangerous\", first aired on January 31, 1986.\n\nHer second album, \"Beyond the Pale\", was released in 1986. That album spawned two singles: \"Hopelessly Love You\" and \"Living In a Boy's World\". In 1987, Fiona starred opposite Bob Dylan in the musical drama \"Hearts of Fire\". Fiona sings the film's title track which appears on the film's soundtrack, along with four previously unreleased songs by Fiona. Her third album, \"Heart Like a Gun\", was released in 1989. That album also yielded two singles, \"Where the Cowboys Go\" and \"Everything You Do (You're Sexing Me)\", a duet with Kip Winger. She has since released two additional albums, 1992's \"Squeeze\" and 2011's \"Unbroken\".\n\nIn addition to her own solo work, Fiona has also done backing vocals for other artists including Warrant (on the \"Cherry Pie\" album).\n\nFiona was once married to producer Beau Hill, who produced, played some instruments on and sang backing vocals on some of her albums. She was also in a relationship with guitarist Reb Beach of Winger who likewise performed on her album \"Beyond the Pale\".\n\nSince taking a break from music, Fiona has married for a second time and graduated from UCLA. She briefly worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers but resigned to have children, of which she has two, her daughter Owen and son Aidan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053322", "title": "George Bethune English", "text": "George Bethune English\n\nGeorge Bethune English (March 7, 1787 – September 20, 1828) was an American adventurer, diplomat, soldier, and convert to Islam.\n\nThe oldest of four children, English was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he was baptized at Trinity Church on April 1, 1787. His father was Thomas English (1759-1839), a prominent merchant, agent and shipbuilder in Boston, and his mother was Penelope Bethune (1763-1819), daughter of George Bethune (1720-1785) and his wife Mary Faneuil (1732-1797), niece of Peter Faneuil. \n\nHe later attended Harvard College, where his dissertation won a Bowdoin Prize. While initially studying law, he received a Masters in theology in 1811. Like many Protestant divinity students of the time he studied the Pentateuch; unlike the others he also studied the Quran. During these studies, English became disillusioned and encountered doubts about Christian theology; he went on to publish his misgivings in a book entitled \"The Grounds of Christianity Examined\", which earned him excommunication from the Church of Christ in 1814, and many negative responses. English addressed some of the criticisms and controversies caused by his first book in a second tract, \"A Letter to the Reverend Mr. Cary,\" as well as in published responses to Unitarian leader William Ellery Channing's \"Two Sermons on Infidelity.\" Another rejoinder to his first book from former Harvard colleague, Edward Everett, entitled \"A Defence of Christianity Against the Works of George B. English\" would be replied to a decade later, after English's return from Egypt; it was titled \"Five Smooth Stones out of the Brook\".\n\nGeorge English subsequently went \"out west\" (then Ohio and Indiana Territory) where he briefly edited a frontier newspaper, and settled as a member of the puritanical Harmonie Sect. During this time he may have learned the Cherokee language.\n\nEnglish was among the Marine Officers nominated by President James Madison on February 27, 1815,; he was commissioned a second lieutenant on March 1, 1815 in the United States Marine Corps and assigned to Marine Corps headquarters, as the War of 1812 ended. He then sailed to the Mediterranean, and was among the first citizens of the United States known to have visited Egypt. Shortly after arriving in Egypt he resigned his commission, converted to Islam and joined Muhammad Ali Pasha as the Topgi Bashi (chief of artillery) in an expedition up the Nile River against Sennar 1820, winning distinction as an officer of artillery. Some historians have noted that \"there is a high probability that he became a secret agent\" and that his service in Egypt was a part of that intelligence service. He published his \"Narrative of the Expedition to Dongola and Sennaar\" (London 1822) regarding his exploits.\n\nAfter his work for Muhammad Ali Pasha, English worked in the Diplomatic Corps of the United States in the Levant, where he worked to secure a trade agreement between the United States and the Ottoman Empire, which had trade valued at nearly $800,000 in 1822. In 1827, he returned to the United States and died in Washington the next year.\n\nThere is no record of him marrying or having children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053328", "title": "Reb Beach", "text": "Reb Beach\n\nRichard Earl \"Reb\" Beach Jr. (born August 31, 1963) is an American rock guitarist. He is a member of the bands Winger and Whitesnake.\n\nBeach is best known for his work in the band Winger and for being a member of Whitesnake since 2002.\n\nAfter graduating from Fox Chapel Area High School and attending Berklee College of Music in the early 1980s, he played in Fiona's backing band and became an accomplished studio musician, working with the likes of Howard Jones, Chaka Khan, The Bee Gees, Twisted Sister, and Roger Daltrey, among others, showcasing Beach's ability to adapt to various musical styles.\n\nWhile working with Fiona, he was introduced to Kip Winger, who was touring with Alice Cooper at the time. Eventually they formed the band Sahara along with Rod Morgenstein and Paul Taylor, which was later renamed to Winger.\n\nWinger recorded and toured in support of three albums, \"Winger\" (1988), \"In the Heart of the Young\" (1990) and \"Pull\" (1993). The band also released a number of hit singles, including \"Seventeen\", \"Madalaine\", \"Headed for a Heartbreak\" and \"Miles Away\".\n\nAfter Winger disbanded in the mid-1990s, Beach first joined Alice Cooper's band and later replaced George Lynch in the heavy metal band Dokken. With Dokken he recorded one studio album, titled \"Erase the Slate\", and a live DVD, titled \"Live from the Sun\".\n\nHe was also involved with Sega, as he recorded the soundtrack for the video game \"Daytona USA 2\".\n\nSince leaving Dokken, Beach has been a part of several different recording and touring projects. In addition to sporadic touring with Winger, he released a solo effort entitled \"Masquerade\" in 2002. Since 2002, he has been a member of David Coverdale's current incarnation of Whitesnake and has been the longest-serving guitarist/member of the band to this day, excluding Coverdale.\n\nA \"supergroup\" project called The Mob with King's X frontman dUg Pinnick and Night Ranger drummer Kelly Keagy resulted in a single self-titled album, released in 2005.\n\nA reformed Winger released their first studio recording in over a decade, \"IV\", in 2006.\n\nHe replaced Jeff Watson in Night Ranger for a series of dates in Japan and the US, but announced his departure in January 2008.\n\nHe currently splits his time between Winger and Whitesnake, recording \"Better Days Comin'\" in 2014 with the former band, and \"The Purple Album\" with the latter in 2015. He continues to tour with both acts.\n\nAccording to bandmate Kip Winger, Reb is quite adept at coming up with multiple rock riffs at a time, though he is often unable to remember them later.\n\nIbanez guitars produced his signature RBM models (stands for \"Reb Beach Model\") in the early 1990s. On the 2005 Whitesnake reunion tour, he primarily used custom models by luthier Suhr Guitars.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053330", "title": "Henry Percy, 9th Duke of Northumberland", "text": "Henry Percy, 9th Duke of Northumberland\n\nHenry George Alan Percy, 9th Duke of Northumberland (15 July 1912 – 21 May 1940) was the son of Alan Percy, 8th Duke of Northumberland and Lady Helen Gordon-Lennox.\n\nHe served as Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Lord Privy Seal in 1935. During his lifetime, the 9th Duke was considered one of Britain's most eligible bachelors.\n\nHe was killed at Pecq in Belgium, serving with the 3rd Battalion Grenadier Guards during the retreat to Dunkirk. His body is interred in the Esquelmes War Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053340", "title": "Brønsted catalysis equation", "text": "Brønsted catalysis equation\n\nThe Brønsted catalysis equation or law of correlation, after Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted, gives the relationship between acid strength and catalytic activity in general acid catalysis.\n\nformula_1\n\nA plot of the common logarithm of the reaction rate constant k versus the logarithm of the ionization constant K for a series of acids (for example a group of substituted phenols or carboxylic acids) gives a straight line with slope α and intercept C. The Brønsted equation is a free-energy relationship. The relationship implies that the Gibbs free energy for proton dissociation is proportional to the activation energy for the catalytic step. When the relationship is not linear, the chosen group of catalysts do not operate through the same reaction mechanism.\n\nSpecific and general catalysis is also found in base catalysed reactions and base Brønsted equation also exists with constant β.\n\nThe Brønsted equation gives information about a reaction mechanism. Reactions that have low values for proportionality constants α or β are considered to have a transition state closely resembling the reactant with little proton transfer. With a high value, proton transfer in the transition state is almost complete. In a study of a group of phenalene compounds it was concluded from Brønsted analysis that phenalene acidity is very different from either indene acidity or phenylene acidity .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053348", "title": "Daniel Burley Woolfall", "text": "Daniel Burley Woolfall\n\nDaniel Burley Woolfall (15 June 1852 – 24 October 1918) was the second president of FIFA.\n\nAn English Football Association administrator from Blackburn, Woolfall was elected as president on 4 June 1906. A key aim during his presidency was to achieve uniform football rules on an international level and he played a prominent role in the drafting of FIFA's new constitution. Under Woolfall, the application of the Laws of the Game, established under the English model, became compulsory and a clear definition was made of international matches. Two years after assuming the presidency, he helped to organise the first noteworthy international football competition, the 1908 Olympic Games in London. His tenure as president brought the arrival of FIFA's first non-European members in South Africa, Argentina, Chile and the United States but was interrupted by the outbreak of the First World War. Woolfall's presidency ended with his death in October 1918.\n"}
{"id": "2053355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053355", "title": "Virginia State Route 27", "text": "Virginia State Route 27\n\nState Route 27 (SR 27) is a freeway in Arlington County, Virginia, in the United States, known as Washington Boulevard. It was built during World War II to connect the Pentagon with U.S. Route 50 (US 50) and northern Arlington to the west and Washington, DC, to the east. Its route parallels the southern boundaries of Arlington National Cemetery. At its southernmost point, Route 27 passes through a complex interchange with Interstate 395 (I-395, Shirley Highway). called the \"Mixing Bowl,\" although local motorists more recently use that term also to refer to the Springfield Interchange on the Capital Beltway in Springfield. It is an important commuter route as well as providing access to a number of military installations, the cemetery and national memorials. Because Route 27 is the closest road to the site of the September 11 attack on the Pentagon, the route has been designated the \"9/11 Heroes Memorial Highway.\"\n\nRoute 27 begins at an interchange with US 50. It then has an interchange with 2nd Street South, which serves as an entrance to Fort Myer. The next interchange with Route 244 offers a very short merge area because of the proximity to the exit ramps to I-395 and Arlington Ridge Road. The Mixing Bowl is the first interchange in Northern Virginia with a three level bridge—ramp from I-395 to westbound Route 27 on the lowest level, eastbound Route 27 to Mixing Bowl in the middle; and southbound I-395 on top. In 1970 this was followed by a second three level stack—Joyce Street South on the lowest level, eastbound Route 27 on the middle bridge and I-395 on the top level.\n\nAt this point, Route 27 becomes a part of the collector lanes and ramps of the Mixing Bowl until its second interchange with Route 244. Also, coincident with the second Route 244 interchange, Route 27 is the northern terminus of the reversible high occupancy vehicle lanes of I-395. The westbound entrance to these lanes have a series of manually closed barriers to prevent an accidental oncoming collision during the hours each day when traffic flows to the east on the HOV lanes. The final interchange in Virginia accesses Route 110, the Pentagon North Parking Lot and Boundary Channel Drive. Although the ramp from eastbound Route 27 to northbound Route 110 is open to the public, it is on the Pentagon Reservation and is patrolled by the Pentagon Police. The route ends at the Boundary Channel, which is the border with the District of Columbia.\nRoute 27 is closed for large events held at the Pentagon including the annual Marine Corps Marathon and the Army Ten-Miler. A number of points of interest are visible from the highway, including (from west to east) Fort Myer (which was the site of the first military test flight), Henderson Hall (the headquarters of the United States Marine Corps), the United States Air Force Memorial, the Pentagon, the Navy Annex, the Pentagon Memorial, the Pentagon City Mall, and Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nThe road was constructed as a part of the Pentagon Road Network during World War II to provide access to the newly constructed War Department headquarters buildings. The system included three cloverleaf interchanges which were \"among the earliest such structures constructed in the United States.\" Those roads were transferred to the Virginia Department of Highways on December 17, 1964, and assigned the number Route 27. However, at that time, the Mixing Bowl included a ramp from the westbound Shirley Highway to the eastbound Route 27. When the high-occupancy vehicle lanes were added to I-395 in the 1970s, the Mixing Bowl was reconfigured so that the Route 27 lanes were separated as collector lanes from the through lanes of I-395. Because the collector lanes were built on the site of the ramp from westbound Shirley Highway to the eastbound Route 27, the ramp was replaced with a ramp from the eastbound Route 27 into the Pentagon South Parking Lot.\n\nThe Mixing Bowl is the first interchange in Northern Virginia with a three level bridge—ramp from I-395 to westbound Route 27 on the lowest level, eastbound Route 27 to Mixing Bowl in the middle; and southbound I-395 on top. In 1970 this was followed by a second three-level stack—Joyce Street South on the lowest level, eastbound Route 27 on the middle bridge and I-395 on the top level.\nRoute 27 is near the site of the September 11 attacks on the Pentagon. Many commuters and drivers on the road witnessed the hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 fly directly over Route 27 and crash into the Pentagon. Witnesses included Daryl Donley and Steve Riskus, both of whom took some of the first photographs after the plane crashed. As the plane passed over Route 27, it clipped several light poles; one light pole landed on the windshield of a taxicab driven by Lloyd England. The section northeast of I-395 was closed for several weeks following the attack as a security measure. When it reopened, \"No stopping\" signs were placed along the section of Route 27 near the Pentagon. To increase security, the cloverleaf interchange between Route 27 and Columbia Pike was reconfigured, by eliminating the separate loop ramp from eastbound Route 27 to westbound Columbia Pike. The ramp from westbound Columbia Pike to eastbound Route 27 was relocated parallel to Route 27 and the resulting freed area was used to construct a security checkpoint leading to a new Pentagon loading dock. A driveway from the checkpoint runs parallel to Route 27 separated by a high metal fence. However, the Pentagon Memorial still remains visible behind this fence. North of the memorial, a high cement retaining wall and berm has been constructed to protect the Pentagon from any possible explosion threats on Route 27. These and related security improvements cost $35 million (equivalent to $ in ) and were completed in October 2004. On September 11, 2010, the portion of Route 27 near the crash site was dedicated as \"9/11 Heroes Memorial Highway\" after receiving that designation by the State Legislature. Commemorative signs have been added on both sides of the highway.\n\nIn 2001, planning began for a replacement of the US 50 bridge over Route 27, which had been built in 1944 by the War Department. Construction of a replacement bridge began in October 2005 and ended in August 2007. The project cost $6.5 million (equivalent to $ in ). At 3:40 a.m. on December 22, 2004, a gasoline tank truck overturned and exploded on Washington Boulevard at the Mixing Bowl, near the Pentagon. The accident killed the driver, and sparked initial concerns that this explosion was another terrorist attack. The driver was headed to a nearby gas station, near the Pentagon.\n\nThe bridge over Columbia Pike west of the Mixing Bowl was rated as \"poor\" and a new replacement bridge was proposed with a reconfiguration of the interchange. Construction on a replacement bridge began in early 2012 and was completed in December 2015. The bridge was dedicated as the \"Freedmans Village Bridge\" in September 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053365", "title": "Karl Prusik", "text": "Karl Prusik\n\nDr. Karl Prusik (born 19 May 1896 in Vienna; d. 8 May 1961 in Perchtoldsdorf bei Wien) (also spelled Prussik) was an Austrian mountaineer, with Czech origins, who is known as the inventor of the prusik knot. He died in May 1961 at the age of 65.\n\nThe benefit of the knot is that, when weighted, it grips the rope that it is tied around. When the weight is removed, it is free to slide. This enables it to be used in a number of self rescue situations or for ascending a rope. The knot is also seen spelled incorrectly as \"prussic\".\n\nPrusik served twice as president of the Austrian Alpine Club (OeAV), and is credited with pioneering over 70 new ascents and routes.\n\nAfter the Anschluss, Prusik was one of the supporters of the then Nazi German Alpine Club (German: \"Deutscher Alpenverein\") led by Arthur Seyss-Inquart. In 1941, aged 45 years, he was called up for service as a lieutenant in the German Wehrmacht. In 1942, he was promoted to captain and received the War Merit Cross, 2nd class, awarded for operations behind the front.\n\nIn 1947, Karl Prusik returned from captivity and became the first vice president of the (ÖAK).\n\nPrusik Peak in the Cascade Range of Washington state, United States, is named in honor of Karl Prusik.\n"}
{"id": "2053372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053372", "title": "Sendo M550", "text": "Sendo M550\n\nThe M550 (sold as the M551 in North America) was a phone produced by the now defunct Sendo. It is a compact color mobile phone which features a smaller monochrome screen on the front. It features WAP support with color pictures and three games: Splat 2, TenPin and KombatKlub. It comes in a flip flop design and is available in a variety of front colors including blue, black, red and grey. The screen at the front is used for displaying the time and network info.\n\nIt was sold in Germany at the discounter Aldi under the name \"Tevion MD 7300\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2053380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053380", "title": "Scooby-Doo! and the Witch's Ghost", "text": "Scooby-Doo! and the Witch's Ghost\n\nScooby-Doo and the Witch's Ghost is a 1999 direct-to-video animated supernatural horror-comedy film, and the second of the direct-to-video films based upon Hanna-Barbera's \"Scooby-Doo\" Saturday morning cartoons. It was released on October 5, 1999, and it was produced by Warner Bros. Animation (although it contained a \"Hanna-Barbera Cartoons, Inc.\" copyright and logo).\n\nThe Mystery Inc. gang (Scooby-Doo, Shaggy, Fred, Daphne and Velma) travel to a New England town called Oakhaven after being invited by horror writer Ben Ravencroft. Like a number of direct-to-video \"Scooby-Doo\" animated films released in the late-1990s and early-2000s, \"The Witch's Ghost\" features real ghosts instead of traditional crooks in masks, giving the film a darker tone. The film has been adapted into a book.\n\nIt is the second of the first four Scooby Doo direct-to-video film to be animated overseas by Japanese animation studio Mook Animation. The film marks the first time voice actor and radio-personality Scott Innes voiced Shaggy, as Billy West (who voiced Shaggy in \"Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island\") needed time for his roles as Philip J. Fry, Professor Farnsworth and Dr. John Zoidberg on \"Futurama\".\n\nAfter Ben Ravencroft, a famous horror writer of whom Velma Dinkley is a huge fan, assists her and the Mystery Gang in solving a case at a museum, he invites them to his hometown, Oakhaven, Massachusetts. When they arrive, they find the town converted into a tourist attraction by Mayor Corey, complete with 17th-century replicas and attractions based on the alleged ghost of Sarah Ravencroft, an ancestor of Ben's who was persecuted as a witch and executed by the Puritan townspeople in 1657. Ben disputes this, claiming Sarah to be a Wiccan who used natural herbs to heal people and reveals for years he has been searching for Sarah's medical journal to prove her innocence.\n\nScooby-Doo and Shaggy Rogers are chased by a witch and run into Ben and the gang. They find broken tree branches at the scene and are drawn to an all-female gothic rock band, The Hex Girls, led by Sally \"Thorn\" McKnight. The gang then decides to split up; Fred and Daphne stay to watch the Hex Girls, Velma and Ben go explore an old barn, and Shaggy and Scooby follow the Mayor. Fred and Daphne see Thorn performing some sort of ritual and are convinced the Hex Girls are witches. Velma and Ben find a cherry picker truck in the barn. Scooby and Shaggy follow Corey, until they encounter the witch and flee to the gang.\n\nThe gang, the Hex Girls and Ben meet in the woods. The witch appears and gives chase, but is captured by Velma. The witch is revealed to be Mr. McKnight, Thorn's father. Velma locates the truck and explains that the truck's arm made the witch appear to fly, with the townspeople jointly involved. Ben scolds everyone involved for exploiting Sarah's good name. Back at Ben's house, Fred and Daphne apologize to the Hex Girls, after which Thorn explains the \"ritual\" was for soothing her vocal cords and that she is actually descended from Wiccans. Corey and Mr. McKnight arrive to apologize to Ben for using his ancestor in their publicity stunt, explaining the witch was to boost the town's failing tourist economy and that they found inspiration from digging up the head marker for Sarah's grave; keeping it secret from him to avoid upsetting him. It is then revealed that a shoe buckle Scooby found earlier was actually from Sarah's diary.\n\nEverybody goes to the buckle's location, where Scooby discovers the buried book, which is actually a spell book. Ben reveals that Sarah was indeed a witch, who wielded her terrible and evil magic against dozens of people before the Wiccans used their nature-based powers to imprison her within her own spell book. He created the mystery at the museum and engineered the encounters with the gang, knowing they could lead him to the book. After taking it from Ben, the gang attempts to flee in the Mystery Machine, but Ben (with his newly acquired powers as a Warlock) renders it useless by damaging its tires. Ben takes the book back and finally summons Sarah. However, he soon discovers that she has no loyalty to him and her ambitions are to destroy the world, rather than rule it alongside him.\n\nDisillusioned, Ben attempts to reimprison Sarah, but she tells him that only a Wiccan can defeat her, and imprisons Ben in a magical sphere. The gang launches an attempt to get the book while Sarah turns pumpkins, trees, and a turkey into monsters in order to stop them. Daphne and Velma free the Hex Girls and the latter convinces Thorn to use her inherited Wiccan power to read the spell to reimprison Sarah. Just as she's sucked back into the book, Sarah pulls Ben in too; imprisoning them both. A burning branch falls onto the book, destroying it, ensuring that the Ravencrofts can never return, and turning most of the monsters that Sarah had created to normal. The gang and townsfolk celebrate their deliverance with a concert from the Hex Girls with Scooby-Doo and the gang (and the still-gigantic turkey) joining in on the performance.\n\n\nAfter the success of \"Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island\", which received better sales than Warner Bros. had expected, the team were tasked with creating a second \"Scooby-Doo\" direct-to-video film. Its predecessor was considered a one-off experiment and, as such, the crew producing it worked with little oversight from executives. For \"Witch's Ghost\", this creative freedom was scaled back considerably. Warner Bros. suggested screenwriters Rick Copp and David A. Goodman, which insulted the team that had produced the first film in total autonomy. In addition, the studio requested the filmmakers \"tone down\" their content, as they feared \"Zombie Island\" had proved too scary for its intended audience.\n\nCopp and Goodman's script concluded with the revelation that the townspeople were using the witch as a publicity stunt. The original team found this unsatisfactory and Glenn Leopold re-wrote the last third of the film, introducing the concept that the ghost is real.\n\nOn September 14, 1999, the soundtrack was released on CD and Audio Cassette, featuring songs by The Hex Girls, and Billy Ray Cyrus performing \"Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!\".\n\nIn spite of a lack of critical consensus, the film earned a 50% rotten on Rotten Tomatoes, as well as mixed to negative reviews from critics. Conversely, though, the film was well-received by audiences. David Parkinson of \"Radio Times\", gave the film a two out of five stars, saying: \"This full-length cartoon featuring the ghost-hunting teenage detectives is something of a mixed bag.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2053385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053385", "title": "Heart of Dixie (film)", "text": "Heart of Dixie (film)\n\nHeart of Dixie is a 1989 drama film adaptation of the 1976 novel \"Heartbreak Hotel\" by Anne Rivers Siddons and directed by Martin Davidson. The film stars Ally Sheedy, Virginia Madsen, Phoebe Cates, and Treat Williams.\n\nThree sorority women at a 1957 Alabama college face the experience and difficulties of ethnic strife and integration.\n\nThe expression \"Heart of Dixie\" is a nickname for the state of Alabama.\n\nThe fictional Randolph University is based on Auburn University, Alabama.\n\nThe movie was filmed in Oxford, MS at The University of Mississippi (Ole Miss) and in Holly Springs, MS.\n\nThe soda shop featured in the film was a renovated gas station that became the original McAlister's Deli Restaurant.\n\n\nNoted film critic Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote:\n\n\"Heart of Dixie\" is a clear-eyed, funny and affecting movie about the emotional awakening of a pretty, white Alabama coed in 1957, on the eve of the great racial struggles that would mark the 1960s throughout the South. ... Mr. McCown's screenplay, based on the novel \"Heartbreak Hotel,\" by Anne Rivers Siddons, is refreshing in the way that it refuses to impose a long historical view on the immediate events it is recording. The movie is always aware of history, but it somehow avoids the awful self-assurance that comes with 20-20 hindsight. ... Miss Sheedy is so good as Maggie that the character's liberation, and the rise of her social consciousness, appear to be genuine triumphs. Miss Madsen, who looks a little like Carole Landis as well as like Kim Novak, is also fine, as are Mr. Williams, Phoebe Cates (as Maggie's unconventional friend) and Don Michael Paul, who manages to play Maggie's Southern chauvinist fiance with a good deal of arrogant charm.\n\nIn contrast, Rita Kempley, staff writer at \"The Washington Post\" panned the film, writing, \"Ally Sheedy, Virginia Madsen and Phoebe Cates combine their negligible talents in \"Heart of Dixie\" -- a melodrama so full of hams, it oinks. Led by Sheedy, the tedious trio plays giddy coeds caught up in the racist and sexist traditions of the South in the late '50s. They all sound like they've been gulping hush puppy batter ... Working from McCown's histrionic screenplay, Martin Davidson of \"Eddie and the Cruisers\" proves once again that he don't know nothing 'bout directing no movies.\"\n\nAlly Sheedy was nominated for Worst Actress at the Golden Raspberry Awards, but lost to Heather Locklear for \"The Return of Swamp Thing\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2053387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053387", "title": "Jerry Dixon (musician)", "text": "Jerry Dixon (musician)\n\nJerry Lawrence Dixon (born September 15, 1967) is an American musician, and one of the original members of the 1980s rock band Warrant. He was born in Pasadena, California. He has a son, Grady by ex-wife Susan Ashley.\n\nDixon started playing the bass guitar at 13 years of age. His first bass was a used Sears model that he had purchased from a friend for $30. Dixon joined Warrant while still in high school (11th grade). Dixon has been influenced musically by Geezer Butler and Rudy Sarzo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053392", "title": "Rodolphe Seeldrayers", "text": "Rodolphe Seeldrayers\n\nRodolphe William Seeldrayers (December 16, 1876 – October 7, 1955) was a Belgian football administrator who was the fourth President of FIFA, serving from 1954 to 1955. He was actively involved in the official associations of Belgium sports.\n\nBorn in 1876 in Düsseldorf, Germany, Seeldrayers studied law at the Université Libre de Bruxelles (\"Free University of Brussels\"), where he began his sporting activities. At 19 he was one of the founders of the \"Union royale belge des Sociétés de football association\" (URBSFA), or \"Royal Belgian Union of the Football Association Societies\", for which he was the treasurer for four years and a member of the Executive Counsel for 25 years. He was later elected as a member of honour. In 1914, the Union used his talents as an orator and named him a delegate to FIFA, of which he was made vice-president in 1927.\n\nIn 1899 Seeldrayers began a career as a sports journalist with the magazine \"\"La vie sportive\"\" (\"Sporting Life\"), writing a column under the pen name \"Spectator\". Ten years later, he founded the National Committee for Physical Education which merged with the Belgian Olympic Committee. He became head of the committee beginning in 1946, succeeding Prince Albert de Ligne.\n\nIn 1920, he was technical secretary of the Olympic Games at Anvers, and a member of the appeals jury for football at the Olympics several times. He was most notable in this role at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, when during the Peru vs. Austria game spectators invaded the pitch which provoked an appeals jury consultation. The Austrian Football Association sent a complaint to the appeals committee which decided, after deliberation, to re-play the match \"behind closed doors\". Peru disagreed and their entire Olympic squad left the Games complaining of the \"crafty Berlin decision\". He also received the official Czechoslovak complaint following the abandoned 1920 Olympic Final, which had been refereed by John Lewis.\n\nAn inveterate founder of clubs and associations, the following organizations are to Seeldrayers' credit: the Waterloo Golf-Club (1923), the Ixelles Football Club (which would be part of the merger with the Racing Club of Brussels), and the Anglo-Belgian Cricket Sporting Club. Selldrayers seemed to be well received in English circles: up-to-date and to the point in matters of sport, he spoke the English language. At the same time, he continued his journalistic activities and began a new collaboration with the publication \"Sports Echo\" (\"L'Écho des Sports\"). He ended this aspect of his career in 1935 while still continuing to publish articles and making his opinions known in the columns of the Bulletins of the International Olympic Committee.\n\nWorld War II slowed but did not stop his activities. As a member of the Belgian Olympic Committee during the Occupation, he stood up for the independence of Belgian sport. At the end of the war, he was one of the members of the International Olympic Committee for the first post-war Games, in 1946.\n\nA great mutual respect existed between Seeldrayers and the then president of FIFA, universally respected Frenchman Jules Rimet. This translated on the part of the Belgian, into a motion introduced on July 25, 1946, at a FIFA congress, to change the name of the World Cup to the \"Jules Rimet Cup\".\n\nFor many years, the question of amateurism posed a problem. With the economic development of sports, the phenomenon of professionalism began to bring into question the fundamentals of the conception of the Olympic Games, as P. de Coubertin wanted them to be. Debates raged and a Commission on Amateurism was created, supported by the International Olympic Committee, which Seeldrayers took part in. In the end, the commission submitted its final report in 1947, at the session in Stockholm. It included a definition of amateurism and required future participants in the Olympic Games to sign a declaration affirming they were true amateurs, and proposed the creation of a permanent commission. This was composed of three members of the International Olympic Committee, and a delegate of each international federation.\n\nAt the beginning of 1955, Jules Rimet resigned from FIFA and passed his authority to his vice-president, R. W. Seeldrayers. This handing down of power, as well as the matches of the World Cup of 1954, were shown on television for the first time. Under his presidency, the Federation counted 85 members and celebrated its fiftieth anniversary.\n\nUnder his presidency of FIFA, Seeldrayers faced another problem: FIFA was reproached for having given permission for \"false\" amateurs to participate in a Helsinki tournament, even though a definition of amateurism had been introduced in its by-laws by Seeldrayers himself, vice president of the federation at the time. The problem was complex, with the decision on which games will participate in major sports events at stake. It was also a time when regimes used sports as a means of propaganda.\n\nAware of the significance of this problem, Seeldrayers remained faithful to his view of the sport. For him, \"from a point of view strictly Olympic, sport is only possible, theoretically, when practiced by amateurs.\" His opinion didn't prevent him from respecting professional players who followed the spirit of the game with loyalty, sincerity, and fair-play. And even though he clearly saw the use of sports in communist propaganda, he understood and approved that phenomenon to a certain extent. In his opinion, sports were a key element of social organization. They must be integrated into the school curriculum on the same level that any other subject and are capital to youths' education. Seeldrayers considered the criticisms flawed, and over time, his opinion didn't improve. He believed that it was the duty of the press to teach the spectator.\n\nR.W. Seeldrayers died a year after his election as president of FIFA, on October 7, 1955, due to illness, and received a semi-official funeral, following a governmental decision. He was posthumously elected a member of the IOC (International Olympic Committee). It was then decided that this title would not be given posthumously again.\n\nSeeldrayers was a very accomplished sportsman, evidenced by the many sports in which he competed. He had a preference for team sports. This agreed with his concept of sports, since according to Seeldrayers, sports must be the playing field of an apprenticeship in the necessary values of life and community.\n\nEight fields of Belgian sports benefited from Seeldrayers' attentions: athletics, football, aviation, cricket, field hockey, golf and, in a small measure, tennis and swimming — athletics and football being his main focus. He was the Belgian 110 metre hurdles champion in 1897, and he competed as a hurdler for ten years. He was the Belgium Division of Honour champion with the Racing-Club of Brussels' team in 1900, and captain of the university team of Brussels in 1898 and 1899. All in all, he competed for 26 years.\n\nAs for other fields, their practice lasted an average of ten years and always at an elevated level of accomplishment, winning, at least, a championship: he had five years in the Regatta Club (\"Cercle des régates\") of Brussels and the \"Sunburn\" team (\"Coup de Soleil\"), ten years of cricket in \"le Racing\" and the \"Anglo-Belgian Club\" of Brussels, and was three times champion of Belgium. In 1924 he was captain of the national team which defeated France in Paris. For ten years he played hockey for the Racing-Club of Brussels, and in 1903, for the national team against France in Paris. He played golf from 1919 onward in the Waterloo Golf Club where he was captain for ten years.\n"}
{"id": "2053397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053397", "title": "José González-Lander", "text": "José González-Lander\n\nJose Gonzalez-Lander (November 13, 1933 – January 18, 2000) was a Caracas, Venezuela born engineer credited for leading the planning, design and construction of the Caracas Metro during an uninterrupted period of more than thirty years, from 1966 to 1997.\n\nMr. Gonzalez-Lander dedicated his life to public service rising through the ranks of the Ministry of Public Works where he started as an assistant engineer when he was in his freshman year in engineering school. He graduated in 1958 with a degree in Civil Engineering from Universidad Central de Venezuela in Caracas. His graduation was delayed almost two years due to student unrest during the final years of General Marcos Pérez Jiménez' dictatorship. The Venezuelan government granted him a scholarship to attend graduate school at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he concentrated in Transportation Engineering and Economics.\n\nOn his return to Venezuela Mr. Gonzalez-Lander was put in charge of the Ministry of Public Works' \"Office of Transportation Planning\" where he spearheaded the design of the backbone of the future Caracas Metro system, a 20 km underground double track rail line connecting the East and West ends of the city. This effort would expand for 10 years before the project could muster enough public support for its construction.\n\nCaracas' rapid growth as a result of the oil boom of the 1970s strained the capacity of the city's road network and the need for a rapid transit system became evident as automotive traffic along its modern expressways became chaotic. The government of President Carlos Andrés Pérez decided to provide full political and financial support to the construction of this complex project. The man selected to head this effort was Jose Gonzalez-Lander who, in 1977, founded the Compañía Anónima Metro de Caracas, an independent government enterprise that would plan and execute the construction of the system and would operate it once completed (similar to an American Transit Authority.)\n\nThis was one of the most ambitious infrastructure projects undertaken in the country since the Guri Dam was started in the 1960s. Construction of the first phase was very successful and revenue service started on January 2, 1983. The success of the project was in large measure attributed to Mr. Gonzalez-Lander and his team's technical and managerial skills. In a country where most public endeavors are stifled by poor management and charges of corruption, the Caracas Metro and Mr. Gonzalez-Lander became an example to follow.\n\nDuring his 20 years at the helm of the company, Gonzalez Lander oversaw the construction of the first line and of two branches (see List of Caracas Metro stations.) The last rail line completed under his management was opened to revenue service in 1994. The success of the company continued during the operation of the system with the creation of a network of feeder buses which replicated the efficiency of the underground service and gained the praise of all its users. This became the only centrally controlled network of high capacity buses in the city where, up to that point, surface transportation was provided by driver-owned jitneys. During his tenure the company also laid the foundation for the future growth of the system establishing an expansion program for the year 2010 that included two additional Metro corridors and two extensions of existing lines; three of these projects started construction between the years 2001 and 2003.\n\nGonzalez-Lander received multiple decorations during his professional career, most notably the \"Orden Francisco de Miranda\" and \"Orden Libertador\" from the Venezuelan government; the \"Ordre National de la Légion d'Honneur\" from the French Government and the \"Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana\" from the Italian Government. In his honor, the building that houses the Operations Control Center and Metro's training facilities was named \"Jose Gonzalez Lander.\"\n\nGonzalez-Lander was also an accomplished amateur painter. During a period of 18 years he painted several hundred oil canvases mostly depicting urban scenes of early twentieth century Caracas and many portraits of his family.\n\nMr. Gonzalez-Lander retired in 1997 and received the honorary title of \"President Emeritus\" of the company he founded. He died in Caracas on January 18, 2000 at the age of 66.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053398", "title": "Ide, Devon", "text": "Ide, Devon\n\nIde is a village in Devon, England situated less than a mile to the southwest of Exeter. The village church (rebuilt in 1834) is dedicated to the German Saint Ida of Herzfeld. The village is home to two pubs: the Poacher's Inn and the Huntsman Inn. A long ford crosses the Fordland Brook at College Lane on the north-west edge of the village. Above Ide on a hilltop at SX8888 is the site of a Roman fortlet or signal station.\n\nThe majority of the village is separated from suburban Exeter by the A30 dual carriageway. Whilst it was controversial at the time of construction, the road has effectively enabled Ide to maintain an independent identity. However, the parish boundaries extend a short distance over the A30 and several notable buildings within the parish, including Ide House and the Twisted Oak pub, are located on the Exeter side.\n\nIde Halt railway station on the G.W.R. Teign Valley Line opened in 1903 and closed to passengers on 9 June 1958. The site of the station was re-developed as St Ida's Close and no trace now remains.\n\nIde had a population of 526 in 2011. However this figure decreased to 510 in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2053400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053400", "title": "Pingali (writer)", "text": "Pingali (writer)\n\nPingali Nagendrarao (29 December 1901 – 6 May 1971) was a Telugu movie script writer, playwright and lyricist. Famous for his witty and romantic lyrics, he also wrote dialogues for many movies. \"Patala Bhairavi\", \"Mayabazar\" and \"Missamma\" are some of his best known works for story, script and song lyrics.\n\nPingali is famous for his coining of new and funny words and phrases in Telugu such as \"Dhimbaka\", \"Dingari\", \"Gimbali\".\n\nHe was born in a Telugu Brahmin family on 29 December 1901 to Gopalakrishnaiah and Mahalaxmamma in Rajam, near Bobbili, Andhra Pradesh. Because most of his relatives are settled in Machilipatnam, their family migrated there. He did a course in Mechanical Engineering from the Andhra Jateeya Kalasala, Machilipatnam.\n\nHe joined Indian independence movement and wrote \"Janma Bhoomi\" as his first literary work. He was arrested for the same. He worked as a teacher for some time and later joined Bengal Nagpur Railway at Kharagpur for two years. He was union leader of the labour association there. During this period, he translated Dwijendralal Ray's \"Mebar Patan\" (1922) as \"Mevadu Rajyapatanam\" and \"Pashani\" (1923) from Bengali into Telugu language. His independent work during the same time was \"Jebunnisa\". All the three dramas were published in Krishna Patrica. He joined Indian National Congress and as pracharak toured the entire country and reached Sabarmati Ashram.\n\nHe came back to Machilipatnam and joined Indian Dramatic Company of Devarakonda Venkata Subbarao in 1924 as writer and secretary. He wrote \"Vindyarani\" play in 1928 based on the \"Dubois of Padua\" of Oscar Wilde, \"Naa Raju\" play based on the history of Sri Krishnadevaraya, \"Maro Prapancham\" social play and \"Rani Samyukta\" historical play.\n\nPingali Nagendra Rao was considered a magician with words. He died on 6 May 1971.\n\nAll of Pingali Nagendra Rao's plays were reprinted recently in a book titled \"Pingaleeyam\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053414", "title": "Last Night (1998 film)", "text": "Last Night (1998 film)\n\nLast Night is a 1998 Canadian apocalyptic black comedy-drama film directed by Don McKellar and starring McKellar, Sandra Oh and Callum Keith Rennie. McKellar wrote the screenplay inspired by the French film project 2000, Seen By... to depict different countries' perspectives on the imminent turn of the millennium, and opted to make the story about the end of the world. The film was made and released when many were concerned about the Year 2000 problem, and was filmed and set in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nThe film was released to positive reviews for McKellar's direction and Oh's acting. It won awards at the Cannes and Toronto International Film Festivals, and three Genie Awards, including Best Actress for Oh.\n\nIn Toronto, a group of friends and family prepare for the end of the world, expected at midnight as the result of a calamity that is not explained, but which has been expected for several months. There has been panic and rioting after the imminent catastrophe was announced, but the chaos has since largely died down, with only sporadic murders and robberies. On the last evening, depressed widower Patrick meets with his family, including his sister Jennifer, for a mock Christmas dinner and celebration, though he leaves prematurely to spend his final hours alone in his apartment. He unexpectedly meets Sandra, who is stranded in the city and attempting to reunite with her new husband Duncan, who works at a power company. Duncan spends much of the day calling his customers to reassure them that their heating gas will be kept on until the very end. Sandra and Duncan have a suicide pact. Although intending to die alone, Patrick invites Sandra up to his apartment and attempts to help her find her husband.\n\nMeanwhile, Patrick's best friend Craig embarks on a nearly non-stop sex marathon as he attempts to fulfill every fantasy he has ever had, pursuing interracial sex, sex with his old French teacher Mme. Carlton, and sex with a virgin, among others. With Sandra in need of a car and Craig having a car collection, Patrick and Sandra visit him and ask for one of his vehicles. Craig at first refuses, wanting to die with a complete collection, but Patrick persuades him to give one up. Craig also attempts to have a homosexual affair with Patrick, one of his fantasies, but Patrick indicates he is not interested in having sex with anyone on his last night.\n\nDuncan is randomly murdered by a rioter, and Craig's car Sandra has borrowed is vandalized. Upon realizing she will not reunite with Duncan, Sandra asks Patrick to join her suicide pact. As midnight approaches, they both sit on the roof facing each other, listening to the song \"Guantanamera\", each holding a loaded pistol to the other's temple. However, as the final seconds approach, both characters are overcome with emotion and simultaneously let their pistols slip away as they slowly embrace in a kiss. The world finally ends.\n\nDirector Don McKellar wrote the screenplay after being approached by the French company Haut et Court, which was putting together a project called \"2000, Seen By...\" consisting of films depicting the approaching millennium seen from the perspectives of 10 different countries. Fearing a story about the millennium would become dated after 2000, McKellar was inspired to make his film about the end of the world, and asked his friends what they would do if they knew the end was coming, basing his screenplay on their responses. His script does not explain why the world is ending because he did not view that as the point of the story. However, McKellar acknowledged that the film's sun shining throughout the night \"seems to suggest some major planetary alignment problems\". The film marked McKellar's first attempt at directing a feature film.\n\nFor the C$2.2 million budget, McKellar secured the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as the main sponsor, with Haut et Court providing less than half of the budget. Afterwards, more money was raised. Rhombus Media was a major sponsor.\n\nFor the part of Duncan, McKellar cast Canadian director David Cronenberg, with McKellar explaining, \"He takes his acting seriously,\" and \"Cronenberg typified a certain type of person for me: a soft-spoken, articulate, careful character who may have a wild interior life- the most sane or the most insane character in the film.\" Initially concerned about directing and acting at the same time, McKellar opted to keep the direction simple, aiming for a \"fairly austere and elegant\" style. Shortly before shooting began, he learned a Hollywood film called \"Armageddon\" was in the works, but opted to go ahead upon hearing the stories were substantially different.\n\n\"Last Night\" was filmed on location in and near Toronto between September 15 and October 19, 1997. Shooting primarily took place at the Macdonald Block and apartment buildings near The Annex. Filmmakers used computers to depict an overturned streetcar, since overturning a real one would have been too expensive. Cinematographer Douglas Koch used bleach bypass for sad visuals.\n\nFollowing an advance showing for critics in Paris, \"Last Night\" premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in May 1998, in the Directors' Fortnight section. It was the first film played in Canada Perspectives at the Toronto International Film Festival. Afterwards, Lions Gate Entertainment obtained distribution rights in the United States.\n\nMcKellar testified before the Parliament of Canada that \"Last Night\" played in theatres across Canada, before being replaced in many locations by \"Meet Joe Black\". By mid February 1999, \"Last Night\" grossed $400,000 in Canadian theatres, a \"respectable\" sum, though McKellar noted the film performed better in Athens, Greece than in Toronto.\n\nThe film received positive reviews, with Rotten Tomatoes reporting an 84% approval rating of 49 reviews, with an average rating of 7.2/10, the critical consensus stating: \"An engrossing, poignant film, \"Last Night\" examines the end of the world through humorous and thought-provoking dialogue.\" Roger Ebert gave the film three stars, noting fears of Y2K were prominent when he was writing in December 1999, but \"Last Night\"'s apocalypse \"paints a picture more bittersweet than violent.\" He found \"moments of startling poignancy\" in the last two-thirds of the film. Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" called the film \"a smart, stiff-upper-lip alternative to a movie like \"Armageddon,\"\" and said McKellar and Sandra Oh give \"intense performances,\" but expected more panic in the case of the apocalypse. \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film an A-, calling it \"a surreal, elegantly melancholy, and yet witty ensemble story\" and Oh a \"scene-stealer.\" Peter Howell of the \"Toronto Star\" commented on the many Canadian cast members, suggesting the film is \"too damn Canuck for its own good,\" and a riot scene would help. For \"Maclean's\", Tanya Davies declared it \"A millennial coup\". Outside North America, critics favoured the film as \"the perfect antidote\" to U.S. apocalyptic films, with a U.K. critic adding \"Only in Canada can you get away with a film like this.\" \"Time Out\" called the film \"a witty, perceptive movie, exceptionally well structured.\"\n\nIn 2002, readers of \"Playback\" magazine voted \"Last Night\" the ninth greatest Canadian film of all-time. In 2012, Oliver Lyttelton of \"IndieWire\" named it one of five \"underseen\" apocalypse films worth seeing, writing it compared well to \"Armageddon\" and \"Deep Impact\" (1998) for \"its quiet, character driven approach,\" and that it was likely the inspiration for \"Seeking a Friend for the End of the World\" (2012). In 2014, Colin McNeil of \"Metro News\" wrote \"\"Last Night\" is perhaps the most upbeat end-of-the-world movie you’ll ever see.\"\n\nMcKellar won the \"Award of the Youth\" at the Cannes Film Festival and Best Canadian First Feature Film at the 1998 Toronto International Film Festival for \"Last Night\". The film also won three Genie Awards, where McKellar was effectively competing against himself as a screenwriter of both \"Last Night\" and \"The Red Violin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2053416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053416", "title": "Hammartun Lower Secondary School", "text": "Hammartun Lower Secondary School\n\nHammartun Lower Secondary School () is a public lower secondary school situated in Lillehammer, Norway. The school educates around 220 students aged 13–16.\n\nThe school started teaching in 1841. The buildings it occupies today were built in 1846 and later added to.\n\nIt is situated very close to the center of Lillehammer, approximately 40 meters from the train station.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053418", "title": "LaTavia Roberson", "text": "LaTavia Roberson\n\nLaTavia Marie Roberson (born November 1, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. Roberson rose to fame in the late 1990s as an original member of the R&B group Destiny's Child, one of the world's best-selling girl groups of all time.\n\nFollowing her departure from the group, Roberson formed Anjel along with former Destiny's Child member LeToya Luckett. After their album was shelved, Roberson went on hiatus and returned to Houston. Roberson has starred in various stage plays including \"Those Jeans\", \"How to Love\", and \"Not My Family\". Roberson also became a main cast-member for \"\" alongside singers such as Angie Stone, Keke Wyatt and long-time friend Meelah of 702.\n\nRoberson has sold over 25 million records with Destiny's Child. Her work has earned her several awards and nominations, including two Grammy Awards and three Soul Train Music Awards.\n\nLaTavia Roberson was born on November 1, 1981, and is of African-American and Louisiana Creole (African, Native American, and French) descent. In the 1980s, before joining Destiny's Child, LaTavia was a child model, appearing in commercials such as Soft and Beautiful's Just for Me Hair Care relaxer for kids.\n\nWhen LaTavia was nine years old, she auditioned for a girl group to become a rapper and dancer, and was one of the many girls who got through. She met Beyoncé Knowles on the same day of the audition for the group and became best friends, singing and dancing with other local girls in which LaTavia and Beyoncé made a video for the song \"One Time\". She then met Kelly Rowland in elementary school after hearing her sing she told her to try out for the group which she did. Initially LaTavia was a rapper and dancer at the time and did not sing; subsequently she had vocal lessons and, after singing at local events, LaTavia got her break when she entered the singing competition TV show \"Star Search\" with Beyoncé, Kelly Rowland, Tamar Davis and LaTavia's cousins Nikki and Nina Taylor. The group, then named Girl's Tyme were heartbroken after losing the competition to Skeleton Crew. Beyonce's father Mathew Knowles began to manage the group, and he changed the line-up as the group was then reduced to a quartet, with best-friend Beyoncé, Rowland, and Beyoncé's elementary school friend LeToya Luckett. The group underwent several name changes: The Dolls, Something Fresh, and Cliché. They were shortly signed to Elektra Records. However the group were dropped by the label. After plenty of training done by the manager to become prepared and ready for the music industry, they were signed by Columbia Records in 1997 by the name of Destiny's Child with Knowles as lead vocalist, Rowland as second-lead vocalist, and Roberson and Luckett as background vocalists. Roberson was the alto, adding the low notes, and Luckett was the soprano, adding the high notes to the group's harmony. Roberson was designated as the group's spokesperson. In 1998, Destiny's Child released their self-titled debut album \"Destiny's Child\". The singles were \"No, No, No\" featuring Wyclef Jean and \"With Me\". Roberson can be heard rapping in the song \"Illusions\". Later in 1998, their song \"Get on the Bus\" featuring Timbaland (which was released as a single in Europe) was featured on the \"Why Do Fools Fall in Love\" soundtrack. The song was the lead single for their second album. Destiny's Child toured as an opening act on TLC's FanMail Tour and Christina Aguilera's debut tour.\n\nIn 1999, Destiny's Child released their second album \"The Writing's on the Wall\". It became one of the biggest selling albums released by a female group and was certified eight-times platinum in the U.S. The album includes four hit singles, \"Bills, Bills, Bills\", \"Bug a Boo\", \"Say My Name\", and \"Jumpin', Jumpin'\". LaTavia also gained co-writing contribution more on this album than their first. Roberson performed lead on two songs: \"Sweet Sixteen\" and \"Where'd You Go\". Additionally LaTavia sang lead on the song \"Can't Help Myself\" but this song only was released on the albums \"Houston Edition\". In late 1999, in the midst of the success of \"The Writing's on the Wall\", Roberson and LeToya Luckett attempted to bring in a third-party mediator to work with their manager Mathew Knowles; however, the pair soon found themselves on the outs with Knowles. When the \"Say My Name\" video debuted in February 2000, the pair learned they'd been replaced by Michelle Williams and Farrah Franklin, which led to several lawsuits with the outcome of Roberson and Luckett being entitled to royalty checks from the previous albums they had made with the group.\n\nWhile in Destiny's Child with the other members, LaTavia had appeared in music videos such as Jagged Edge. Roberson also performed with Destiny's Child in live shows and had won awards such as Soul Train Awards. She also starred in TV roles such as \"Smart Guy\" and the movie \"Beverly Hills\" with the other members of the group.\n\nIn 2001, LaTavia and LeToya had achieved two Grammys for their contribution to \"Say My Name\", after leaving.\n\nAfter that, they created a group called Anjel with two other girls, Naty Quinones and Tiffany Beaudoin. They recorded a 22-track demo to release their album, Heavenly, with the help of Jagged Edge. Unfortunately, the production company which handled the group fell through and all the girls from Anjel went their separate ways. The label was 581 Entertainment, ran by Jagged Edge, under So So Def while it was still under Columbia. The group never released Heavenly and split up in 2003 before actually recording a full album. The tracks were leaked on the internet.\n\nIn 2000, Linda Casey, the mother of two members of Jagged Edge, held a talent search in Connecticut. This contest would determine the newest member of the group, Natasha Ramos. Due to personality differences, Ramos left the group. Before leaving, she introduced them to Naty Quinones, who auditioned and was added to the group. In 2001, Anjel attended the Grammys. Later that year, Tiffany Beaudoin was introduced to Anjel by a mutual friend, and joined after an audition. The group made one live appearance in 2001 on Good Day, NY; they talked about the album they were working on and sang part of their song \"Missing You\".\n\nJermaine Dupri's leaving Columbia Records caused problems with 581 Entertainment. Prior to the move, Anjel's project was on track to be released. The members decided to look into individual projects while group business issues were being handled. In 2003, the record company soon folded and the group broke up.\n\nThe band also appeared in Jagged Edge's music video \"Where the Party At\" Remix.\n\nIn 2005, LaTavia got invited to replace Kandi in the group Xscape, but passed on the opportunity due to her priority to take care of her family at home in Houston.\n\nIn July 2006, it was confirmed by LaTavia herself, that she was secretly recording her debut album on and off since March 2006. She collaborated with producers such as Scott Storch and hoped to work with Houston rappers Mike Jones and Slim Thug in the future, but was quick to point out it was in no way an attempt to recreate the success of former bandmate LeToya Luckett. Her album would appear sometime in 2009, called 'Black Summer's Night', a mix of hip-hop meets jazz and soul, with help from Swizz Beatz, Polow da Don, and André 3000 of Outkast. Unfortunately, she never managed to complete this album, so it was never released.\n\nIn 2007, LaTavia along with other Destiny's Child past members LeToya Luckett and Farrah Franklin appeared in the TV series \"Boulevard of Broken Dreams\" telling their side of the story about what happened during their time with Destiny's Child.\n\nIn 2008, LaTavia was in a stage play titled \"Those Jeans\". It was described as \"a truly well written love story, about a fashion designer and a high fashion photographer, looking for love in all the wrong places\". It ran from April 18, 2008 to July 12, 2008.\n\nIn 2009, LaTavia featured in the song \"Swagga Check\" by Young Sween on his album \"The Goodie Room\", released by Fleet Street Records; the song was mistakenly named \"Holdin on to You\" on iTunes.\n\nIn 2010, LaTavia appeared on \"The Real Housewives of Atlanta\" speaking to her then-lawyer Phaedra Parks. During this episode, Roberson talked about how she dealt with alcoholic problems and getting in trouble with the law for a DWI.\n\nIn 2013, LaTavia starred in J.F. Bailey's stage plays \"How to Love\" and \"Not My Family\". On August 21, 2013, LaTavia gave birth to her first child, a girl named Lyric Richard, with record producer Don Vito. In 2014, LaTavia was added to the main cast of \"\" season 3, and her main storyline included being afraid to sing on the show, as she felt she wasn't ready to do so, despite the show being called R&B Divas. Season 3 of R&B Divas consisted of eleven episodes starring LaTavia (including the reunion shows). To promote R&B Divas, she appeared on the Wendy Williams Show in May 2014. In 2015, Roberson announced she had gotten into the hair business with Luxury Hair Direct which specializes in hair extensions. She also became involved with the charity 'Saving Our Daughters'.\n\nIn 2016, Roberson started an online YouTube-based series called 'The Online Diary of LaTavia Roberson.' \n\nIn 2017, it was reported Roberson would make her film debut as actress in the horror movie \"But Deliver Us from Evil\", starring Eric Roberts. She was also reported to appear in two additional movies \"Dirty South House Arrest\" and \"The Hills\". In spring of 2017, LaTavia confirmed she is set to release her autobiography, which she described as a memoir to her fans entitled 'I Am LaTavia'. She engaged in a feud with \"People Magazine\" after alleging they misquoted and misrepresented her interview online. Roberson released her first song as a solo artist, which is an EDM track entitled \"Best Time of Your Life\" on June 23, 2017.\n\nIn March 2000, Roberson and Luckett filed a lawsuit against Mathew Knowles and the group. This began a media battle in which the two sides exchanged barbs in magazine and newspaper interviews. Roberson and Luckett agreed to a settlement that required them to drop the part of their lawsuit that targeted their former group members (though they retained the suit against Mathew Knowles) and required both sides to stop disparaging each other in public. Roberson and Luckett later filed another suit against Destiny's Child. They claimed that the first single, \"Survivor\", from Destiny's Child's 2001 album of the same name violated their previous settlement due to its lyrics which they believed referenced the ugly split with lyrics such as \"thought I couldn't sell without you, sold nine million\". In July 2002, Destiny's Child again settled out of court with Roberson and Luckett.\n\nIn 2010, Roberson revealed that she had suffered with an alcohol problem after Destiny's Child. This led to being arrested with a DWI; however, Roberson went through counselling and is using her experience to help others going through the same thing. On August 21, 2013, Roberson gave birth to daughter Lyric Richard with producer Don Vito. In June 2016, she suffered the late term pregnancy loss of a baby girl. On September 23, 2019, Roberson's management team announced via Instagram that she had given birth to a boy. Roberson's son, Londyn Richard, is her second child with Don Vito. \n\nNon-solo\n\nSolo\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053435", "title": "KGFK", "text": "KGFK\n\nKGFK may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2053439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053439", "title": "Fireworks law in the United Kingdom", "text": "Fireworks law in the United Kingdom\n\nFireworks in the UK are governed primarily by the Fireworks Regulations 2004 (under powers delegated from the Fireworks Act 2003), the Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015, and British Standards BS 7114 until 4/7/17 and BS-EN 15947-2015.\n\nBS 7114 defines four 'categories' for fireworks.\n\nPeople under the age of 18 are not allowed to buy fireworks, nor possess them in a public place. This was increased from 16 in 1997.\n\nOtherwise, all fireworks, since 1997, must comply with BS7114, and be marked accordingly and fall into one of the following three categories:\n\n\nUnder BS14035, there are also now Category 2 fireworks that require a longer distance of 8 metres, providing potentially better effects than 5 metre fireworks but without the fallout of Category 3 fireworks.\n\nFireworks of louder than 120dBA at 15 metres cannot be sold to the public.\n\nIt is not illegal for a firework to be set off at less than the minimum safely viewable distance; however, in the event of any injury to a spectator, the firer might be liable if the distance was too short.\n\nA Category 3 firework will contain no more than 1 kg net explosive content in the case of combinations and fountains, except for fountain combinations, which can contain up to 3 kg of net explosive content.\n\n\nThe law considers a firework professional to be someone employed in a business that fires fireworks, such as a firework display outlet, or a stagehand. In practice, most stores that sell Category 4 fireworks do ask for proof of training; most category 4 professionals are trained under the British Pyrotechnists Association Professional Firers Training Scheme, although equally legitimate professional competency courses, recognised under current legislation, are provided by some commercial organisations such as Illuminate Consult. Company directors are liable under the Health and Safety at Work Act for the safety of their employees, and prosecutions have occurred.\n\n\nIn terms of transport and storage, fireworks with a 'minor blast hazard', UN Category 1.3g are distinguished from those without that hazard, namely UN category 1.4g. Fireworks containing more than 25 grams of flash powder will be in category 1.3g, and many fall into Category 3, legal for public sale; however the cost of complying with storage regulations means that retailers may choose not to sell 1.3g fireworks.\n\nConsumers may hold up to 5 kg NEC 1.4G fireworks for personal use for an unlimited time and 50 kg NEC up to 21 days. For 1.3G fireworks, 5 kg can also be kept for an unlimited time and up to 100 kg for 5 days. Any amount of either 1.3g or 1.4g may be held for up to 24 hours. If storing for longer periods, a license is required if storing more than 5 kg NEC (Net Explosive Content).\n\nExcept for specially licensed year-round firework shops, fireworks are only for sale for Chinese New Year and three days prior, Diwali and three days prior, from 15 October to 10 November (for Guy Fawkes Night), and from 26 to 31 December (for New Year). Typically supermarkets and other general retail outlets sell fireworks in the October–November period and for new year, but do not sell at the other periods in most areas.\n\nUsing or buying fireworks illegally can result in a £5,000 fine or imprisonment for up to 6 months.\n\nFireworks must not be let off between 11pm and 7am, except on Chinese New Year, Diwali and New Year's Eve, when the period is extended until 1am, and on Guy Fawkes Night, when the period is extended until midnight.\n\nIt is illegal to set off fireworks (including sparklers) in the street or public place. Section 28 of the Town Police Clauses Act 1847 prohibits setting off, or throwing fireworks in the street. Breaking these laws can result in an on-the-spot fine of £90.\n\nIt should also be borne in mind that the regulations are different in Northern Ireland, where any purchase or use of fireworks requires a licence (this includes personal, back garden displays).\n\nIn the UK, the most common injuries are burns from hand-held fireworks such as sparklers. People are also injured by projectiles fired from fireworks, often due to incorrect use. Other issues include the dangers of falling rocket sticks, especially from larger rockets containing metal motors.\n\n\"Shock\" adverts were used in the 1970s and 80s in an attempt to restrict injuries from fireworks, targeted at young people.\n\nThe manufacture and sale of fireworks requires licensing as above. However, The Manufacture and Storage of Explosives Regulations 2005 ( ) made provision, in section 5 para 3 for exceptions to the licensing requirements for up to 100g of any explosive, or 30 kilograms of shooters' powder and 300 grams of percussion caps may be stored without the local authority licensing regime (although clearly to make or store explosive material with the intention to cause public nuisance or damage to persons or property would be illegal under other laws.). The 2014 amendments retain these exceptions in section 6 para 2. This clause is probably aimed at chemistry teaching establishments, and to allow trainers of police dogs etc to carry small quantities, but can be exploited by enthusiasts wishing to experiment with small quantities of explosives at home. The UK Pyrotechnic Society publishes advice for people who want to safely and lawfully manufacture experimental pyrotechnic compositions or articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053440", "title": "Oil reserves", "text": "Oil reserves\n\nOil reserves denote the amount of crude oil that can be technically recovered at a cost that is financially feasible at the present price of oil. Hence reserves will change with the price, unlike oil resources, which include all oil that can be technically recovered at any price. Reserves may be for a well, a reservoir, a field, a nation, or the world. Different classifications of reserves are related to their degree of certainty.\n\nThe total estimated amount of oil in an oil reservoir, including both producible and non-producible oil, is called \"oil in place\". However, because of reservoir characteristics and limitations in petroleum extraction technologies, only a fraction of this oil can be brought to the surface, and it is only this producible fraction that is considered to be \"reserves\". The ratio of reserves to the total amount of oil in a particular reservoir is called the \"recovery factor\". Determining a recovery factor for a given field depends on several features of the operation, including method of oil recovery used and technological developments.\n\nBased on data from OPEC at the beginning of 2013 the highest proved oil reserves including non-conventional oil deposits are in Venezuela (20% of global reserves), Saudi Arabia (18% of global reserves), Canada (13% of global reserves), and Iran (15%).\n\nBecause the geology of the subsurface cannot be examined directly, indirect techniques must be used to estimate the size and recoverability of the resource. While new technologies have increased the accuracy of these techniques, significant uncertainties still remain. In general, most early estimates of the reserves of an oil field are conservative and tend to grow with time. This phenomenon is called \"reserves growth\".\n\nMany oil-producing nations do not reveal their reservoir engineering field data and instead provide unaudited claims for their oil reserves. The numbers disclosed by some national governments are suspected of being manipulated for political reasons.\n\nAll reserve estimates involve uncertainty, depending on the amount of reliable geologic and engineering data available and the interpretation of that data. The relative degree of uncertainty can be expressed by dividing reserves into two principal classifications—\"proven\" (or \"proved\") and \"unproven\" (or \"unproved\"). Unproven reserves can further be divided into two subcategories—\"probable\" and \"possible\"—to indicate the relative degree of uncertainty about their existence. The most commonly accepted definitions of these are based on those approved by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and the World Petroleum Council (WPC) in 1997.\n\nProven reserves are those reserves claimed to have a \"reasonable certainty\" (normally at least 90% confidence) of being recoverable under existing economic and political conditions, with existing technology. Industry specialists refer to this as \"P90\" (that is, having a 90% certainty of being produced). Proven reserves are also known in the industry as \"1P\".\n\nProven reserves are further subdivided into \"proven developed\" (PD) and \"proven undeveloped\" (PUD). PD reserves are reserves that can be produced with existing wells and perforations, or from additional reservoirs where minimal additional investment (operating expense) is required. PUD reserves require additional capital investment (e.g., drilling new wells) to bring the oil to the surface.\n\nUntil December 2009 \"1P\" proven reserves were the only type the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission allowed oil companies to report to investors. Companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges must substantiate their claims, but many governments and national oil companies do not disclose verifying data to support their claims. Since January 2010 the SEC now allows companies to also provide additional optional information declaring 2P (both proven and probable) and 3P (proven plus probable plus possible) provided the evaluation is verified by qualified third party consultants, though many companies choose to use 2P and 3P estimates only for internal purposes.\n\nUnproven reserves are based on geological and/or engineering data similar to that used in estimates of proven reserves, but technical, contractual, or regulatory uncertainties preclude such reserves being classified as proven. Unproven reserves may be used internally by oil companies and government agencies for future planning purposes but are not routinely compiled. They are sub-classified as \"probable\" and \"possible\".\n\nProbable reserves are attributed to known accumulations and claim a 50% confidence level of recovery. Industry specialists refer to them as \"P50\" (i.e., having a 50% certainty of being produced). The sum of proven plus probable reserves is also referred to in the industry as \"2P\" (proven plus probable).\n\nPossible reserves are attributed to known accumulations that have a less likely chance of being recovered than probable reserves. This term is often used for reserves which are claimed to have at least a 10% certainty of being produced (\"P10\"). Reasons for classifying reserves as possible include varying interpretations of geology, reserves not producible at commercial rates, uncertainty due to reserve infill (seepage from adjacent areas) and projected reserves based on future recovery methods. The cumulative amount of proven, probable and possible resources are referred to in the industry as \"3P\" (proven plus probable plus possible).\n\nIn Russia, reserves categories A, B, and C1 correspond roughly to proved developed producing, proved developed nonproducing, and proved undeveloped, respectively; the designation ABC1 corresponds to proved reserves. The Russian category C2 includes probable and possible reserves.\n\nMany countries maintain government-controlled oil reserves for both economic and national security reasons. According to the United States Energy Information Administration, approximately of oil are held in strategic reserves, of which 1.4 billion is government-controlled. These reserves are generally not counted when computing a nation's oil reserves.\n\nA more sophisticated system of evaluating petroleum accumulations was adopted in 2007 by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), World Petroleum Council (WPC), American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), and Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers (SPEE). It incorporates the 1997 definitions for reserves, but adds categories for \"contingent resources\" and \"prospective resources\".\n\nContingent resources are those quantities of petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from \"known\" accumulations, but the applied project(s) are not yet considered mature enough for commercial development due to one or more contingencies. Contingent resources may include, for example, projects for which there are no viable markets, or where commercial recovery is dependent on technology under development, or where evaluation of the accumulation is insufficient to clearly assess commerciality.\n\nProspective resources are those quantities of petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from \"undiscovered\" accumulations by application of future development projects. Prospective resources have both an associated chance of discovery and a chance of development.\n\nThe United States Geological Survey uses the terms \"technically\" and \"economically\" recoverable resources when making its petroleum resource assessments. Technically recoverable resources represent that proportion of assessed in-place petroleum that may be recoverable using current recovery technology, without regard to cost. Economically recoverable resources are technically recoverable petroleum for which the costs of discovery, development, production, and transport, including a return to capital, can be recovered at a given market price.\n\n\"Unconventional resources\" exist in petroleum accumulations that are pervasive throughout a large area. Examples include extra heavy oil, oil sand, and oil shale deposits. Unlike \"conventional resources\", in which the petroleum is recovered through wellbores and typically requires minimal processing prior to sale, unconventional resources require specialized extraction technology to produce. For example, steam and/or solvents are used to mobilize bitumen for in-situ recovery. Moreover, the extracted petroleum may require significant processing prior to sale (e.g., bitumen upgraders). The total amount of unconventional oil resources in the world considerably exceeds the amount of conventional oil reserves, but are much more difficult and expensive to develop.\n\nThe amount of oil in a subsurface reservoir is called \"oil in place\" (OIP). Only a fraction of this oil can be recovered from a reservoir. This fraction is called the \"recovery factor\". The portion that can be recovered is considered to be a reserve. The portion that is not recoverable is not included unless and until methods are implemented to produce it.\n\n\"Volumetric methods\" attempt to determine the amount of oil in place by using the size of the reservoir as well as the physical properties of its rocks and fluids. Then a recovery factor is assumed, using assumptions from fields with similar characteristics. OIP is multiplied by the recovery factor to arrive at a reserve number. Current recovery factors for oil fields around the world typically range between 10 and 60 percent; some are over 80 percent. The wide variance is due largely to the diversity of fluid and reservoir characteristics for different deposits. The method is most useful early in the life of the reservoir, before significant production has occurred.\n\nThe \"materials balance method\" for an oil field uses an equation that relates the volume of oil, water and gas that has been produced from a reservoir and the change in reservoir pressure to calculate the remaining oil. It assumes that, as fluids from the reservoir are produced, there will be a change in the reservoir pressure that depends on the remaining volume of oil and gas. The method requires extensive pressure-volume-temperature analysis and an accurate pressure history of the field. It requires some production to occur (typically 5% to 10% of ultimate recovery), unless reliable pressure history can be used from a field with similar rock and fluid characteristics.\n\nThe \"decline curve method\" uses production data to fit a decline curve and estimate future oil production. The three most common forms of decline curves are exponential, hyperbolic, and harmonic. It is assumed that the production will decline on a reasonably smooth curve, and so allowances must be made for wells shut in and production restrictions. The curve can be expressed mathematically or plotted on a graph to estimate future production. It has the advantage of (implicitly) including all reservoir characteristics. It requires a sufficient history to establish a statistically significant trend, ideally when production is not curtailed by regulatory or other artificial conditions.\n\nExperience shows that initial estimates of the size of newly discovered oil fields are usually too low. As years pass, successive estimates of the ultimate recovery of fields tend to increase. The term \"reserve growth\" refers to the typical increases in estimated ultimate recovery that occur as oil fields are developed and produced.\n\n \nThe unit bbl = barrel of oil. A sample calculation for the reserve/production ratio is formula_1for Venezuela.\n\nIt is estimated that between 100 and 135 billion tonnes (which equals between 133 and 180 billions m of oil) of the world's oil reserves have been used between 1850 and the present.\n\nSince OPEC started to set production quotas on the basis of reserves levels in the 1980s, many of its members have reported significant increases in their official reserves. There are doubts about the reliability of these estimates, which are not provided with any form of verification that meet external reporting standards. \n\nThe sudden revisions in OPEC reserves, totaling nearly 300 bn barrels, have been much debated. Some of it is defended partly by the shift in ownership of reserves away from international oil companies, some of whom were obliged to report reserves under conservative US Securities and Exchange Commission rules. The most prominent explanation of the revisions is prompted by a change in OPEC rules which set production quotas (partly) on reserves. In any event, the revisions in official data had little to do with the actual discovery of new reserves.\n\nTotal reserves in many OPEC countries hardly changed in the 1990s. Official reserves in Kuwait, for example, were unchanged at (including its share of the Neutral Zone) from 1991 to 2002, even though the country produced more than and did not make any important new discoveries during that period. The case of Saudi Arabia is also striking, with proven reserves estimated at between 260 and in the past 18 years, a variation of less than 2%, while extracting approximately during this period.\n\nSadad al-Huseini, former head of exploration and production at Saudi Aramco, estimates of the world's of proven reserves should be recategorized as speculative resources, though he did not specify which countries had inflated their reserves. Dr. Ali Samsam Bakhtiari, a former senior expert of the National Iranian Oil Company, has estimated that Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have overstated reserves by a combined 320–390bn barrels and has said, \"As for Iran, the usually accepted official is almost one hundred billion over any realistic assay.\" \"Petroleum Intelligence Weekly\" reported that official confidential Kuwaiti documents estimate reserves of Kuwait were only , of which half were proven and half were possible. The combined value of proven and possible is half of the official public estimate of proven reserves.\n\nIn July 2011, OPEC's Annual Statistical Review showed Venezuela's reserves to be larger than Saudi Arabia's.\n\nA 2008 United States Geological Survey estimates that areas north of the Arctic Circle have of undiscovered, technically recoverable oil and of natural gas liquids in 25 geologically defined areas thought to have potential for petroleum. This represented 13% of the expected undiscovered oil in the world. Of the estimated totals, more than half of the undiscovered oil resources were estimated to occur in just three geologic provinces—Arctic Alaska, the Amerasia Basin, and the East Greenland Rift Basins. More than 70% of the mean undiscovered oil resources was estimated to occur in five provinces: Arctic Alaska, Amerasia Basin, East Greenland Rift Basins, East Barents Basins, and West Greenland–East Canada. It was further estimated that approximately 84% of the oil and gas would occur offshore. The USGS did not consider economic factors such as the effects of permanent sea ice or oceanic water depth in its assessment of undiscovered oil and gas resources. This assessment was lower than a 2000 survey, which had included lands south of the Arctic Circle.\n\nIn October 2009, the USGS updated the quantity of the Orinoco tar sands, in Venezuela, to .\n\nIn June 2013 the U.S. Energy Information Administration published a global inventory of estimated recoverable tight oil and tight gas resources in shale formations, \"Technically Recoverable Shale Oil and Shale Gas Resources: An Assessment of 137 Shale Formations in 41 Countries Outside the United States.\" The inventory is incomplete due to exclusion of tight oil and gas from sources other than shale such as sandstone or carbonates, formations underlying the large oil fields located in the Middle East and the Caspian region, off shore formations, or about which there is little information. Estimated technically recoverable shale oil resources total 335 to 345 billion barrels.\n\n\nEnergy and resources:\n\n"}
{"id": "2053441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053441", "title": "John Hoagland", "text": "John Hoagland\n\nJohn Hoagland (June 15, 1947 – March 16, 1984), an experienced American photojournalist and war correspondent for \"Newsweek\" from San Diego, California, who was covering the Salvadoran Civil War in El Salvador at the time he was killed. He had covered other conflicts, including those in Nicaragua and Lebanon.\n\nJohn Hoagland was born in San Diego, California to Helen and Al Hoagland in 1947. Hoagland was the oldest of their five children. The family was native to San Diego, where John attended Helix High School and remained for college in 1965 college at the University of California, San Diego in 1965. Hoagland studied under a world renowned scholar and author, Herbert Marcuse, who wrote \"Eros and Civilization\" along with \"One Dimensional Man\". Marcuse, alongside another classmate of Hoagland's, Angela Davis, influenced Hoagland to become a journalist. During the Vietnam War, he applied for and received conscientious objector status. In 1970, Hoagland was at a massive anti-war movement in downtown Los Angeles, when the journalist Ruben Salazar was shot and killed by police. Hoagland was arrested along with his friends and his video equipment confiscated. He divorced and took his son Eros with him.\n\nHoagland's son, Eros Hoagland, is also a photographer who currently works in conflict zones around the globe.\n\nJohn Hoagland published photos for the Associated Press, United Press International, the Gamma Liaison news photography agency and \"Newsweek\" magazine\n\nHoagland began his career just by joining anti-war protests. Almost a year after his son, Eros Hoagland, was born he went from passive protesting to active protesting. John worked a steel welder in San Francisco, but also, he was an amateur photographer. He took photographs of what he found interesting or, in some cases, corrupt. Hoagland, almost 30 years old now, went south, to Nicaragua to take photos of the Nicaraguan Revolution for \"Newsweek\". He wanted to make a difference and get the story of this country out into the public to help the people who could not escape. After the killing of another reporter named Bill Stewart, Hoagland was one of few reporters who stayed to cover the destruction being caused in this now broken country. The partner of this journalist now needed someone else to work with, and Hoagland stepped up to help, entering a short career as a sound man. After his work had finished, he returned to still photos in 1980. He worked with reporter Ignacio Rodriguez from a Mexican newspaper and who was shot and killed by a sniper soon after in Lebanon. During another escapade, also in Lebanon, Hoagland and two other journalists drove over a mine and all three suffered severe injuries, the driver at the time, Ian Mates died a few hours after due to injury. Later on he journeyed to Beirut to photograph the withdrawal of the United States Marines and finally ended up in El Salvador, where he was killed.\n\nAt the time of his death, John Hoagland was a contract photographer for \"Newsweek\". On March 16, 1984, John Hoagland and Robert Nickelsberg of \"Time\" magazine, along with a few cameramen from CBS News, were entering an area of danger along a road between San Salvador and Suchitoto, El Salvador. The area had been secluded off because of multiple gun fights starting, but the journalists were allowed entry \"at their own risk\" to reach the city of Suchitoto. Hoagland and company knew that the area made them vulnerable to ambushes. They entered the area and were ambushed by the Salvadoran guerrillas. The news teams took cover among small hills that were covered in grass, and as Hoagland went to kneel down he yelled that he had been hit. A single bullet from a large caliber M-60 weapon to Hoagland's back made him bleed out. The bullets continued to fly, kicking dust up as they swept past. Hoagland had died merely 15 seconds after being hit, but no one knew until after the firefight had been broken up by the Salvadoran army.\n\nThe civil war was started after the assassination of the Archbishop Óscar Romero on March 24, 1980. The assassination had been done by the Salvadoran military, and the guerillas were created to combat them and their misdoings. The Archbishop had been leading mass when he was killed, speaking to the soldiers that they should disobey orders to torture and murder, as it would only lead to their downfall. The war had also been stirred up by social inequality, the repressive military, and poverty that had spread throughout the country.\n\nJohn Hoagland was one of 35 journalists whose names appeared on \"death lists\" by Salvadoran death squads.\n\nA total of 16 journalists were killed in the conflict besides Hoagland. The others who died covering the war were Richard Cross (Honduras), Oliver Rebbot (El Salvador), Ian Mates (El Salvador), Ignacio Rodriguez (El Salvador), Bill Stewart (Nicaragua), John Sullivan (El Salvador), Dial Torgerson (Honduras), Rene Tamsen (El Salvador),Jaime Suarez (El Salvador), Caesar Najorro (El Salvador), Linda Frazier (Nicaragua), Koos Koster (El Salvador), Jan Kuiper (El Salvador), Hans Ter Laag (El Salvador), and Johannes Willemsen (El Salvador).\n\nRobert Nickelsberg, a fellow photographer from \"Time\" magazine, said \"He was a good man who worked very hard, loved what he did and none of us really need this at this point, but those are the risks.\"\n\nIvan Montesinos, a Salvadoran reporter for UPI, states \"He was no fool, when you went into the field with him, I felt safe because he knew how to move between the shots.\"\n\nUlises Rodriguez, a young inspired journalist, said \"I must have been 10 years old when I saw a foreign journalist wandering around downtown... I asked what it took to be a photographer like him and he said study photojournalism and journalism. Years after, I found out that man was John Hoagland.\"\n\nThe journalist and photographer 'John Cassady,' played by John Savage in the 1986 movie \"Salvador\" was loosely based on Hoagland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053444", "title": "Arthur Drewry", "text": "Arthur Drewry\n\nArthur Drewry (3 March 1891 – 25 March 1961) was an English football administrator who served as the fifth president of FIFA, the world governing body of association football, from 1955 to 1961. Drewry had held several football administration posts in his native England, serving as chairman of The Football Association and president of The Football League.\n\nDrewry was born in Grimsby, Lincolnshire, and educated at the Grimsby Collegiate School.\n\nIn 1911 Drewry joined the Lincolnshire Yeomanry and served in the First World War with the 1/1st Lincolnshire Yeomanry in Palestine. Drewry reached the rank of quartermaster sergeant with his squadron in the Yeomanry. After the war, in 1919, Drewry married the daughter of a Grimsby fish merchant, and Drewry would run his father-in-law's business until his retirement in 1953. In the Second World War Drewry served as North Lincolnshire's head warden and chief fire guard. Drewry held several civic roles in his native Grimsby, serving both as a borough councillor and a Justice of the Peace.\n\nDrewry's career in football administration began with his serving as a director of Grimsby Town, the chairman of the club was Drewry's father-in-law, and Drewry himself would also become chairman of the club. Drewry later served as President of the Football League from 1949 to 1955. Drewry served on the Football Association's International Selection Committee from 1944, and after his presidency of the Football League served as chairman of The Football Association (FA) from 1955 to 1961. Drewry succeeded Amos Brook Hirst as chairman of the FA; Hirst had resigned due to ill health. As chair of the FA Drewry once proposed awarding a point to league teams for every goal scored to encourage offensive football. Drewry's proposals were rejected by the teams.\n\nDrewry played a significant role in the 1950 game between England and the United States in which the English lost 1–0 to the rank outsiders in the 1950 FIFA World Cup in Belo Horizonte. The English national coach, Walter Winterbottom, had wanted to rest some players for the next game against Spain, but was over-ruled by Drewry, acting as sole selector, who chose an unchanged team from their last game, a 2–0 win against Chile. Stanley Rous, Drewry's secretary at the FA, visited him and urged him to include Stanley Matthews and make other changes to the team, but Drewry was adamant in his desire to keep an unchanged team. After the loss against the United States, Drewry acquiesced to four changes to the team, but England lost their next game to Spain 1–0, and as a result were eliminated from the tournament.\n\nIn 1953 Coronation Honours, Drewry appointed a Commander of Order of the British Empire (CBE).\n\nFollowing the Munich air disaster on 6 February 1958 which claimed the lives of a number of Manchester United staff and personnel, Drewry was appointed chairman in March of the fundraising committee for dependents of those involved in the disaster. The funds raised had reached £52,000 () by the time of their disbursement in October 1958.\n\nIn his capacity as chair of the FA, Drewry was one of six football officials sued by five Sunderland players who were suspended in 1957 for refusing to answer questions about possible illegal payments. Stanley Rous served as Drewry's secretary at the FA. Drewry and Rous travelled to Switzerland in 1945, to the headquarters of FIFA to successfully negotiate for the re-admittance of the British Home Nations to FIFA.\n\nDrewry had been appointed the vice-president of FIFA by Jules Rimet, and served as the interim president for the six months following the death of Rimet's presidential successor, Belgian Rodolphe William Seeldrayers. At the 30th FIFA Congress in Lisbon, Portugal, Drewry defeated France's M. Larfarge by 38 votes to 16 for the presidency. Drewry oversaw the 1958 FIFA World Cup during his term in office, and ultimately served as president for five years before his death from a year-long illness in 1961. Drewry was the third FIFA president to die in office.\n"}
{"id": "2053447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053447", "title": "Bruce McCaffrey", "text": "Bruce McCaffrey\n\nBruce Robert McCaffrey (September 23, 1938 – August 9, 2002) was a politician in the Ontario, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1977 to 1987 as a Progressive Conservative, and was a cabinet minister in the government of Bill Davis.\n\nMcCaffrey was born in South Porcupine, Ontario. He was educated at the University of Toronto. He worked as a teacher, and then entered the investment business. He was first married to Ilonka van Steenwyk with whom he had two children. In 1990, he relocated to London, Ontario where he married Deb Matthews in 1995. McCaffrey and Matthews were separated at the time of his death in 2002.\n\nIn 1968, McCaffrey attempted to win the Progressive Conservative nomination to run in the June federal election but lost to Kechin Wang. Wang went on to lose the election against incumbent Steve Otto.\nHe was elected to the Ontario legislature in the 1977 provincial election, defeating Liberal candidate Des Newman in the Toronto riding of Armourdale. He was re-elected in 1981 and 1985.\n\nOn April 10, 1981, McCaffrey was appointed to Davis's government as a minister without portfolio. On February 13, 1982, he was promoted to Minister of Citizenship and Culture. On July 6, 1983, he was assigned to the post of Provincial Secretary for Social Development. He also served as Minister of Community and Social Services from September 29 to November 21, 1983. He briefly took on the extra responsibility while Frank Drea was hospitalized with circulation problems. On November 24, he was hospitalized for chest pains and he resigned from cabinet on December 23, 1983.\n\nMcCaffrey supported Larry Grossman at the Progressive Conservative Party's leadership convention of February 1985. Grossman lost to Frank Miller on the final ballot, and McCaffrey was not appointed to Miller's cabinet.\n\nThe Progressive Conservative Party, which had governed Ontario since 1943, was reduced to a precarious minority government in the 1985 provincial election. McCaffrey was narrowly re-elected in Armourdale, defeating Liberal Gino Matrundola by only 122 votes. Following the election, he publicly called on Miller to resign as party leader if the government is defeated on a confidence motion. Miller resigned before the year was over, and Grossman was chosen to take his place in November.\n\nMcCaffrey did not seek re-election in the 1987 campaign.\n\nAfter leaving politics, he entered graduate studies at the University of Western Ontario. He died in 2002 after a very brief illness, shortly after completing the requirements for a Master of Arts degree in history. The Department of History at the University of Western Ontario now operates a Bruce McCaffrey Memorial Graduate Student Seminar Series named in his honour.\n"}
{"id": "2053455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053455", "title": "Linens", "text": "Linens\n\nLinens are fabric household goods intended for daily use, such as bedding, tablecloths and towels. \"Linens\" may also refer to church linens, meaning the altar cloths used in church.\n\nThe earliest known household linens were made from thin yarn spun from flax fibres to make linen cloth. Ancient Egypt, Babylon, and Phoenicia all cultivated flax crops. The earliest surviving fragments of linen cloth have been found in Egyptian tombs and date to 4000 BCE. Flax fibres have been found in cloth fragments in Europe that date to the Neolithic prehistoric age.\n\nCotton is another popular fibre for making cloth used for household linens. Its use in cloth-making also dates back to prehistoric times, in Indian subcontinent, China, Peru and Egypt. The Indian subcontinent was especially well known for high quality cotton cloth as early as 1500 BCE.\n\nLinen was an especially popular cloth during the Middle Ages in Europe, when cotton was an exotic import. It was used for underclothing, chemises, shifts, shirts and blouses, in fact most clothing worn next to the skin, by those able to afford an extra layer of clothing. The tradition of calling household fabric goods \"linens\" dates from this period, but meant clothing as much as large sheets. According to medieval tradition, which survived up until the modern era, a bride would often be given a gift of linens made by the women in her family as a wedding present, to help her set up her new married home. In France this was called a trousseau, and was often presented to the bride in a wooden hope chest. \n\nThe Industrial Revolution brought huge changes to cloth manufacturing. The rise of European colonialism at the same time helped support the rapid growth of cloth production by creating many cheap sources of raw materials. British cloth manufacturers would import raw cotton from America and the British West Indies to Ireland, where it would be spun into yarn. The yarn would be imported into England, where mechanized factories employed thousands of workers, who would weave cloth on industrial looms. In 1781, a cloth producer from Manchester testified about his business to a committee of the House of Commons in the British Parliament. He stated that he employed 6000 workers, who would print and stamp 60,000 yards of cotton and linen fabric a year. Cotton gradually replaced linen for most uses in clothing, but remained preferred for bedsheets and tablecloths. Other European countries manufactured and traded their own types of household linens as well, and mass manufacturing techniques and trade competition gradually made affordable household linens common.\n\nToday, the term \"linen\" is still used for bedsheets, tablecloths and similar household textiles, even though most are made of cotton, synthetic fabrics, or blends. Especially in American English, they may be called \"white goods\", otherwise a term for kitchen major appliances.\n\nCleaning household linens is done as appropriate to the type of cloth. Household linens are most likely to have stains from organic sources such as food, blood, and soil. If the linens are made of natural fibres such as linen or cotton, the cloth will need to be rinsed as soon as possible in cold water to prevent the stain from becoming permanent. Stains from red wine, or red or purple berries and fruit are an exception and must be washed in boiling water, yet despite this, these stains may be impossible to remove. Otherwise, regular washing of household linens should be done in hot water for hygienic reasons, to destroy bacteria left on the linens from frequent use. Linen and cotton that are white may also become yellow over time, but this is eliminated by bleaching, either with liquid bleach, or by the traditional method of hanging the linens in the sun to let the sunlight bleach out the discoloration.\n\nHousehold linens are stored near the area where they are used, when possible, for convenience. Otherwise, bed and kitchen and dining linens may be stored together in a linen closet or cupboard. There are many methods of folding linens for storage. For formal occasions, table linens may be ironed before use. Traditionally, table linens could be starched while ironing, to decrease wrinkling and retain a smooth, pristine appearance. Seasonal storage of linens led to the development of natural pest control methods in Europe to prevent moth larvae and other insects or rodents from eating the cloth. Sachets made of dried Margosa (neem), cloves, lavender, and other herbs are traditional, as are cedar wood chips.\n\nIndustrial laundries were developed in the Middle Ages, when large convents and monasteries used their own facilities. Hospitals and boarding schools followed this example. Today, there are several types of industrial laundries. Hospitals often use laundry chutes to collect used linens. These are transported to an industrial laundry, where they are sorted into three categories: regularly soiled, infected, or staff uniforms. They are laundered as appropriate, usually at high temperatures, to ensure that viruses, bacteria, and soil are cleaned and that the linens are hygienic before being returned to the hospital.\n\nIn India, Dhobi ghats provide laundry service to both institutions and households. Household linens and clothing are both collected on a fixed day of the week by the Dhobi, who washes the laundry at a ghat, which is often in a large Dhobi ghat zone where many Dhobis work at their own stall. Each stall is approximately four square metres. Laundry is washed in large tubs, rinsed, cleaned by beating on a stone made for the purpose, and then the linens are hung on lines to dry. Industrial linens are treated in steamers for several hours for hygienic reasons. Dhobis also iron linens.\n\nThe collecting and restoring of antique linens can be complex, depending upon the condition of the cloth. Many old household linens were stored filled with starch, which damages the cloth over time since it hardens and causes wearing and tears in the fabric where it is folded and creased. The owner of an antique linen must determine if conserving, repairing, or mending are appropriate.\n\nTypes of antique linens may be identified by the place where they were made. Some well-known locations for making heirloom-quality household linens include Ireland, for its Irish linen and lace, and Madeira, known for a type of linen called Madeira cloth. The type of embellishment on the linens may make them collectable, especially embroidery, including Victorian-era redwork and bluework, which use only red or blue thread. Lace embellishments on linens also make them collectable, such as Battenberg lace.\n\nJanuary \"White sales\" have been a custom in the United States since the late 19th century. White sales are held by department stores to sell household linens, bedding and towels, at a price discount. The sales are called \"White sales\" since the sales started during an era when these items were only available in white.\n\nChurch linens are used in some Christian churches, with the Roman Catholic Church having perhaps the most elaborate use of them. Linens are used to represent the sacred nature of the altar and to protect the Eucharist. Church linens include:\n"}
{"id": "2053463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053463", "title": "Music for Earthworms", "text": "Music for Earthworms\n\nMusic for Earthworms is American hip hop artist Aesop Rock's debut album. The album was recorded during summers and other occasions on which Aesop Rock would return home to New York City from college at Boston University. It was mostly recorded in a Manhattan studio where Dub-L and Plain Pat were working as interns. Although the studio was not typically used as a recording studio, it was equipped with impressive technology for the time, including Digital Audio Tape machines, ADAT machines and CD drives capable of burning discs. Aesop Rock's vocals were recorded on an SM58 microphone.\n\n\"Music for Earthworms\" was ultimately self-distributed. As an unsigned artist, Aesop Rock was responsible for cutting out the album covers and burning the album onto CDs himself.\n\nAesop Rock references the album and its rarity on his 2002 EP \"Daylight\" in the track \"Alchemy.\" Blueprint asks:\n\n\"So why they blaming you for the cats that sleep while the earth turns?\"\n\nAesop Rock responds:\n\n\"Yeah I had em' up all night praying I'd re-release \"Music For Earthworms.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "2053486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053486", "title": "Timbuctoo", "text": "Timbuctoo\n\nTimbuctoo is a series of 26 children's books, written and illustrated by Roger Hargreaves, better known for his \"Mr Men\" series. It was published from 1978–79. The books tell the stories of a group of animals, each of whom is named after the sound that their particular animal makes. An animated series (produced by Flicks Films and Carlton International) of \"Timbuctoo\" was shown on CITV in the 1990s, narrated by Ronnie Corbett.\n\nThe original set of 25 books named after their main character were published in 1978 and 1979, along with two Timbuctoo Annuals. A further set of story books was published in 1979. In 1997 some books were reprinted with new illustrations to promote the television show, along with a new character, Bray.\n\n\nFour of the books (\"Woof\", \"Trumpet\", \"Buzz\" and \"Oink\") were republished in 1993.\n\n\nThere was also a set of 'Timbuctoo Shape Books' released, including Oink, Neigh, Growl, Roar, Squeak, Trumpet, Cluck and Puff\n\nBray was released as an addition to the reprint of all the previous stories in the original set, which were printed, with new illustrations, to accompany the TV series.\n\nFrom early 1998 to 1999, the TV show ran on CITV for two seasons based on characters of books; the first later released on VHS as \"Neigh Finds a New Home and Other Stories\" in March 1999 and Series 2 released as \"Woof Has Forgotten How to Bark and Other Stories\" in February 2000.\n\nIt was later rebroadcast by Tiny Living in 2003.\n\n1. \"Neigh Finds a New Home\" (9th January 1998)\n\n2. \"Honk Goes Swimming\" (16th January 1998)\n\n3. \"Snap Learns a New Game\" (23rd January 1998)\n\n4. \"Cluck Gets a Letter\" (30th January 1998)\n\n5. \"Moo Has a Birthday Party\" (6th February 1998)\n\n6. \"Chirp Learns to Fly\" (13th February 1998)\n\n7. \"Croak Learns to Swim\" (20th February 1998)\n\n8. \"Oink and the Big Apple\" (27th February 1998)\n\n9. \"Squeak has a Big Day Out\" (6th March 1998)\n\n10. \"Bleat Takes the Ball By the Horns\" (13th March 1998)\n\n11. \"Grizzle Gets the Giggles\" (20th March 1998)\n\n12. \"Hoot Slips up at Question Time\" (27th March 1998)\n\n13. \"Meow Goes Fishing\" (3rd April 1998)\n\n14. \"Woof Has Forgotten How to Bark\" (6 October 1999)\n\n15. \"Hiss is Hopping Mad\" (13 October 1999)\n\n16. \"Chatter and His Long Tail\" (20 October 1999)\n\n17. \"Puff Buys Some Paint\" (27 October 1999)\n\n18. \"Roar Sets Out to Frighten Timbuctoo\" (3 November 1999)\n\n19. \"Trumpet Goes to the Seaside\" (10 November 1999)\n\n20 \"Quack Dreams of a New Beak\" (17 November 1999)\n\n21. \"Buzz is a Very Busy Bee\" (24 November 1999)\n\n22. \"Growl Has a Fright\" (1 December 1999)\n\n23. \"Baa Goes Shopping\" (8 December 1999)\n\n24. \"Sniff Runs Out of Carrots\" (15 December 1999)\n\n25. \"Bray Sleeps Through Christmas\" (22 December 1999)\n\n26. \"Squawk Joins the Choir\" (5 January 2000)\n\n"}
{"id": "2053487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053487", "title": "Takao-class cruiser", "text": "Takao-class cruiser\n\nThe \"Takao\"-class cruiser (高雄型) was a class of four heavy cruisers of the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) launched between May 1930 and April 1931. They all served during World War II.\n\nThe \"Takao\" class were an evolution from the preceding , with heavier torpedo armament and a large, almost battleship-like bridge structure.\n\nLike the \"Myōkō\" class, the ships were ostensibly intended to remain within the strictures of the Washington Naval Treaty, initially designed to weigh . However, like the \"Myōkōs\", the \"Takaos\" ended up overweight, at . This markedly reduced their freeboard and stability. The large tower bridge added to the instability, but the cause of much of the excess weight remains unclear, as many components were heavier than expected.\n\nTheir main battery was ten guns in five twin mounts. Three of the turrets were located before the bridge in a pyramidal distribution, with the other two aft of the main mast and aircraft handling facilities. After investigation of the recent County-class cruisers of the United Kingdom, it was decided to give the main battery some anti-aircraft ability. The turrets were equipped with increased elevation limits versus their predecessors, 70 degrees in the \"Takao\", \"Atago\", and \"Chōkai\", and 55 degrees in the \"Maya\". The gun elevation gear was improved to achieve a maximum rate of twelve degrees per second. Additional shell lifts were installed to ease supply of AA shells to the main guns. However, it was later realized that these arrangements were inadequate. The elevating gear was considered impractical and delicate (later Japanese heavy cruisers used a reduced 55 degree limit on their guns). Though the elevation rate was better, reloading could only be performed at a fixed five degrees of elevation, which reduced rate of fire at higher angles. The rate of train was still only four degrees per second. Switching of anti-aircraft fire control was found inadequate for the main guns. Finally, the turret machinery was found to be too noisy.\n\nThey were also armed with eight torpedo tubes arranged in four Type 89 twin mounts. A rapid-reload installation was provided, with four twin racks, one per launcher mount. There were sixteen reload torpedoes held in reserve, for a total of twenty-four. After refit in 1938-1939, \"Takao\" and \"Atago\" were fitted with sixteen torpedo tubes in Type 92 quadruple mounts. Two quadruple rapid-reload racks were fitted, one each to port and starboard. Arrangements were made to carry Type 93 torpedoes, which were equipped in 1940. \"Chōkai\" and \"Maya\" did not receive these more extensive modifications, but were refitted with the Type 93 torpedo and oxygen equipment in 1941. Maya was refitted 1943-1944 with sixteen 610mm torpedo tubes in four Type 92 quad mounts, but there were no reloads or rapid-reload racks.\n\nThe ships were initially equipped with four single Type 10 12cm/45 \"high-angle\" anti-aircraft guns. These cannons were replaced in 1942 on the \"Takao\" and \"Atago\" with eight Type 89 12.7cm/40 guns in four twin mounts. They were replaced on \"Maya\" with twelve Type 89 12.7cm/40 guns in six twin mounts during a 1943-1944 refit. \"Chōkai\" retained the four Type 10s until it was sunk.\n\nLight anti-aircraft armament comprised two \"HI\" Type 40mm/62 guns and two \"HI\" Type 7.7mm machine guns. Both designs were Vickers imports. These guns were progressively replaced and supplemented with Type 93 13mm guns and Type 96 25mm guns during refits.\n\nThe \"Takao\"-class cruisers were versatile warships and played a major role in many battles during the Pacific War. All four ships were involved in the Battle of Midway although none saw combat, with \"Atago\" and \"Chōkai\" in Kondō's Midway invasion Force as Cruiser Division (\"Sentai\") 4, Section 1. \"Takao\" and \"Maya\", as Cruiser Division 4, Section 2, were a part of the Aleutian Islands campaign as escorts for the Second Carrier Striking Force.\n\nFollowing Midway, the ships were sent to assist in the Solomon Islands campaign. While \"Takao\", \"Maya\" and \"Atago\" were employed primarily escorting aircraft carriers, \"Chōkai\" was flagship of Vice-Admiral Mikawa's strike force at the Battle of Savo Island on 8 August 1942, inflicting what has been credited as the worst blue-water defeat in United States Navy history by sinking three American cruisers and severely damaging a fourth, as well as damaging the Australian cruiser \"Canberra\" to the extent that she had to be scuttled. Although \"Chōkai\" took several hits in return, the remainder of the Japanese force received only superficial damage.\n\nIn 1943, the four ships spent some time in Japan, then deployed to Truk and New Britain. On 5 November 1943, while anchored in Rabaul harbor, \"Takao\", \"Atago\" and \"Maya\" were damaged by American aircraft from Rear-Admiral Sherman's Task Force (TF) 38, comprising the carriers USS \"Saratoga\" and USS \"Princeton\", escorted by two antiaircraft cruisers and nine destroyers. A follow-up attack on 11 November by TF 38 and additional U.S. carriers damaged more Japanese ships, and all three ships had to return to Japan for repairs. During these repairs, \"Maya\" was modified to become an antiaircraft cruiser.\n\nIn 1944, all four ships took part in the Battle of the Philippine Sea, where Cruiser Division 4 was part of C Force, composed of the two superbattleships \"Yamato\" and \"Musashi\", two fast battleships \"Kongō\" and \"Haruna\", three light carriers, eight heavy cruisers (including the four \"Takao\"s), one light cruiser and seven destroyers. The four Takao-class ships were assigned to Vice Admiral Kurita's Center Force for the Battle of Leyte Gulf, or Operation Sho-1 as it was known to the Japanese. The ships left Brunei on 22 October 1944 for what would be their last battle. On 23 October 1944, while passing through the Palawan Passage, the force was attacked by the submarines USS \"Darter\" and USS \"Dace\". \"Darter\" attacked both \"Takao\" and \"Atago\", hitting the former with three and the latter with four torpedoes. \"Atago\" was mortally damaged and sank rapidly, although Admiral Kurita survived the sinking. \"Takao\" was severely damaged and was escorted to Singapore by two destroyers, but after her arrival would never sail again. \"Dace\" sank \"Maya\" with a salvo of four torpedoes.\n\n\"Chōkai\", the last remaining ship of Cruiser Division 4, continued with the main force, pulling through the Battle of the Sibuyan Sea unscathed. However, in the later action off Samar she was hit by 5-inch shells (possibly from the American escort carrier USS \"White Plains\"). One shell detonated \"Chōkai's\" torpedoes, damaging her engines and rudder. Now crippled, the ship was attacked by American aircraft and stopped dead in the water. The destroyer \"Fujinami\" took off \"Chōkai's\" survivors before scuttling the ship on the night of 25 October. Unfortunately, their trials were not over - on 27 October 1944, \"Fujinami\" was attacked by American carrier aircraft, and her torpedoes were detonated by a bomb explosion. This explosion broke the destroyer in half, sinking with all hands, including the \"Chōkai\" survivors.\n\nFour ships of the class were launched. All served in World War II and all were sunk or disabled by the end of the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053494", "title": "Health food", "text": "Health food\n\nHealth food is a marketing term to suggest human health effects beyond a normal healthy diet required for human nutrition. Foods marketed as health foods may be part of one or more categories, such as natural foods, organic foods, whole foods, vegetarian foods or dietary supplements. These products may be sold in health food stores or in the health food or organic sections of grocery stores. While there is no precise definition for \"health food\", the United States Food and Drug Administration monitors and warns food manufacturers against labeling foods as having specific health effects when no evidence exists to support such statements.\n\nIn the United States, health claims on nutrition facts labels are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while advertising is regulated by the Federal Trade Commission. Several other countries provide regulations on food labeling to address the quality of possible health foods, such as Canada and the European Food Safety Authority.\n\nAccording to the FDA, \"Health claims describe a relationship between a food, food component, or dietary supplement ingredient, and reducing risk of a disease or health-related condition\".\n\nIn general, claims of health benefits for specific foodstuffs are not supported by scientific evidence and are not evaluated by national regulatory agencies. Additionally, research funded by manufacturers or marketers has been criticized to result in more favorable results than those from independently funded research.\n\nWhile there is no precise definition for \"health food\", the FDA monitors and warns food manufacturers against labeling foods as having specific health effects when no evidence exists to support such statements, such as for one manufacturer in 2018.\n\nIn conditions of malnutrition, ready-to-use therapeutic foods have been used successfully to improve the health of malnourished children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053496", "title": "Carlton Myers", "text": "Carlton Myers\n\nCarlton Ettore Francesco Myers (born 30 March 1971) is a retired Italian professional basketball player that played in the Italian league and the EuroLeague. Myers was initially raised in the United Kingdom. One of the best European shooting guards of his generation, he won a EuroBasket title with the senior Italian National Team in 1999.\n\nDuring his years in Fortitudo Bologna, Myers became the great rival of another European superstar, Saša Danilović, the leader of Virtus Bologna, the other basketball team in the city. The duels and the rivalry between Myers and Danilović, are a legendary part of Italian basketball history.\n\nWith the senior men's Italian National Team, Myers played in the 1997 and 1999 EuroBaskets, the 1998 FIBA World Championship, and in the 2000 Sydney Olympics, where he also had the honour of being his country's flag-bearer, at the opening ceremony.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053502", "title": "Stanley Rous", "text": "Stanley Rous\n\nSir Stanley Ford Rous, CBE (25 April 1895 – 18 July 1986) was the 6th President of FIFA, serving from 1961 to 1974. He also served as secretary of the Football Association from 1934 to 1962 and was an international referee.\n\nRous was born in Mutford near Lowestoft in East Suffolk and attended Sir John Leman School in Beccles. He was the eldest son of a provision master but trained as a teacher in Beccles before serving in World War I as a non-commissioned officer in the 272nd brigade of the Royal Field Artillery (East Anglian) in France, Palestine, Egypt, and Lebanon.\n\nAfter the war Rous attended St Luke's College in Exeter and then became a sports teacher at Watford Boys Grammar School.\n\nRous played football at amateur level as a goalkeeper for clubs including Kirkley and Lowestoft Town, but was forced to retire from playing after breaking a wrist. He developed an interest in refereeing whilst watching Norwich City and later qualified as a referee while studying at St Luke’s and became a football league referee in 1927. He officiated in his first international match, a 2–0 friendly win for Belgium against the Netherlands, in the Bosuilstadion, Antwerp, on 13 March in the same year. He eventually officiated in a total of 34 international matches.\n\nHe rose to the top tier of the game when he was appointed to referee the 1934 FA Cup Final at Wembley Stadium, where Manchester City defeated Portsmouth by 2 goals to 1. The following day, after travelling to Belgium to control an international match, Stanley Rous retired from refereeing.\n\nRous made a major contribution to the game by rewriting the Laws of the Game in 1938, making them simpler and easier to understand. He was also the first to employ the diagonal system of control for referees as a standard practice. According to Belgian referee John Langenus, who had been in charge of the 1930 FIFA World Cup Final, he had seen referees from his country making a similar attempt at scientific positioning on the field of play.\n\nHe then moved into the sphere of football administration. He served as of the Football Association from 1934 to 1962. At UEFA, Sir Stanley joined the Executive Committee in 1958, becoming vice-president in March 1960, before leaving to become FIFA president the following year. During his time as FIFA President from 1961 to 1974, Rous witnessed the crowning of England as Champions of the World in 1966.\n\nHe was also known for his support for the apartheid-era South African Football Association. South Africa had been admitted to FIFA in 1954, but expelled from their local federation, the Confederation of African Football (CAF), in 1958. They were suspended from FIFA in 1961 after failing to fulfill an ultimatum regarding anti-discrimination rules. In 1963, they were readmitted to FIFA after Rous travelled to the country to \"investigate\" football in the country, concluding that the game could disappear in the country if they were not readmitted and after the South African Football Association proposed playing an all-white team for the 1966 finals and an all-black team in 1970. It turned out to be short-lived. At FIFA's next annual congress, held in Tokyo just after the Olympic Games, a greater turnout of African and Asian representatives led to South Africa being suspended again. They were finally expelled from FIFA twelve years later. Rous, however, continued to press for them to be readmitted, to the point that he was prepared to establish a Southern African confederation so that South Africa and Rhodesia (who were themselves expelled in 1970) could compete. Rous was forced to back down after CAF members made it clear that they would all withdraw from FIFA at the 1966 FIFA congress in London. A complex arrangement made during the 1966 World Cup by which referees of nations which passed to the knock-out phase were permitted to field referees was outlawed by FIFA under pressure from South American nations. \n\nRous stood for re-election as president in 1974, but was defeated by the vigorous canvassing of João Havelange, in the context of discontent of other nations at European domination of FIFA as well as opposition by African and Asian countries due to the pro-South African stance of Rous. Upon his retirement as president, on 11 June 1974, he was nominated Honorary President of FIFA.\n\nThe short-lived Rous Cup was named after him, as was the Rous Stand at Watford F.C.'s Vicarage Road ground, until being renamed the Graham Taylor Stand in 2014. He wrote \"A History of the Laws of Association Football\", published in 1974.\n\nRous appears as a character in the Half Man Half Biscuit song \"Albert Hammond Bootleg\".\n\nStanley Rous was married to Adrienne Gacon in 1924. The couple had no children. He was appointed CBE in 1943 and knighted in 1949. He was a lifelong friend of one of the founding members of FIFA, Dr. Ivo Schricker (1877–1962). Rous was an active freemason attending Exonian Lodge No. 3415 in London.\n\nRous died in Paddington, London, of leukaemia in 1986, at the age of 91. A service in his memory was held at Westminster Abbey in the September of the same year.\n\nHe is buried with his wife Lady Rous in the Holy Trinity Church in the Lickey Hills, close to both Bromsgrove and Birmingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053508", "title": "Betty Engelstad Sioux Center", "text": "Betty Engelstad Sioux Center\n\nThe Betty Engelstad Sioux Center (The Betty) is an indoor arena located in Grand Forks, North Dakota. It is adjacent to the larger $100 million Ralph Engelstad Arena in the University Village development. \nThe facility sits on the campus of the University of North Dakota and is used for the university's basketball and volleyball teams.\nThe facility opened in August 2004. It has a seating capacity of 3,300. It features a wood floor. In addition to university sports, the arena is used for small concerts and other community events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053523", "title": "John Augustus", "text": "John Augustus\n\nJohn Augustus was a Boston boot maker who is called the \"Father of Probation\" in the United States because of his pioneering efforts to campaign for more lenient sentences for convicted criminals based on their backgrounds.\n\nAugustus' success rate could rival - and possibly surpass - the success rate of any rehabilitation program available today. His work brought him the devotion and aid of many Boston philanthropists and organizations. Augustus' success started him on an 18-year run as the first probation officer. At his death, it was noted that of the 2,000 people he helped, only four proved unworthy (for which he forfeited bail).\n\nAugustus died on 21 June 1859 in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053533", "title": "Caye Caulker", "text": "Caye Caulker\n\nCaye Caulker is a small limestone coral island off the coast of Belize in the Caribbean Sea measuring about (north to south) by less than (east to west). The town on the island is known by the name Caye Caulker Village. The population of Caye Caulker is approximately 2000 people today and still growing. \n\nCaye Caulker is located approximately north-northeast of Belize City, and is accessible by high-speed water taxi or small plane. In recent years, the island has become a popular destination for backpackers and other tourists. There are over 50 hotels and a number of restaurants and shops.\n\nThe island is made up of a sand bar over a limestone shelf. An underwater cave named Giant Cave is found below the Caye in the limestone. In front of the village, a shallow lagoon, between and deep, meets the Belize Barrier Reef to the east. This reef is known as a \"dry reef\" with the reef exposed at the surface, while further north the reef is a \"deep reef\" and lies under of water. The area is popular with windsurfers.\n\nA narrow waterway known as \"the Split\" divides the island in two. Some people state that the Split was created by Hurricane Hattie in 1961 which devastated Belize City; however, this is largely untrue. Villagers who actually hand dredged it maintain that it is largely a man-made feature. The Village Council Chairman at the time, Ramon Reyes, recounts that he and others dredged the waterway by hand after Hurricane Hattie opened a passage a few inches deep. This made a practical water way between the west and east sides of the island, intended at first for dugout canoes. The increased flow of tidal water has dredged the opening to deep, fortuitously now allowing passage for larger boats. The natural erosion of the soft sand banks of the waterway continues to this day and threatens to further widen the passage.\n\nCaye Caulker is thought to have been inhabited for hundreds of years; however, the recent population levels did not start until the Caste War of Yucatan in 1847, when many mestizos of mixed Maya and Spanish descent fled the massacres taking place across the Yucatán.\n\nThe area of the village was granted to Luciano Reyes by Queen Victoria around 1870. Lots were sold to six or seven families, most of which still have descendants on the island today. The influence of these families is still very apparent.\n\nThe location of the main settlement on the island is thought to have remained unchanged for hundreds of years. The bay at the back of the village provides shelter for boats while the reef at the front provides good protection from large waves. The coral sand near the village provides adequate anchorage compared to the soft mud found elsewhere on the island.\n\nWhen Hurricane Hattie struck the island in 1961, a storm surge swept across the narrow part of the village. The wooden schoolhouse, being used as a shelter at the time, was destroyed by waves, killing 13, mostly children. The eye of the storm passed to the south of the island, sparing it from further destruction.\n\nThe village council was supported in the task of rebuilding by Governor Thornley's Emergency Committee and formed teams to do various types of work. About 42 houses were built in a few weeks. The British Army also helped, with helicopters bringing medical and food supplies. Caye Caulker remains vulnerable to direct hits from hurricanes because it has no defenses from storm surges.\n\nIn modern times, there have been at least four major hurricanes which have devastated the island, the most recent of which was Hurricane Keith in 2000. Since the island is only at its highest point, a strong storm surge can easily cover the entire island, as occurred during Hattie and Keith.\n\nThe main industry on the island prior to tourism was fishing. The island sits in the middle of natural migration routes for fish, and feeding grounds for conch and lobster. During World War II, fishermen living on the island also collected debris from torpedoed ships in the Caribbean that came floating ashore. The most lucrative were bales of rubber. The fishing industry is thought to support about 80 families on the island.\n\nTourism first started on the island around 1964, with only a few visitors on weekends from the mainland Belleview Hotel, brought out by a local boat called 'Sailfish', built by a schoolteacher beside the then Teachers House. The early tourists were mostly people working with the Belize Government. Around 1969, Dr. Hildebrand of the University of Corpus Christi started visiting each winter with a Marine Biology Expedition of around 24 students. Backpackers also found their way to the island at this time, but transportation was only by fishing sailboats and there was no accommodation. The Alamina, Reyes and Marin families pioneered the tourism industry and the first scuba diving lessons and trips were started around the late 1960s.\n\nAs speedboats came into use in the 1970s tourists became more regular. Hippies following the so-called \"Gringo Trail\", of Isla Mujeres, Tulum, Caye Caulker, Tikal and Lake Atitlan in Guatemala passed through the island (many of them making use of the easily available marijuana). The reputation spread by word of mouth.\n\nToday, the diversified economy of the village still includes lobster, fish, and tourists. Internet e-commerce is growing in a small way. Recent hurricanes had a major effect on lobster fishing as well as dramatically affecting the vegetation. The island ecology is slowly returning to that prior to the storms. The island is now becoming a center for many painters and some musicians. There are also a few up and coming lyrical artists on the island, prominent among them include Alexander Joseph, otherwise known as \"Bobbo youth\" and ILYA Rosado a.k.a. \"ILLA-G\" who have developed a local islander fan base with their rap and reggae-style music.\n\nThe small airplanes and asphalt-paved airstrip of Caye Caulker Airport may appear small to visitors accustomed to jet airliners and long concrete runways, but the system of barrier islands support a lively network of air transportation with an array of travel times. For those passengers preferring a route more commonly adopted by locals, there is a regular water taxi service providing transportation to and from the island. Taxi service is available from the main Belize City airport. The speedboats used are capable of carrying around 50 people. The watercraft typically sport two or three large motors and make the journey in about 45–50 minutes.\n\nOnce on the island, the main mode of transport is simply walking. The paths are well defined, and crossing the island takes 20 minutes at most. Bicycles and golf carts are also common and can be rented. Visitors prone to sunburn should take precautions, as the island is entirely white coral sand, and reflected sunlight can cause mild sunburns even in the shade. The Island is also used as a popular launch off for scuba diving the Great Blue Hole, with several expeditions per week.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053537", "title": "Cryogenic processor", "text": "Cryogenic processor\n\nA Cryogenic processor is a unit designed to reach ultra-low temperatures (usually around −300 °F / −150 °C) at a slow rate in order to prevent thermal shock to the components being treated. The first commercial unit was developed by Ed Busch in the late 1960s. The development of programmable microprocessor controls allowed the machines to follow temperature profiles that greatly increased the effectiveness of the process. Some manufacturers make cryoprocessors with home computers to define the temperature profile.\n\nBefore programmable controls were added to control cryogenic processors, the \"treatment\" process of an object was previously done manually by immersing the object in liquid nitrogen. This normally caused thermal shock to occur within an object, resulting in cracks to the structure. Modern cryogenic processors measure changes in temperature and adjust the input of liquid nitrogen accordingly to ensure that only small fractional changes in temperature occur over a long period of time. Their temperature measurements and adjustments are condensed into \"profiles\" that are used to repeat the process in a certain way when treating for similarly grouped objects.\n\nThe general processing cycle for modern cryogenic processors occurs within a three-day time window, with 24 hours to reach the optimal bottom temperature for a product, 24 hours to hold at the bottom temperature, and 24 hours to return to room temperature. Depending on the product, some items will be heated in an oven to even higher temperatures. Some processors are capable of providing both the negative and positive extreme temperatures, separate units (a cryogenic processor and a dedicated oven) can sometimes produce better results depending upon the application.\n\nThe optimal bottom temperatures for objects, as well as the hold times involved, are determined utilizing a number of different research methods and backed by experience and analysis to determine what works the best for a given product. As new metals are used in different combinations for newer products on the market, processing profiles change to accommodate the changes in structure. Also, profiles will sometimes undergo change from the results of a case study brought to attention by a large manufacturer or consumer of cryogenic services. Generally when a manufacturer sells a cryogenic processor they include the profiles for only that year of manufacture, or, more typically, profiles from when the processor model was first engineered, which sometimes will date back several years. Many businesses will include outdated profiles simply because they do not have adequate funding to perform the necessary ongoing research.\n\nFor people looking to find thermal profiles for cryogenics, a number of companies maintain thermal profiles of various products that are updated for accuracy at least a few times a year with their ongoing research, including data from independent trials and studies. However, obtaining these profiles is sometimes difficult if they are not used for educational purposes (mainly institutional research), as they typically only provide the updated profiles to their longtime \"service center\" partners around the world.\n\nOverall, cryogenic processors are radically changing the way that cryogenics used to be done. Many years ago, cryogenics was simply theoretical, with spotty results when there were improvements. Now, cryogenic processors are ensuring the accurate and consistent results for all products that are treated these days. As the technology sector improves, cryogenic processors will only get better as they benefit from new computer systems. Ongoing research in the future will also improve their temperature treatment profiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053544", "title": "Upper Darby High School", "text": "Upper Darby High School\n\nUpper Darby High School (UDHS) is a four-year public high school located in Upper Darby Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, United States, as part of the Upper Darby School District. UDHS is also the oldest high school in Delaware County, having been established in 1895.\n\nAs of the 2010–11 school year, the school had an enrollment of 3,762 students and 256.85 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student-teacher ratio of 17.0.\n\nThe population is diverse, with over 55 nationalities of students. It has a long-established football rivalry with Monsignor Bonner High School, located less than a block away. Upper Darby High School was a part of the inspiration for Upper Darby alumna Tina Fey's movie comedy \"Mean Girls\".\nThe mascot of Upper Darby High is the Royal, which is portrayed as a lion. In previous years, it was a court jester. The school emblem is the royal oak tree, the yearbook is named the Oak, and the newspaper is called the Acorn. An Acorn award is rewarded every year at the UDAEF Sweet Night Out Foundation Ball in February. \n\nAccording to a report by the Pennsylvania Department of Education, 4 teachers were rated \"Non‐Highly Qualified\" under No Child Left Behind. Upper Darby Senior High School is one of the largest high schools in Pennsylvania by enrollment. The High School is also home to the Upper Darby Performing Arts Center, and the Summer Stage program. \n\nThe campus is adjacent to, but not within, the Drexel Hill census-designated place. It has a Drexel Hill postal address.\n\nIn 2011, Upper Darby Senior High School declined to Corrective Action II 5th Year AYP status due to chronic, low student achievement in reading and mathematics. The school met just one metric in 2011. Under the federal No Child Left Behind Act, the school administration was required to notify parents of the school's poor achievement outcomes and to offer the parents the opportunity to transfer their child to a successful school within the District. Additionally, the school administration was required by the Pennsylvania Department of Education, to develop a School Improvement Plan to address the school's low student achievement. Under the Pennsylvania Accountability System, the school must pay for additional tutoring for struggling students.\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to a Pennsylvania Department of Education study released in January 2009, 59% of the Upper Darby Senior High School graduates required remediation in mathematics and or reading before they were prepared to take college level courses in the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education or community colleges. Less than 66% of Pennsylvania high school graduates, who enroll in a four-year college in Pennsylvania, will earn a bachelor's degree within six years. Among Pennsylvania high school graduates pursuing an associate degree, only one in three graduate in three years. Per the Pennsylvania Department of Education, one in three recent high school graduates who attend Pennsylvania's public universities and community colleges takes at least one remedial course in math, reading or English.\n\nUpper Darby Senior High School offers a dual enrollment program. This state program permits high school students to take courses, at local higher education institutions, to earn college credits. Students remain enrolled at their high school. The courses count towards high school graduation requirements and towards earning a college degree. The students continue to have full access to activities and programs at their high school. The college credits are offered at a deeply discounted rate. The state offered a small grant to assist students in costs for tuition, fees and books. Under the Pennsylvania Transfer and Articulation Agreement, many Pennsylvania colleges and universities accept these credits for students who transfer to their institutions.\n\nFor the 2009–10 funding year, the school district received a state grant of $5,023 for the program.\n\nFrom January to June 2011, 581 Upper Darby School District students took the SAT exams. The district's Verbal Average Score was 440. The Math average score was 464. The Writing average score was 423. Pennsylvania ranked 40th among states with SAT scores: Verbal – 493, Math – 501, Writing – 479. In the United States, 1.65 million students took the exam in 2011. They averaged 497 (out of 800) verbal, 514 math and 489 in writing.\n\nIn 2011, Upper Darby High School's graduation rate was 92%. In 2010, the Pennsylvania Department of Education issued a new, 4-year cohort graduation rate. Upper Darby Senior High School's rate was 80.99% for 2010.\n\n\nUpper Darby School Board has determined that a pupil must earn 135 credits to graduate, including: a required class every year in Mathematics, English, Social Studies, Science, Physical Education 2 years, 3 years foreign language, and at least 7 electives. Core academic courses are worth 5 credits each and AP courses are worth 7.5 credits.\n\nBy law, all Pennsylvania secondary school students must complete a project as a part of their eligibility to graduate from high school. The type of project, its rigor and its expectations are set by the individual school district.\n\nBy Pennsylvania School Board regulations, for the graduating class of 2017, students must demonstrate successful completion of secondary level course work in Algebra I, Biology, English Composition, and Literature for which the Keystone Exams serve as the final course exams. Students’ Keystone Exam scores shall count for at least one-third of the final course grade. In 2011, Pennsylvania high school students field tested the Algebra 1, Biology and English Lit exams. The statewide results were: Algebra 1 38% on grade level, Biology 35% on grade level and English Lit – 49% on grade level. Individual student, school or district reports were not made public, although they were reported to district officials by the Pennsylvania Department of Education.\n\nThe Classroom for the Future state program provided districts with hundreds of thousands of extra state funding to buy laptop computers for each core curriculum high school class (English, Science, History, Math) and paid for teacher training to optimize the computers use. The program was funded from 2006 to 2009. The Upper Darby School District applied receiving $469,223 in 2006–07. In 2007–08, the District received $838,700. Upper Darby School District received $200,597 in 2008–09 for a total funding of $1,508,520. This was the highest total funding awarded to a school district in Delaware County The highest funding state wide was awarded to Philadelphia City School District in Philadelphia County – $9,409,073. In 2010, Classrooms for the Future funding was curtailed statewide due to a massive state financial crisis precipitated by a national economic recession.\n\nUpper Darby High School is home to the Upper Darby Performing Arts Center, a nearly 1,800-seat theater that hosts not only school functions, but also between 200 and 400 events annually. During the summer, the arts center hosts the largest summer theater group in Delaware County: Summer Stage, with over 200 participants in multiple musicals. Harry Dietzler founded the Summer Stage program in 1976.\n\nUpper Darby High School offers a wide variety of clubs, activities and an extensive and costly sports program. Eligibility for participation is determined by school board policy. The Board complies with the Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association (PIAA) policy that students may practice and participate in competitions when failing up to 2 core curriculum courses.\n\nBy Pennsylvania law, all K-12 students residing in the district, including those who attend a private nonpublic school, cyber charter school, charter school and those homeschooled, are eligible to participate in the extracurricular programs, including all athletics. They must meet the same eligibility rules as the students enrolled in the district's schools.\n\nUpper Darby sports teams compete in the Central League.\n\nThe District funds:\n\nAccording to PIAA directory July 2012 \n\nUpper Darby High School's Wall of Fame committee recognizes individuals who have become leaders in their industries. Wall of Fame members are noted by WoF after their information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053547", "title": "Buccaneer (dinghy)", "text": "Buccaneer (dinghy)\n\nThe Buccaneer (a.k.a. Buccaneer 18) is a day sailer for pleasure sailing as well as racing; it is sailed throughout North America.\n\nDesigned in 1966 by Rod Macalpine-Downie and Dick\nGibbs, the Buccaneer incorporates classic elements that\nhave made this racing dinghy a consistent performer for\nmore than 35 years.\n\nDue to its hull design, the Buccaneer planes in 8-10 knots of wind. An\nintegrated spinnaker launch tube, roller furling jib, and\nwell-constructed sailplan, 7'3\" cockpit with non-skid seats, deck and floor make it a good\ntwo-handed racing dinghy. Well balanced and easily handled, the\nBuccaneer continues to appeal to both seasoned\ncompetitors and new sailors.\n\nWeighing 500 pounds, the Buccaneer requires a trailer and winch to be launched. A\ncomfortable cockpit arrangement and simple rigging round\nout the Buccaneer's design, make it a good day sailer for\nthe family.\n\n\nBuccaneer 87.0\nPortsmouth yardstick explanation\n\nThe Buccaneer was designed in 1966 and introduced to the sailing world 1967 at Yachting Magazine's \"One of a Kind\" Regatta, where it placed second behind a Thistle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053551", "title": "Cake (firework)", "text": "Cake (firework)\n\nA cake firework, also known as a multiple tube device, is a firework comprising a series of Roman candles, small aerial shells, or a combination of both, connected together by a high-speed fuse. Typically, the internal fusing is set to fire each tube in series, or to fire several tubes at the same time, or a combination of these. Typically a cake will resemble from the outside a simple cube or other rectangular covered shape; after firing, a large number of cardboard tubes (the candles) will be visible in the top of the firework (the paper cover having been blown off by the discharging stars). In a traditional cake, all the candles point upwards; a variant is called the \"fan\" or \"angle\" cake.\n\nCakes are one of the most popular types of firework, as they can create spectacular and long-lasting effects from a single ignition while minimising safety concern. In the UK, the reclassification of aerial shells to Category 4 has popularised cakes as a method for achieving similar effects while staying within safety guidelines, particularly by firing multiple candles at the same time.\n\nCakes vary greatly in size, weight and duration. Some last only a few seconds and contain only a few tubes, while others may last for several minutes, contain upwards of 1,000 tubes, and measure over a cubic yard in size. Large \"finale Cakes\" containing dozens of shells up to 4\" diameter are not uncommon, and some cakes, particularly those containing large amounts of dragon's eggs, can weigh over 100 pounds prior to discharge.\n"}
{"id": "2053559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053559", "title": "Alan Percy, 8th Duke of Northumberland", "text": "Alan Percy, 8th Duke of Northumberland\n\nAlan Ian Percy, 8th Duke of Northumberland, (17 April 1880 – 23 August 1930) was a British army officer. \n\nPercy was a second lieutenant of the 2nd Volunteer Battalion the Queen's (Royal West Surrey Regiment), when he was admitted as a second lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards on 24 January 1900. He was part of a detachment sent to South Africa in March 1900 to reinforce the 3rd battalion during the Second Boer War, and served with his regiment there until the war ended. For his service he received the Queen's South Africa Medal. Following the end of the war, he returned to the United Kingdom in August 1902. During his time as ADC in Canada, he undertook a wager to walk 111 miles from one city to another in three days - despite blizzards and heavy snowfall, he completed the challenge and won the wager. During the First World War he served with the Grenadier Guards, working with the Intelligence Department to provide eyewitness accounts of battles and the front line. His brother Lord William Percy also served during the war; wounded in 1915, he spent the remainder of the war working as a military attorney. He was made a Chevalier of the \"Légion d'honneur\".\n\nPolitically Percy was a Tory diehard. He was a staunch supporter of the House of Lords. He wrote for the \"National Review\" on military matters. \n\nFrom 1921 he funded the Boswell Publishing Company, and then in 1922 until his death the \"Patriot\", a radical right-wing weekly which published articles by Nesta Webster and promulgated a mix of anti-communism and anti-semitism.\n\nIn 1924 he acquired an interest in \"The Morning Post\".\n\nThe Duke was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Northumberland. For one year before his death he served as Chancellor of the University of Durham, a role his father had also held. His father, the 7th Duke, was an alderman on the Middlesex County Council up to his death. In July 1918 he was chosen to fill the vacancy on the council in his father's place.\n\nPercy was the son of Henry Percy, 7th Duke of Northumberland, and Lady Edith Campbell.\n\nOn 18 October 1911, Percy married Lady Helen Magdalan Gordon-Lennox (daughter of Charles Gordon-Lennox, 7th Duke of Richmond). They had six children:\n\n\nThe 8th Duke died in 1930 and was buried in the Northumberland Vault, within Westminster Abbey. He was succeeded in the dukedom and his other titles by his eldest son, Henry.\n\n\nOther\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053561", "title": "Katharineum", "text": "Katharineum\n\nThe Katharineum zu Lübeck is a humanistic gymnasium founded 1531 in the Hanseatic city Lübeck, Germany. In 2006 the 475th anniversary of this Latin school was celebrated with several events. The school uses the buildings of a former Franciscan monastery next to Saint Catherine Church, which was extended in the 1880s. \n\nAt the Katharineum it is possible to choose Latin as the first foreign language. In year nine it is also possible to choose ancient Greek as the third foreign language.\n\nThomas Mann, himself a student of the Katharineum, thought of this school when describing the school \"Hanno\" went to in the Buddenbrooks. Mann, who as a bad student had to resit two years, made it clear that he disliked the Katharineum by describing both the school and the teachers with strong sarcasm. His brother Heinrich Mann described the school and one infamous teacher in Professor Unrat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053565", "title": "Graham Wellesley, 8th Earl Cowley", "text": "Graham Wellesley, 8th Earl Cowley\n\nGarret Graham Wellesley, 8th Earl of Cowley (born 30 March 1965), styled Viscount Dangan from 1975 to 2016, is a British hereditary peer and businessman. Previously an entrepreneur in derivatives and foreign exchange trading, he is the founder and CEO of UK alternative lender Wellesley & Co.\n\nGraham Wellesley was born in 1965, the son of Garret Wellesley, 7th Earl Cowley and his first wife Elizabeth Lennon. He is a descendant of Henry Wellesley, 1st Baron Cowley, brother of the Duke of Wellington. He spent his early years in California before coming to the UK aged 10, where he attended the American Community School in Hillingdon, west London.\n\nAfter graduating with a degree in economics from Franklin College, Switzerland, he served for 18 months in the Household Cavalry.\n\nWellesley’s financial career began in 1985 as a derivatives trader at the London stockbroking firm Hoare Govett, from where he moved to two further derivatives trading roles at Banque Indosuez and ING Charterhouse. In 1992, he became head of foreign exchange trading at global metals trader Gerald Metals.\n\nIn 1995, he established the UK foreign exchange market maker IFX, which specialised in contracts for difference (CFDs) and spread bets on equity prices. In 1999, he and another director, Lorenzo Naldini, purchased the 51% of the business owned by its US parent company IFX Corp in a buyout that left them as sole shareholders.\n\nIn 2000, IFX was bought by the football pools operator Zetters for £20.4million in a reverse takeover, forming a new entity – IFX Group – with Wellesley as group chief executive. Two years later the company sold its pools business.\n\nIn 2003, Wellesley and Naldini left IFX following a disagreement with the board and co-founded ODL Securities, an online foreign exchange and derivatives broker.\n\nIn 2005, ODL was the whistleblower in an attempted banking fraud by US hedge fund Bayou. Bayou opened an account with ODL, depositing $101million and requesting two transactions that were refused by the management, who notified the UK Financial Services Authority. \n\nIn 2010, Wellesley and Naldini sold their 50% stake in ODL to US foreign exchange firm FXCM Holdings, creating a business employing around 1,000 staff. In December that year, the newly enlarged entity floated on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 2013, Graham Wellesley co-founded alternative lender Wellesley & Co with three other shareholders, taking the role of chief executive. The following year the company issued what at the time was the largest ever loan by a peer-to-peer lender – a £8.3million bridging loan to a UK urban regeneration scheme.\n\nGraham Wellesley is married to Claire (Brighton) Wellesley, with whom he has two sons and a daughter.\n"}
{"id": "2053579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053579", "title": "Vunivalu of Bau", "text": "Vunivalu of Bau\n\nTuraga na Vunivalu ni Bau is the Paramount Chief of the Kubuna Confederacy, loosely translated the title means \"Warlord of Bau\" or Root of War. The succession to the title does not follow primogeniture, but the candidate must be a high-ranking member of the Tui Kaba clan.\n\nThe Vunivalu was not always the senior Chieftain in Kubuna and Bau. When Vueti a great grandson of Lutunasobasoba defeated the Tui Viti's sons at Nakauvadra, he was awarded with a Tui Viti sacred stone- award signifying authority (tawake or flag). From Nakauvadra, he left via Nakorotubu and had his 1st child, a son through supernatural powers or \"Gonesau\" known as Nadurucoko who was raised by the Dewala tribe at Korolevu fort in Dewala, Nakorotubu. Nadurucoko the first (1st) \"Gonesau\", was the father of Nabuinivuaka Nailatikau 1- the 1st Vunivalu of Bau. He then continued on his returned journey to Moturiki and finally to Bau. Vueti as the founder of Bau island in short for 'veibauyaki' or nomadic tribe (named after his last temporary nomadic residence in Bau in Wainibuka) was bestowed with the Roko Tui Bau title. Vueti then ordered for a sacred temple to be built in Bau and kept the Tui Viti sacred stone award of authority (tawake) that was given by the chiefs at Nakauvadra at the foundation mound and named the temple as Vatanitawake translated as 'the shelter or shelve of the signifying authority award or flag'.\n\nThe Vunivalu of Bau title was considered subordinate to the Roko Tui Bau. Power struggles between the various chiefly households came to a head with the exile of the Vunivalu Tanoa Visawaqa in the early 19th century after a series of murders and reprisals. His son Seru Epenisa Cakobau however was allowed to remain in Bau during his fathers exile. Cakobau gained power by subverting the Lasakau people to plot and execute the overthrow of the ruling group, led by Ratu Ravulo Vakayaliyalo, in 1837; Seru Epenisa Cakobau then reinstated his father as ruler.\n\nCakobau eventually succeeded to the title himself. He created much of its prestige by styling himself King of Fiji; he led the process that culminated in cession of the islands to the United Kingdom in 1874.\n\nThe position has been vacant since the death of the last Vunivalu, Ratu Sir George Cakobau, in 1989.\n\nOver the past decade, there have been moves to choose a successor. On 9 June 2005, Senator Ratu George Cakobau, Jr. (son of the last \"Vunivalu\") announced that the chiefs of Matanitu o Bau (the traditional chiefly government of Bau, which includes the districts of Namata, Kiuva District, and Viwa (Fiji), had selected four chiefly candidates, to be submitted to the Tui Kaba clan, which will be asked to choose one of them as the next \"Vunivalu.\" The four candidates are Ratu George Cakobau, Jr. himself, his brother Ratu Epenisa Cakobau, Ratu George Kadavulevu Naulivou, and now deceased former Vice-President Ratu Jope Seniloli. A second meeting held a week later tentatively proposed Senator Cakobau as the new \"Vunivalu.\"\n\nAs of 2015, Cakobau's appointment has still not been finalized and is not without controversy. Adi Finau Tabakaucoro, a member of the Tui Kaba clan and a senior chief, complained on 27 June that the proper procedures were not being followed. The new \"Vunivalu\" should be elected by the whole clan, she said, rather than chosen by a few elders. She thought it wrong to exclude from the list of candidates the name of Senator Cakobau's sister, Adi Samanunu Talakuli Cakobau, because she was the eldest child of the last Vunivalu.\n\nAttempts to find a successor again failed in 2012, and the selection process was put on hold for the time being.\n\nThe Vunivalu when installed, also takes the title of Tui Levuka, as he is the traditional leader of the Levuka people of Lakeba, Lau. The wife of the Vunivalu is titled Radi Levuka.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053590", "title": "The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee", "text": "The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee\n\nThe 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee is a musical comedy with music and lyrics by William Finn, a book by Rachel Sheinkin, conceived by Rebecca Feldman with additional material by Jay Reiss. The show centers on a fictional spelling bee set in a geographically ambiguous Putnam Valley Middle School. Six quirky adolescents compete in the Bee, run by three equally quirky grown-ups.\n\nThe 2005 Broadway production, directed by James Lapine and produced by David Stone, James L. Nederlander, Barbara Whitman, Patrick Catullo, Barrington Stage Company and Second Stage Theater, earned good reviews and box-office success and was nominated for six Tony Awards, winning two, including Best Book. The show has spawned various other productions in the United States, and other countries.\n\nAn unusual aspect of the show is that four real audience members are invited on stage to compete in the spelling bee alongside the six young characters. During the 2005 Tony Awards, former Presidential candidate Al Sharpton competed. Another amusing aspect of the show is that the official pronouncer, usually an improv comedian, provides ridiculous usage-in-a-sentence examples when asked to use words in a sentence. For instance, for the word \"palaestra\", he says, \"Euripides said, 'What happens at the palaestra stays at the palaestra.'\" At some shows, adult-only audiences (over age 16) are invited for \"Parent-Teacher Conferences,\" also known as \"adult night at the Bee.\" These performances are peppered with sexual references and profanity inspired by R-rated ad-libs made during rehearsals.\n\nThe Broadway cast album was released on May 31, 2005 and is available from Ghostlight Records, an imprint of Sh-K-Boom Records. The original Broadway cast recording was nominated for a Grammy Award.\n\nThe musical was based upon \"C-R-E-P-U-S-C-U-L-E,\" an original improvisational play created by Rebecca Feldman and performed by The Farm, a New-York-based improvisational comedy troupe. Sarah Saltzberg, Wendy Wasserstein's weekend nanny, was in the original production, and Wasserstein recommended that Finn see the show. Finn brought Rachel Sheinkin on board, and they worked together with Feldman to transform \"C-R-E-P-U-S-C-U-L-E\" into a scripted full-length musical.\n\n\"Spelling Bee\" was workshopped and developed at the Barrington Stage Company (BSC), Massachusetts, where Julianne Boyd is the Artistic Director, in two different stages. In February 2004, a workshop was done in which a first act and parts of a second act were created – this stage of the process was directed by Michael Barakiva and Feldman. The script was fleshed out and the show was given a fuller production in July 2004, directed by Feldman and Michael Unger. Dan Knechtges choreographed the workshop, summer productions, and the Broadway production. Dana Harrel produced both productions as the Producer of Stage II at BSC. Several cast members, Dan Fogler, Jay Reiss, and Sarah Saltzberg remained from \"C-R-E-P-U-S-C-U-L-E\". Robb Sapp (later replaced by Jose Llana when Sapp moved on to \"Wicked\"), Dashiell Eaves (replaced by Derrick Baskin), Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Celia Keenan-Bolger (joined as Olive Ostrovsky in the summer), Lisa Howard, and Deborah S. Craig were added to the cast, and a full script was created.\n\nThe musical opened Off-Broadway at the Second Stage Theatre on January 11, 2005 in previews, officially on February 7, 2005, and closed on March 20, 2005. The production won several awards, among them the 2005 Lucille Lortel Awards, Outstanding Musical and 2005 Drama Desk Awards, Outstanding Ensemble Performance.\n\n\"Spelling Bee\" premiered on Broadway at the Circle in the Square Theatre on April 15, 2005 and closed on January 20, 2008 after 1,136 performances and 21 previews. The director was James Lapine and the choreographer Dan Knechtges. The show won Tony Awards for Best Book (Rachel Sheinkin) and Best Featured Actor (Dan Fogler).\n\nThe first production outside the United States was at the Melbourne Theatre Company in Melbourne, Australia, from January 18, 2006 to February 25 at the Playhouse, Arts Centre Melbourne. It starred Marina Prior as Ms. Peretti, David Campbell as Chip, and Magda Szubanski as Barfée. The production, which won the 2006 Helpmann Award for Best Musical, was then presented by the Sydney Theatre Company at the Sydney Theatre in 2007. It again starred Prior and Szubanski, now joined by Lisa McCune as Olive. The Sydney season opened on June 11, 2007 and closed in August 2007.\n\nThe musical was produced in San Francisco, California, at the Post Street Theatre opening on March 1, 2006 and closing on September 3, 2006. In Chicago the run began on April 11, 2006 at the Drury Lane Theatre, Water Tower Place, closing on March 25, 2007. The production was directed by James Lapine. In Boston it opened at the Wilbur Theatre on September 26, 2006 and closed December 31, 2006. The majority of the San Francisco cast moved to the Boston production.\n\nThe Equity U.S. National Tour began in Baltimore, Maryland at the Hippodrome Theatre on September 19, 2006 going through May 2007, visiting over 30 cities across the U.S. From May 24 to June 17, 2007, the original Broadway cast reunited for a limited four-week run at the Wadsworth Theater in Los Angeles. The musical returned to Barrington Stage Company, where it originated, in 2008, and ran from June 11 to July 12, 2008. The production included several cast members from the touring company and was a co-production with North Shore Theatre. The first performance in-the-round was at the North Shore Music Theatre in Beverly, Massachusetts from August 12–31, 2008.\n\nIn 2007, the first translated production opened in Seoul, South Korea, with all of the music and dialogue in Korean, but the words were spelled in English. In September 2008, a German-language adaptation premiered as \"Der 25 Pattenser Buchstabierwettbewerb\".\n\nThe 2008–2009 Non-Equity U.S. National Tour premiered on October 11, 2008 at the Union Colony Civic Center in Greeley, Colorado, with an official opening in Fort Collins, Colorado on October 14.\n\nThe Mason Street Warehouse, Saugatuck Center for the Arts, Saugatuck, Michigan, opened on August 14 and ran through August 31, 2009, directed by Kurt Stamm. \n\nThe musical made its UK premiere at the Donmar Warehouse, London, beginning previews on February 11, 2011. It officially opened on February 21, and closed on April 2. The director was Jamie Lloyd.\n\n\"Spelling Bee\" made its Scandinavian debut in September 2012 in Oslo, Norway.\n\n\"Spelling Bee\" was performed for the first time in Israel, with Hebrew subtitles in October 2012, at the AACI J-Town Playhouse theater in Jerusalem. \"Spelling Bee\" had an additional series of performances in September, 2017 in Israel by the organization The Stage, at the Beit Yad leBanim theatre in Tel Aviv.\n\nThe musical begins with Rona Lisa Peretti entering the gymnasium to set up. As she passes by the microphone, she has a flashback to the moment when she won the third annual spelling bee by correctly spelling \"syzygy\". The spellers are introduced as they enter, and sing about their anticipation of the bee (\"The Twenty-Fifth Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee\"). Rona then welcomes the audience to the bee, and calls the selected 4 audience spellers to the stage. She also speaks privately to Olive Ostrovsky, who has not yet paid the entrance fee of twenty-five dollars. When asked if she has a parent in the audience who can pay, Olive reveals that she has arrived by herself on the bus. Rona decides to let the fee slide for the moment. She then introduces the official word pronouncer, Douglas Panch, who is returning from a five-year hiatus. Panch alludes to an incident five years ago, but declares that he is in a better place now. Panch introduces the intimidating-looking comfort counselor, Mitch Mahoney, who is helping at the Bee as part of his court-mandated community service. Mahoney leads the spellers (now including the audience volunteers) in the Pledge of Allegiance. Panch then explains the rules of the spelling bee (\"The Spelling Rules / My Favorite Moment of the Bee 1\").\n\nThe spelling bee begins and as each non-audience speller is called forward, the audience learns about his or her background through flashbacks (with other characters in the flashbacks being played by the other spellers on stage, including simple nonspeaking roles played by the audience spellers, as guided by the actors).\nLogainne Schwartzandgrubenierre is called up first.\nWhen Leaf Coneybear is called to spell the first time, it is revealed in a flashback that he came in third at his regional bee, but advanced to the county finals when the winner and runner-up had to attend the winner's Bat Mitzvah. His word is \"capybara\", which he has no idea how to spell, but he ends up spelling it correctly while in a trance. \nOlive is shown to be shy and reserved, a result of her largely absent parents — her mother is in India on a spiritual journey, and her father is missing the bee to work, late as usual. She has come to love spelling by reading the dictionary in her home (\"My Friend, the Dictionary\").\nAn audience volunteer is called up, and is given an easy word. If they get it correct, the 2nd volunteer then gets a hard word intended to eliminate them. If the first volunteer gets their word wrong, then the 2nd is given an easy word or not called at all.\nWhen William Barfée is called to spell for the first time, Rona describes his unusual technique — he spells the word out on the ground with his foot to get a visual before speaking it. He demonstrates his confidence by returning to his seat immediately after spelling his word, and responding \"I know\" when Panch affirms that the spelling is correct.\nThe 3rd volunteer is given an easy word (often \"Mexican\"), which the spellers complain about. After several rounds, another particularly easy word is given to the final audience speller (often \"cow\", \"telephone\" or \"hospital\"), and the spellers erupt and rant about how the element of luck makes the bee unfair (\"Pandemonium\").\nLogainne then gets \"Cystitis,\" and is shown studying with her two often-arguing fathers in a flashback.\nWhen Leaf is called the second time, he is given \"acouchi\", which he again does not know how to spell. He reminisces about how his family repeatedly calls him \"dumb\", a sentiment that he has come to believe. Again, in a trance, he spells the word correctly (\"I'm Not That Smart\").\n\nBarfée is called, and this time sings about his technique (\"Magic Foot\").\nWhen Marcy is called again, she correctly spells an extraordinarily difficult word (\"qaimaqam\"), proving herself to be the best speller. However, she is genuinely surprised and somewhat hurt when Rona claims that she is \"all business\".\nChip Tolentino is called next, but he is not paying attention. Rather, he is fantasizing about Leaf's attractive sister, Marigold, in the audience. When snapped out of his daze, he is reluctant to take his turn because he has an erection that is showing. Under threat of disqualification, he takes his turn, but his thoughts (aided by the vaguely erotic word that he is given, \"tittup\") distract him and he begins to misspell the word. He catches himself quickly, and backs up to try to save himself, but the rules of the bee state that \"the sequences of letters already spoken may not be changed\". He begs for another chance, but Mitch eventually hauls him off (\"Pandemonium (Reprise) / My Favorite Moment of the Bee 2\").\n\nAt this point, the last audience speller is eliminated (he or she simply is called repeatedly in succession and given increasingly difficult words). Mitch sings a special serenade to this audience member for making it this far (\"Prayer of the Comfort Counselor\").\n\nThe remaining spellers (all of the normal cast spellers except for Chip) and the adults go on break, and Chip passes through the audience selling snacks, the punishment for being the first eliminated. He explains to the audience why he lost (\"My Unfortunate Erection (Chip's Lament)\"). Barfée taunts Chip, who throws a bag of peanut M&M's at him. Barfée is allergic to peanuts, so Olive picks them up for him. Chip and Barfée continue to fight before Rona escorts the former offstage. Olive and Barfée converse awkwardly before the second half of the bee begins, and Barfée begins to develop a crush on Olive.\n\nWith the break over, Rona introduces the finalists as they reenter. Last to be introduced is Logainne, who describes her two overbearing fathers and the stress that they put on her (\"Woe is Me\"). In a montage sequence, the bee is shown progressing through many rounds, ending with Leaf’s elimination on the word \"chinchilla\". He walks away head held high, having proven to himself, despite his elimination, that he is smart (\"I'm Not that Smart (Reprise)\").\n\nMarcy is called to spell, and Rona, who has been announcing factoids about the spellers all along, announces that Marcy speaks five languages. Marcy reveals more about her stressful life, where she is pushed to succeed in everything, which she does not enjoy (\"I Speak Six Languages\"). She is given the word \"camouflage\", to which she sighs, \"Dear Jesus, can't you come up with a harder word than that?\" Jesus then appears to her and teaches her that she is in control of her own life. Resolved to do what she wants rather than what is expected of her, she intentionally misspells the word and exits excitedly (\"Jesus / Pandemonium (Reprise #2)\").\n\nOlive's cellphone rings — it is her father, who she has been anxiously hoping would arrive. Panch attempts to disallow her from answering the phone, but she persuades Rona to take the call for her. Logainne then begins an ad-libbed rant about the bee, her fathers, and current political events. Panch, provoked by the rant and upset that he has lost control over the bee, loses his temper and lashes out at Logainne, who is next up to spell. Panch is then escorted offstage by Rona and Mitch (different productions handle this differently). One of Logainne's fathers jumps onstage to calm Logainne down, and, despite his daughter's protests, pours some of his soda on the floor to make Barfée's foot stick and thus disrupt his technique.\n\nWith Panch calmed down, Olive is called to spell. She asks what her father had said, and is saddened to learn that he said he is running even later than planned. Her word is \"chimerical\", and mirroring the word's definition, she imagines her parents being there and giving her the love that she always has wanted and yearned for, while showing the problems with her own family (\"The I Love You Song\").\n\nBarfée is called to spell next, and when he uses his signature technique, the soda causes his foot to stick. Much to his surprise, he is able to spell his word correctly anyway. Logainne is next, and she overcomplicates her word \"vug\" and misspells it (\"Woe is Me (Reprise)\"). Rona is excited that it has come down to the final two (\"My Favorite Moment of the Bee 3\").\n\nThe finals are shown through another montage (\"Second\"), and Olive and Barfée continue to grow closer. Eventually, Olive misspells a word (\"elanguescence\"), giving Barfée a chance to win by spelling his next word correctly. He is torn between winning and letting Olive win, but with Olive's encouragement, he spells his word correctly (\"Weltanschauung\"). Panch awards William Morris Barfée the trophy and two hundred dollar prize, and in a surprise act of charity, gives Olive a fictitious runner-up prize of twenty-five dollars from his own pocket — exactly the amount needed to cover her entrance fee. Olive congratulates and hugs Barfée, and each character reads their epilogue, a sentence or two about what they do in the years and decades after the main action of the play ends (\"Finale\").\n\n\"(Songs are not listed in the Playbill since with audience members on stage, the timing of the \"Goodbye\" songs varies with each show and because it could spoil who wins the bee.)\"\n\n† Not featured on the cast album\n\n‡ Combined into one track on the cast album\n\nThere is a song on the cast album, called \"Why We Like Spelling\". This song is sung by all the spellers, but is not in the Broadway production or in the licensed productions.\n\nA song entitled \"The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee Massacres the 12 Days of Christmas\" was released online as a holiday track sung by the cast. It reveals several different instances of events within the lives of the characters, such as Coneybear being given 2 right socks named \"Phil\", Olive discussing various places her dad forgets her at, Barfée ruling his sea anemone circus from his basement, Panch's urine laced with Ritalin, Rona's most recent boyfriend breaking up with her, Mitch ending up and making calls from prison, Schwarzy explaining her dads giving her stomach ulcers, Chip playing with his little league baseball team, and Marcy receiving the 7th book of Moses (which Schwarzy repeatedly objects to, claiming there's only 5) while fighting with her understudy who was taking her place because \"Deborah [S. Craig, the regular Marcy actress] hurt her knee\".\n\n\n\nThe principal casts of notable productions of \"The Twenty-Fifth Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee\"\n\nAbout half an hour before the show begins, audience members in the lobby are given the chance to sign up to participate in the show as \"spellers.\" The registration form asks for name, occupation, hobbies, description of clothing, spelling ability, and age range. Interviewers look for people with no acting experience, unique names, traits, and backgrounds. The audience participants are taken backstage prior to the show and are shown where to stand when called from the audience and given instruction about what to do when called upon to spell. They are asked to request a definition of each word and its usage in a sentence, and to attempt to spell each word rather than giving up. The final audience member to be eliminated is usually given an exceptionally difficult word they are sure to miss; regardless of the spelling the cast reacts with incredulity at his or her \"success,\" and the next word is \"belled\" as incorrect before the attempt is completed. During the performance, the actors sitting next to the audience participants periodically whisper hints about when to stand, sit, move in \"slow motion,\" \"freeze\" or hang on because the seating platform unit is about to spin.\n\nMs. Peretti calls the spellers to the stage at the beginning of the show, and they are given badges to wear that say \"Finalist.\" As the show proceeds, each one is eliminated with successively more difficult words. The final audience participant to be eliminated is serenaded by Mitch (\"Prayer of the Comfort Counselor\") on-stage. Mitch also gives each eliminated finalist (both audience members and regular characters) a juice box and a hug.\n\nKatharine Close, the 2006 winner of the Scripps National Spelling Bee, was invited to be a contestant at a performance of the show. She was the last speller from the audience to be eliminated and survived fourteen rounds.\n\nThe musical treats the audience members as if they were the audience at the fictitious spelling bee. For example, the characters single out audience members as their \"family\" members. For example, Barfée periodically refers to an age-appropriate woman near the stage as \"mom.\" Similarly, Chip is distracted by an attractive female audience member (or male in the adults-only version), contributing to a misspelling. He is the first contestant eliminated and is thus forced to sell snacks in the audience in the manner of the refreshment hawkers at a sports event. Other characters frequently walk through the auditorium among the audience during the show, sometimes integrating the audience into the show and occasionally dropping the \"fourth wall\".\n\nExamples of words spelled by characters in performances of \"Spelling Bee\" include Astrobleme, Cat, Dinosaur, Hasenpfeffer, Origami (Adult Show), and Weltanschauung. Words spelled by the audience volunteers are often unscripted and sometimes improvised by the cast to gently poke fun at the volunteer speller. Past examples include: Dystopia, Cenacle, Elephant, Hemidemisemiquaver, Homunculus, Cow, Jihad, Lysergic Acid Diethylamide, Castoreum and Didgeridoo spelt by Rolf Harris. Julie Andrews missed \"Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious\" when she was a guest speller on KIDS night on Broadway, 2007.\n\nCharles Isherwood, in his review of the Broadway production for \"The New York Times\", wrote \"Most crucially, the affectionate performances of the six actors burdened with the daunting challenge of inhabiting young souls have not been stretched into grotesque shape by the move to a large theater... William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway. If it occasionally suggests a Saturday morning television cartoon set to music by Stephen Sondheim, that's not inappropriate. And Mr. Finn's more wistful songs provide a nice sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book... Mr. Lapine has sharpened all the musical's elements without betraying its appealing modesty.\" (NY Times Critics Pick)\n\n"}
{"id": "2053597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053597", "title": "Sartell Dam", "text": "Sartell Dam\n\nThe Sartell Dam is a dam across the Mississippi River in Sartell, Minnesota in the United States. The dam was used to generate hydroelectric power for the adjoining Sartell Paper Mill before it burned down in 2012. The dam is referred to as the Champion Dam in official documentation.\n\nConstruction of the structure was begun by the Watab Pulp and Paper Company in 1907 and finished in 1911. Seven workers died during construction, most from drowning as a result of washouts on the site's cofferdam. A cave-in on the dam's west end also killed the son of the project's foreman.\n\nThe dam was constructed of wooden planks, local granite, and field stones as well as 25,000 barrels concrete.\n\nBetween 1960 and 1964, the dam was rebuilt by the St. Regis Corporation which had purchased the adjoining paper mill in 1946. The mill and dam are currently owned by Verso Paper.\n\nConstruction of the dam resulted in the formation of Little Rock Lake approximately five miles (8 km) upriver. The dam itself is 20 feet tall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053598", "title": "Boris Pash", "text": "Boris Pash\n\nBoris Theodore Pash (born Boris Fedorovich Pashkovsky; Russian: Борис Фёдорович Пашковский) 20 June 1900 – 11 May 1995) was a United States Army military intelligence officer. He commanded the Alsos Mission during World War II and retired with the rank of colonel.\n\nBoris Theodore Pashkovsky was born in San Francisco, California, on 20 June 1900. His father was Reverend Theodore Pashkovsky (would become Most Reverend Metropolitan Theophilus from 1934 to 1950), a Russian Orthodox priest who had been sent to California by the Church in 1894. His father was recalled to Russia in 1906, and the entire family returned to Russia in 1912.\n\nDuring the Russian Revolution, he served in the White movement navy in the Black Sea from 1918 to 1920. Because he could speak English, he served as a translator in meetings with the British. For his services he was awarded the Cross of St. George.\n\nOn 1 July 1920, he married Lydia Vladimirovna Ivanova, and chose to return to the United States when the Bolshevik consolidation of power became apparent. He was able to secure employment with the YMCA in Berlin, where his son Edgar Constantine Boris Pashkovsky was born on 14 June 1921.\n\nUpon returning to the United States with his family in 1923, he attended Springfield College, in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Physical Education. It was during this time that he changed the family name from Pashkovsky to Pash.\n\nPash taught at Hollywood High School in Los Angeles from 1924 until 1940. During this time he continued his education, receiving a Master of Science from the University of Southern California in 1939. He also joined the United States Army Reserve, and was assigned to the Infantry Intelligence Branch. As part of his training, he qualified for certification by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.\n\nPash was called to active duty with the Army in 1940, and became chief of counter-intelligence at the IX Corps Area headquarters at the Presidio of San Francisco. In that role he became involved with the 1942 Baja Peninsula mission that investigated the possibility of the Japanese establishing a base in Mexico during World War II.\n\nPash was also called upon to investigate suspected Soviet espionage at the Radiation Laboratory at the University of California. He interrogated staff, including Robert Oppenheimer, whom he concluded \"may still be connected with the Communist Party\". Pash did not believe that Oppenheimer was a spy. He felt that Oppenheimer's personal honor and concern for his reputation would deter him from such action. Pash therefore did not recommend Oppenheimer's removal from the Manhattan Project, merely that Oppenheimer be accompanied by counter-intelligence agents.\n\nHe was also the military leader of the Alsos Mission, an Allied operation established in late 1943 to determine how far the Axis had progressed toward developing nuclear weapons by seizing facilities, materiel, and scientists related to the German nuclear energy project.\n\nAfter the war, Pash served in various military intelligence positions. He served under General Douglas MacArthur in Japan in 1946 and 1947. Thanks to his efforts, the Soviet attempt to gain a foothold in Japan through a local Orthodox Church failed. Instead, Pash organized for the Bishop Benjamin (Basalyga) to arrive in early January 1947 to take the reins, and thus the American Metropoly, rather than the Moscow Patriarchate, secured influence in the region. As a result of this combination, Pash had had a public clash with the Soviet General Kuzma Derevyanko. From 1948 to 1951, he served as a military representative to the Central Intelligence Agency. During this time, he was in charge of a controversial CIA program called PB-7, which had been formed to handle \"wet affairs\" like kidnappings and assassinations. There is no evidence that he ever carried out any, and denied that he had in testimony before the Church Committee in 1975. He served as Special Forces planning officer with the U.S. forces in Austria from 1952 to 1953. His final postings were back in the United States, as Deputy Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence of the Sixth Army from 1953 to 1956), and in the office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Guided Missiles in Washington, D.C., from 1956 until his retirement from the Army in 1957. In 1954, he testified in the Oppenheimer security hearing, recounting the misgivings that he had about Oppenheimer in 1943.\n\nOn leaving the Army, Pash became chief of the Eastern European and USSR Division of the Quartermaster Technological Intelligence Agency. In 1961 he transferred to the United States Army Foreign Science and Technology Center. He retired\nfrom the civil service in June 1963.\n\nIn retirement, Pash published \"The Alsos Mission\", a book recounting his wartime experiences in Europe, in 1980. He was inducted into the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame in 1988. His decorations included the Army Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Order of the British Empire and the Order of St. George.\n\nPash died on 11 May 1995 in Greenbrae, California, and was buried in the Serbian Cemetery in Colma, California. He was survived by his wife Gladys and son Edgar. His papers are in the Hoover Institute at Stanford University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053599", "title": "Merle Robbins", "text": "Merle Robbins\n\nMerle Robbins (September 12, 1911 – January 14, 1987) was an American barber from Reading, Ohio who invented the card game UNO. \n\nIn 1971, he invented UNO to resolve an argument with his son about the rules of Crazy Eights. The original decks were designed and made on the family dining room table. Then he and his family saved $8,000 and created the first 5,000 UNO decks to sell. At first, he sold them out of his barber shop, while his son Ray handed them out to his students. In 1972, he sold the rights to UNO to International Games for $50,000 plus royalties of 10 cents per copy.\n\nToday, the game is produced by toy giant Mattel in 80 countries and has sold 151 million copies worldwide.\n\nMerle Robbins was a barber at in Milford, Ohio. He died in 1984 in Cincinnati.\n\n\nMerle Robbins was the creator of the game UNO. He died when he was 72 years old. He sold his game \"UNO\" to International Games for only $50,000 which was a lot back then. Now the game giant Mattel is believed to have sold over 150 million copies. So, lets suppose that every game is an average of $7. Now that might not be exact but that is an approximate. So if we believe that it is $7 then that means Mattel has earned $1,050,000,000. That is more than 1 billion dollars off a game that the maker sold for $50,000. Most of this information was taken from other websites and other sources. The math was done by author Nitroid444."}
{"id": "2053607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053607", "title": "John Tilbury", "text": "John Tilbury\n\nJohn Tilbury (born 1 February 1936) is a British pianist. He is considered one of the foremost interpreters of Morton Feldman's music, and since 1980 has been a member of the free improvisation group AMM.\n\nTilbury studied piano at the Royal College of Music with Arthur Alexander and James Gibb and also with Zbigniew Drzewiecki in Warsaw. 1968 he was the winner of the Gaudeamus competition in the Netherlands.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Tilbury was closely associated with the composer Cornelius Cardew, whose music he has interpreted and recorded and a member of the Scratch Orchestra. His biography of Cardew, \"Cornelius Cardew – A life unfinished\" was published in 2008.\n\nTilbury has also recorded the works of Howard Skempton and John White, among many others, and has also performed adaptations of the radio plays of Samuel Beckett.\n\nWith guitarist AMM bandmate Keith Rowe's electroacoustic ensemble M.I.M.E.O., Tilbury recorded \"The Hands of Caravaggio\", inspired by the painter's \"The Taking of Christ\" (1602). In this live performance, twelve of the members of M.I.M.E.O. were positioned around the piano in a deliberate echo of Christ's Last Supper. The thirteenth M.I.M.E.O. member (Cor Fuhler) is credited with \"inside piano\" as he interacted and interfered with Tilbury's playing by manipulating and damping the instrument's strings, essentially doing piano preparation in real time. Critic Brian Olewnick describes the album as \"A staggering achievement, one is tempted to call The Hands of Caravaggio the first great piano concerto of the 21st century.\"[].\n\nAnother notable recent recording of Tilbury's was \"Duos for Doris\" (like \"The Hands of Caravaggio\" also on Erstwhile Records), a collaboration with Keith Rowe. It is widely considered a landmark recording in the genre of electroacoustic improvisation (or \"EAI\").\n\nIn 2013 he collaborated with artist Armando Lulaj in FIEND performance at the National Theatre of Tirana (Albania).\n\nWith Morton Feldman\n\nWith others\n\n"}
{"id": "2053609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053609", "title": "Stars on Ice", "text": "Stars on Ice\n\nStars on Ice is a touring figure skating show produced by IMG. It was co-founded in 1986 by Bob Kain, IMG executive, and Scott Hamilton, the 1984 Olympic Gold Medalist in men's figure skating. The production is a theatrical show featuring a small cast of elite skaters who perform together in ensemble as well as solo numbers. Hamilton retired from regular touring in 2001.\n\nStars on Ice was originally conceived as an ice show for adults, without the children's cartoon characters typical of other commercial ice shows of the period such as Ice Capades or Disney on Ice. It started on a shoestring budget, playing only a few dates in small-town arenas. The first national tour was conducted in 1987-88. In 1992, IMG bought out the rival “Skating” tour from Bill Graham Presents and merged its resources with those of Stars on Ice. Among the acquisitions from the “Skating” tour was Sandra Bezic, who took over as Director and Choreographer of Stars on Ice for over a decade. For the past two years, Jeffrey Buttle has served as Director. In its history, Stars on Ice has won 3 Emmy Awards and the 1994 ACE Cable Award for Best Sports Special.\n\nStars on Ice tours the United States, Canada, Japan and China on an annual basis, and has also staged shows in Europe, Brazil, and Korea. The Tour has played over 1,600 shows in its 32 seasons.\n\n\nThe original cast was Scott Hamilton, Dorothy Hamill, Toller Cranston, Rosalynn Sumners, Brian Pockar, Lea Ann Miller, Bill Fauver, Lisa Carey, Chris Harrison, Judy Blumberg and Michael Seibert.\n\nSkaters who have toured with the show include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053615", "title": "WPBS", "text": "WPBS\n\nWPBS may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2053623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053623", "title": "Jim Hughson", "text": "Jim Hughson\n\nJim Hughson (born October 9, 1956) is a Canadian sportscaster, best known for his play-by-play of National Hockey League and Toronto Blue Jays baseball games. Since 2008, he has been the lead play-by-play announcer for \"Hockey Night in Canada\".\n\nHughson worked on Canucks radio broadcasts, working on the pre-game, intermission, and post-game shows in the early 1980s. He also filled in as play-by-play man when Jim Robson had national TV duties. In this role, he broadcast games three and four of the 1982 Stanley Cup Finals between the Canucks and New York Islanders. In 1982, he left to become the television voice of the Toronto Maple Leafs, before joining TSN in 1987.\n\nHughson worked for TSN from 1987 to 1994, working as the lead play-by-play announcer for the network's NHL games, paired with Gary Green and Roger Neilson (until 1989). In 1991, he called the World Junior Hockey Championship in Saskatchewan, which climaxed with a dramatic game in Saskatoon between Canada and the USSR, in which John Slaney scored the winning goal late in the third period to deliver the gold medal to Canada.\n\nIn addition to hockey, Hughson also called baseball for TSN. He worked on Montreal Expos broadcasts for the network from 1987 to 1989. Then in 1990, Hughson became the regular play-by-play announcer for Toronto Blue Jays broadcasts, alongside Buck Martinez. During that time, Hughson was most famous for calling all three of the games in which the Jays' clinched first place in the American League East during the 1990s (1991, 1992, and 1993).\n\nDuring Hughson's time at TSN, he often enthusiastically proclaimed \"That's hockey!\" when describing an exciting play during NHL broadcasts. TSN later adopted the phrase as the name of its popular program \"That's Hockey\", which started in October 1995, a talk show covering NHL happenings.\n\nIn 1998, Hughson returned to national sports broadcasting, joining CTV Sportsnet (now Rogers Sportsnet) as their main NHL play-by-play commentator alongside Craig Simpson. A year later, he left radio and began working on the Canucks regional television broadcasts on Sportsnet Pacific, alongside Ryan Walter. From 2002–03 onwards, former NHL goaltender John Garrett was his partner. He was also the host of \"Snapshots\", a weekly half-hour show where he interviewed various sports personalities, from 1998 to 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Hughson was hired by CBC as \"Hockey Night in Canada's\" secondary play-by-play announcer. Hughson called the late games of the network's Saturday night doubleheaders and one series through each of the first three playoff rounds. In 2006, he was the secondary play-by-play announcer for CBC's coverage of men's ice hockey at the Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. For three seasons he continued calling Canucks' regional telecasts on Sportsnet Pacific but on March 11, 2008, he signed an exclusive six-year contract with the CBC, leaving Rogers Sportsnet at the conclusion of the season.\n\nThe following season, he replaced Bob Cole as the primary play-by-play announcer for \"HNIC\". In addition to calling the primary Saturday night game (usually featuring the Toronto Maple Leafs), Hughson also called NHL All-Star Game, the Winter Classic, and the Stanley Cup Finals. He also called men's ice hockey at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. His partner on the top broadcast team was his former Sportsnet partner Craig Simpson and, until 2016, former NHL goaltender Glenn Healy.\n\nIn October 2014, Hughson re-joined Sportsnet, as its parent company Rogers Communications had acquired sole national television rights to the NHL in Canada, taking effect as of the 2014-15 season. Hughson, Simpson and, until 2016, Healy remain the lead commentary crew for \"HNIC\" (which remains on CBC as part of a sub-licensing deal), but may now also appear on other Sportsnet national games when needed.\n\nHughson returned to the broadcast booth for the Toronto Blue Jays when CBC picked up a package of Blue Jays games for the 2007 and 2008 seasons. The broadcast on June 22, 2007 was the first baseball game he had called in 13 years.\n\nIn addition to his Canadian sportscasting work, Hughson has made occasional appearances for ABC and ESPN in the United States, covering both hockey and baseball.\n\nHughson is familiar to video game enthusiasts as the play-by-play voice of EA Sports award-winning \"NHL series\" from \"97\" to \"09\". He also provided the play-by-play in EA's \"Triple Play\" series for PlayStation and PC from 1997 to 2001, along with his former Blue Jays broadcast partner Buck Martinez.\n\nHughson has also had small roles in two sports-related family comedies: \"\" (2000) and \"\" (2002). He played announcers in both films.\n\nHughson has won five Gemini Awards, the most recent in 2004, where he was named the best sports play-by-play or analyst. In 2019, the Hockey Hall of Fame announced that Hughson was named as the winner of the annual Foster Hewitt Memorial Award, honouring outstanding contributions by a hockey broadcaster.\n\nHughson was born on October 9, 1956 in Fort St. John, British Columbia. He lives in South Surrey, British Columbia with his wife Denise. He has a daughter named Jennifer and son Matthew. Hughson is an avid runner with routes in all 31 NHL cities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053628", "title": "Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway", "text": "Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway\n\nThe Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway was a railroad and steamboat network in Florida, USA at the end of the 19th century. Most of its lines became part of the Plant System in 1899 and the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in 1902. The line remains in service today with a vast majority of it now being CSX Transportation's Sanford Subdivision.\n\nThe Tampa, Peace Creek and St. Johns River Railroad was incorporated in 1879, and received a charter to build a railroad from Jacksonville to Tampa. The Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway was incorporated in 1871, and acquired the railway charter from the Tampa, Peace Creek and St. Johns River Railroad. Construction of a rail line from Jacksonville to Palatka began in March 1883, and regular service between the cities began in March 1884. The railroad was built to the 5-foot gauge to match that of the Plant System Waycross and Florida Railroad, with which it connected in Jacksonville. The Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway extended its line from Palatka to Sanford in 1885, using the right-of-way of the Palatka and Indian River Railway Company. The line crossed the St. Johns River a few miles south of Palatka and ran southward on the east side of the river to the northern end of Lake Monroe, crossed back over the river and then ran a few miles to Sanford, where it connected to the South Florida Railroad. The line to Sanford began regular service in February 1886. \n\nThe Atlantic Coast, St. Johns and Indian River Railroad completed a line from Titusville, on the Indian River, to Enterprise, on the eastern shore of Lake Monroe opposite Sanford, in early 1886. The Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway build a line to Enterprise from its mainline at Enterprise Junction. The Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway then leased the Atlantic Coast, St. Johns and Indian River Railroad, and purchased all of its rolling stock. The Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway operated the Enterprise to Titusville line as its Indian River Branch.\n\nAfter leasing the Titusville–Enterprise line of the Atlantic Coast, St. Johns and Indian River Railroad, the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway began operating steamboats from its dock in Titusville down the Indian River to Jupiter. In December 1888, the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway established the Indian River Steamboat Company to operate the steamboats, with Mason Young, vice-president of the railway company, servicing as president of the steamboat company. The Jupiter and Lake Worth Railway opened in 1889 as a short connection between the Indian River Steamboat Company at Jupiter and the north end of Lake Worth, where steamers continued south. The line was abandoned by 1896 after the completion of the parallel Florida East Coast Railway.\n\nThe Orange Ridge, DeLand and Atlantic Railroad Company was a 3-foot gauge line built in 1885, connecting DeLand with DeLand Landing on the St. Johns River. The Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West line intersected it from DeLand Landing at DeLand Junction. The railroad was reincorporated in 1886 as the Deland and St. Johns River Railroad Company and converted to 5-foot gauge to match the Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway.\n\nIn 1893 the JT&KW went bankrupt. The Southeastern Railway bought the line from Enterprise to Titusville in 1899, and later that year sold it to the Florida East Coast Railway. Also that year, the rest of the system was reincorporated as the Jacksonville and St. Johns River Railway and sold to the Savannah, Florida and Western Railway (the Plant System). The Plant System became part of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in 1902. In 1967 the ACL merged into the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad, eventually becoming part of CSX. The JT&KW is now part of the \"A\" Line, one of CSX's two main lines into Florida.\n\nThe Orange Ridge, DeLand and Atlantic Railroad was incorporated by Laws of Florida Chapter 3332, No. 114 on March 7, 1881, running from DeLand west across the JT&KW at DeLand Junction to the St. Johns River. It became the DeLand and St. Johns River Railroad in 1886, and the JT&KW bought it in 1890.\n\nThe Enterprise Branch ran from the main line at Benson Junction east to Enterprise. It continued to Titusville as the Atlantic Coast, St. Johns and Indian River Railroad, acquired in 1886. The Atlantic Coast, St. Johns and Indian River Railroad connected with the Florida East Coast Railway in Titusville. The Florida East Coast Railway later acquired the branch from Enterprise to Titusville in 1902. \n\nThe Sanford and Lake Eustis Railway was organized in 1886 and merged into the JT&KW on May 1, 1890. The line ran west from Sanford to Tavares on Lake Eustis.\n\nThe Jacksonville, Tampa and Key West Railway remains in service and is today part of CSX's A Line. CSX has designated it as their Sanford Subdivision and Jacksonville Terminal Subdivision. Though as of 2011, the Florida Department of Transportation owns a short segment of the line south of Deland to Sanford and operates the SunRail commuter rail service over that segment. CSX still runs local freight on the line but all through freight trains have since been shifted to the S Line due to SunRail service. Prior to the sale of the southern portion of the line to FDOT, CSX's Sanford Subdivision continued south to Sanford and then along on the former South Florida Railroad as far as Auburndale.\n\nAmtrak also uses the line for all of its Florida service including the Silver Meteor, Silver Star, and the Auto Train. \n\n"}
{"id": "2053675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053675", "title": "Helma Sanders-Brahms", "text": "Helma Sanders-Brahms\n\nHelma Sanders-Brahms (20 November 1940 – 27 May 2014) was a German film director, screenwriter and producer.\n\nBorn Helma Sanders on 20 November 1940, Sanders-Brahms studied acting in Hannover from 1960–62, and German, English, and pedagogy in Cologne from 1962-65. Her early career involved work as a television announcer and model. During a trip to Italy in 1967, she interned with film directors Pier Paolo Pasolini and Sergio Corbucci, a decisive experience in her choice to pursue film-making. \nBeginning in 1969, she made her own films, writing her own screenplays and producing many of her films herself. Her film-making comprised both fiction and documentary films, and many of her films contain a strong autobiographical component.\n\nHer early films engage critically with the themes of labour, migration, and the situation of women in West Germany. \"Under the Pavement Lies the Strand\" was a central film for the German women's movement and for the student movement, as well as for the director's own emergence as an explicitly feminist film-maker. The controversial made-for-television movie \"Shirin’s Wedding\" depicted the tragic death of a Turkish migrant to Germany, addressing the subject of forced marriage. From her reading of classic German literature, she developed a special sympathy for the work of Heinrich Von Kleist. At least three of her films are either based on, or explicitly refer to, that author.\n\nSanders-Brahms gained international recognition with \"Germany, Pale Mother\", which addresses German women's experiences during and after the Nazi period. As a director of the New German Cinema movement, her scripts focus on the concerns of the political left. Her final theatrical film \"Geliebte Clara\" (\"Beloved Clara\") concerned the love triangle between Robert Schumann, Clara Schumann, and Johannes Brahms. Her films have been awarded many prizes at festivals worldwide. In 1982, she was a member of the jury at the 32nd Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nShe was made an Officier of the French Ordre des Arts et des Lettres and a member of the Academy of Arts, Berlin.\n\nSanders-Brahms died in Berlin on 27 May 2014 of cancer, aged 73.\n\nAbroad, Sanders-Brahms was highly received by film critics from countries such as the United States, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom. In her home country of Germany however, her work was not as well regarded. German critics found her films \"heavyhanded\" and \"navel-gazing.\" Shortly before her death, she was quoted saying: \"Before I die, I’d just like to make one last attempt to rescue my films from oblivion in my country and say: at least have a look at them\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053676", "title": "Tamás Waliczky", "text": "Tamás Waliczky\n\nTamás Waliczky, born in 1959, in Budapest, Hungary, works as a media artist. He started out by creating cartoon films (1968–83), whilst working as a painter, illustrator and photographer. He began working with computers in 1983. He was artist-in-residence at the Zentrum für Kunst und Medientechnologie (ZKM) in 1992, and subsequently a member of the Institute's research staff (1993–1997) before taking up a guest professorship at the HBK Saar, Saarbrücken (1997–2002). IAMAS in Gifu, Japan, chose Waliczky as artist-in-residence for 1998/99. From 2003 until 2005 he was professor at IMG, Fachhochschule Mainz. From 2005 to 2010 he was at HBK Saar, this time as a full-time professor. As of 2010, he is a professor at the School of Creative Media at the City University of Hong Kong.\n\nHis works have won numerous international awards, including the 1989 Golden Nica at the Prix Ars Electronica, Linz, and has been shown in several exhibitions worldwide, including the Lyon Biennale, the ICC Gallery Tokyo, and the Multimediale Karlsruhe. His works are currently in several public collections, including the Centre Georges Pompidou, Paris or the Ludwig Museum, Budapest.\n\nTamas Waliczky has been selected to represent Hungary at the Fifty-Eighth Venice Biennale, 2019. (https://www.ludwigmuseum.hu/en/2019), (https://www.labiennale.org/en/art/2019)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053685", "title": "British Rail Class 90", "text": "British Rail Class 90\n\nThe British Rail Class 90 electric locomotives were built by British Rail Engineering Limited at Crewe Works in 1987-1990, weighing 84.5 tonnes and with a top speed of . They operate from 25 kV AC overhead lines and produce . The class is now employed on heavy freight trains, having previously also been used as passenger locomotives. \n\nFifty were built in the late 1980s, numbered 90001-050. They were developed from the Class 87, with many improvements and new features, and were initially classified as the Class 87/2 prior to introduction. However, due to many visual and technical differences, they were reclassified. The Class 90s were primarily built to replace the ageing Class 81s, Class 82s, Class 83s, Class 84s and Class 85s, all of which dated from the early 1960s.\n\nThe class is fitted with rheostatic brakes in addition to standard Westinghouse air brake equipment. A Time-Division Multiplexer (TDM) is fitted to enable two or more locomotives to work in multiple, or to work a push-pull passenger train with a Driving Van Trailer (DVT), DBSO or Propelling Control Vehicle. Single phase 1000V Electric train supply (ETS) is provided, to facilitate passenger working. \n\nIn 1991, with the sectorisation of British Rail removing shared 'mixed traffic' locomotives and limiting them to specific sectors, 25 locomotives were dedicated for freight traffic; they were reclassified Class 90/1 and renumbered 90126-150 by the addition of 100 to the original number, with a 26th (90125) converted in 1993. The modifications included lowering the maximum speed to , isolating the electric train supply by removing the ETH jumper cables, and, later, by removing the drop-head buckeye and associated rubbing plate. Many of these locomotives were repainted in the new Railfreight Distribution two-tone grey livery, which was replaced by a revised version in 1994. Three locomotives (90128, 90129 and 90130) received special \"continental\" liveries (NMBS/SNCB blue, Deutsche Bahn red and SNCF grey respectively) to celebrate the Freightconnection event in 1992.\n\nIn October 1991 the BR Parcels sector rebranded itself as Rail Express Systems introducing a new livery and dedicated to Royal Mail parcels services as well as postal trains. They were primarily used on London-Glasgow, London-Newcastle and Birmingham-Glasgow services. Five locomotives, 90016-020, were repainted into the new livery between October 1991 and March 1992.\n\nOf the remaining locomotives, the first 15 (90001-015) were operated by InterCity West Coast on express passenger services. 90021-025 were operated by Railfreight Distribution, but remained as standard Class 90/0 locomotives to enable them to operate charter trains or be used on standard passenger trains.\nDue to Class 91 unreliability, Railfreight Distribution leased some of their 90/0's to InterCity for use on the East Coast Main Line with Mark 4 coaches. These services were usually limited to London Kings Cross to Leeds/York services due to their lower 110mph lower speed.\n\nMany Class 90 locomotives have received names. The passenger locomotives were named after cities, newspapers or famous institutions. Many of the freight locomotives have been given names with a commercial link. The Class 90 was the first new locomotive to carry InterCity Swallow livery\n\nUpon the privatisation of British Rail in 1996, the Class 90 fleet was divided between several operators:\n\nEnglish Welsh & Scottish acquired the largest fleet: 20 locomotives from Railfreight Distribution and five from Rail Express Systems. DB Schenker UK, now DB Cargo, were contracted to provide locomotives for the \"Caledonian Sleeper\" services between Scotland and London Euston; the Class 90s were frequently used for this purpose, as well as on freight duties. An agreement was reached in 2006 to livery a number of Class 90s for First ScotRail, for exclusive use hauling the \"Caledonian Sleeper\". In 2015, with Serco taking over the Caledonian Sleeper franchise, the haulage contract went to GB Railfreight, who chose to use Class 92s on the West Coast Main Line legs. However, due to problems with the overhauled Class 92s, Class 90s had a brief reprieve on the Sleeper; first from DB Schenker and then Freightliner. Class 90s still sporadically appeared when a Class 92 was unavailable, until Autumn 2019.\n\nDB Cargo UK Class 90s will be hired to Grand Central to haul Mark 4 carriages on its London Euston to Blackpool North services.\n\nFreightliner inherited 10 Class 90/1 locos, numbered 90041-50 and all leased from Porterbrook. These have since been returned to their original Class 90/0 configuration. Freightliner additionally acquired 90016 which was provided by EWS as a replacement for 90050 which was withdrawn in 2004 following fire damage while on lease to EWS. 90050, which is stored at Crewe Basford Hall, is used as a donor vehicle for spare parts for its other Class 90 locomotives. Freightliner has, as of May 2020, acquired the 13 locomotives formerly operated by Greater Anglia. After a period of modification, these are expected to replace Freightliner's ageing fleet of Class 86 locomotives, dating from the mid-1960s.\n\nAs part of the National Express East Anglia franchise bid, National Express provided a fleet plan to replace the ageing Class 86 locomotives on the Great Eastern Main Line with the more powerful and newer Class 90 locomotives, hoping this would improve performance and reduce operating cost. The Class 90s were to become available due to Virgin Trains' plan to replace all loco hauled passenger trains with Class 390 units, freeing up their 15 class 90 locomotives. 90001 - 90015 (hired from Porterbrook Leasing) were progressively delivered to Crown Point TMD to replace the Class 86s. This batch of locomotives had their original louvered horn covers replaced with a single plate design with V-patterned holes, matching the Mk3 DVT's.\n\nThe National Express franchise came to an end in February 2012, with the replacement franchisee Abellio Greater Anglia taking over and continuing to operate the locos.\n\nThe Greater Anglia fleet was replaced by a set of Class 745s in 2020. Thirteen will move to Freightliner, while the other two will go to Locomotive Services Limited. Following the introduction of these units, the loco-hauled sets have all been withdrawn from service, with the last set running its last services on 24 March 2020.\n\nVirgin Trains inherited 15 locomotives at privatisation, 90001-015, to work passenger trains on the West Coast Main Line (WCML). They were based at Willesden depot in London for services from London Euston to Birmingham New Street, , , Manchester Piccadilly, , and .\nIn 1998, 90002 became the first locomotive to be repainted in Virgin Trains' red and black livery. It was named \"Mission: Impossible\" to launch the challenge of upgrading passenger services on the WCML. The rest of the fleet was quickly repainted into the new livery.\n\nIn 2002, Class 390 Pendolino electric multiple units started to enter service to replace locomotive-hauled trains on the WCML. The first locomotives to be replaced were the elderly Class 86/2s and some of the less reliable Class 87 locomotives. However, since the Class 90 fleet was relatively small and subsequently non-standard, it was decided to retain the larger Class 87 fleet in preference to the Class 90s. Therefore, from March 2004, Virgin started to return its Class 90 fleet to the ROSCO, allowing the locos to transfer to the new 'one' (later National Express East Anglia) franchise. \n\nThe final service operated by a Virgin-liveried Class 90 was on 27 August 2004, 90015 London Euston-Glasgow Central and return.\n\nFollowing the derailment of 390033 at Grayrigg in 2007, Virgin Trains had the need for an additional set. As a result, Virgin used Class 90 locomotives hired from DB Schenker, and later Freightliner, along with a rake of Mark 3 coaching stock and a DVT. Nicknamed the \"Pretendolino\", this received re-upholstered seating, power points, wi-fi and a full external re-paint at Wabtec, Doncaster in 2009. Virgin used this set with a Class 90 locomotive hired from Freightliner on a Euston to Crewe (via Birmingham) Friday relief service until December 2012 and also hired the train out as a charter train. It was sometimes used on London - Birmingham services in the event of a Pendolino shortage.\n\nFrom the December 2013 timetable change, Virgin Trains used the Mark 3 set once again on London - Birmingham services on a Thursday and Friday only basis, Class 90s leased from Direct Rail Services (which were sub-leased from DB Schenker) were used once again. This set (and therefore the use of Class 90s) was retired from service on 25 October 2014 with a rail tour the following day.\n\nIn the late 1990s, GNER hired class 90s to stand in for Class 91s on London Kings Cross and Leeds services. One (90024) was repainted in GNER livery. In 2016, DB Cargo Class 90s were returned to the East Coast Main Line on Virgin Trains East Coast London to Newark North Gate, Leeds and Newcastle services, whilst the Class 91 locomotives were overhauled. These continued to be operated by London North Eastern Railway until 9 June 2019.\n\nIn 1988, Hornby Railways launched its first version of the BR Class 90 in OO gauge. Since 2017, Hornby have produced a basic representation of the prototype as part of their Railroad range in BR Intercity Executive Livery, whilst past examples have carried a variety of liveries.\n\nIn June 2019, Bachmann launched a cutting edge modern OO gauge Class 90. This comes DCC sound-enabled, with a pantograph which can be operated from the controller in digital operation, along with directional lighting for various modes, whether it be double heading, dragging rolling stock or running light engine. It comes with cab lighting and DCC chips and sound chips are relatively simple to install. It was initially launched in three variants, Inter City Swallow, Railfreight Distribution and Freightliner Powerhaul. A collectors' club model was launched, at the start of January 2020, in sound-ready form in the Belgian promotional ‘Vrachtverbinding’ SNCB livery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053693", "title": "American and British English spelling differences", "text": "American and British English spelling differences\n\nDespite the various English dialects spoken from country to country and within different regions of the same country, there are only slight regional variations in English orthography, the two most recognised variations being British and American spelling. Many of the differences between American and British English date back to a time when spelling standards had not yet developed. For instance, some spellings seen as \"American\" today were once commonly used in Britain and some spellings seen as \"British\" were once commonly used in the United States.\n\nA \"British standard\" began to emerge following the 1755 publication of Samuel Johnson's \"A Dictionary of the English Language\", and an \"American standard\" started following the work of Noah Webster and in particular his \"An American Dictionary of the English Language\", first published in 1828. Webster's efforts at spelling reform were somewhat effective in his native country, resulting in certain well-known patterns of spelling differences between the American and British varieties of English. However, English-language spelling reform has rarely been adopted otherwise, and so modern English orthography varies somewhat between countries and is far from phonemic in any country.\n\nIn the early 18th century, English spelling was inconsistent. These differences became noticeable after the publishing of influential dictionaries. Today's British English spellings mostly follow Johnson's \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" (1755), while many American English spellings follow Webster's \"An American Dictionary of the English Language\" (\"ADEL\", \"Webster's Dictionary\", 1828).\n\nWebster was a proponent of English spelling reform for reasons both philological and nationalistic. In \"A Companion to the American Revolution\" (2008), John Algeo notes: \"it is often assumed that characteristically American spellings were invented by Noah Webster. He was very influential in popularizing certain spellings in America, but he did not originate them. Rather […] he chose already existing options such as \"center, color\" and \"check\" for the simplicity, analogy or etymology\". William Shakespeare's first folios, for example, used spellings like \"center\" and \"color\" as much as \"centre\" and \"colour\". Webster did attempt to introduce some reformed spellings, as did the Simplified Spelling Board in the early 20th century, but most were not adopted. In Britain, the influence of those who preferred the Norman (or Anglo-French) spellings of words proved to be decisive. Later spelling adjustments in the United Kingdom had little effect on today's American spellings and vice versa.\n\nFor the most part, the spelling systems of most Commonwealth countries and Ireland closely resemble the British system. In Canada, the spelling system can be said to follow both British and American forms, and Canadians are somewhat more tolerant of foreign spellings when compared with other English-speaking nationalities. Australian spelling has also strayed slightly from British spelling, with some American spellings incorporated as standard. New Zealand spelling is almost identical to British spelling, except in the word \"fiord\" (instead of \"fjord\"). There is also an increasing use of macrons in words that originated in Māori and an unambiguous preference for \"-ise\" endings (see below).\n\nMost words ending in an unstressed \"-our\" in British English (e.g., ) end in \"-or\" in American English (). Wherever the vowel is unreduced in pronunciation, e.g., \"contour\", \"velour\", \"paramour\" and \"troubadour\" the spelling is consistent everywhere.\n\nMost words of this kind came from Latin, where the ending was spelled \"-or\". They were first adopted into English from early Old French, and the ending was spelled \"-our\", \"-or\" or \"-ur\". After the Norman conquest of England, the ending became \"-our\" to match the later Old French spelling. The \"-our\" ending was not only used in new English borrowings, but was also applied to the earlier borrowings that had used \"-or\". However, \"-or\" was still sometimes found, and the first three folios of Shakespeare's plays used both spellings before they were standardised to \"-our\" in the Fourth Folio of 1685. After the Renaissance, new borrowings from Latin were taken up with their original \"-or\" ending and many words once ending in \"-our\" (for example, \"chancellour\" and \"governour\") went back to \"-or\". Many words of the \"-our/or\" group do not have a Latin counterpart that ends in \"-or\"; for example, \"armo(u)r\", \"behavio(u)r\", \"harbo(u)r\", \"neighbo(u)r\"; also \"arbo(u)r\", meaning \"shelter\", though senses \"tree\" and \"tool\" are always \"arbor\", a false cognate of the other word. Some 16th- and early 17th-century British scholars indeed insisted that \"-or\" be used for words from Latin (e.g., \"\") and \"-our\" for French loans; but in many cases the etymology was not clear, and therefore some scholars advocated \"-or\" only and others \"-our\" only.\n\nWebster's 1828 dictionary had only \"-or\" and is given much of the credit for the adoption of this form in the United States. By contrast, Johnson's 1755 (pre-U.S. independence and establishment) dictionary used \"-our\" for all words still so spelled in Britain (like \"colour\"), but also for words where the \"u\" has since been dropped: \"ambassadour\", \"emperour\", \"governour\", \"perturbatour\", \"inferiour\", \"superiour\"; \"errour\", \"horrour\", \"mirrour\", \"tenour\", \"terrour\", \"tremour\". Johnson, unlike Webster, was not an advocate of spelling reform, but chose the spelling best derived, as he saw it, from among the variations in his sources. He preferred French over Latin spellings because, as he put it, \"the French generally supplied us\". English speakers who moved to America took these preferences with them, and H. L. Mencken notes that \"' appears in the 1776 Declaration of Independence, but it seems to have been put there rather by accident than by design. In Jefferson's original draft it is spelled \"honour\". In Britain, examples of rarely appear in Old Bailey court records from the 17th and 18th centuries, whereas there are thousands of examples of their \"-our\" counterparts. One notable exception is '. ' and ' were equally frequent in Britain until the 17th century; \"honor\" still is, in the UK, the usual spelling as a person's name and appears in \"Honor Oak\", a district of London.\n\nIn derivatives and inflected forms of the \"-our/or\" words, British usage depends on the nature of the suffix used. The \"u\" is kept before English suffixes that are freely attachable to English words (for example in ) and suffixes of Greek or Latin origin that have been adopted into English (for example in ). However, before Latin suffixes that are not freely attachable to English words, the \"u\":\n\nIn American usage, derivatives and inflected forms are built by simply adding the suffix in all cases (for example, ', ' etc.) since the \"u\" is absent to begin with.\n\nAmerican usage, in most cases, keeps the \"u\" in the word \"glamour\", which comes from Scots, not Latin or French. ' is sometimes used in imitation of the spelling reform of other \"-our\" words to \"-or\". Nevertheless, the adjective \"glamorous\" often drops the first \"u\". ' is a somewhat common variant of ' in the US. The British spelling is very common for ' (and \"\") in the formal language of wedding invitations in the US. The name of the has a \"u\" in it as the spacecraft was named after Captain James Cook's ship, . The special car on Amtrak's \"Coast Starlight\" train is known as the Pacific Parlour car, not \"Pacific Parlor\". Proper names such as \"Pearl Harbor\" or \"Sydney Harbour\" are usually spelled according to their native-variety spelling vocabulary.\n\nThe name of the herb \"savory\" is thus spelled everywhere, although the related adjective \"savo(u)ry\", like \"savo(u)r\", has a \"u\" in the UK. \"Honor\" (the name) and \"arbor\" (the tool) have \"-or\" in Britain, as mentioned above, as does the word \"pallor\". As a general noun, \"rigour\" has a \"u\" in the UK; the medical term \"rigor\" (sometimes ) does not, such as in \"rigor mortis\", which is Latin. Derivations of \"rigour\"/\"rigor\" such as \"rigorous\", however, are typically spelled without a \"u\" even in the UK. Words with the ending \"-irior\", \"-erior\" or similar are spelled thus everywhere.\n\nThe word armour was once somewhat common in American usage but has disappeared except in some brand names such as Under Armour.\n\nThe cardinal numbers \"four\" and \"fourteen\", when written as words, are always spelled with a \"u\", as are the ordinal numbers \"fourth\" and \"fourteenth\". \"Forty\" and \"fortieth\", however, are always spelled without a \"u\".\n\nCommonwealth countries normally follow British usage. Canadian English most commonly uses the \"-our\" ending and \"-our-\" in derivatives and inflected forms. However, owing to the close historic, economic, and cultural relationship with the United States, \"-or\" endings are also sometimes used. Throughout the late 19th and early to mid-20th century, most Canadian newspapers chose to use the American usage of \"-or\" endings, originally to save time and money in the era of manual movable type. However, in the 1990s, the majority of Canadian newspapers officially updated their spelling policies to the British usage of \"-our\". This coincided with a renewed interest in Canadian English, and the release of the updated Gage Canadian Dictionary in 1997 and the first Oxford Canadian Dictionary in 1998. Historically, most libraries and educational institutions in Canada have supported the use of the Oxford English Dictionary rather than the American Webster's Dictionary. Today, the use of a distinctive set of Canadian English spellings is viewed by many Canadians as one of the cultural uniquenesses of Canada (especially when compared to the United States).\n\nIn Australia, \"-or\" endings enjoyed some use throughout the 19th century and in the early 20th century. Like Canada, though, most major Australian newspapers have switched from \"\"-or\"\" endings to \"\"-our\"\" endings. The \"\"-our\"\" spelling is taught in schools nationwide as part of the Australian curriculum. The most notable countrywide use of the \"-or\" ending is for the , which was originally called \"the Australian Labour Party\" (name adopted in 1908), but was frequently referred to as both \"Labour\" and \"Labor\". The \"Labor\" was adopted from 1912 onward due to the influence of the and King O'Malley. Aside from that, \"-our\" is now almost universal in Australia. New Zealand English, while sharing some words and syntax with Australian English, follows British usage.\n\nIn British English, some words from French, Latin or Greek end with a consonant followed by an unstressed \"-re\" (pronounced ). In modern American English, most of these words have the ending \"-er\". The difference is most common for words ending \"-bre\" or \"-tre\": British spellings all have \"-er\" in American spelling.\n\nIn Britain, both \"-re\" and \"-er\" spellings were common before Johnson's 1755 dictionary was published. Following this, \"-re\" became the most common usage in Britain. In America, following the publication of Webster's dictionary in the early 19th century, American English started exclusively using \"-er\". In addition, some words have been changed from \"-re\" to \"-er\" in both varieties. These include \"chapter\", \"December\", \"disaster\", \"enter\", \"filter\", \"letter\", \"member\", \"minister\", \"monster\", \"November\", \"number\", \"October\", \"offer\", \"oyster\", \"powder\", \"proper\", \"September\", \"sober\" and \"tender\". Words using the \"\"-meter\"\" suffix (from Ancient Greek -μέτρον \"métron\", via French \"-mètre\") normally had the \"-re\" spelling from earliest use in English but were superseded by \"-er\". Examples include \"thermometer\" and \"barometer\".\n\nThe \"e\" preceding the \"r\" is kept in American inflected forms of nouns and verbs, for example, , which are respectively in British English. \"\" is an interesting example, since, according to the \"OED\", it is a \"\"word ... of 3 syllables (in careful pronunciation)\"\" (i.e., ), yet there is no vowel in the spelling corresponding to the second syllable (). The OED third edition (revised entry of June 2016) allows either two or three syllables. The three-syllable version is listed as only the American pronunciation of \"centering\" on the Oxford Dictionaries Online website. The \"e\" is dropped for other derivations, for example, \"central\", \"fibrous\", \"spectral\". However, the existence of related words without \"e\" before the \"r\" is not proof for the existence of an \"-re\" British spelling: for example, \"entry\" and \"entrance\" come from \"enter\", which has not been spelled \"entre\" for centuries.\n\nThe difference relates only to root words; \"-er\" rather than \"-re\" is universal as a suffix for agentive (\"reader\", \"winner\", \"user\") and comparative (\"louder\", \"nicer\") forms. One outcome is the British distinction of \"meter\" for a measuring instrument from \"\" for the unit of length. However, while \"\" is often \"-re\", pentameter, hexameter etc. are always \"-er\".\n\nMany other words have \"-er\" in British English. These include Germanic words; such as \"anger\", \"mother\", \"timber\" and \"water\" and Romance words \"danger\", \"quarter\" and \"river\".\n\nThe ending \"-cre\", as in \"acre\",<ref name=\"acre/louvre\">Although \"acre\" was spelled \"æcer\" in Old English and \"aker\" in Middle English, the \"acre\" spelling of Middle French was introduced in the 15th century. Similarly, \"loover\" was respelled in the 17th century by influence of the unrelated Louvre. (See \"OED\", s.v. \"acre\" and \"louvre\")</ref> \"lucre\", \"massacre\", and \"mediocre\", is used in both British and American English to show that the \"c\" is pronounced rather than . The spellings \"ogre\" and \"euchre\" are also the same in both British and American English.\n\nFurthermore, the spelling \"theatre\" is sometimes used in the United States when referring to the art form of theatre, while the building itself, as noted above, generally is spelled \"theater\". For example, the University of Wisconsin–Madison has a \"Department of \"Theatre\" and Drama\", which offers courses that lead to the \"Bachelor of Arts in \"Theatre\"\", and whose professed aim is \"to prepare our graduate students for successful 21st Century careers in the \"theatre\" both as practitioners and scholars\".\n\nSome placenames in the United States use \"Centre\" in their names. Examples include the Stonebriar Centre mall, the cities of Rockville Centre and Centreville, Centre County and Centre College. Sometimes, these places were named before spelling changes but more often the spelling merely serves as an affectation.\n\nFor British \"\", the American practice varies: the \"Merriam-Webster Dictionary\" prefers the \"-re\" spelling, but \"The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language\" prefers the \"-er\" spelling.\n\nMore recent French loanwords keep the \"-re\" spelling in American English. These are not exceptions when a French-style pronunciation is used ( rather than ), as with \"double entendre\", \"genre\" and \"oeuvre\". However, the unstressed pronunciation of an \"-er\" ending is used more (or less) often with some words, including \"cadre\", \"macabre\", \"maître d'\", Notre Dame, \"piastre\", and \"timbre\".\n\nThe \"-re\" endings are mostly standard throughout the Commonwealth. The \"-er\" spellings are recognized as minor variants in Canada, partly due to American influence, and are sometimes used in proper names (such as Toronto's controversially named Centerpoint Mall).\n\nFor \"advice\"/\"advise\" and \"device\"/\"devise\", American English and British English both keep the noun–verb distinction both graphically and phonetically (where the pronunciation is - for the noun and - for the verb). For \"licence/license\" or \"practice/practise\", British English also keeps the noun–verb distinction graphically (although phonetically the two words in each pair are homophones with - pronunciation). On the other hand, American English uses \"license\" and \"practice\" for both nouns and verbs (with - pronunciation in both cases too).\n\nAmerican English has kept the Anglo-French spelling for \"defense\" and \"offense\", which are \"defence\" and \"offence\" in British English. Likewise, there are the American \"pretense\" and British \"pretence\"; but derivatives such as \"defensive\", \"offensive\", and \"pretension\" are always thus spelled in both systems.\n\nAustralian and Canadian usage generally follows British.\n\nThe spelling \"connexion\" is now rare in everyday British usage, its use lessening as knowledge of Latin lessens, and it is not used at all in the US: the more common \"connection\" has become the standard worldwide. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" the older spelling is more etymologically conservative, since the original Latin word had \"-xio-\". The American usage comes from Webster, who abandoned \"-xion\" and preferred \"-ction\". \"Connexion\" was still the house style of \"The Times\" of London until the 1980s and was still used by the British Post Office for its telephone services in the 1970s, but had by then been overtaken by \"connection\" in regular usage (for example, in more popular newspapers).\n\n\"Complexion\" (which comes from \"complex\") is standard worldwide and \"complection\" is rare. However, the adjective \"complected\" (as in \"dark-complected\"), although sometimes objected to, is considered just as standard in the US as \"complexioned\", but is not used in this way in the UK, although there is a rare usage to mean \"complicated\".\n\nIn some cases, words with \"old-fashioned\" spellings are retained widely in the US for historical reasons (cf. connexionalism).\n\nMany words, especially medical words, that are written with \"ae/æ\" or \"oe/œ\" in British English are written with just an \"e\" in American English. The sounds in question are or (or, unstressed, , or ). Examples (with non-American letter in bold): \"aeon\", \"anaemia\", \"anaesthesia\", \"caecum\", \"caesium\", \"coeliac\", \"diarrhoea\", \"encyclopaedia\", \"faeces\", \"foetal\", \"gynaecology\", \"haemoglobin\", \"haemophilia\", \"leukaemia\", \"oesophagus\", \"oestrogen\", \"orthopaedic\", \"palaeontology\", \"paediatric\", \"paedophile\". \"Oenology\" is acceptable in American English but is deemed a minor variant of \"enology\", whereas although \"archeology\" and \"ameba\" exist in American English, the British versions \"archaeology\" and \"amoeba\" are more common. The chemical \"haem\" (named as a shortening of \"haemoglobin\") is spelled \"heme\" in American English, to avoid confusion with \"hem\".\n\nCanadian English mostly follows American English in this respect, although it is split on \"gynecology\" (e.g. Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada vs. the Canadian Medical Association's Canadian specialty profile of \"Obstetrics/gynecology\"). \"Pediatrician\" is preferred roughly 10 to 1 over \"paediatrician\", while \"foetal\" and \"oestrogen\" are similarly uncommon.\n\nWords that can be spelled either way in American English include \"aesthetics\" and \"archaeology\" (which usually prevail over \"esthetics\" and \"archeology\"), as well as \"palaestra\", for which the simplified form \"palestra\" is described by Merriam-Webster as \"chiefly Brit[ish].\"\n\nWords that can be spelled either way in British English include \"encyclopaedia\", \"homoeopathy\", \"chamaeleon\", \"mediaeval\" (a minor variant in both AmE and BrE), \"foetid\" and \"foetus\". The spellings \"foetus\" and \"foetal\" are Britishisms based on a mistaken etymology. The etymologically correct original spelling \"fetus\" reflects the Latin original and is the standard spelling in medical journals worldwide; the Oxford English Dictionary notes that \"In Latin manuscripts both \"fētus\" and \"foetus\" are used\".\n\nThe Ancient Greek diphthongs <αι> and <οι> were transliterated into Latin as <ae> and <oe>. The ligatures æ and œ were introduced when the sounds became monophthongs, and later applied to words not of Greek origin, in both Latin (for example, \"cœli\") and French (for example, \"œuvre\"). In English, which has adopted words from all three languages, it is now usual to replace \"Æ/æ\" with \"Ae/ae\" and \"Œ/œ\" with \"Oe/oe\". In many words, the digraph has been reduced to a lone \"e\" in all varieties of English: for example, oeconomics\", \"praemium\", and aenigma\". In others, it is kept in all varieties: for example, \"phoenix\", and usually \"subpoena\", but Phenix in Virginia. This is especially true of names: \"Caesar\", \"Oedipus\", \"Phoebe\", etc. There is no reduction of Latin -ae plurals (e.g., \"larvae\"); nor where the digraph <ae>/<oe> does not result from the Greek-style ligature: for example, \"maelstrom\", \"toe\". The British form \"aeroplane\" is an instance (compare other \"aero-\" words such as \"aerosol\"). The now chiefly North American \"airplane\" is not a respelling but a recoining, modelled after \"airship\" and \"aircraft\". The word \"airplane\" dates from 1907, at which time the prefix \"aero-\" was trisyllabic, often written \"aëro-\".\n\nThe \"-ize\" spelling is often incorrectly seen as an Americanism in Britain. It has been in use since the 15th century, predating \"-ise\" by over a century. \"-ize\" comes directly from Greek \"-izein\" and Latin \"-izāre\", while \"-ise\" comes via French \"-iser\". The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" () recommends \"-ize\" and lists the \"-ise\" form as an alternative.\n\nPublications by Oxford University Press (OUP)—such as Henry Watson Fowler's \"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\", \"Hart's Rules\", and \"The Oxford Guide to English Usage\"—also recommend \"-ize\". However, Robert Allan's \"Pocket Fowler's Modern English Usage\" considers either spelling to be acceptable anywhere but the US. Also, Oxford University itself does not agree with the OUP and advocates \"-ise\" instead of \"-ize\" in its staff style guide.\n\nAmerican spelling avoids \"-ise\" endings in words like \"organize\", \"realize\" and \"recognize\".\n\nBritish spelling mostly uses \"-ise\" (\"organise\", \"realise\", \"recognise\"), though \"-ize\" is sometimes used. The ratio between \"-ise\" and \"-ize\" stood at 3:2 in the British National Corpus up to 2002. The spelling \"-ise\" is more commonly used in UK mass media and newspapers, including \"The Times\" (which switched conventions in 1992), \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"The Economist\" and the BBC. The Government of the United Kingdom additionally uses \"-ise\", stating \"do not use Americanisms\" justifying that the spelling \"is often seen as such\". The \"-ize\" form is known as Oxford spelling and is used in publications of the Oxford University Press, most notably the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", and of other academic publishers such as \"Nature\", the \"Biochemical Journal\" and \"The Times Literary Supplement\". It can be identified using the IETF language tag en-GB-oxendict (or, historically, by en-GB-oed).\n\nIn Canada, the \"-ize\" ending is more common, whereas in Ireland, India, Australia, and New Zealand, \"-ise\" spellings strongly prevail: the \"-ise\" form is preferred in Australian English at a ratio of about 3:1 according to the \"Macquarie Dictionary\".\n\nThe same applies to derivatives and inflections such as \"colonisation\"/\"colonization\", or \"modernisation\"/\"modernization\"\n\nWorldwide, \"-ize\" endings prevail in scientific writing and are commonly used by many international organizations, such as the United Nations Organizations (such as the World Health Organization and the International Civil Aviation Organization) and the International Organization for Standardization (but not by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). The European Union's style guides require the usage of -\"ise\". Proofreaders at the EU's Publications Office ensure consistent spelling in official publications such as the Official Journal (where legislation and other official documents are published), but the \"-ize\" spelling may be found in other documents.\n\nSome verbs ending in \"-ize\" or \"-ise\" do not come from Greek \"-\", and their endings are therefore \"not\" interchangeable:\n\nSome words spelled with \"-ize\" in American English are not used in British English, etc., e.g., the verb \"burglarize\", regularly formed on the noun \"burglar\", where the equivalent in British, and other versions of English, is the back-formation \"burgle\" and not \"burglarise\".\n\nThe ending \"-yse\" is British and \"-yze\" is American. Thus, in British English \"analyse\", \"catalyse\", \"hydrolyse\" and \"paralyse\", but in American English \"analyze\", \"catalyze\", \"hydrolyze\" and \"paralyze\".\n\n\"Analyse\" was the more common spelling in 17th- and 18th-century English. Some dictionaries of the time however preferred \"analyze\", such as John Kersey's of 1702, Nathan Bailey's of 1721 and Samuel Johnson's of 1755. In Canada, \"-yze\" is preferred, but \"-yse\" is also very common. In South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, \"-yse\" is the prevailing form.\n\nEnglish verbs ending in either \"-lyse\" or \"-lyze\" are not similar to the original Greek verb, which is \"λύω lýo\" (\"I release\"). Instead, they come from the noun form \"lysis\", with the \"-ise\" or \"-ize\" suffix. For example, \"analyse\" comes from French \"analyser\", formed by haplology from the French \"analysiser\", which would be spelled \"analysise\" or \"analysize\" in English.\n\n\"Hart's Rules for Compositors and Readers at the University Press, Oxford\" states: \"In verbs such as analyse, catalyse, paralyse, \"-lys-\" is part of the Greek stem (corresponding to the element \"-lusis\") and not a suffix like \"-ize\". The spelling \"-yze\" is therefore etymologically incorrect, and must not be used, unless American printing style is being followed.\"\n\nBritish and other Commonwealth English use the ending \"-logue\" while American English commonly uses the ending \"-log\" for words like \"analog(ue)\", \"catalog(ue)\", \"dialog(ue)\", \"monolog(ue)\", \"homolog(ue)\", etc. The \"-gue\" spelling, as in \"catalogue\", is used in the US, but \"catalog\" is more common. Additionally, in American English, \"dialogue\" is an extremely common spelling compared to \"dialog\", although both are treated as acceptable ways to spell the word (thus the inflected forms, \"cataloged\" and \"cataloging\" vs. \"catalogued\" and \"cataloguing\"). Words like \"demagogue\", \"pedagogue\", and \"synagogue\" are seldom used without \"-ue\" even in American English.\n\nIn Australia, \"analog\" is standard for the adjective, but both \"analogue\" and \"analog\" are current for the noun; in all other cases the \"-gue\" endings strongly prevail, for example \"monologue\", except for such expressions as \"dialog box\" in computing, which are also used in the UK. In Australia, \"analog\" is used in its technical and electronic sense, as in \"analog electronics\". In Canada and New Zealand, \"analogue\" is used, but \"analog\" has some currency as a technical term (e.g., in electronics, as in \"analog electronics\" as opposed to \"digital electronics\" and some video-game consoles might have an \"analog stick\"). The \"-ue\" is absent worldwide in related words like \"analogy\", \"analogous\", and \"analogist\".\n\nBoth British and American English use the spelling \"-gue\" with a silent \"-ue\" for certain words that are not part of the \"-ogue\" set, such as \"tongue\" (cf. tong), \"plague\", \"vague\", and \"league.\" In addition, when the \"-ue\" is not silent, as in the words \"argue,\" \"ague\" and \"segue,\" all varieties of English use \"-gue.\"\n\nIn Canada, \"e\" is usually preferred over \"oe\" and often over \"ae\", but \"oe\" and \"ae\" are sometimes found in academic and scientific writing as well as government publications (for example the fee schedule of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan). In Australia, \"encyclopedia\" and \"medieval\" are spelled with \"e\" rather than \"ae\", as with American usage, and the \"Macquarie Dictionary\" also notes a growing tendency towards replacing \"ae\" and \"oe\" with \"e\" worldwide. Elsewhere, the British usage prevails, but the spellings with just \"e\" are increasingly used. \"Manoeuvre\" is the only spelling in Australia, and the most common one in Canada, where \"maneuver\" and \"manoeuver\" are also sometimes found.\n\nThe plural of the noun \"bus\" is usually \"buses\", with \"busses\" a minor American variant. Conversely, inflections of the verb \"bus\" usually double the \"s\" in British (\"busses, bussed, bussing\") but not American (\"buses, bused, busing\").\n\nThe final consonant of an English word is sometimes doubled in both American and British spelling when adding a suffix beginning with a vowel, for example \"strip/stripped\", which prevents confusion with \"stripe/striped\" and shows the difference in pronunciation (see digraph). Generally, this happens only when the word's final syllable is stressed and when it also ends with a lone vowel followed by a lone consonant. In British English, however, a final \"-l\" is often doubled even when the final syllable is unstressed. This exception is no longer usual in American English, seemingly because of Noah Webster. The \"-ll-\" spellings are nevertheless still deemed acceptable variants by both Merriam-Webster Collegiate and American Heritage dictionaries.\n\nAmong consonants other than \"l\", practice varies for some words, such as where the final syllable has secondary stress or an unreduced vowel. In the United States, the spellings \"kidnaped\" and \"worshiped\", which were introduced by the \"Chicago Tribune\" in the 1920s, are common, but \"kidnapped\" and \"worshipped\" prevail. \"Kidnapped\" and \"worshipped\" are the only standard British spellings. However, \"focused\" is the predominant spelling in both British and American English, \"focussed\" being just a minor variant in British English.\n\nMiscellaneous:\n\nConversely, there are words where British writers prefer a single \"l\" and Americans a double \"l\". In American usage, the spelling of words is usually not changed when they form the main part (not prefix or suffix) of other words, especially in newly formed words and in words whose main part is in common use. Words with this spelling difference include\n\"willful\", \"skillful\", \"thralldom\", \"appall\", \"fulfill\", \"fulfillment\", \"enrollment\", \"installment\". These words have monosyllabic cognates always written with \"-ll\": \"will\", \"skill\", \"thrall\", \"pall\", \"fill\", \"roll\", \"stall\". Cases where a single \"l\" nevertheless occurs in both American and British English include \"null\"→\"annul\", \"annulment\"; \"till\"→\"until\" (although some prefer \"til\" to reflect the single \"l\" in \"until\", sometimes using an apostrophe (\"'til\"); this should be considered a hypercorrection as \"till\" predates the use of \"until\"); and others where the connection is not clear or the monosyllabic cognate is not in common use in American English (e.g., \"null\" is used mainly as a technical term in law, mathematics, and computer science).\n\nIn the UK, a single \"l\" is generally preferred in American forms \"distill\", \"instill\", \"enroll\", and \"enthrallment\", and \"enthrall\", although \"ll\" was formerly used; these are always spelled with \"ll\" in American usage. The former British spellings \"instal\", \"fulness\", and \"dulness\" are now quite rare. The Scottish \"tolbooth\" is cognate with \"tollbooth\", but it has a distinct meaning.\n\nIn both American and British usages, words normally spelled \"-ll\" usually drop the second \"l\" when used as prefixes or suffixes, for example \"full\"→\"useful\", \"handful\"; \"all\"→\"almighty\", \"altogether\"; \"well\"→\"welfare\", \"welcome\"; \"chill\"→\"chilblain\".\n\nBoth the British \"fulfil\" and the American \"fulfill\" never use \"-ll-\" in the middle (i.e., *\"fullfill\" and *\"fullfil\" are incorrect).\n\nJohnson wavered on this issue. His dictionary of 1755 lemmatizes \"distil\" and \"instill\", \"downhil\" and \"uphill\".\n\nBritish English sometimes keeps a silent \"e\" when adding suffixes where American English does not. Generally speaking, British English drops it in only some cases in which it is needed to show pronunciation whereas American English only uses it where needed.\n\nBoth forms of English keep the silent \"e\" in the words \"dyeing\", \"singeing\", and \"swingeing\" (in the sense of \"dye\", \"singe\", and \"swinge\"), to distinguish from \"dying\", \"singing\", \"swinging\" (in the sense of \"die\", \"sing\", and \"swing\"). In contrast, the verb \"bathe\" and the British verb \"bath\" both form \"bathing\". Both forms of English vary for \"tinge\" and \"twinge\"; both prefer \"cringing\", \"hinging\", \"lunging\", \"syringing\".\n\nA \"c\" is generally soft when followed by an \"e\", \"i\", or \"y\". One word with a pronunciation that is an exception in British English, \"sceptic\", is spelled \"skeptic\" in American English. See \"Miscellaneous spelling differences\" below.\n\nIn the UK, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and Canada, it is more common to end some past tense verbs with a \"t\" as in \"learnt\" or \"dreamt\" rather than \"learned\" or \"dreamed\". However, such spellings are also found in American English.\n\nSeveral verbs have different past tenses or past participles in American and British English:\n\n\nIn a few cases, essentially the same word has a different spelling that reflects a different pronunciation.\n\nAs well as the miscellaneous cases listed in the following table, the past tenses of some irregular verbs differ in both spelling and pronunciation, as with \"smelt\" (UK) versus \"smelled\" (US) (see American and British English differences: Verb morphology).\n\nIn the table below, the main spellings are above the accepted alternative spellings.\nBritish English often prefers hyphenated compounds, such as \"anti-smoking\", whereas American English discourages the use of hyphens in compounds where there is no compelling reason, so \"antismoking\" is much more common. Many dictionaries do not point out such differences. Canadian and Australian usage is mixed, although Commonwealth writers generally hyphenate compounds of the form noun plus phrase (such as \"editor-in-chief\"). Commander-in-chief prevails in all forms of English.\n\nCompound verbs in British English are hyphenated more often than in American English.\n\n\nAcronyms pronounced as words are often written in title case by Commonwealth writers, but usually as upper case by Americans: for example, \"Nasa / NASA\" or \"Unicef / UNICEF\". This does not apply to abbreviations that are pronounced as individual letters (referred to by some as \"initialisms\"), such as \"US\", \"IBM\", or \"PRC\" (the People's Republic of China), which are virtually always written as upper case. However, sometimes title case is still used in the UK, such as \"Pc\" (Police Constable).\n\nContractions where the final letter is present are often written in British English without full stops/periods (\"Mr\", \"Mrs\", \"Dr\", \"St\", \"Ave\"). Abbreviations where the final letter is not present generally do take full stops/periods (such as \"vol.\", \"etc.\", \"i.e.\", \"ed.\"); British English shares this convention with the French: \"Mlle\", \"Mme\", \"Dr\", \"Ste\", but \"M.\" for \"Monsieur\". In American and Canadian English, abbreviations like \"St.\", \"Ave.\", \"Mr.\", \"Mrs.\", \"Ms.\", \"Dr.\", and \"Jr.\", usually require full stops/periods. Some initials are usually upper case in the US but lower case in the UK: liter/litre and its compounds (\"2 L\" or \"25 mL\" vs \"2 l\" or \"25 ml\"); and ante meridiem and post meridiem (\"10 P.M.\" or \"10 PM\" vs \"10 p.m.\" or \"10 pm\"). Both \"AM/PM\" and \"a.m./p.m.\" are acceptable in American English, but U.S. style guides overwhelmingly prefer \"a.m./p.m.\"\n\nThe use of quotation marks, also called inverted commas or speech marks, is complicated by the fact that there are two kinds: single quotation marks (') and double quotation marks (\"). British usage, at one stage in the recent past, preferred single quotation marks for ordinary use, but double quotation marks are again now increasingly common; American usage has always preferred double quotation marks, as have Canadian, Australian, and New Zealand English. It is the practice to alternate the type of quotation marks used where there is a quotation within a quotation.\n\nThe convention used to be, and in American English still is, to put full stops (periods) and commas inside the quotation marks, irrespective of the sense. British English has moved away from this style while American English has kept it. British style now prefers to punctuate according to the sense, in which punctuation marks only appear inside quotation marks if they were there in the original. Formal British English practice requires a full stop to be put inside the quotation marks if the quoted item is a full sentence that ends where the main sentence ends, but it is common to see the stop outside the ending quotation marks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053697", "title": "Canoe sailing", "text": "Canoe sailing\n\nCanoe sailing refers to the practice of fitting an Austronesian outrigger or Western canoe with sails.\n\nThe outrigger canoe was one of the key technological innovations of the Austronesian peoples. Although there is little archeological evidence due to perishable building materials, comparative reconstructions indicate that Austronesians already had the distinctive outrigger and crab claw sail technology from at least 2000 BCE. These boats (as well as derivative technologies like the catamaran) enabled them to colonize the islands of Southeast Asia and then later on to Madagascar, the Pacific Islands, and New Zealand.\n\nOutrigger canoes like the \"va'a\", \"paraw\", \"jukung\", \"vinta\", and \"proa\" are still used today by traditional fishermen and traders in most of Southeast Asia and Madagascar, and in parts of Oceania. They are constructed from traditional materials, though most incorporate motor engines instead of a sail. \n\nIn other regions like Hawaii, Tahiti, and New Zealand, outrigger canoes are generally restricted to sport sailing and racing. Modern sailing outrigger canoes are usually made from glass-reinforced and carbon fiber-reinforced polymer, with sails made from Dacron and Kevlar.\n\nThe \"Hōkūlea\" is a modern interpretation of a Polynesian voyaging canoe. It is made from modern materials such as fibreglass, plywood, resin glue, terylene sails and ropes with modern fittings and safety equipment. No authentic Polynesian voyaging canoe has ever been seen although numerous catamaran types were seen by Europeans from the 18th century. Voyaging canoes have crossed the Pacific many times. In most voyages they have been escorted, or towed, by a modern mother ship.\n\nJohn MacGregor of Scotland is generally believed to have developed the first modern sailing canoes. During the 1860s, he had at least seven boats built that he called \"Rob Roys\" and sailed and paddled them in Europe, the Baltic and the Middle East. He also wrote a book which popularized the design and the concept: \"in walking you are bounded by every sea and river, and in a common sailing-boat you are bounded by every shallow and shore; whereas, ...a canoe [can] be paddled or sailed, or hauled, or carried over land or water\" (\"1000 Miles in the Rob Roy Canoe\").\n\nMacGregor founded the British Royal Canoe Club (RCC) in 1866.\n\nThe New York Canoe Club followed about six years later.\n\nThe American Canoe Association (ACA) was founded in 1880. In 1883, ACA Secretary Charles Neide and retired sea captain “Barnacle” Kendall paddled and sailed over three thousand miles from Lake George, New York to Pensacola, Florida.\n\nIn 1886 the ACA and the RCC held the first international canoe sailing regatta.\n\nIn 1991 American Howard Rice sailed and paddled a sailing canoe solo around Cape Horn, Chile considered historically to be the Mount Everest of sailing challenges. He was awarded a Certificate of Merit by the Chilean Navy and inducted into the Cape Horners Society.\n\nThere are several racing classes of sailing canoes: Cruising Class or 4 Meter, C Class or 5 Meter, International Decked Sailing Canoe, and the American Canoe Association Class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053699", "title": "St. John's Episcopal Church (Richmond, Virginia)", "text": "St. John's Episcopal Church (Richmond, Virginia)\n\nSt. John's Church is an Episcopal church located at 2401 East Broad Street in Richmond, Virginia, United States. Formed from several earlier parishes, St. John's is the oldest church in the city of Richmond, Virginia. It was built in 1741 by William Randolph's son, Colonel Richard Randolph; the Church Hill district was named for it. It was the site of two important conventions in the period leading to the American Revolutionary War, and is famous as the location where Patrick Henry gave his memorable speech at the Second Virginia Convention, closing with the often-quoted demand, \"give me liberty, or give me death!\" The church is designated as a National Historic Landmark.\n\nThe earliest precursor of St. John's was Henrico Parish Church, initially located at Sir Thomas Dale's progressive development at Henricus (also known as the \"Cittie of Henricus\", \"Henricopolis\" or \"Henrico Town\"). When the colony was organized, the Anglican Church was the established church of the Crown.\n\nFounded in the Virginia Colony in 1611, Henricus was notable for a number of \"firsts\". It was the first to allocate land to individuals and the site of the first \"College\" in the English colonies, a school modeled after those in England of that era. The College at Henricus was to include education for the children of the Native Americans.\n\nIt was at Henricus that colonists held Pocahontas captive; she was the daughter of Chief Powhatan, leader of the Powhatan Confederacy. During the year-long wait, the first rector of the church, the Reverend Alexander Whitaker, an Englishman, taught her about Christianity and helped her improve her fluency in English. She was baptized as \"Rebecca\". She married John Rolfe, who established Varina Farms, a plantation across the James River. Rolfe smuggled seeds of sweet Spanish tobacco into Virginia, where it rapidly replaced the much harsher local strains.\n\nWhitaker was drowned in the James River in 1617. His associate, the Reverend William Wickham, held the Henrico Parish Church together awaiting the arrival from England of the Reverend Thomas Bargrave in 1619. Also in 1619, Henricus became located in Henrico Cittie (sic), one of four large \"incorporations\" or \"burroughs\" formed by the Virginia Company of London in 1619.\n\nHenricus was an outpost of Jamestown, one of the most westerly settlements at the time. This proved a severe disadvantage on Good Friday in 1622, when the entire development at Henricus and the church were destroyed in the Indian Massacre of 1622. A third of the English colonists in Virginia were killed.\n\nThe Virginia Company lost its charter in 1624 and Virginia became a royal colony. Henricus was not rebuilt, but its long-lost site, now located in Chesterfield County (formed from Henrico County in 1749), was discovered in the late 20th century. A county historical park is located there.\n\nDespite the destruction of Henricus, the colony continued to grow, and a small village developed at Rolfe's Varina Farms Plantation, which became known as Varina (also called \"Henrico Parish\" in early years). The Shire of Henrico (soon renamed Henrico County) was formed in 1634 as one of the eight original shires of Virginia. The initial county seat was at Varina, which officially became a town in 1680. In those days before separation of church and state, the parish boundaries were the same as those of the county.\n\nNotable among Henrico Parish's leaders was the Reverend Dr. James Blair (1656–1743), who was named Commissary in the Virginia Colony for the Bishop of London, making him the colony's highest-ranking religious leader. At the urging of the House of Burgesses, he became a founder and the first president of the College of William and Mary. In doing so, James Blair is said to have used some of the plans of the ill-fated earlier College at Henricus. Apparently taking no chances, the newer College was established at the fortified location of Middle Plantation in James City County, later renamed Williamsburg, to which the capital was later moved from Jamestown. Blair became the rector of Bruton Parish Church there.\n\nExact locations of the church buildings at Varina are unknown. A third or fourth church building was built a few miles east of Varina Farms on a plantation known as \"Curles\", some twenty miles east of the present city of Richmond, in the current Varina District of Henrico County. The only relic of that church still surviving is the bowl of the baptismal font, which today is used at St. John's. \n\nHenrico Parish Church moved to Richmond in 1741, and was housed in what is now the Church Hill neighborhood, on land donated by William Byrd II. Byrd also donated timber used to build the church, and wood to fire the kiln for the bricks for the foundation. Henrico's county seat was also moved from Varina to Richmond in 1752. The county offices were moved to a building still extant at present-day Twenty-second and Main Streets, where they operated until the 1970s.\n\nThe builder of the new church was Col. Richard Randolph (1686–1748), great-uncle to Thomas Jefferson. The original church building was completed on June 10, 1741. It remains as the transept of the current church, built along east-west lines. In 1772, a forty-foot-square extension was added to the northern side, orienting the church towards the south, to which end the altar was moved.\n\nOver one hundred frame churches similar to this existed in Virginia before the American Revolution, of which only four are still standing. One of these is the Old Chapel Church in Franklin County, Virginia\n\nThe Virginia colonial legislative assembly, the House of Burgesses, was dismissed by the royal governor due to tensions that led up to the American Revolutionary War. The Burgesses met as a provisional government in the First Virginia Convention in Williamsburg. Since the governor had loyalist forces in the vicinity of the capital of Williamsburg, it was decided to hold the next convention in Richmond. On March 23, 1775, the Second Virginia Convention was opened at the church. The President of the Convention was Peyton Randolph, who was also the Speaker of the House of Burgesses. \n\nThe Reverend Miles Selden was the rector of St. John's church at the time, and when the Convention assembled, he was chosen as Chaplain. Selden was popularly referred to as the \"Patriot Parson.\" Among the 120 delegates were Thomas Jefferson and George Washington. Other notable delegates were Benjamin Harrison V, Thomas Mann Randolph, Richard Bland, Richard Henry Lee and Francis Lightfoot Lee. Debate centered on the perceived need to raise a militia to resist encroachments on civil rights by the British Government under King George III. Patrick Henry, a delegate from Hanover County, rose in support of such a militia and, with his fiery speech (concluding with the words \"Give me liberty or give me death!\"), swayed the vote.\n\nUnder a Resolution offered by Richard Henry Lee, the House of Burgesses on May 15, 1776 resolved that \"the delegates appointed to represent this colony in General Congress be instructed to propose to that respectable body to declare the united Colonies free and independent states.\" \n\nIt is notable that the Second Virginia Convention authorized Baptist chaplains to minister to soldiers, an important early step toward freedom of religion in what became the Commonwealth of Virginia. Baptists and Methodists had been influential in Virginia during and following the Great Awakening, and many of the common people had already become affiliated with Baptist and Methodist congregations. After the war, the Anglican Church was disestablished, and the Episcopal Church of the United States was organized.\n\nThe Third Virginia Convention was held at St. John's Church on July 17, 1775 to organize the troops and the war effort of Virginia. George Washington of Fairfax had been appointed head of the American Army. The delegates acknowledged the debt to Patrick Henry, whose wisdom had already begun the arming of the colony, and he was named the first Governor of Virginia.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, in January 1781, General Benedict Arnold, the traitor who was then serving on the British side, quartered his troops in the church when Richmond was occupied.\n\nThe church serves an active congregation and ministries, and also receives tourists as a historic site\n\nGeorge Wythe, the first law professor in the United States, a delegate to the Continental Congress and signatory of the Declaration of Independence, is buried in the churchyard. Elizabeth Arnold Poe, mother of author Edgar Allan Poe, is buried in the churchyard. Her exact burial spot is unknown, but a memorial marks the general area.\n\nTheere is a small souvenir shop located within the churchyard, from which regular guided tours depart. These tours take place inside the church and explore the events in Virginia leading up to the Second Virginia Convention, Patrick Henry's famous speech, and his political career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053716", "title": "Ross McClellan", "text": "Ross McClellan\n\nRoss A. McClellan (born October 8, 1942) is a former politician in Ontario, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1975 to 1987 as a member of the New Democratic Party.\n\nMcClellan was educated at St. Michael's College and the school of Social Work at the University of Toronto. A social worker, he served as vice-president of the Social Planning Council of Metropolitan Toronto in 1975-76.\n\nHe was elected to the Ontario legislature in the 1975 provincial election, defeating Liberal Millie Caccia by 496 votes in the Toronto constituency of Bellwoods. Along with Tony Lupusella and Odoardo Di Santo, McClellan helped to increase the NDP's popularity in the Italian areas of the city. McClellan's mother is Italian.\n\nHe was easily re-elected in the 1977 election, and fended off more serious challenges from Liberal Walter Bardyn in 1981 and 1985. He supported Richard Johnston for the party leadership in 1982.\n\nThe Progressive Conservative Party, which had governed Ontario since 1943, was reduced to a precarious minority government in the 1985 election. McClellan, influenced in part by his mother's European socialist background, wanted the NDP to form a coalition government with the Liberals. This proposal was rejected. McClellan was instead appointed chief negotiator for talks with both the Liberals and Progressive Conservatives, in which the NDP agreed to provide support to another party without actually joining government. These talks led to a two-year accord with the Liberal Party, which promised to introduce progressive reforms in return for NDP support in the legislature. After a motion of no confidence in which the Liberals and NDP defeated the Conservative's budget bill, Liberal leader David Peterson was sworn in as Premier of Ontario on June 26, 1985.\n\nMcClellan's career in the legislature was cut short by electoral redistribution prior to the 1987 election. The Bellwoods constituency was eliminated, and McClellan was forced to contest the NDP nomination in Dovercourt against Tony Lupusella. Although McClellan won the nomination, Lupusella subsequently left the NDP to contest the constituency as a Liberal, and defeated McClellan by 907 votes. McClellan did not seek a return to the legislature after this loss.\n\nThe NDP won a majority government under Bob Rae's leadership in 1990. McClellan served as a senior policy adviser to the Premier from 1990 to 1995. McClellan was privileged to attend and participate in all meetings of the Rae Cabinet, and was co-secretary of the Cabinet Planning and Priorities Committee. He influenced many key policy decisions, including the decision to raise welfare rates by 22% and to protect the rates from cuts, to maintain and expand Ontario's stand-alone social housing program, as well as the government's decision not to introduce public auto insurance in 1991.\n\nMcClellan has been a member of the Ontario and Federal NDP executive at various times since the Rae years and is largely credited with authoring the NDP election platforms in the Federal general elections of 1997 and 2000. He became a senior staffer for the Ontario Federation of Labour in the 1990s, and remained there until his retirement. McClellan consistently spoke out against limiting union donations to political parties.\n\nIn 2002, on his last day at the OFL, he played a leading role in resolving a strike involving Toronto municipal workers. In September 2002, McClellan was appointed as Vice Chair at the Workplace Safety and Insurance Tribunal.\n"}
{"id": "2053719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053719", "title": "Operation Sea Lion order of battle", "text": "Operation Sea Lion order of battle\n\nThe German plan for a land invasion of England in 1940 was code-named Operation Sea Lion (\"Unternehmen Seelöwe\" in German). This is the Operation Sea Lion order of battle for the modified German plan produced on 30 August, 1940.\n\nGeneralfeldmarschall Gerd von Rundstedt\n\nGeneralfeldmarschall Wilhelm Ritter von Leeb\n\nGeneral Alan Brooke<br>\nChief of Staff: Lieutenant-General Bernard Paget\n\n"}
{"id": "2053723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053723", "title": "Bromus arvensis", "text": "Bromus arvensis\n\nBromus arvensis, the field brome, is a brome grass native to Europe and Asia. The specific epithet \"arvensis\" is Latin, meaning \"of cultivated land\".\n\n\"Bromus arvensis\" is an annual or biennial grass with erect culms growing tall. The grass has an extensive fibrous root system. The leaf sheaths are softly pubescent and leaf blades are pubescent on both faces. The leaf blades are long and wide. The obtuse ligules are long. The large, open panicles are long and wide, with ascending branches that droop at their ends. The straight or slightly curved branches are typically longer than the spikelets. The lanceolate spikelets are long and become purplish at maturity. The spikelets have long pedicels and are five to twelve flowered. The bases of florets can be concealed or obvious at maturity. The glumes are glabrous. The lower glumes are three-veined and long, and the upper glumes are five-veined and long. The obtuse and glabrous or slightly scabrous lemmas are long and wide, and have seven faint nerves. The margins are translucent and end in lengthy and acute teeth. The awns are straight and long. The anthers are approximately long. The caryopses are shorter than the paleas and can be either weakly or strongly rolled inwards.\n\nThe grass flowers in June and July.\n\n\"Bromus arvensis\" grows along roadsides, in disturbed areas, and in fields. It is native to southern and central Europe, but is now naturalized as a weed throughout temperate regions including North America and Asia. The grass is a soil improver and is useful for erosion control.\n"}
{"id": "2053726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053726", "title": "Bert Wilson (sportscaster)", "text": "Bert Wilson (sportscaster)\n\nRalph Bertram Puckett, using the radio name Bert Wilson (1911 – November 5, 1955), was a play-by-play broadcaster for Major League Baseball's Chicago Cubs from 1943 to 1955. He spent his first year as Pat Flanagan's assistant, then took over in 1944. He was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He began his radio career in Cedar Rapids before moving to Indianapolis and then Chicago.\n\nWilson was an unabashed \"homer,\" known for two catchphrases: \"I don't care who wins, as long as it's the Cubs!\" and \"Sic 'em, Cubs!\" He also invented a short-lived catchphrase for the double play combination of Ernie Banks, Gene Baker and Steve Bilko: \"Bingo to Bango to Bilko\". This phrase did not threaten the fame of \"Tinker to Evers to Chance\". He also had other well-known phrases, such as \"It's a beautiful day in Chicago\" and, when the Cubs were doing poorly near the end of the season as they frequently were, \"Bring on the Bears.\" Wilson also called Chicago Bears football in the 1940s.\n\nThe Cubs were contenders when Wilson first began covering them for WGN, but by the mid-1950s were engaged in an annual battle with the Pittsburgh Pirates for last place in the National League. Following the 1955 season, Wilson, worn out by travel and suffering from heart trouble, left the Cubs and signed with the Cincinnati Reds to do a less taxing schedule of play-by-play on television in 1956. Wilson, however, died at age 44 from heart failure that November near his winter home in Mesa, Arizona. He left a wife and three children.\n\nHe is a member of the Chicagoland Sports Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2053737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053737", "title": "Toninho Cerezo", "text": "Toninho Cerezo\n\nToninho Cerezo, real name Antônio Carlos Cerezo, (; born 21 April 1955 in Belo Horizonte) is a Brazilian former footballer. Cerezo is commonly regarded as one of the finest Brazilian defensive midfielders of all time, most notably having played for his hometown's team Clube Atlético Mineiro; he also played for several other clubs in both Brazil and Italy throughout his career. At international level, Cerezo took part at the 1978 and 1982 FIFA World Cups – winning a bronze medal in the former edition of the tournament – and the 1979 Copa América, where Brazil finished in third place.\n\nThroughout his career, Cerezo played as a defensive midfielder with Atlético Mineiro, Roma, Sampdoria, São Paulo and the Brazilian national team.\n\nWhile playing in Brazil, he won the Bola de Ouro in 1977 and 1980 and the Bola de Prata in 1976.\n\nDuring his time in Italy, Cerezo won the Coppa Italia four times; in 1991 he won the Serie A with Sampdoria, but lost the Coppa Italia final to A.S. Roma.\n\nWith São Paulo he was a two-time winner of the Intercontinental Cup, and also won the Copa Libertadores once. Cerezo was named the best player of the 1993 Intercontinental Cup final.(He scored the second goal and assisted Müller's game-winning goal in a 3–2 victory against A.C. Milan.)\n\nIn 1997, he retired as a player, and, after doing some studies and probations in Italy, he returned to Brazil, and start a career as a manager at Vitória, reaching the semifinals of the Brasileirão Série A. He also led Japanese powerhouse Kashima Antlers in the J.League for six years. He won five major titles in Japan, two league championships, one Emperor's Cup, and two league cups.\n\nAfter his time in Japan, he coached Brazilian clubs Atlético Mineiro, and Guarani, as well as some Asian clubs, such as Al-Hilal, Al-Shabab, Al Ain; he later returned to Brazil once again as head manager of Sport do Recife, leaving the club just one month later.\n\nCerezo won 57 caps (full international games), between March 1977 and June 1985, with the Brazilian national team, scoring seven goals.\n\nHe played in the 1978 FIFA World Cup, where they finished in third place, and in the 1982 FIFA World Cup, where they were eliminated in the second round in a group which contained defending champions and continental rivals Argentina, as well as the eventual champions Italy. He was also due to go to the 1986 tournament, but a hamstring injury in May ruled him out of the upcoming World Cup. He was a member of the Brazilian team that finished in third place at the 1979 Copa América.\n\nAt the 1982 FIFA World Cup one of his back passes was intercepted by Italian striker Paolo Rossi, who went on to score; the match ended in a 2–3 loss to Italy, which also saw Rossi score a hat-trick, and as a result, Brazil were knocked out of the tournament in a dramatic upset. For many years after the event, he was widely criticized for this error by many Brazilian fans and members of the press.\n\nA tall and strong midfielder, with a slender frame, Cerezo is regarded as one of the greatest Brazilian defensive midfielders of all time, and was well known for his tireless work-rate, stamina, and tactical awareness, as well as his dynamic, physical, and energetic style of play. Although he was usually deployed in a holding role, Cerezo was also an elegant and highly creative player, who was highly regarded in the media for his technique, vision, ability to understand the game, and passing range, which enabled him to orchestrate attacking moves for his team, get forward, and create chances for teammates after winning back possession; as such, he often functioned as a deep-lying playmaker in midfield throughout his career. Although he was mainly a team player, who preferred to assist other players over scoring himself, he also possessed an accurate shot.\n\nCerezo is Roman Catholic\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053742", "title": "Contact force", "text": "Contact force\n\nA contact force is any force that requires contact to occur. Contact forces are ubiquitous and are responsible for most visible interactions between macroscopic collections of matter. Moving a couch across a floor, pushing a car up a hill, kicking a ball or pushing a desk across a room are some of the everyday examples where contact forces are at work. In the first case the force is continuously applied by the person on the car, while in the second case the force is delivered in a short impulse. Contact forces are often decomposed into orthogonal components, one perpendicular to the surface(s) in contact called the normal force, and one parallel to the surface(s) in contact, called the friction force.\n\nIn the Standard Model of modern physics, the four fundamental forces of nature are known to be non-contact forces. The strong and weak interaction primarily deal with forces within atoms, while gravitational effects are only obvious on an ultra-macroscopic scale. Molecular and quantum physics show that the electromagnetic force is the fundamental interaction responsible for contact forces. The interaction between macroscopic objects can be roughly described as resulting from the electromagnetic interactions between protons and electrons of the atomic constituents of these objects. Everyday objects do not \"actually\" touch; rather, contact forces are the result of the interactions of the electrons at or near the surfaces of the objects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053745", "title": "1997 FIFA Confederations Cup", "text": "1997 FIFA Confederations Cup\n\nThe 1997 FIFA Confederations Cup was the first Confederations Cup to be organised by FIFA. The tournament had previously been played in 1992 and 1995 as the King Fahd Cup. This edition of the tournament was hosted by Saudi Arabia, as with the previous editions, in December 1997 and was the first to feature representatives from all of the FIFA confederations.\n\nIt was won by Brazil, who beat Australia 6–0 in the final. After winning the 1997 tournament, Brazil became the first country to be the reigning champion of both major FIFA tournaments (the World Cup and the Confederations Cup), as well as champion of their respective confederation by winning the 1997 Copa América. This feat has since been accomplished once by France, victorious in the 1998 World Cup, UEFA Euro 2000 and the 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup.\n\nGermany, the UEFA Euro 1996 winner, declined to participate.\n\nUnited Arab Emirates was awarded a spot in the competition because Saudi Arabia had won the 1996 AFC Asian Cup.\n\nAll matches were played in 67,000-seat King Fahd International Stadium in Riyadh.\n\n\nRomário received the Golden Shoe award for scoring seven goals. In total, 52 goals were scored by 32 different players, with only one of them credited as own goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053746", "title": "June 16 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 16 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 15 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 17\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on June 29 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 16th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 3.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2053749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053749", "title": "Myers", "text": "Myers\n\nMyers is a(n) Dutch, English, and German origin surname. The English origin of the surname has multiple possible sources: Anglo-Saxon England, from the Old English word (originally \"maior\") meaning \"mayor\", the Old French meaning \"physician\", or the Old Norse , meaning \"marsh\". The German origin of the surname Myers has the meaning \"steward or bailiff,\" as in the magistrate of a city or town.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053757", "title": "Don Dixon (musician)", "text": "Don Dixon (musician)\n\nDon Dixon (born December 13, 1950) is a record producer, songwriter, musician, bass guitarist, and very occasional actor. Dixon is considered to be one of the key producers of what is called the jangle pop movement of the early 1980s.\n\nDon Dixon was born in Lancaster, South Carolina. He learned guitar at age 13, and made his first recording as a jazz bassist at age 15. He attended the University of North Carolina, where his roommate was the writer Bruce Brooks.\n\nDixon and several fellow UNC freshmen formed the band Arrogance, who recorded six albums and inspired others in the North Carolina music scene. Dixon spent thirteen years as a member, and learned the essence of record production during this time.\n\nDixon was still playing with Arrogance in 1982 when Mitch Easter asked him to co-produce R.E.M.'s debut LP \"Murmur\" and their 1984 follow-up LP \"Reckoning\" (both Dixon and Easter are credited in the \"Reckoning\" liner notes as \"Machinists\").\n\nDixon then spent several years producing the work of artists including Chris Stamey (formerly of The dB's), The Smithereens, Fetchin Bones, Richard Barone, Guadalcanal Diary and Marshall Crenshaw. Considered to be a highlight of this period was Tommy Keene's \"Run Now\" EP.\n\nWorking with Mitch Easter at Fidelitorium Recordings in Kernersville, NC, Dixon produced \"Mixed Reality\", the sixth studio album by American alternative rock band Gin Blossoms. It was released on June 15, 2018, on Cleopatra Records.\n\nIn 1985, success as a producer led to Dixon's solo debut \"Most of the Girls Like to Dance But Only Some of the Boys Like To,\" a collection of early demos. This album reflected his love of classic pop melodies and spiky, Nick Lowe-inspired word play.\n\nIn 1987, Dixon recorded \"Romeo at Juilliard\" described as Big Star-style power pop. \"Chi-Town Budget Show\" (1988) was a recording of a Chicago’s Park West nightclub broadcast. In 1989, his album \"EEE\" featured The Uptown Horns.\n\nIn 1992 Restless Records released a Don Dixon \"Best Of\" album entitled \"(If) I'm A Ham, Well You're A Sausage\".\n\nIn 1995, after taking time off to raise a family, Dixon released \"Romantic Depressive,\" a somewhat darker-themed album.\n\nIn 1996, Dixon produced the original cast recording of \"King Mackerel & The Blues Are Running (Songs And Stories Of The Carolina Coast)\" which featured Bland Simpson (Red Clay Ramblers) and author/composer Jim Wann.\n\nIt was another four years before he released \"The Invisible Man\" (2000), an album about mortality, with songs from viewpoints of people of various ages.\n\n\"Note Pad #38\" in 2001 was an odds-and-ends collection of unreleased material from his solo career.\n\nIn 2006, Dixon released \"The Entire Combustible World in One Small Room,\" a concept album revolving around rooms in a house.\n\nDixon and wife Marti Jones released the download-only album \"Lucky Stars: New Lullabies for Old Souls\" in 2008. A departure from their previous sound, this project began as a request from a friend who was putting together an album of lullabies to sell in hospitals to new parents. The album featured six vocal songs and five instrumentals.\n\nIn 2008, Dixon released \"The Nu-Look\" with The Jump Rabbits, his bandmates of 20 years: Jamie Hoover of The Spongetones, and Jim Brock.\n\nIn 2009, a book of Dixon's song lyrics, \"Songs 101: the Lyrics of Don Dixon\" was published by VanZeno Press.\n\nAlthough Dixon and wife Marti Jones have collaborated on each other's albums for years, in 2011 they released \"Living Stereo,\" their first proper duet album.\n\nIn 2014, Dixon released \"High & Filthy & Borderline,\" based on the lives of a male and a female assassin.\n\nDixon has been married to the singer/artist Marti Jones since 1988.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Including co-production, engineering, etc.\"<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "2053772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053772", "title": "Lloyd Pettit", "text": "Lloyd Pettit\n\nLloyd Pettit (March 22, 1927 – November 11, 2003) was a sportscaster in Chicago and Milwaukee as well as the owner of the Milwaukee Admirals.\n\nPettit was born in Chicago and moved as a small child to the Milwaukee suburb of Shorewood, Wisconsin where he graduated from Shorewood High School. He went on to study at Northwestern University, and graduated in 1950 with a degree in television and radio journalism. He was a member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. He worked as a Wisconsin sports broadcaster at WMAW and later WTMJ Radio until 1956.\n\nPettit returned to Chicago, where he was a sports broadcaster on WGN-TV and WGN Radio for a variety of different teams during the 1960s, including the Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox. He usually worked as the sidekick for the main TV announcer, Jack Brickhouse. His baseball broadcasting style could be described as low-key and businesslike, compared with the excitable Brickhouse. He also broadcast the Chicago Bears, when Brickhouse was busy covering the Cubs or White Sox.\n\nPettit is most fondly remembered by fans of the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League. His first love in sports was ice hockey, and he shone at coverage of that sport. He was the original choice to broadcast the NHL's national games on CBS in the late '60s, but Jack Brickhouse, who ran WGN-TV's sports operations, would not release him from his contract to do the games, and the assignment went instead to Dan Kelly of the St. Louis Blues. That dispute led to his, and the team's, moving to WMAQ Radio in 1970. During his career, the Hawks had a number of highs and lows. Regardless, Pettit covered the games with enthusiasm and expertise. His signature catchphrase, which was even worked into the Blackhawks official fight song, \"Here Come The Hawks,\" was \"There's a shot... AND A GOAL!!!\" He retired from the Blackhawks in 1976, after a dispute over the quality of his broadcast partners, and from all broadcasting in 1980 to pursue other business interests. He was presented with the Foster Hewitt Memorial Award by the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1986.\n\nAfter his broadcasting career finished, Pettit and his wife Jane returned to Wisconsin full-time. They bought the Milwaukee Admirals of the International Hockey League (now in the American Hockey League) in 1976. The Pettits were instrumental in getting the Bradley Center built, which became the home of the Admirals and the National Basketball Association's Milwaukee Bucks, with whom they also had minority ownership. In the early 1990s, they pursued an NHL expansion franchise, and were considered a front-runner, but withdrew their bid when they felt the expansion fee was too high.\n\nHe, and his wife, Jane Bradley Pettit, were both elected to the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame in 1993.\n\nIn 1994, Pettit and Jane were honored with the \"Lombardi Award of Excellence\" from the Vince Lombardi Cancer Foundation. The award was created to honor Coach Lombardi's legacy, and is awarded annually to an individual who exemplifies the spirit of the Coach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053781", "title": "Roderick Cameron", "text": "Roderick Cameron\n\nSir Roderick William Cameron (July 25, 1825 – October 19, 1900) was a Canadian and American businessman noted for co-founding the \"R. W. Cameron and Company\" shipping line in New York City, as well as for his role as an official representative of Canada and Australia at several international exhibitions during the 1870s and 1880s.\n\nCameron was born in Glengarry County, Upper Canada on July 25, 1825. to Duncan Cameron (c. 1764–1848), a prominent fur trader with the North West Company who represented Glengarry in the Upper Canadian House of Assembly during the 9th Parliament, and Margaret MacLeod.\n\nHis paternal grandparents were Alexander Cameron and Margaret (née McDonell) Cameron. His father, along with his grandparents, immigrated to Tryon County, New York in 1773. In 1785, following the Revolutionary War, the Loyalist Camerons moved to Quebec in Canada.\n\nHe was educated at the district school at Kingston.\n\nFrom 1839 to 1847, he was in business in Hamilton, Ontario, working as a clerk in a dry-goods business.\n\nIn 1852, during the Australian gold rushes, Cameron chartered a ship to take supplies and passengers from New York to Australia. Shortly thereafter, he added more ships and consolidated his business into a shipping company known as the Australian Pioneer Line. In 1870, he took on William Augustus Street as his partner, and the firm became known as \"R. W. Cameron and Company\". The company maintained success during the Panic of 1857, the American Civil War, and the boom of the Clipper. Cameron generally focused on trade routes between New York and Australia, linking with New Zealand, England, and certain areas in Asia, transporting kerosene and farm machinery as well as Australian wool. By the end of the 1800s, the company no longer owned ships, instead they chartered them, leaving risk elsewhere.\n\nRoderick Cameron owned a estate, which he named Clifton Berley, in Rosebank, Staten Island. There, he established a stud farm which, according to his \"New York Times\" obituary, was \"one of the most noted in the country.\" For his horse breeding operation, Cameron imported a number of stallions and broodmares from England, notably Leamington, the sire of Iroquois, which in 1881 became the first American horse to win England's prestigious Epsom Derby and St. Leger Stakes. Among the horses bred at Clifton Stud was Glenelg, the 1869 Travers Stakes winner and a four-time Leading sire in North America.\n\nThe Canadian government recommended a Knighthood that was formally bestowed on Cameron on June 16, 1883.\n\nCameron, although he never renounced his British citizenship, was prominent in New York and Newport society. In 1892, he was included in Ward McAllister's \"Four Hundred\", purported to be an index of New York's best families, published in \"The New York Times\". Conveniently, 400 was the number of people that could fit into Mrs. Astor's ballroom.\n\nHe was a member of the Knickerbocker Club, Metropolitan Club, New York Yacht Club, and Down Town Association.\n\nOn August 6, 1845, he married Mary Ann Cumming, the daughter of George Cumming of Quebec. She died in 1858; they had no children together.\n\nIn July 1860, Cameron was married to Anne Fleming Leavenworth (1840–1879), the daughter of Nathan Leavenworth of New York. Together, they were the parents of two sons and five daughters, including:\n\n\nIn New York City, Cameron lived at 149 Second Avenue, in Staten Island, he lived at Rosebank, where he had Frederick Law Olmsted design his gardens, and in Canada, he has a home in Tadoussac, Quebec, which had been owned by the former Governor General of Canada, the Marquess of Dufferin and Ava.\n\nIn declining health, Roderick Cameron was visiting England when he died on October 19, 1900, at the Hyde Park Hotel. His body was returned to New York where funeral services were held before being sent to Williamstown, Ontario, Canada for burial. His estate was worth approximately $250,000 upon his death. The estate in Staten Island was inherited by his second son, Roderick MacLeaod Cameron.\n\nThrough his son Roderick, he was the grandfather of Roderick \"Rory\" William Cameron (1914–1985), an American travel writer who was a contributing editor of \"L'Oeil\".\n\nIn January 1921, his granddaughter, the debutante Mary Cameron, was given a dance for 600 people at the home of Edith Kingdon Gould, the wife of George J. Gould, at 857 Fifth Avenue. In May 1921, she was married to Juan R. Mayer, the son of Charles W. Mayer, at St. Thomas's Church in New York.\n"}
{"id": "2053792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053792", "title": "Vernon Cracknell", "text": "Vernon Cracknell\n\nVernon Francis Cracknell (30 May 1912 – 4 June 1989) was a New Zealand politician. He served as the Social Credit Party's third leader (1963–1970).\n\nCracknell was born in Auckland on 30 May 1912. He was educated at Auckland Grammar School and Kings College before qualifying as an accountant. In 1934 he left Auckland and moved to Northland and later married in 1949. He established his own accountancy firm in Kerikeri in 1951. \n\nLater, he became involved in politics through the Social Credit Party, a group dedicated to the social credit theory of monetary reform. He made his entry into politics in local government in 1950 when he was elected a member of the Bay of Islands Harbour Board and became the board's chairman in 1953.\n\nIn the 1960 election and 1963 election, Cracknell contested the seat of Hobson in Northland. He placed second on both occasions, pushing the Labour Party candidate into third place, more successful than any other Social Credit candidate. The area had previously been receptive to social credit theory – the Social Credit Party had placed second in the 1954 election, and Harold Rushworth of the credit-influenced Country Party had held the Northland seat (then called Bay of Islands) for three terms, from 1928 to 1938.\n\nIn the 1966 election, Cracknell was finally successful, winning the seat with 48% of the vote. He narrowly defeated the incumbent MP, Logan Sloane of the National Party, who won 45% of the vote. Cracknell's victory was a surprise, as no candidate not aligned with either the Labour or National parties had been elected to Parliament since 1943.\n\nHowever, Cracknell found himself unsuited to Parliamentary debate and did not make any substantial impact. He struggled to achieve an independent voice in Parliament, voting with Labour 22 times and with National 14 times in his first year. Cracknell was not particularly skilled at dealing with the media and so received little attention, thus undoing Social Credit's foot in the door in terms of political ascendancy. In the 1969 election, Cracknell's campaign was almost universally regarded as poor, with his television appearance being described as uninteresting, too academic and rambling. Many observers cited growing internal divisions within the Social Credit Party as a cause of this by diverting the party's efforts and attention away from campaigning and policy platforms. The party dropped 5% in the polls and Cracknell likewise did worse in Hobson where Logan Sloane regained the seat by a substantial margin.\n\nIn 1970, a bitter dispute at the party's annual conference saw Cracknell lose the Social Credit Party's leadership to his deputy, the more confrontational John O'Brien. The 1970 conference was described as \"the most vivid example of political bloodletting in public\" since John A. Lee had been expelled at the 1940 Labour party conference. The culmination of which, a vote was held for the office of party president with a pro-Cracknell and Pro-O'Brien candidate. O'Brien's ally P.J. Dempsy defeated Cracknell man A.J. Gray 137 votes to 60. Seeing this as a sign of things to come, Cracknell smilingly asked the minutes clerk to remove his name from the leadership ballot. He resigned the leadership without a delegate vote leaving O'Brien to gain the leadership, without winning it.\n\nThereafter, Cracknell had little involvement in politics, and did not attempt to regain his seat again. However after O'Brien left the party and was replaced by Bruce Beetham as leader, Cracknell rejoined the party in 1975 and was made 'president emeritus' of the party and gave a speech at that years party conference which helped to calm the party and consolidate the membership around Beetham's leadership. Beetham was elected as Social Credit's second MP three years later.\n\nHe returned to the accountancy profession before retiring in 1985. In his retirement he raised a herd of 18 Hereford steers.\n\nCracknell died in Kawakawa in 1989 aged 77 years. He was survived by his wife Shelagh, four children and six grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053794", "title": "June 17 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 17 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 16 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 18\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on June 30 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 17th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 4.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2053797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053797", "title": "Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority", "text": "Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority\n\nThe Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority (AAATA), which brands itself as \"TheRide\", is the public transit system serving the Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti area in Michigan.\n\nThe authority mainly operates fixed-route bus service within its service area. It also operates the ARide paratransit system, University of Michigan-sponsored ExpressRide commuter buses to Canton and Chelsea, and ArtFairRide and FootballRide event shuttles. It oversees the iShareARide and VanRide carpooling services. TheRide operates transit centers in downtown Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti, as well as a number of park and ride facilities in the Ann Arbor area. The AAATA is also the designated authority for the planned Ann Arbor-Howell commuter rail line.\n\nThe AAATA was the first transit authority in the United States to operate low-floor buses when, in early 1993, they took delivery of ten New Flyer D40LF buses. In terms of operation, only two Canadian authorities and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey operated such buses prior to the AAATA. The AAATA has 55 hybrid electric buses in its fleet of 92 and is the first public transit operator in the Midwest to state its intention to convert to all hybrid electric buses.\n\nIn November 2012, the AATA broke ground on the new Blake Transit Center, at a cost of $8.1 million. The new 2-story, 12,019-square-foot downtown transit hub replaced a one-story structure built at the site at 328 South Fifth Avenue in the 1980s. The new Blake Transit Center was officially opened for use on July 7, 2014.\n\nIn August 2013, the AAATA Board voted to change the agency's name from the Ann Arbor Transportation Authority (AATA) to the Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority (AAATA). The name change reflects the addition of neighboring Ypsilanti to the agency board and the growing focus on regional services within Washtenaw County's urban core. In December 2013, the Ann Arbor City Council approved adding Ypsilanti Township as a charter member of the AAATA.\n\nAAATA uses a fixed-fare system. Full fare on fixed-route buses is $1.50, payable by cash or tokens. University of Michigan students, faculty, and staff with a valid yellow Mcard ride for free. Reduced cash fares and discounted passes and tokens are also available, with children under 6 and TheRide employees riding for free. 1-day and 30-day unlimited-ride passes are available for $4.50 and $58 respectively.\n\nTransfers are free, and are valid for unlimited connections to fixed-route buses for 90 minutes. They are not valid for return trips on the same route, event shuttles, or AirRide. Using a transfer on an ExpressRide bus reduces the fare by $1.50 to $4.75.\n\nThe fare for the ExpressRide Canton and Chelsea is $6.25, payable by only cash. 30-day ExpressRide commuter passes and 10-ride tickets are available at discounts.\n\nFootballRide and ArtFairRide shuttles have the same $1.50 fare as normal service. Passes and transfers are not accepted, and reduced fares are not available.\n\nThe Ann Arbor Area Transportation Authority operates the 98 AirRide line in cooperation with the Michigan Flyer coach service, which runs an express route between downtown Ann Arbor and the McNamara and North terminals of the Detroit Metropolitan Airport in Romulus, Wayne County. Fares are $12.00 for standard adults with reservation, $15.00 per walk-on, and $6.00 for the elderly or disabled. Children under 18 are allowed on free with a paying adult, during round trips.\n\nRoute and schedule booklets, branded as the \"Ride Guide,\" are available for free onboard buses and at transit centers. The AAATA formerly ran a free \"Link Bus\" connecting central campus and downtown during the U-M school year until 20 August 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053800", "title": "Hamish Milne", "text": "Hamish Milne\n\nHamish Milne (27 April 1939 – 12 February 2020) was an English pianist known for his advocacy of Nikolai Medtner.\n\nMilne studied at Bishop Wordsworth's School in Salisbury and then at the Royal Academy of Music in London, where he taught, and later in Italy under Guido Agosti.\n\nIn the 1970s, Milne was the first pianist to offer a comprehensive survey of the piano music of Medtner since the composer made his own records.\n\nHe died on 12 February, 2020 at the age of 80.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053805", "title": "The Harptones", "text": "The Harptones\n\nThe Harptones are an American doo-wop group, which formed in Manhattan in 1953.\n\nThe group never had a top forty pop hit, or a record on the US \"Billboard\" R&B chart, yet they are known for both their lead singer Willie Winfield and their pianist/arranger, Raoul Cita. The Harptones recorded for various labels, including Coed Records. The Harptones may have been the first doo-wop group to number a full-time arranger among their members, and Cita knew how to work to Winfield's strengths. Their best-known recordings include \"A Sunday Kind of Love\" (1953), \"Why Should I Love You?\" (1954), \"Life is But a Dream\" (1955), \"The Shrine of St. Cecilia\" (1956), and \"What Will I Tell My Heart\" (1961).\n\nIn 1956, they recorded some songs for the film \"Rockin' the Blues\": \"Mambo Boogie\", \"Ou Wee Baby\", and \"High Flying Baby\".\n\nThe song \"Life is But a Dream\" was featured in the 1990 film \"GoodFellas\", and can be found on the film's soundtrack album.\n\n\n\nDicey Galloway was drafted in November 1954.\n\n\n\n\n\nBilly Brown died of a drug overdose in spring 1957.\n\n\nDicey Galloway left in October and was replaced by Milton Love of The Solitares for a short time, before splitting. Galloway died on 18 July 2017 in Houghs Neck, Quincy, Massachusetts, at age 84 after battling multiple illnesses.\n\n\nNicky Clark left after a few months, to be replaced by Wilbur \"Yonkie\" Paul, who was in turn replaced by Hank \"Pompi\" Jernigan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis line-up appeared on \"Doo Wop 50\". Linda Champion left due to health problems around 2000.\n\n\n\nMarlowe Murray died of cancer in 2008.\n\nRaoul J. Cita died on December 13, 2014, from liver and stomach cancer, at the age of 86. The death of Cita leaves Winfield and Dempsey as the only original Harptones, with Winfield present at every version.\n\nThe Harptones were featured more times than any other group in the United in Group Harmony Association's official top 500 vocal group recordings list, compiled 1996-2000. They were inducted into The Vocal Group Hall of Fame in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053818", "title": "David Hughes (Lancashire cricketer)", "text": "David Hughes (Lancashire cricketer)\n\nDavid Paul Hughes (born 13 May 1947) is an English former cricketer. David Hughes was a stalwart of the Lancashire side for more than two decades, making 10,419 first-class runs. He batted right-handed and took 655 wickets with his left-arm spin.\n\nHughes was born in Newton-le-Willows, St Helens, Lancashire. Making his debut in 1967, he was capped in 1970. During the 1971 Gillette Cup semi-final against Gloucestershire on 28 July 1971, Hughes walked out to bat with the time approaching a quarter to nine in the evening and 25 runs still needed from the five remaining overs. There was a suggestion that the umpires would have to abandon play for the day and finish the game the following morning, but, when Hughes queried the light, he was told by umpire Arthur Jepson, \"You can see the Moon. How far do you want to see?\". Hughes proceeded to hit 24 off a single over and set up a Lancashire win.\n\nHughes played for D. H. Robins' XI in South Africa in 1971/72 and for Tasmania in 1975/76 and 1976/77, and accompanied Lancashire on three overseas tours in the mid-1980s, but otherwise stayed at home; of his 447 first-class matches, only ten were not played on British soil. He was captain of Lancashire between 1987 and his retirement in 1991, and in the first of these years Lancashire finished second in the County Championship; in 1988 Hughes was named as a Wisden Cricketer of the Year. He was given two benefit seasons, in 1981 and 1992, which raised a total of £145,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053819", "title": "Nelinho", "text": "Nelinho\n\nManoel Rezende de Mattos Cabral (born July 26, 1950), known as Nelinho, is a former Brazilian association footballer who played as right back. He played for several clubs in his home country and abroad, most notably Belo Horizonte rivals Cruzeiro and Atlético Mineiro. Nelinho also represented the Brazilian national team in two FIFA World Cups.\n\nBorn in Rio de Janeiro, Nelinho started his career at local club Olaria, but signed his first professional contract with América. After a recommendation by Otto Glória, then manager of the team, he moved to Portugal to play for Barreirense. A brief stint with Venezuela's Deportivo Anzoátegui followed, before returning to Rio de Janeiro to play for Bonsucesso, which then loaned him to Remo. After good performances in the 1972 Brasileirão, Nelinho was signed by Cruzeiro for the following season.\n\nAt the Belo Horizonte-based club, Nelinho won the Campeonato Mineiro four times between 1973 and 1977, and one Copa Libertadores in 1976, scoring in two matches of the finals against River Plate. While at the club, he was also selected for the Bola de Prata (Campeonato Brasileiro team of the year) three times, in 1975, 1979 and 1980. In total, he had 411 appearances with Cruzeiro, and scored 105 goals. Nelinho managed Cruzeiro in 1994.\n\nAfter a brief spell at Grêmio, where he won a Campeonato Gaúcho, Nelinho returned to Belo Horizonte to play for Cruzeiro's rivals Atlético Mineiro in 1982. He spent the rest of his career at the club, where he won four more Campeonato Mineiros and was awarded with the Bola de Prata once more in 1983. He also coached the club in 1993.\n\nNelinho was capped 28 times by Brazil, between April 1974 and June 1980, and scored eight international goals. He won a Taça do Atlântico with the \"Seleção\", and was part of the squad in two Copa Américas.\n\nNelinho played three matches in the 1974 FIFA World Cup and four in the 1978 FIFA World Cup, and scored one of the most stunning goals in World Cup history, in the third place match against Italy in 1978: from the right side of the pitch, he struck the ball into the far corner of the goal with the outside of his right foot, bending it around the sprawling Dino Zoff.\n\nAfter retiring from football, Nelinho joined Brazil's Democratic Labour Party and was elected State Deputy of Minas Gerais in 1987. After a period of involvement with politics, he returned briefly to football and managed Atlético Mineiro in 1993 and Cruzeiro in 1994. In 2005, Nelinho worked as pundit for TV Globo and SporTV, and currently owns a health club in Belo Horizonte.\n\nCruzeiro\nGrêmio\nAtlético Mineiro\n\nBrazil\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053823", "title": "State Anthem of Coahuila", "text": "State Anthem of Coahuila\n\nThe State Anthem of Coahuila was published in 2003 by the government of Enrique Martínez y Martínez. It was composed by José Luis Ulloa Pedroza.\n"}
{"id": "2053824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053824", "title": "Fountain Valley School of Colorado", "text": "Fountain Valley School of Colorado\n\nFountain Valley School of Colorado is a private, co-educational independent college preparatory school for students in the 9th through 12th grades. The school's primary campus is located on of rolling prairie at the base of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado Springs, Colorado. The school also owns and utilizes a 40-acre Mountain Campus located near Buena Vista.\n\nFVS is a member of the Association of Boarding Schools, or TABS, and is home to the Gardner Carney Leadership Institute for teaching professionals.\n\nFVS was founded in 1930 by Elizabeth Sage Hare, a wealthy New York native who moved to Colorado Springs in 1927 in hopes that the fresh air would help heal her husband's tuberculosis (see tuberculosis treatment in Colorado Springs). Hare dreamed of creating \"a great progressive school in the West\" in the tradition of prestigious schools in the East, such as Avon Old Farms in Connecticut. With the help of Colorado Springs entrepreneur and philanthropist Spencer Penrose, she convinced the school's first headmaster, Francis Mitchell Froelicher to come west to start the school. \n\nHare commissioned architect John Gaw Meem to use the Pueblo Revival Style architecture model for its design. The site chosen for the school was a large ranch, known as Lazy B Ranch, belonging to Palm Beach polo enthusiast Jack Bradley. The school's first building was Bradley's spectacular 1927 home, designed by Adison Mizner. The house was known as Casa Serena, and was surrounded by a polo field, stables, and some small residences for ranch hands. Hare purchased the Lazy B and all of its amenities for $150,000 in November 1929. \n\nThe school opened as a boarding school for boys in September 1930. Original faculty members included F. Martin Brown, who taught science, Alexander S. Campbell (English), Roswell C. Josephs and Robert C. Langdon (mathematics), Ernest Kitson (music), C. Dwight Perry (French), Boardman Robinson (art), and Froelicher himself, who taught history. Early funders, in addition to Hare and Penrose, included Ruth Hanna McCormick Simms, Lucile Alsop, Hagner Holme and Alfred Cowles.\n\nThe school has had only seven headmasters and one head of school in its 80+ year history: Froelicher (1930–1950), Henry B. Poor (1951–1958), Lewis Perry Jr. (1958–1978), Timothy Knox (1978–1987), Eric S. Waples (1987–1995), John E. Creeden (1995–2007), Craig T. Larimer (Class of 1969 graduate; 2007-2013), and current head of school William V. Webb.\n\nDuring the 2010–2011 academic year, FVS enrolled 260 students, 173 of whom were boarding students and 87 of whom were day students. 48% were male and 52% were female. They hailed from 27 different states and 19 different countries, and 22% of them claimed permanent residence in a nation other than the United States. International students during the 2000s came from diverse countries and regions, including China, Germany, Great Britain, Bulgaria, Hungary, Macedonia, Spain, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Mexico, Canada, Guatemala, Russia and Australia. 36% of students received some form of financial aid.\n\nIn 2010-2011, the school employed 47 faculty members, 36 of whom were full-time, 27 of whom lived on campus, and 70% of whom held advanced degrees in their field.\n\nFVS is home to a world-class equestrian program and a spectacular 60-horse herd. Both English and Western riding programs are available, and students compete in everything from gymkhana to hunter-jumper shows. The school has a rich, nearly 80-year history in Western riding and has garnered numerous national awards. Since the inception of the English riding program in 2003, student teams won an Interscholastic Equestrian Association national title in 2007 and 2010.\n\nThe outdoor education program and the Western Immersion Program (WIP) are parts of the school curriculum and utilize the Mountain Campus throughout the school year. The outdoor education program sponsors overnight and day trips to the campus, and allows students to participate in rock climbing, mountain biking, and other mountain pursuits in place of a traditional NCAA sport or other extracurricular activity.\n\nWIP was established in 1996 to allow 10th graders to utilize the Western landscape for an interdisciplinary study experience. The sophomores head to the Mountain Campus every October to learn how the Western environment shaped the people, history, culture and region. The Mountain Campus also hosts student ski trips, biking trips and other outdoor adventures throughout the year.\n\nThe school sponsored 33 competitive athletic teams during the 2010-11 school year. Offerings include cross country, field hockey, golf, tennis, volleyball, basketball, swimming and diving, ice hockey, skiing and snowboarding, lacrosse, soccer, and track and field, in addition to the previously mentioned equestrian program and climbing and outdoor education programs.\n\nStudents interested in the performing arts can participate in any of the school's three annual productions, including the winter musical. The music program includes instruction in vocal and instrumental disciplines, with opportunities to participate in concerts, small ensemble performances and in statewide honor choirs and bands. The school also has a digital film studio.\n\nThe school's Bedford Gallery hosts two student art exhibits each year to showcase art such as painting, ceramics and jewelry making.\n\nIn 2010, FVS offered more than 70 courses, including 19 Advanced Placement courses. Courses include everything from AP Government to photography to a popular course devoted exclusively to the study of Shakespeare. \n\nEvery night, Sunday through Thursday, boarding students are required to attend study hall from 7-10 pm where they are required to attend to their work. The first hour is \"closed study hour\" where students work quietly and independently. After a half-hour break, the rest of study hall is \"open\" and students have the option of quiet study time, group study, project work or faculty meetings.\n\nStudents live in four residence halls that are composed of 10 houses (five boys' and five girls' houses). A house typically includes eight student rooms, a common area, kitchen and dining area, computer area, bathrooms and laundry facilities, as well as the houseparent's office and residence.\n\nTwo days in a six-day rotation, the students and all faculty and staff join in the Lewis Perry Jr. Chapel to attend \"All-School,\" which is when announcements, events, and performances are made. Senior students have the opportunity to share a meaningful presentation with the community during this time as well.\n\nStudents also participate in the annual interim program, which occurs during the first week of spring break. Interims allow students to explore their passions through experiential education. Past interim programs have included trips to foreign nations, such as China, Israel, the Baja Peninsula, France, the Bahamas, Great Britain, and Peru, as well as domestic trips such as \"The American Deep South\" and \"Photography in Canon de Chelly.\" All freshmen participate in a locally based interim, through which they explore Colorado's rich history in ranching, mining, and pioneering.\n\n\n\n[[Category:High schools in Colorado Springs, Colorado]]\n[[Category:Educational institutions established in 1930]]\n[[Category:Private high schools in Colorado]]\n[[Category:Preparatory schools in Colorado]]"}
{"id": "2053831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053831", "title": "Progenitor", "text": "Progenitor\n\nIn genealogy, the progenitor (rarer: primogenitor; or \"Ahnherr\") is the – sometimes legendary – founder of a family, line of descent, clan or tribe, noble house or people group. Genealogy (commonly known as family history) understands a progenitor to be the earliest recorded ancestor of a consanguineous family group of descendants. \n\nProgenitors are sometimes used to describe the status of a genealogical research project, or in order to compare the availability of genealogical data in different times and places. Often, progenitors are implied to be patrilineal. If a patrilineal dynasty is considered, each such dynasty has exactly one progenitor.\n\nAristocratic and dynastic families often look back to an ancestor who is seen as the founder and progenitor of their house (i.e. family line). Even the old Roman legal concept of agnates (Latin for \"descendants\") was based on the idea of the unbroken family line of a progenitor, but only includes male members of the family, whilst the women were referred to as \"cognatic\".\n\nIt is rarely possible to confirm biological parenthood, however, (see bastardy) in the case of ancient family lines. In addition, the progenitor is often a distant ancestor, only known as a result of oral tradition. Where people groups and communities rely solely on a patrilinear family line, their common ancestor often became the subject of a legend surrounding the origin of the family. By contrast, families and peoples with a matrilinear history trace themselves back to an original female progenitrix. Matrilinear rules of descent are found in about 200 of the 1300 known indigenous peoples and ethnic groups worldwide, whilst around 600 have patrilineal rules of descent (from father to son).\n\nIn the mythological beliefs of the Romans the god of war, Mars, was viewed as the progenitor of the Romans; which is why the Mars symbol (♂, a shield and spear), is used to refer to the male sex. Besides cities and countries, people groups may also have a progenitor (often a god) in their mythologies, for example, the Hellenistic Greeks look back to Hellen as their progenitor. In Indian Hinduism \"Manu\" is the progenitor of all mankind. In the Abrahamic religions, Adam, Noah, Abraham and others are described as progenitors (see also Biblical patriarchy).\n\nIn archaeogenetics (archaeological genetics), a human Y-chromosomal Adam has been named as the most recent common ancestor from whom all currently living people are descended patrilinearly. This Adam lived in Africa at a time variously estimated from 60,000 to 338,000 years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053847", "title": "Sulphur Mountain Cosmic Ray Station", "text": "Sulphur Mountain Cosmic Ray Station\n\nSulphur Mountain Cosmic Ray Station, a National Historic Site of Canada found atop Sulphur Mountain in Banff National Park, commemorates Canada's participation in the International Geophysical Year, during 1957 to 1958. Canada constructed nine sites to study cosmic rays, but this site in particular was the most important due to its higher elevation. The National Research Council constructed a laboratory at the site in the winter of 1956-57. The building was not visible from the Banff townsite as a condition of its construction.\n\nThe station was run by Dr. B. G. Wilson with the help of two assistants and was equipped with a standard IGY neutron monitor. The national research council maintained its operation until 1960 when the University of Calgary took over its operations and Dr. Wilson found a permanent position there. An improved NM64 neutron monitor was installed in 1963 but the IGY monitor continued to operate until 1972. The station ceased operations in 1978 and the building was dismantled in 1981. In 1982 it was designated as a National Historic Site. A plaque now marks the spot of the station's location.\n"}
{"id": "2053849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053849", "title": "June 18 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 18 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 17 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 19\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 1 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 18th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 5.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2053854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053854", "title": "HMS Terror (I03)", "text": "HMS Terror (I03)\n\nHMS \"Terror\" was an \"Erebus\"-class monitor built for the Royal Navy during the First World War in Belfast. Completed in 1916, she was assigned to the Dover Patrol where her primary duties involved bombarding German targets on the Belgian coast, particularly at the ports of Zeebrugge and Ostend. In October 1917 \"Terror\" was hit by three torpedoes, taking severe damage to the bow and had to be towed into Portsmouth for repair. In April 1918 she participated in the Zeebrugge raid and provided gunnery support for the Fifth Battle of Ypres in September of the same year.\n\nAfter the war the monitor was attached to HMS \"Excellent\", the Royal Navy's gunnery school in Portsmouth and participated in gunnery trials in the 1920s. In January 1934 \"Terror\" became the base ship at Sembawang Naval Base in Singapore where she remained for the rest of the decade. From May 1939 to the end of the year she underwent an extensive refit in Singapore's dockyards.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Second World War and the completion of her refit, \"Terror\" was ordered home to Europe in January 1940. From early March the monitor served in the Mediterranean where she defended Malta from Italian air raids before supporting the land-based assault of Italian positions in North Africa at the end of the year. In January 1941 the ship assisted with the capture of Bardia and Tobruk before she attempted to defend Benghazi from German air attacks in February. Suffering damage from two air attacks and two mines on 22 and 23 February, \"Terror\" was scuttled off the coast of Libya in the early hours of 24 February. The crew were evacuated to the minesweeper and corvette prior to her sinking.\n\nDuring the First World War, the Royal Navy developed several classes of ships which were designed to give close support to troops ashore through the use of naval bombardment. Termed monitors, they owed little to the monitors of the 19th century, though they shared the characteristics of poor seaworthiness, shallow draught and heavy armament in turrets. The size of the various monitor classes of the Royal Navy and their armaments varied greatly. The was the United Kingdom's first attempt at a monitor carrying guns. Following construction of the first two of the \"Marshall Ney\"-class, another four were ordered in May 1915, with the Harland and Wolff shipyard at Govan receiving a contract to construct two hulls, which were given yard numbers 492 and 493. However, all four were cancelled in June when it was realised that there were insufficient gun turrets to complete both the battleship, , and the monitors before 1917.\n\nBy August 1915, , the first of her class, had revealed a very poor performance in her sea trials. The monitor's engines would not start reliably and were prone to stalling, making it impossible for the ship to achieve even the minimum standard for the trial of four hours of continuous sailing at full power. The vessel was also difficult to steer. Disappointed by the failure, the Admiralty began the design of a replacement class on 6 September, which incorporated lessons learned from all of the previous classes of monitor commissioned during the war. Some of the main modifications were an increase in the power supply to guarantee a speed of and a change to the angles and lines of the hull to improve steering. Another significant change was to raise the top of the anti-torpedo bulge above the waterline and reduce its width; both changes would improve the stability and maneuverability of the ship at sea. The bulge was fitted along each side of the ship and was intended to absorb the impact of any explosions. To maintain protection while reducing the bulge's width, its inner compartment was made water tight and filled with 70 steel tubes, rather than leaving the inner compartment open to the sea as in previous designs.\n\nThe new design, which would later be named the \"Erebus\"-class, was for a vessel long, wide with a draught of . It would have loaded displacement, with a maximum operational speed of produced by triple-expansion steam engines with two shafts, and a crew of 204. Power would be provided by four Babcock & Wilcox water-tube boilers, which would generate a combined . The monitors would have an operational range of at a speed of 12knots. \n\nThe ships would be armoured to a similar standard to the , which were launched in April 1915. Deck armour would range from on the forecastle, through on the upper deck and over the magazine and belt. With the main 15 in guns being originally intended for use on a battleship, the armour for the turret was substantially thicker than elsewhere in the design; with on the front, on the other sides and on the roof. The main gun's barbette would be protected by of armour. The conning tower was protected by of armour on the sides and on the roof. Each anti-torpedo bulge was wide with an outer air-filled compartment wide and an inner compartment wide containing the steel tubes.\n\nOrders for two vessels of the new design were placed with Harland and Wolff on 29 September with reinstated yard numbers 492 and 493, which were renamed respectively and \"Terror\" on 13 October. \"Terror\" was laid down at Harland and Wolff's shipyard in Belfast on 26 October 1915 and launched on 18 May 1916.\n\nThe ship's main armament consisted of two BL 15in Mk I naval guns in a single forward turret. \"Terror's\" turret had previously been installed on \"Marshal Ney\", which had been rearmed with smaller guns following its poor sea trials. Learning from the earlier experience with \"Ney\", the turrets were adjusted to increase elevation to 30 degrees, which would add greater firing range. Unlike her sister, \"Terror\" was launched with a minimal secondary armament of one anti-aircraft gun and two \"12-pounder\" 3-inch (76 mm) guns.\n\n\"Terror\" was commissioned on 22 July 1916 before conducting sea trials, during which the ship was slower than her sister at compared to for \"Erebus\". However, under service conditions the maximum speed that could be achieved for both vessels was with a clean hull or with a fouled hull. \"Terror\" was recorded as officially completed on 6 August.\n\nWithin a few months of launch, \"Terror's\" armament was supplemented by two QF 6-inch naval guns with a second 3in gun following soon after. Additional guns were fitted while her bow was being repaired from October 1917; two more 6in guns and two 2 pdr (40 mm) \"pom-poms\", which fired projectiles. In the summer of 1918 the 6in guns were replaced with eight BL 4in Mk IX naval guns. During the early 1920s, the monitor's armaments were modified temporarily while the ship took part in gunnery trials to test new types of shells and armour.\n\nThe 12pdr and 2pdr guns were removed during \"Terror's\" 1933 refit while the ship's capacity for oil and ammunition reserves were increased for her journey to Singapore. During the monitor's 1939 refit her eight 4-inch guns were replaced with six QF 4-in Mk V high-angle anti-aircraft guns and the 3in anti-aircraft guns were replaced by eight Vickers machine guns in two quadruple mounts. At the same time, her ageing 15in gun barrels were replaced by partly worn barrels from the old battleship . At Malta in 1940 \"Terror\" had a further refit to increase her armour to 4in on the upper and main deck along with additional plating on her sides.\n\n On completion, \"Terror\" immediately departed Belfast and joined the Dover Patrol on 8 August. In August and September she joined with other members of the patrol to bombard minor targets in occupied Belgium. However, the new monitor only fired a small number of shots, as it was felt wiser to conserve her guns for more important targets. On 24 September the ship made an attempt to bombard the port of Zeebrugge but this was soon aborted when the weather conditions prevented the accurate observation of the fall of shot and any subsequent correction of trajectory. Poor weather conditions continued for the rest of 1916 and the patrol made no further attempts that year to bombard the Belgian coast. During the winter of 1916 and 1917, \"Terror\" acted as a guard ship for merchant vessels anchored at The Downs, following a spate of attacks by German destroyers.\n\nIn early 1917, \"Terror\" and the rest of the patrol made several aborted attempts to bombard the lock gates of the Bruges Canal at Zeebrugge but the operation had to be postponed each time. Reasons for postponement included snapped towlines and poor weather conditions. The operation eventually commenced on the evening of 11 May with \"Terror\" acting as flagship for Vice-Admiral Reginald Bacon. The flotilla anchored off Zeebrugge and began their bombardment at around 05:00 on 12 May, with the monitors and \"Terror\" concentrating on the south lock gate and her sister ship \"Erebus\" concentrating on the north gate. Poor visibility and problems with spotting aircraft meant that the fall of shot couldn't be fully observed or their trajectories corrected. The German shore battery began to return fire but ceased after four rounds due to the same poor visibility, enhanced by a British smoke screen. The British bombardment was called off at 06:00 due to a change in the wind direction clearing their smoke screen and making their ships visible from the shore. The flotilla withdrew to Dover, in the mistaken belief that their bombardment had been successful. Subsequent aerial reconnaissance revealed damage to the surrounding area but the lock gates, the primary targets, were untouched.\n\nA bombardment of Ostend on 5 June by \"Erebus\" and \"Terror\" was more successful, destroying or damaging several vessels and damaging the dockyard. The port's floating docks were not affected by the June attack and remained operational until a subsequent bombardment by \"Terror\" on 22 September caused severe damage to both the dockyard and the floating docks.\n\nOn 19 October, in an encounter with three German coastal torpedo boats (\"A59\", \"A60\" and \"A61\") off Dunkirk, \"Terror\" was hit by three torpedoes. Two impacted towards the front of the ship on the starboard side, where the anti-torpedo bulge curved inwards towards the bow, blowing away a large proportion of the first of the bow below the waterline. The third torpedo hit the main section of the anti-torpedo bulge further aft, which absorbed the damage. There were no casualties and the ship was beached before being refloated and towed into Dunkirk harbour for temporary repairs. Interrupted by Germain air raids and the rising tide, the repair crew opted to leave the holes in the bow substantially open and focused instead on reinforcing the bulkheads.\n\nThe refloating and repairs were overseen by John Iron, a civillian sea captain and harbourmaster of Dover, who was appointed by Bacon as the patrol's salvage expert. On 21 October, Iron guided the monitor across the strait to Dover but grew concerned about the pressure exerted on the bulkheads. For the next leg of the journey to Portsmouth, Iron advised \"Terror's\" commanding officer, Captain Bruton, to sail the ship stern-first. This would reduce pressure on the bulkheads and also prevent steering problems caused by an incomplete bow. Bruton refused the advice and ordered two tug boats to tow the ship bow-first. The monitor departed Dover on the evening of 23 October but encountered rough seas off Hastings at around midnight; the bow began to take on water and the ability to steer deteriorated. Bruton ordered the tugs to turn \"Terror\" around so the stern would face into the waves but the manoeuvre failed and the monitor was left wallowing with its broadside to the waves. As the ship continued to take on water, the pressure on the tow lines increased, causing one to snap at around 03:00. With the monitor now being held by a line to a single tug boat and continuing to sink, Bruton ordered the crew to evacuate. \n\nBy 08:00 the weather had calmed. The crew were able to reboard \"Terror\" and brought the monitor back into Dover harbour. During the second attempt to reach Portsmouth on 27 October, Bruton again refused to sail the ship backwards but changed his mind after Iron threatened to leave the ship. She was then towed backwards to Portsmouth, where it took until early January to repair the damage. A Court of Inquiry was called into the 23 October abandonment but focused on events during the journey rather than the initial decision to sail bow-first. Bacon supported Bruton's decision to leave the vessel and Iron was not called to give evidence. The inquiry absolved Bruton and his officers of any blame over the incident.\nOn the morning of 21 March 1918 the monitor helped foil a German raid on Dunkirk by nine destroyers and ten torpedo boats, which had been intended to support the Spring Offensive. Two of the torpedo boats were destroyed by the flotilla leader \"Botha\" and the rest withdrew to Ostend under a smoke screen. On the evening of 22 March \"Terror\" bombarded Ostend harbour, firing 39 shots before a German smoke screen obscured the harbour from view. Aerial photographs taken the next day revealed that all 39 shots had landed within the target area. In April, \"Terror\" was in the Long Range Bombardment force for the Zeebrugge raid with \"Erebus\" and destroyers \"Termagant\", \"Truculent\", and . \n\nIn September, in preparation for a further offensive, \"Terror\" had her 15in gun barrels replaced. Having fired around 340 rounds, it was felt they had become worn and were in no condition to support a prolonged battle. On 27 September, \"Terror\" and \"Erebus\" provided gunnery support for the Fifth Battle of Ypres; their objective being to bombard positions around Zeebrugge and Ostend, with the aim of diverting German attention from other fronts.\n\nAfter the war \"Terror\" was attached to HMS \"Excellent\", the Royal Navy gunnery school at Portsmouth, from January 1919 until at least December 1920.\n\nIn 1919 and the early 1920s, she was used for gunnery trials against several old warships including and . This included the test firing of over thirty new types of 15in shells in 1921 and testing the amount of damage caused to new types of armour plating in 1922. For many of these trials \"Terror\" was temporarily fitted with new guns of varying sizes, including a BL 6in Mk XII naval gun. From May 1924 until 1933 the monitor was again attached to \"Excellent\", this time in the role of turret drill ship.\n\nAs a result of increased tensions in the Pacific Ocean, following Japan's withdrawal from the League of Nations, \"Terror\" was overhauled and recommissioned with new armaments before being dispatched to Singapore in 1933. Her role was to assist in the development of the Sembawang Naval Base and act initially as a moored battery until the base's own 15in guns were completed. \n\nShe departed Plymouth on 9 October 1933, in company with the trawler \"Fastnet\" and the barrage vessel \"Sandgate\", to begin the journey to the Far East. Never designed for such an arduous journey the ships struggled with storms in the Atlantic and Mediterranean. \"Fastnet\" was damaged twice during the voyage, spending three weeks in the dockyard at Gibraltar and receiving a temporary patch at Sabang in Sumatra to allow it to limp the short distance to Singapore. \"Terror\" also had an adventure while passing through the Suez Canal; a tow rope was cast off too soon, causing the ship to swing broadside across the channel with the bow and stern touching either bank. However, no damage was caused and she was quickly refloated to resume her journey.\n\n\"Terror\" arrived at Singapore on the evening of 14 January 1934 along with the heavy cruiser , flagship of the China Station, destroyers and and the aircraft carrier . A local paper described the monitor's journey from England with \"Fastnet\" as a \"waddle,\" pointing out that two destroyers had passed them at Gibraltar and arrived in Singapore in November.\n\nIn May 1935, to celebrate the silver jubilee of King George V, \"Terror\" was opened to the public of Singapore to host a charity ball.\n\nIn 1937 the monitor participated in gunnery trials alongside Singapore's newly completed 15in guns, in order to develop the shore defences' capabilities with indirect fire. Both \"Terror\" and the shore batteries practised against a target towed at high speed by the heavy cruiser . In January and March 1939 \"Terror\" participated in live fire drills off the coast of Singapore, before entering drydock in May for an extensive refit.\n\nIn May 1939 the Colonial Office suggested moving \"Terror\" to the West Indies in order to protect the oil fields of Trinidad from growing internal threats, such as an emboldened labour movement and anti-colonial sentiment in the region. However, the Admiralty declined the request, as a floating battery would not be able to offer the required protection and would itself be at considerable risk of submarine attack. They instead ordered a review of Trinidad's naval defence requirements. Alternative postings for \"Terror\" at Aden or Trincomalee were also considered.\n\nAt the outbreak of war on 3 September 1939, \"Terror\" was continuing her refit at Singapore, under the command of Commander Henry John Haynes. She received orders to return to the English Channel in November but didn't depart Singapore until 29 January 1940, after completing her long refit. The monitor arrived at Suez in early March where her orders were changed to attach the ship to the depleted Mediterranean fleet. \n\nAt the end of the month she left the Royal Navy base at Alexandria to lend the strength of her guns to Malta, which the British felt was vulnerable to an expected Italian attack. In particular, \"Terror's\" 15in main guns were far superior to the island's guns. Arriving at Malta on 4 April, she was present for the Italian declaration of war on 10 June and the first air attacks on the island by the \"Regia Aeronautica\", beginning just before 7 am on 11 June. In the first day alone the island was hit by 9 separate air raids and an estimated 83 in the first month. For three months the monitor helped to defend Malta from daily air attacks until the arrival of additional anti-aircraft guns allowed a refit of her armour to begin on 4 September.\n\nOn 9 November \"Terror\" sailed from Malta to the Royal Navy's refuelling base at Souda Bay in Crete to again provide anti-aircraft support. She was stationed in the bay on 3 December when two Italian aircraft dropped torpedoes into the harbour, one of which hit and badly damaged the stern of the light cruiser .\n\n\"Terror\" later moved to North Africa where she supported Operation Compass, the British assault against the Italian Tenth Army in Libya. The monitor shelled Italian positions at Maktila in Egypt on the night of 8 December, as part of the Battle of Sidi Barrani, before coming under the command of Captain Hector Waller's Inshore Squadron off Libya on 13 December. During the successful advance by the Western Desert Force \"Terror\" bombarded Italian land forces and fortifications, amongst others the fortified port of Bardia in eastern Libya on 16 December. After the Bardia bombardment concern was raised about the condition of the 15in gun barrels which had been fitted, having been previously used, in 1939. The barrels were inspected by Vice Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham and the order was given for \"Terror\" to reduce the amount of cordite used when firing the main guns, in an attempt to extend the weapons' useful life.\n\nIn a further attempt to conserve the monitor's main guns, her duties were changed to concentrate on providing anti-aircraft cover for the rest of the squadron and to ferry supplies from Alexandria. The ship also served as a water carrier for the advancing British and Commonwealth army.\n\nOn the morning of 3 January 1941, she participated in a major bombardment of Bardia together with a number of battleships and their destroyer escorts. The formation was protected by a screen of fighters; No. 274 Squadron RAF intercepted five Italian Savoia-Marchetti SM.79 bombers that were attacking \"Terror\" nine miles to the north east of Bardia. Three of the bombers were shot down or crashed and a fourth was damaged. The battleships, the destroyers and their fighter cover were withdrawn in the afternoon leaving the monitor to continue the bombardment with the gunboats \"Aphis\" and \"Ladybird\". Bardia was captured the following day.\n\nAlong with the flotilla leader \"Stuart\", the gunboat \"Gnat\" and the destroyers \"Vampire\" and \"Voyager\", \"Terror\" supported the assault on Tobruk on 21 January by the 6th Australian Division with the port being secured on 22nd. By this point the monitor's main gun barrels had each fired over 600 rounds of ammunition and the rifling had been worn away. While the main guns could still be fired, the shots would rarely land accurately and frequently exploded in mid-air. \"Terror\" was now relegated solely to the role of a mobile anti-aircraft platform and her armaments were supplemented by eight anti-aircraft guns that had been captured from the Italians.\n\nIn early February the British and Commonwealth forces captured the port of Benghazi from the Italians after the Battle of Beda Fomm. Intending to use the port as a key supply point for their armies, the allies recognised that the shortage of anti-aircraft guns, lack of radar and limited air cover from the RAF was a strategic weakness that would have to be addressed. However, the capture of the port coincided with the arrival of the Luftwaffe in North Africa as the advance forces of Operation Sonnenblume. The Germans immediately began an intense series of air raids against both Benghazi and Tobruk, which included the dropping of magnetic mines into the harbours. \nThe minesweeper cleared a safe channel into Benghazi harbour before the arrival of \"Terror\" on 17 February and a supply convoy the day after. While \"Peony\" made steady progress in clearing the harbour, work was slow due to the shallow waters reducing the effectiveness of her degaussing equipment. As part of this work, a team from \"Peony\" safely detonated a mine close to \"Terror's\" mooring. Despite the monitor's efforts to protect the harbour using her anti-aircraft guns, the convoy was unable to offload the majority of its cargo due to the frequent air attacks and sailed on to Tobruk on 20 February. \"Terror\" remained in port together with the minesweeper \"Fareham\" and corvette \"Salvia\" to protect the naval parties clearing the harbour. \n\n\"Terror\" was subjected to continued bombing attacks while in harbour and a near miss early on 22 February caused significant damage and flooding of the decks. Haynes protested the lack of air support to Cunningham along with the dangers of remaining at anchor, stating that it was only a matter of time before \"Terror\" received a direct hit. Accepting this assessment, Cunningham ordered the ship to sail for Tobruk on the evening tide with \"Fareham\" and \"Salvia\". As they were exiting the harbour the monitor triggered two magnetic mines in the previously cleared channel; although again not a direct hit, the explosions in close proximity caused further damage and flooding. On the evening of 23 February she was attacked once more by German Junkers Ju 87 \"Stuka\" dive-bombers from III/StG 2 under the command of Helmut Mahlke. The \"gruppe\", which had been initially set up as an anti-shipping unit by the Kriegsmarine, had been drafted in to attack shipping in the vicinity. The attack occurred while the ship was from Tobruk; the near misses of this final assault leaving the ship critically damaged. Further floodwater disabled the electric generators and pumps and extinguished the boiler furnaces. The majority of the crew were evacuated to \"Fareham\" and \"Salvia\" with a skeleton crew of officers and anti-aircraft gunners remaining on board to operate the ship. \"Terror\" was taken under tow by \"Fareham\" in an attempt to reach Tobruk and additional ships were scrambled from Alexandria and Tobruk. However, the monitor continued to take on water and it was accepted that she would never reach port. \"Terror\" was scuttled through the opening of the seacocks and the use of depth charges on the morning of 24 February, to the north west of Derna. The remaining crew were evacuated successfully.\n\nFollowing the sinking, Commander Haynes was awarded the Distinguished Service Order in August 1941 for \"courage, skill and devotion to duty in operations off the Libyan Coast.\" A number of the other officers and crew were awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, Distinguished Service Medal or mentioned in dispatches for the same reason.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053866", "title": "Vince Lloyd", "text": "Vince Lloyd\n\nVince Lloyd Skaff (June 1, 1917 – July 3, 2003), who worked under the name Vince Lloyd, was a radio announcer for Major League Baseball's Chicago Cubs for over 30 years. He also was the first radio voice in Chicago Bulls history.\n\nLloyd was born in Beresford, South Dakota, and after graduating from Yankton College in 1940 started his career with a number of local radio stations around the Midwest. He served in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War II.\n\nDuring the 1950s, Lloyd was the sidekick to Jack Brickhouse on Cubs and Chicago White Sox television broadcasts, during a time when WGN-TV covered both teams' home games and selected road games. When Cubs radio play-by-play man Jack Quinlan died in an auto accident during spring training, in 1965, Lloyd was promoted to that position and Lloyd Pettit was brought in to back up Brickhouse.\n\nLloyd then began a more than 20-year radio run partnered with Hall of Fame shortstop Lou Boudreau.\n\nVarious announcers have punctuated particularly exciting moments during a game with the exclamation \"Holy...\" something: Harry Caray and Phil Rizzuto invoked \"Holy cow!\" Milo Hamilton's was \"Holy Toledo!\" For a while, Lloyd was known for \"Holy mackerel!\" During the 1970s, a fan sent the broadcasting team a cowbell, and when a Cubs player would hit a home run, Lloyd and Boudreau would ring the bell as Lloyd proclaimed, \"It's a bell-ringer!\"\n\nVince Lloyd was also the first baseball announcer to interview a current US president on TV, when he spoke to John F. Kennedy during the White Sox TV pre-game show for the traditional Washington, D.C. season opener, at Griffith Stadium on April 10, 1961.\n\nIn the 1966–67 season, Lloyd teamed with Boudreau on Bulls' broadcasts for WGN Radio. He also was the voice of the Chicago Bears, Chicago Fire and Big Ten football and pro wrestling.\n\nLloyd died of stomach cancer on July 3, 2003, in Green Valley, Arizona.\n"}
{"id": "2053869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053869", "title": "Phoenix College", "text": "Phoenix College\n\nPhoenix College (PC) is a public community college in Encanto, Phoenix. Founded in 1920, it is one of the oldest community colleges in the country.\n\nThe college was originally a part of the Phoenix Union High School and Junior College District (now Phoenix Union High School District), and was known as Phoenix Junior College (PJC). PC became a part of the Maricopa County Community College District in 1960, and is now considered the flagship campus of one of the largest community college systems in the world.\n\nPhoenix College consists of the main campus in Midtown Phoenix, as well as a downtown campus located in the central business district of Phoenix.\n\nPhoenix College offers over 200 degree and certificate programs. PC also offers training geared towards professional community/business development and general interest. PC is also home of the Student Services Institute.\n\nPhoenix College has 7 sports teams competing in the NJCAA. The women's softball team has won the NJCAA National Women's Softball Division II Championships eight times (2000, 2001, 2004-2008, 2012). The school has also won NJCAA championships in baseball (1960, 1962, 1965), men's track and field (1964, 1965, 1966), wrestling (1967–68, 1968–69), men's golf (1964), football (1964), and women's cross country (1985). In 1980 PC won national team championships in women's and mixed archery (two-year college division). Women's archery also won national titles in 1933 and 1934. The Maricopa Community College District elected in February 2018 to eliminate all football programs associated with its schools. Programs cut included those at Scottsdale Community College, Glendale Community College, Mesa Community College and Phoenix College's own program.\n\nAlumni include two Miss Americas (1949 and 1964) and two Arizona governors (Wesley Bolin and Jack Richard Williams). Other prominent alumni include film star Nick Nolte, Tony Award-winning actor Stephen Spinella, actor Peter Billingsley, daytime television star Jaime Lyn Bauer, Pop/Rhythm & Blues singer CeCe Peniston, artist Eric Fischl, Mixed Martial artists UFC veteran Homer Moore, AAGPBL pioneer Charlotte Armstrong. Investigative journalist Ron Ridenhour, who exposed the My Lai Massacre, attended Phoenix College before being drafted into military service in Vietnam in 1967. Politicians who attended the college include State Senator Juan Mendez and Democrat fund-raiser Ed Buck.\n\nSeveral former football players have played in the National Football League including Fred Carr, Bob Wallace, Eugene Jackson, Lyn Larsen, Damon Sheehy-Guiseppi, Tory Nixon, Andy Livingston, and \"Scooter\" Molander. Dennis Layton played for the National Basketball Association's Phoenix Suns and John Smith toured with the Harlem Globetrotters. Bears who have played Major League Baseball include Gary Gentry and Dave Rajsich.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053870", "title": "Charles Howell III", "text": "Charles Howell III\n\nCharles Gordon Howell III (born June 20, 1979) is an American professional golfer who currently plays on the PGA Tour. He has been featured in the top 15 of the Official World Golf Ranking and ranked 9th on the PGA Tour money list in 2002. Known as one of the most consistent players on tour, he has managed over 90 top-ten finishes in his career, has earned over 38 million dollars on placement and victory purses, and has 3 PGA Tour victories, his most recent in 2018. \n\nHowell was born and raised in Augusta, Georgia, the home town of the Masters Tournament. He was introduced to golf at age 7 by next-door neighbor, Graham Hill, with whom he is still friends. He was a member of Augusta Country Club, which is adjacent to Amen Corner at Augusta National Golf Club. Howell graduated from Westminster Schools of Augusta, and soon after attended Oklahoma State University, where he majored in Business Management. In 2000, he was a member of Oklahoma State's winning team and also the individual winner at the NCAA Division I Golf Championship with a record-setting 23-under-par performance. Also in 2000, he won the Haskins Award honoring the most outstanding collegiate golfer in the United States.\n\nHowell played in three professional events as an amateur. At the age of 17, Howell participated in his first PGA Tour event. He entered the Buick Challenge but missed the cut. The next year he missed the cut at the Canon Greater Hartford Open.\n\nHowell turned professional in 2000. He played in his first tournament as a professional at the Canon Greater Hartford Open on July 2. He finished tied in 32nd place. Howell finished in 3rd at the John Deere Classic in only his third event. Howell played in 13 events in 2000 and made 7 cuts. He earned $263,533 but did not have an official money list rank because he was not a full PGA Tour member.. He had his first career runner-up finishes on the Buy.com Tour at the Greensboro Open. \n\nHowell placed in the top-10 in two of his first four events of the 2001 season. In July at the Greater Milwaukee Open he lost to Shigeki Maruyama in a playoff. Howell also placed in 4th at the Reno-Tahoe Open and he finished in a tie for 3rd at the Michelob Championship at Kingsmill. Howell entered 24 events in 2001 and he made 20 cuts. Howell earned $1,520,632 and recorded five top-10 finishes. Just like in 2000, Howell did not have an official money list rank because he was not a full PGA Tour member. Due to his successful year, Howell won the PGA Tour Rookie of the Year award.\n\nAlso, in February Howell played in two European Tour events in Australia. He finished in a tie for 67th at the Heineken Classic and in a tie for 39th at the Greg Norman Holden International.\n\nHowell became a full PGA Tour member for the 2002 season. He had a strong start to the season by placing in the top-10 in three of his first five events. Howell won his first PGA Tour tournament at the Michelob Championship at Kingsmill in October. Four weeks later he finished in second at The Tour Championship. He finished 2 strokes behind champion Vijay Singh. Howell entered 32 events in 2002 and made 27 cuts. He recorded seven top-10 finishes. Howell earned $2,702,747 and finished 9th on the money list.\n\nEarly in the 2003 season, Howell lost in a playoff to Mike Weir at the Nissan Open. Howell recorded his best finish in a major at the PGA Championship in August. He finished tied for 10th place. Howell finished as the runner-up at The Tour Championship for the second year in a row. This time he finished 3 strokes behind Chad Campbell. Two weeks later Howell represented the United States in the Presidents Cup. The competition ended in a draw. Howell was paired with Tiger Woods for the foursomes and four-ball matches. His overall record at the competition was 3-2 including a match play victory over fellow young golfer Adam Scott. Howell defeated Scott by the score of 5&4. Howell entered 31 tournaments and made 29 cuts. He recorded six top-10s and earned $2,568,955. Howell finished in 14th on the money list.\n\nHowell's 2004 season did not go as well as previous ones. His best finished was a solo 2nd at the Booz Allen Classic in June. He finished 4 strokes behind Adam Scott. Howell shot a 61 (-10) in the 1st round which still stands as his lowest round in a PGA Tour tournament. Howell entered 30 tournaments and made 22 cuts. He recorded five top-10 finishes. He earned $1,703,485 and finished 33rd on the money list.\n\nHowell started off 2005 strong with top three finishes in consecutive weeks. He finished in a tie for 3rd at the Sony Open in Hawaii and in a tie for second at the Buick Invitational. Howell was not able to pick up a victory in 2005 but he recorded six top-10 finishes including five top 5 finishes. Howell entered 29 tournaments and made 21 cuts. He earned $2,074,329 and finished 29th on the money list.\n\nHowell did not have a very successful season in 2006. His only success was a tie for second at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans and a solo second at the 84 Lumber Classic. Howell entered 30 tournaments and made 20 cuts. He recorded three top-10 finishes and only five top 25 finishes. He earned $1,553,105 and finished in 52nd on the money list.\n\nHowell bounced back from his disappointing 2006 season with a successful 2007 season. He recorded two runner-up finishes in his first three tournaments. He finished in a tie for 2nd at the Sony Open in Hawaii and in solo second at the Buick Invitational. On February 18, 2007 Howell won his second PGA Tour event. He won the Nissan Open by defeating Phil Mickelson in a playoff. The next week Howell made it to the round of 16 at the 2007 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship. Two weeks later he finished in a tie for 6th at the PODS Championship. Howell did not enjoy much success after that. His best finish after the PODS Championship in March was at the WGC-CA Championship where he finished in a tie for 16th place. Howell entered the 2007 FedEx Cup Playoffs in 8th place in the points standings. He played in all 4 playoff tournaments. His best finish came at the BMW Championship where he finished in a tie for 18th place. Howell went on to finish in 18th place in the final FedEx Cup points standings. Howell has earned $2,832,091 in 2007 and is currently in 18th place on the money list. He has entered 26 tournaments, making 19 cuts. He has recorded five top-10 finishes. Howell also participated in the Presidents Cup in September. The United States won the competition and Howell was 2-2 in his matches. He won his singles match against Stuart Appleby by the score of 2&1.\n\nHowell recorded his worst finish on the money list in his career in 2008, finishing in 69th with $1,449,232. He finished tied for 8th in the first tournament of the year at the Mercedes-Benz Championship. His next top-10 finish came at the AT&T Classic in May where he finished tied for 8th. He led the tournament going into the final round but shot a 74 (+2) to lose the lead. Howell shared the lead going into the final round of the Turning Stone Resort Championship in October but ended up finishing tied for 3rd after shooting a 73 (+1). Howell made 22 of 31 cuts on the year while recording four top-10s, 12 top 25s and finishing 95th in the FedEx Cup standings.\n\nHowell started the 2009 season strong in January with a 4th-place finish in the Sony Open in Hawaii; three behind winner Zach Johnson. In March, Howell finished with a respectable T21 at the Puerto Rico Open. The next week, Howell had his best finish of the season by finishing T2 in the Transitions Championship. Howell was in position to win the tournament after the 14th hole, but subsequently bogeyed two of the last four holes to finish one stroke behind winner Retief Goosen. The week after the Transitions Championship, Howell finished T22 at the Arnold Palmer Invitational. At the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, Howell was again in position to win the tournament before bogeying two of the last four holes to finish two behind winner Jerry Kelly. Howell missed 6 cuts in 8 events from May to July. Howell recently made an instructional switch from David Leadbetter to Todd Anderson of the Sea Island Golf Club.\n\nHowell started the 2010 season strong posting top-10s in three of his first six tournaments, most notably a T-5 at the Sony Open in Hawaii. Howell had six top-10 finishes in 2010, while missing only 5 of 28 cuts. His best finish in 2010 was T-4 at the Waste Management Phoenix Open. He made $1,482,211.\n\n2011 was another consistent year for Howell. Howell's best finish of the year was a T-3, which happened twice in back to back weeks at the FedEx St. Jude Classic and the AT&T National tournaments. Howell had seven top-10 finishes in 2011 and qualified for the Tour Championship. He made $2,509,223.\n\nHowell only had two top-10 finishes in 2012: T2 at the Sony Open in Hawaii and T7 at the McGladrey Classic.\n\nHe changed coaches before the fall series to Gary Gilchrist.\n\nHowell had five top-10 finishes in 2013: T-3 at the Sony Open in Hawaii, playoff loss (T-2) at the Humana Challenge, T-9 at the Farmers Insurance Open, T-10 at the Shell Houston Open and T-10 at the Wells Fargo Championship. He finished 38th on the money list and 35th in the FedEx Cup.\n\nHowell had a good season in 2014 having six top-10 finishes and made 24 cuts. He finished T3 at the HP Byron Nelson Championship, T5 at the Shriners Hospitals for Children Open, T6 at the Waste Management Phoenix Open, T6 at the OHL Classic at Mayakoba, T7 at the CIMB Classic, and T8 at the Sony Open in Hawaii.\n\nHowell had another good season in 2015 having three top-10 finishes out of 23 cuts. He finished T5 at the Shell Houston Open, T5 at the Farmers Insurance Open, and T10 at the Valspar Championship. He finished T65 at the PGA Championship where he hadn't made the cut since 2011. He finished the end of 2015 being 77th on the money list and 79th on the FedEx Cup rankings.\n\nHowell had five top-10 finishes and earned $1,974,962 in the 2015–16 PGA Tour season. He made 21 cuts in 25 events. His best finish was T4 at the AT&T Byron Nelson. He finished 52nd in the FedEx Cup.\n\nHowell was the runner-up in the Farmers Insurance Open losing by three strokes to Jon Rahm. In July, he was a runner-up again, this time at the Quicken Loans National, losing in a playoff to Kyle Stanley. This took his tally of PGA Tour runner-up finishes to 16, and including one in the 2000 Buy.com Tour season, his career total is now 17. Howell finished 2017 with Tour earnings of $2,606,383, which was his highest in the last decade. The last time he earned at least that much was 2007, when he racked up $2,832,091, and it coincidentally was the year he won his last Tour title. Howell has now won at least $1,000,000 each season since his rookie year of 2001 (17 consecutive seasons), which is the second longest active streak on Tour, trailing only Phil Mickelson whose current streak started in 1996.\n\nHowell played in 28 events on the PGA Tour in the 2017–18 PGA Tour Season and made the cut in 24 of them. His best finish was a T4 in the OHL Classic at Mayakoba. He earned $2,179,725 and finished 53rd in the season-long FedEx Cup.\n\nOn November 18, 2018, Howell recorded his first win since 2007, defeating Patrick Rodgers on the second hole of a sudden-death playoff at the RSM Classic, and putting him at the top of the FedEx Cup standings going into the 2019 calendar year. This win gave him an exemption into the 2019 Masters Tournament in his hometown of Augusta, Georgia. He has not played in the Masters since 2012. This tournament was part of the 2018–19 PGA Tour season.\n\nHowell played in 27 events on the PGA Tour in the 2018–19 PGA Tour season and made the cut in 21 of them. His best finish was his win at the RSM Classic. He had 12 top-25 finishes. He earned $3,039,049 and finished 28th in the season-long FedEx Cup.\n\nHowell lives in Orlando, Florida with his wife, Heather (formerly Heather Myers), and their two children. Politically, Howell is a Republican though a \"fanatically moderate\" one.\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (2–4)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\"Results not in chronological order prior to 2015.\"\nCancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic<br>\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\nNT = no tournament<br>\n\"T\" = tied<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \"As of the 2019 season\"\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2053871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053871", "title": "Douglas Credit Party", "text": "Douglas Credit Party\n\nThe Douglas Credit Party was an Australian political party based on the Social Credit theory of monetary reform, first set out by C. H. Douglas. It gained its strongest result in Queensland in 1935, when it gained 7.02% of first preferences under the leadership of the psychiatrist Dr Julius Streeter. Streeter had returned to Australia in 1919 as a war hero after being a surgeon in the Battle of Ypres where he was injured by mustard gas.\n\nThe Australian followers of Social Credit were ambivalent about direct political action. Some felt the existing form of democracy, with its emphasis on parties of the \"left and right\", to be inimical to genuine representation of the people. A number of Social Crediters felt that parliamentarians should have a first loyalty to their constituents and not a greater loyalty to a particular party organisation. However, some followers entered directly into the political party fray, and others sought to influence the policies of existing political parties, especially the Australian Labor Party (ALP). However, not all supporters of the movement were involved with Labor. Charles North, the state president of the Western Australia branch of the movement during the 1930s, was a Nationalist Party member of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly.\n\nAt the height of the economic depression in the 1930s, advocates of Social Credit theory were successful in gaining majority conference support within the ALP for financial reform along the lines of that proposed by Social Credit theory. However, the policy was never put into practice by subsequent Labor governments. The party's strongest federal result was at the 1934 election, at which it gained 4.69% of the national lower house vote. The party did not win seats in either election. After Streeter's death in 1946, the party went into a terminal decline.\n\nDuring the 1960s, there were several attempts in Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales to revive the political fortunes of Social Credit. In South Australia, the \"Liberty League\" contested a few seats in federal elections but failed to gain many votes. At the 1961 federal election, three candidates – William Ward, Albert Lee and Kenneth Whiteman – unsuccessfully stood for the Senate in New South Wales. They polled about 15,000 primary votes across the State. Some support was gained in a few New South Wales federal electorates, notably the Labor-held seat of East Sydney and a few strong Labor seats in the Hunter Valley.\n\nAlso at the 1961 federal election, several candidates contested the poll under the banner of the Australian National Party. The party was short-lived and some of its members joined the ranks of a revived Social Credit Movement of Australia (Queensland), which contested nine seats at the 1963 Queensland State election with only meagre results. Its strongest support was in the Maryborough area of central Queensland.\n\nA single Social Credit candidate stood in the 1969 federal election in the Sydney seat of Banks, but gained little support. At the 1974 federal election, another attempt was made in NSW to win a seat in the Senate, but again the votes gained were minimal.\n\nFor some decades until the late 1960s, the late Mrs J Elvin operated, on a voluntary basis, a Social Credit bookroom in George Street, Sydney. A small monthly newsletter was also produced and circulated via this centre.\n\nThe ongoing influence of Social Credit ideas was also revealed in the heyday of the One Nation Party in the late 1990s, with that party's promotion of a National Credit Authority. A Social Credit Secretariat in Queensland continues to promote Social Credit via the internet.\n"}
{"id": "2053872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053872", "title": "Clément-Charles Sabrevois de Bleury", "text": "Clément-Charles Sabrevois de Bleury\n\nLt.-Colonel The Hon. Clément-Charles Sabrevois de Bleury (October 28, 1798 – September 15, 1862) of Montreal was a soldier, seigneur, lawyer, politician, newspaper founder and noted duellist. Bleury Street in Montreal is named for him. His nephews included the Prime Minister of Quebec, Sir Charles Boucher de Boucherville, and Louis-Tancrède Bouthillier, from whose house the City of Outremont takes its name.\n\nClément-Charles Sabrevois de Bleury was born into an old military family at William-Henry, Lower Canada, October 28, 1798. He was the son of Commandant Clément-Christophe Sabrevois de Bleury (1755–1827) and Amélia Bowers, daughter of a retired British army officer at Halifax, possibly Captain Daniel Bower of Parrsborough. His paternal ancestor, a younger son of Henri de Sabrevois, Sieur de Sermonville, came from Garancières-en-Beauce to New France in 1685 as a young Lieutenant of an infantry company; later made a Chevalier de Saint-Louis. In 1764, his grandfather sold the family seigneuries at Sabrevois and Bleury to General Gabriel Christie for £7,300. Sabrevois de Bleury grew up in Montreal at what is now known as \"La Maison Clément-Sabrevois de Bleury\", situated on Rue Saint-Gabriel.\n\nFrom 1809 to 1815, he was educated in Montreal at the Collège Saint-Raphaël. He entered the legal offices of his brother-in-law, Basile-Benjamin Trottier Desrivières-Beaubien, and was called to the Bar of Montreal in 1819. He soon gained a brilliant reputation and \"won over Montreal's high society by his charm, elegant manners, and refined style of living\". His family background and his skill in arms gained him a commission in 1825 as a Lieutenant in the 3rd Battalion of Montreal militia. In 1830, he was promoted Captain in the \"Chasseurs Canadiens\". In 1838, he was promoted Major and ten years later he was appointed Lieutenant-Colonel commanding the Montreal Rifles.\n\nIn 1832, after the resignation of François-Roch de Saint-Ours, he was elected to parliament for Richelieu, supporting the Patriote movement. In his early political career he followed the lead of Louis-Joseph Papineau, but from 1835 laid his support behind the more moderate Elzéar Bédard.\n\nBleury served as an alderman for Montreal from 1839 until late 1844, when he was again elected to the legislature, and once again in 1847. Again, he supported the government on most issues, though he also opposed them on some. He was not a candidate in the 1847–48 elections.\n\nOn January 8, 1836, he became embroiled in an altercation on the floor of the House with Charles-Ovide Perrault, the Patriote representative for Vaudreuil. The point of issue between them was who should, and who should not, be called before a committee that was looking into the sale of potash. The exchange came to an end with Bleury returning to his seat and grumbling aloud about having to conduct business 'with filth'. Perrault was angered by the insult and went to see Louis-Joseph Papineau about it. Papineau suggested, in pontifical manner, that it would be best to meet with Bleury somewhere outside the House, and let him know that the insult had been noticed.\n\nPerrault took this to mean that he should teach the man a lesson. When next they met, in the dark of night on an icy patch of road near the Battery, he threw the first punch. What ensued was a farcical fist fight in which the combatants were unable to keep their footing on the ice as they flailed away at each other. It only ended when Perrault landed a blow which knocked Bleury down, and then, unable to retain his balance, fell on top of him. The two were finally separated by officers.\n\nThe following morning, Bleury, wanting revenge, sent a peremptory note, transmitted by Aaron Ezekiel Hart, to Perrault demanding satisfaction, and a duel was set. Bleury was quite confident, as he had already fought three duels before.\n\nThey met for the duel in the woods of L'Ancienne-Lorette at three o'clock in the evening. Their seconds placed the two men 36 feet apart, loaded the pistols, then set about trying to negotiate a compromise, talking with each other, then their principals. At last a solution was worked out. The seconds negotiated a peaceful and honourable resolution of the dispute, both Perrault and Bleury apologized to each other, shook hands, and discharged their pistols into the air to end the matter. They returned to their respective carriages, proceeding to a tavern for a drink before going back to Quebec.\n\nPerrault lost his life the following year at the battle of Saint-Denis on the Richelieu. On April 5 that same year, Bleury fought another duel with Ludger Duvernay, the owner of \"La Minerve\", which ended with Duvernay being shot in the right knee.\n\nClément-Charles Sabrevois de Bleury died September 15, 1862 at his manor house at Saint-Vincent-de-Paul, near Laval, Canada East at the age of 63. He is buried in Notre Dame Cathedral, Montreal. After his death, Louis-Tancrède Bouthillier, a nephew by marriage, bought the heavily mortgaged manor house.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053894", "title": "Nestos (river)", "text": "Nestos (river)\n\nThe Nestos () or Mesta (), formerly the Mesta Karasu (Ottoman Turkish), is a river in Bulgaria and Greece. It rises in the Rila Mountains and flows into the Aegean Sea near the island of Thasos. It plunges down towering canyons toward the Aegean Sea through mostly metamorphic formations. At the end, the main stream spreads over the coastal plain of Chrysoupolis and expands as a deltaic system with freshwater lakes and ponds forming the Nestos delta. The length of the river is , of which flow through Bulgaria and the rest in Greece. Its drainage area is , of which 66% in Bulgaria. It forms some gorges in Rila and Pirin.\n\nThe Mesta's longest tributary is the Dospat (Bulgarian: Доспат; Greek: Δεσπάτης, Despatis). The banks of the river are covered mainly by deciduous trees that extend into halfway between Bulgaria and Greece where it forms the modern boundary of Greek Macedonia and Thrace, as well as the boundary between the Kavala and the Xanthi regional units, having first crossed the Drama regional unit. The river later forms a delta to the north where swamplands, wetlands and a lagoon once existed except in the east.\n\nIn the \"Geography\" of Claudius Ptolemy, the river is referred to as Nestus (Νέστος), and is said to form the boundary between ancient Macedonia and Thrace.\n\nBecause of its flow between canyons and inaccessible mountain areas, Nestos was not navigable in antiquity and also did not offer a natural terrestrial road along the riverbed. Concerning the horizontal communication from the East to the West, the river had only two passes, one in the middle and the other in the lower watercourse, which were controlled respectively by the cities of Nicopolis and Topeiros. The first pass, near Nicopolis, allowed the communication between the valleys of Strymon and Evros river, while through the second pass, near Topeiros, passed an ancient road (and later the Roman road of Via Egnatia) that served the communication between the East and the West. In Nestos' valley (east bank) north of the south pass, the Dii used to live, while Satrae were living to the south. Finally, Nestos played an important role in the urban and economic history of the inhabitants of the estuary, where the city of Abdera and later Topeiros, founded by the Emperor Trajan. This is presumed by the deification of the river and its depiction on coins of the imperial period.\n\nMesta Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Mesta River.\n"}
{"id": "2053900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053900", "title": "Anthony Apodaca", "text": "Anthony Apodaca\n\nAnthony A. Apodaca is Director of Graphics Research and Development at Pixar. He is co-creator of the RenderMan Interface Specification (RISpec). His film credits include almost all of the titles produced by Pixar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053904", "title": "Erebus-class monitor", "text": "Erebus-class monitor\n\nThe \"Erebus\" class of warships was a class of 20th century Royal Navy monitors armed with a main battery of two 15-inch /42 Mk 1 guns in a single turret. It consisted of two vessels, \"\"Erebus\"\" and \"\"Terror\"\". Both were launched in 1916 and saw active service in World War I off the Belgian coast. After being placed in reserve between the wars, they served in World War II, with \"Terror\" being lost in 1941 and \"Erebus\" surviving to be scrapped in 1946.\n\n\nThe class was to see most of its service in the naval gunfire support (or \"NGS\") role. During World War I, they operated off the German-occupied Belgian coast bombarding naval forces based at Ostend and Zeebrugge. \"Erebus\" was damaged by a remote controlled explosive motor boat and \"Terror\" was torpedoed by motor torpedo boats.\n\nBoth ships were placed in reserve between the wars but returned to service in World War II, when they were again used to provide fire support to British troops.\n\n\"Erebus\" participated in the D-Day invasion as part of Task Force O off Omaha beach.\n\nDouglas Reeman's 1965 novel \"H.M.S. Saracen\" is a fictional account of the service of an \"Erebus\" class monitor in the Mediterranean Sea in both World Wars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053907", "title": "Louis Spencer, Viscount Althorp", "text": "Louis Spencer, Viscount Althorp\n\nLouis Frederick John Spencer, Viscount Althorp (born 14 March 1994), is a British aristocrat who is a member of the Spencer family. \n\nHe was born at St Mary's Hospital, London in Westminster, London, the fourth child and eldest son of Charles Spencer, 9th Earl Spencer, and his first wife, Victoria Lockwood. A nephew of Diana, Princess of Wales, and a first cousin of Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, he is the heir apparent to the Spencer earldom.\n\nLord Althorp was a pupil at Diocesan College in Cape Town, and later enrolled at the University of Edinburgh.\n\nEnglish primogeniture law dictates that Lord Althorp, not his eldest sister, Lady Kitty Spencer, will inherit their father's estates and title.\n"}
{"id": "2053910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053910", "title": "June 19 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 19 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 18 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 20\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 2 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 19th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 6.\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2053911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053911", "title": "Brandon School", "text": "Brandon School\n\nBrandon Schools may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2053919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053919", "title": "Kris Hanna", "text": "Kris Hanna\n\nKris Hanna (born 1962) is the Mayor of Marion in South Australia. He was the member for Mitchell in the House of Assembly from 1997 until 2010. Originally elected as a member of the Labor Party, Hanna joined the SA Greens in 2003 before becoming an independent member in 2006.\n\nBefore entering Parliament, Hanna practised law. He also served as a Councillor for the City of Marion from 1995 to 1997. He returned to practicing law in 2010 and, in 2014 was elected unopposed as Mayor of the City of Marion.\n\nHanna has served on the Board of Victim Support Service, and is Patron of numerous local sporting clubs. He was a long-serving member of the Seaview High School Governing Council and had been President of Friends of Glenthorne.\n\nWhile initially elected at the 1997 and 2002 elections as a member of the Labor Party, he moved to the Greens in early 2003. He resigned from the Greens on 8 February 2006, ran in the 2006 election as an independent and won. His chances of retaining his seat in 2006 had been essentially written off by most commentators after his decision to become an Independent MP, but he won a narrow victory after a very low Liberal primary vote, and an endorsement from popular Independent MP Nick Xenophon. Despite an improved primary vote, he narrowly lost his seat at the 2010 election, finishing third after all non-major party preferences had been distributed.\n\nHanna sought to have his 2010 election loss overturned by the Supreme Court of South Australia, sitting as the Court of Disputed Returns, saying he fell victim to \"misleading and defamatory\" leaflets and posters distributed by the Labor Party. The court ruled the leaflets – labelling Hanna \"soft on crime\" – were defamatory and not factual, yet there was a right to express such opinions. The court dismissed Hanna's case.\n\nHanna unsuccessfully re-contested the seat of Mitchell at the 2014 election. Some of the local issues Hanna campaigned on were: upgrading the Oaklands rail crossing and making Glenthorne a forested recreational park.\n\nIn the 2018 South Australian state election he stood as the SA Best candidate for the electoral district of Gibson.\n\nHanna was re-elected as Mayor of Marion in November 2018 for a further 4-year term. He received 9094 primary votes out of 15907 votes cast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053937", "title": "Ferrari FXX", "text": "Ferrari FXX\n\nThe Ferrari FXX is a high-performance track-only developmental prototype built by Italian automobile manufacturer Ferrari. The FXX is based on the street-legal flagship Enzo Ferrari. Production of the FXX began in 2005.\n\nThe FXX uses some technology demonstrated on the Enzo Ferrari and combines it with new developments from Ferrari and its suppliers. However, the car is only a part of the overall FXX program. Customers pay GB£2 million, but are only allowed to drive the car on special track days which are approved by Ferrari. After they drive the car, the owners are entitled to be debriefed by Ferrari on the car's performance. Ferrari's sister company Maserati, has developed a similar car, the MC12 Corsa for this purpose with the only difference being that the owners can keep the car in their custody. The FXX on the other hand, may be stored by owners wherever they please. The caveat behind the FXX is only that Ferrari technicians must look over the car \"before the car hits the track in any event or private testing session.\"\n\nThe FXX, an evolution of the Enzo in essence, shares some components with the flagship car, but numerous significant developments are unique to the FXX.\n\nThe FXX's engine is based on Enzo's, but displacement has been increased to from . Power output has been raised from the Enzo's at 7,800 rpm, to at 8,500 rpm.\n\nThe gearbox incorporates the latest developments from Ferrari's F1 program and has a shift time of under 100 milliseconds. The brake pads were also upgraded from the Enzo. It does, however, retain the Carbon fibre-reinforced Silicon Carbide (C/SiC) ceramic composite brake discs featured on the Enzo. The tyres are custom-developed 19 inch racing slicks.\n\nThe FXX has comprehensive data-monitoring and telemetry systems that not only allow the driver to assess their performance on the track, but also provide Ferrari technicians with valuable data to improve the car and future road-going Ferrari models.\n\nFerrari has built 30 cars in total, adding one special edition to the 29 cars that were originally planned. The original 29 cars have all been sold to pre-selected past Ferrari customers. The 30th car was retained by Ferrari S.p.A. and presented to Ferrari's F1 World Champion driver, Michael Schumacher, along other an Enzo Ferrari when he retired from Formula One racing at the end of 2006 as a token of appreciation for his achievements. Schumacher's FXX differs from others in having black paintwork without stripes, having red trimmed wheels, matte rather than chrome exhaust tips, and his personal logo stitched on the racing seats.\n\nThe owners of the FXX also participate in Ferrari's testing and brand development programs. The purpose of this particular program is to allow Ferrari's top customers exclusive access to its most up-to-date technology and to utilise their input in the development of future models.\n\nThe model was only sold in Europe. Units can be imported, but not owned, on any other continent. A more aggressive FXX Evoluzione package was introduced in 2009 and was reported to cost €1.5 million (excluding taxes) (US$2.1 million), including the car, the crew and the services provided by Ferrari.\n\nThe Ferrari FXX program continued until 2009 (2007-2009). The car continued to be improved under the Evoluzione kit, which continually adjusts specifics to generate more power and quicker gear changes, along with reducing the car's aerodynamic drag. The V12 engine under the Evoluzione kit generates at 9,500 rpm and enables the car to accelerate from 0 to in 2.5 seconds. Certain changes were made to the gearbox in order to reduce the shift time to 60 milliseconds per shift, a reduction of 20 milliseconds over the original FXX. The car also underwent aerodynamic changes and improvements to the traction control system were made in order to make the car more responsive around the track.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053939", "title": "Milo Hamilton", "text": "Milo Hamilton\n\nLeland Milo Hamilton (September 2, 1927 – September 17, 2015) was an American sportscaster, best known for calling play-by-play for seven different Major League Baseball teams since 1953. He received the Ford C. Frick Award from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1992.\n\nHe was known by his middle name, which is pronounced \"MY-loh\".\n\nHamilton was born in Fairfield, Iowa, a small city in the southeastern part of the state. He served in the United States Navy during World War II. During his time in the Navy, he broadcast on Armed Forces Radio. He graduated from the University of Iowa in 1949. After beginning his sportscasting career by calling college football and basketball for the Iowa Hawkeyes, as well as minor league baseball for the Quad Cities River Bandits and the Tri-Cities Blackhawks of the NBA (now the Atlanta Hawks), he got his first MLB announcing job in 1953, with the St. Louis Browns of the American League.\n\nWhen the Browns moved to Baltimore as the Orioles, Hamilton did not make the move. Instead, he moved to the St. Louis Cardinals, where he worked alongside Harry Caray and Jack Buck during the 1954 season. However, he was let go after only one year when the Cardinals wanted a spot in the booth for Joe Garagiola.\nHamilton next moved to the Chicago Cubs, working alongside Jack Brickhouse and Vince Lloyd. After three years, he was let go when Cubs owner P. K. Wrigley wanted to make room for Lou Boudreau as a broadcaster.\n\nAfter four years away from baseball, Hamilton moved to the Chicago White Sox in 1961, serving as the assistant to the longtime White Sox announcer Bob Elson.\n\nWhen the Milwaukee Braves moved to Atlanta for the 1966 season, Hamilton got the call to become the team's play-by-play announcer. Hamilton's voice was already somewhat known in Atlanta; local station WGST had been part of the White Sox radio network in the early 1960s. Hamilton was paired with Ernie Johnson, Sr., a retired Braves player.\n\nHamilton soon became so popular in Atlanta that executives with Braves flagship station WSB-TV credited the Braves' high ratings on television (in 1972, with a prime-time ratio of 27) in part to Hamilton. During much of this period, he was also the commercial spokesperson for Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines, appearing on camera for Delta commercials introducing the Lockheed L-1011 and the Boeing 747 to Delta's fleet.\n\nWhile in Atlanta, Hamilton narrated Hank Aaron's record-breaking 715th career home run in the Braves' home opener for 1974:\n\nYears later Hamilton remarked, \"Hammer (Aaron) and I are forever joined at the hip because of 715.\"\n\nThe Braves did not draw good attendance at that time because of several poor-to-mediocre seasons from 1971 through 1975. Hamilton criticized the poor attendance on the air. He refused to gloss over this issue, and the Braves' owners fired him after the 1975 season. Shortly thereafter, the team was sold to Ted Turner, who made the Braves a national phenomenon via then-cable \"superstation\" WTCG (later to become WTBS, now TBS) with Hamilton's replacements Skip Caray and Pete Van Wieren, and with Johnson continuing in the booth.\n\nHamilton briefly considered a return to St. Louis after Jack Buck left the Cardinals for NBC, but pulled out of talks after learning that Buck could return to the team to reclaim his job if the NBC project (\"GrandStand\") failed. Instead, he joined the Pittsburgh Pirates for the 1976 season, succeeding Bob Prince. Any announcer would have had difficulty following the deeply entrenched Prince, who had been part of the Pirates' broadcast team since 1948 and who had been the Pirates' top announcer since 1954. Hamilton was the subject of biting criticism by sportswriters and by fans. Most of them were used to Prince's folksy style, and they thought that Hamilton was too restrained. One writer derided Hamilton's style as \"broadcast-school professionalism\". Hamilton proved to be relatively thin-skinned to the criticism, and even felt that Prince manipulated Pittsburgh sportswriters against him, as well as attempting to track down people who wrote critical letters to newspapers about his commentary. In the end, the situation in Pittsburgh became untenable for both Hamilton and the fans, and he eventually left to be replaced by his color man Lanny Frattare, whom he didn't get along with, and whose announcing style was more similar to Prince's.\n\nUnhappy in Pittsburgh, Hamilton jumped at a chance to return to Chicago in 1980 to join the Cubs' broadcast team alongside Brickhouse, Lloyd and Boudreau. He was under the impression that he was heir-apparent to Brickhouse upon the latter's retirement; indeed, he later said that he had been \"guaranteed in blood\" that he would replace Brickhouse on Cubs television broadcasts in 1982. Brickhouse himself called Hamilton \"the voice of the Cubs for years to come\" just before he retired in 1981. That plan changed when Harry Caray, discontented with new White Sox ownership, was brought in shortly after the Tribune Company bought the Cubs.\n\nHamilton and Caray never got along, in part because Hamilton blamed Caray for his replacement with Garagiola 27 years earlier in St. Louis. Hamilton claims that during the 1984 season, their relationship got even chillier when Caray admitted to him that he'd in fact had an affair with the daughter-in-law of the longtime Cardinals owner Gussie Busch — which has long been rumored to be the reason for his firing by the Cardinals in 1969.\n\nHamilton also claimed that Caray said on the air that he had mailed alimony checks to all of his ex-wives. However, on the record, Caray always denied that there was ever an affair.\n\nThe Cubs dismissed Hamilton after the 1984 season. Hamilton blamed Caray for the firing. He told the writer Curt Smith that officials at WGN-TV spent an hour praising him, but they told him that they had to dismiss him because Caray didn't like him, and Caray was more important to the Cubs.\n\nHamilton made comments critical of Caray that were published in a story after the latter's death in 1998, but Hamilton claimed in his book \"Making Airwaves: 60 Years at Milo's Microphone\" that his comments quoted in that story were actually part of a magazine article from 13 years earlier, and that he did not in fact make the comments after Caray's death. This story prompted an angry reaction from Caray's son, Skip Caray, who had succeeded Hamilton as a broadcaster for the Atlanta Braves. In 2006, Hamilton related his experiences with Caray in his autobiography. He devoted a chapter to Caray, whom he referred to as the Canary, calling him \"a miserable human being.\"\n\nAfter leaving Chicago, Hamilton joined up with the Houston Astros. This would be his longest and last tenure as announcer. He spent two years as the number-two announcer behind longtime Astros voice Gene Elston (another native Iowan). After Elston was criticized for his lackluster call of the 1986 NL West clinching no-hitter by Mike Scott, he was let go, and Hamilton became the Astros main announcer from 1987 through 2012. On July 29, 2005, Hamilton announced that starting with the 2006 season, he would no longer accompany the club on the road, announcing only home games, although he has traveled with the club when Busch Stadium, Nationals Park, Citi Field, and Marlins Park opened respectively.\n\nHamilton announced his plans to retire as an active broadcaster after the 2012 season, though intending to remain active with the Astros in a more limited way.\n\nIn addition to his early work with the Iowa Hawkeyes and Tri-Cities Blackhawks, Hamilton also, at various points in his career, called NBA basketball for the Chicago Zephyrs, Chicago Bulls and Houston Rockets; college basketball for Northwestern, Georgia Tech, Kentucky, and DePaul, as well as various Southwest Conference games for the Home Sports Entertainment channel in the '80s; and college football for Northwestern, Ohio State and Georgia Tech.\n\nHamilton's style could be described as enthusiastic but not \"over the top.\" He told Smith that Elson encouraged him to save his voice for thrilling moments, such as Aaron's 715th home run. Hamilton was also known for his catch phrase \"Holy Toledo, what a play!\"\n\nHamilton was the 1992 recipient of the Baseball Hall of Fame's Ford C. Frick Award. He was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2000 and soon he would be inducted into the Texas Radio Hall of Fame.\n\nOn April 8, 2009, during the opening series against the Chicago Cubs, Houston Mayor Bill White dedicated Hamilton Street in downtown Houston to Milo Hamilton, changing the street's name to, Milo Hamilton Way in honor of the Hall of Fame Voice of the Astros.\n\nThrough his retirement in 2012, Hamilton had broadcast major league games in 59 different ballparks.\n\nHis wife of nearly 53 years, Arlene, died at age 73 in February 2005. The couple had two children: Mark and Patricia. The Hamiltons’ daughter, Patricia Joy Hamilton Watson, a former Delta Air Lines flight attendant, died on July 10, 2006, in Atlanta, three weeks after suffering a stroke.\n\nOn October 7, 2007, Hamilton suffered a heart attack while eating lunch with his son in Houston. He was taken to Houston Methodist Hospital in the Texas Medical Center, where doctors discovered that one of his coronary arteries was 99 percent blocked. Hamilton underwent a successful angioplasty and recovered to return to his sportscasting career.\n\nHamilton died on September 17, 2015, at the age of 88 after having chronic lymphocytic leukemia since 1974. For the rest of the season and through their playoff run, the Astros added a patch with Hamilton's initials on their uniforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053941", "title": "Cannibal Tours", "text": "Cannibal Tours\n\nCannibal Tours is a 1988 quasi-documentary film by Australian director and cinematographer Dennis O'Rourke. While it borrows heavily from ethnographic modes of representation, the film is a biting commentary on the nature of modernity. The film is also widely celebrated for its depiction of Western touristic desires and exploitation among a 'tribal' people.\n\nThe film follows a number of affluent European and American tourists and ecotourists as they travel from village to village along the middle Sepik River in Papua New Guinea. Most of the villages in the film are inhabited by the Iatmul people. The film shows the tourists driving hard bargains for local handcrafts such as woodcarvings and baskets, relentlessly taking photos of local people, handing out cigarettes, balloons, and perfume, viewing staged dance performances, and offering naive comments on native people living in harmony with nature. The film, too, tacks between the tourists and black-and-white photographs from the era of German colonialism of New Guinea (1880s-1914). With some prodding, the tourists unwittingly reveal an unattractive and pervasive ethnocentrism to O'Rourke's cameras. The tourists thus become somewhat dehumanized by the filmmaker's camera even as they themselves dehumanize and exoticize even the most mundane aspects of Sepik River life.\n\nThe title of the film can be read in at least a couple of ways. At one point early in the film, a German tourist, clearly titillated, describes the bygone practice of raiding and cannibalism. He is obsessed with cannibalism, asking local men about the former practice, and snapping photos of locations where local people once practiced headhunting; other tourists also attempt to discuss the \"symbolic\" meaning of cannibalism. But the narrative plot of the film is to portray the tourists as the real cannibals who consume the world through their arrogance, acquisitiveness, primitivist fantasies of indigenous people, and photography (the cameras in the film double for the guns of past colonial administrators). In short, the film presents the tourists as the people driven by truly bizarre beliefs and behaviors. By contrast, the local people are represented as eminently practical and reasonable. Thus the 'natives' display the rationale logic of modernity, while the Western tourists are guilty of the very irrational traits they attribute to the natives. The climax of the film is when a group of tourists, faces painted in 'native fashion' by local men from one village (Tambunum), prance, dance, and assume a boxing stance to the music of Mozart. The message is clearly: we have finally succeeded in our quest for the primitive, and he is us.\n\nBurns, P. and J. Lester (2005) ‘Using Visual Evidence: The Case of Cannibal Tours’, pp. 49–61 in\nB. Ritchie, P. Burns and C. Palmer (eds) Tourism Research Methods: Integrating Theory with\nPractice. Oxfordshire: CABI.\n\nCoiffier, Christian.- 199L '\"Cannibal Tours,' l'Envers du Decor. Mani Bilong Waitman,\"journal de la Societe des Oceanistes 92/93:181-187.\n\nErrington, Frederick, and Deborah Gewertz. 1989. \"Review of Cannibal Tours.\" American Anthrapologjst 91:274-275.\n\nHuang, W.-J. and B. C. Lee (2010) ‘The Tourist Gaze in Travel Documentaries: The Case of\nCannibal Tours’, Journal of Quality Assurance in Hospitality & Tourism 11(4): 239–59.\n\nLutkehaus, Nancy Christine. 1989. \"'Excuse Me, Everything Is Not All Right': On Ethnography, Film, and Representation: An Interview with Filmmaker Dennis O'Rourke.\" Cultural Anthropology 4:422-437.\n\nMacCannell, Dean. 1990. \"Cannibal Tours.\" Visual Anthropology Review 6:14-23.\n\nO'Rourke; Dennis. 1997. \"Beyond Cannibal Tours: Tourists, Modernity and 'The·Other.\"' In Tourism and Cultural Deve_lopment in Asia and Oceania. Shinji Yamashita, Kadir H. Din, andJ. S. Eades, eds. Pp. 32–47.Bangi: Penerbit Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia.\n\nPalmer, C. and J. Lester (2007) ‘Stalking the Cannibals: Photographic Behaviours on the Sepik\nRiver’, Tourist Studies 7(1): 83–106.\n\nSilverman, Eric. (1999) ‘Art, Tourism and the Crafting of Identity in the Sepik River (Papua New\nGuinea)’, pp. 51–66 in R. Phillips and C. Steiner (eds) Unpacking Culture: Art and Commodity\nin Colonial and Postcolonial Worlds. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.\n\nSilverman, Eric. (2003) ‘High Art as Tourist Art, Tourist Art as High Art: Comparing the New\nGuinea Sculpture Garden at Stanford University and Sepik River Tourist Art’, International\nJournal of Anthropology 18: 219–30. (Reprinted in Venbrux, E., P. S. Rosi and R. L. Welsch\n(eds) Exploring World Art. Long Grove, IL: Waveland Press, pp. 271–84).\n\nSilverman, E. (2004) ‘Cannibalizing, Commodifying, and Creating Culture: Power and Creativity\nin Sepik River Tourism’, pp. 339–57 in V. Lockwood (ed.) Globalization and Culture Change\nin the Pacific Islands. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.\n\nSilverman, Eric. (2013). After Cannibal Tours: Cargoism and Marginality in a Post-Touristic Sepik River Society. The Contemporary Pacific 25: 221–57.\n\nSilverman, Eric. (2012). From Cannibal Tours to Cargo Cult: On the Aftermath of Tourism in the Sepik River, Papua New Guinea. Tourism Studies 12: 109–30.\n\nYoung, Katherine. 1992. \"Visuality and the Category of the Other: The Cannibal Tours of Dean MacCannell and Dennis O'Rourke.\" Visual Anthro-pology Review 8:92-96.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053953", "title": "Ronnie Irani", "text": "Ronnie Irani\n\nRonald Charles \"Ronnie\" Irani (born 26 October 1971) is a former England cricketer who played Tests and ODIs for England. He played only three Tests for England, with decidedly mixed success, but found a niche in One Day Internationals, where he gained much praise for his performances.\n\nHe spent most of his career at Essex County Cricket Club, latterly as captain, after starting at Lancashire. He is of Irani descent, the Iranis being a community of Persian Zoroastrians who immigrated to India during the British Raj.\n\nIrani was a genuine all-rounder until a knee injury in 2003 forced him to stop bowling and play as a specialist batsman. The recurring nature of this injury led to Irani being forced to retire from first-class cricket in June 2007. At Essex, Irani helped bring through promising players such as Alastair Cook (England Captain) and Ravinder Bopara (England Player) as well as winning two major One-Day Titles. Professionally he scored over 20,000 runs and took more than 650 wickets during his career.\n\nHe announced his retirement from first-class cricket at the end of the 2007 season.\n\nIrani's father Jimmy Irani arrived in Bolton from Bombay in 1961 to play a summer's club cricket. During that summer he met 16-year-old Lancastrian Anne Main. The two married and had a son, Ronnie. Jimmy Irani was an enthusiastic, successful and prolific club cricketer with Daisy Hill in the Bolton Association who often put up overseas players, such as Farokh Engineer and Javed Miandad, during Ronnie's childhood.\n\nHe started his career playing for Lancashire in 1990, before he moved to Essex in 1994. At Essex, he gained cult status, before he became captain in 2000, and is generally accepted to have done a decent job in charge, helping to bring through promising players such as Alastair Cook, Will Jefferson and Ravi Bopara. After Graham Gooch stepped down as the club's head coach prior to the start of the 2005 season, Irani assumed some of these responsibilities in addition to his role as county captain.\n\nIn June 2007, he rejected a new contract with Essex and announced his retirement from first-class cricket at the end of the 2007 season. He retired with immediate effect later that month.\n\nIrani was awarded Fans' player of the series in Natwest Series 2002 featuring India and Sri Lanka for his allround performance. He scored 169 runs and took 8 wickets in the tri-series.\n\nAfter his retirement, he took on a position at talkSPORT in 2007, where he co-hosted, until 2013, \"The Alan Brazil Sports Breakfast\" with former Scottish international footballer Alan Brazil. On this show, he picked up the nickname Chicken from the dish Chicken Biriyani rhyming with his surname. Following Irani's appointment, the show's audience increased, reaching 1.2 million listeners by May 2008. During his time at talkSPORT, Irani also appeared as a guest on the BBC quiz show A Question of Sport.\n\nIn 2009 Irani's autobiography \"No Boundaries\" was published. He was also part of a celebrity 'consortium' (along with Radio 2 DJ Chris Evans) who clubbed together to pay for Paul Gascoigne to receive treatment for alcoholism in the US.\n\nIn 2015, Irani took up the position of Cricket Committee Chairman at Essex and expressed his desire for the club to improve its performances. Irani was quoted as saying that, “We are still talented and it is great to see young players coming through like Nick Browne, Tom Westley and Jamie Porter. We have to make sure we keep doing that, while getting Essex back to the level that we were in years gone by, knocking on doors and trying to win trophies.”\n\nAfter having held the position of chairman for several months, Irani said that, “I am really enjoying it. I love Essex Cricket Club and it is a pleasure to work there. The people know and love their cricket and they have always got behind the team as well which is important. It is an exciting time to be part of the club as it is certainly going places and we are more than capable of winning things.\"\n\nIn addition to his duties at Essex, Irani is also the co-founder/inventor of OrthoSole, an orthotic insole that is customizable by the owner, making it considerably more affordable than other custom-made alternatives on the market.\n\nHe is known by many sports fans for an \"Exercise Routine” during an England One-Day International in Australia. He was doing a warm-up while fielding, and unbeknown to Irani, the Australian fans were imitating his routine behind his back. When he discovered what they were doing, he played up to the tens of thousands of fans and became quicker as to make the fans carry on even more.\n\nIrani is a long time supporter of Manchester United, after being taken to games by his father when he was a child.\n"}
{"id": "2053954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053954", "title": "Midco", "text": "Midco\n\nMidco (known as Midcontinent Communications until 2016) is a regional cable provider, providing a triple play service of Cable television, Internet and telephone service for both North Dakota and South Dakota, along with much of Minnesota, and several communities in Kansas and Wisconsin. The company's business-class service also provides direct fiber-optic communications services via leased data circuits for larger companies.\n\nHeadquartered in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and operated as a joint venture between Midcontinent Media and Comcast, Midco provides service to 200 communities both urban and rural, serving an area that covers over 1.2 million people.\n\nMidcontinent Media was founded in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1931 as the Welworth Theater Company, an operator of movie theaters. The company remained in that business until the 1990s, when it sold its theaters to various chains, including Carmike. In 1952, it bought the Midcontinent Broadcasting Company, owner of KELO-AM-FM in Sioux Falls; the company name changed to Midcontinent Media. The company also bought the construction permit for South Dakota's first television station, KELO-TV, which took to the air in 1953. Midcontinent purchased several other radio and television stations, but began exiting broadcasting in the 1990s (with KELO-TV and its satellites sold off to Young Broadcasting, currently owned by Nexstar), selling off the last of their radio holdings in 2004.\n\nMidco diversified and extended its reach into other areas of the Upper Midwest, providing telephone and cable TV in rural parts of its service area, starting in the 1960s. In 1999, Midcontinent Media and AT&T Broadband (formerly known as TCI) merged their cable operations in the Dakotas, Minnesota and Nebraska into Midcontinent Communications, a joint venture between both companies. The partnership continued after Comcast's purchase of AT&T Broadband.\n\nIn the fall of 2008, Charter Communications announced their filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and the sale of some assets in non-critical areas. On October 14, 2008, an article appeared in the Fairmont, Minnesota \"Sentinel\", reporting that Charter was selling parts of their system to Midcontinent Communications, including its Bemidji and International Falls headends. Starting February 1, 2009 Midcontinent Communications took over some Charter's cable systems in Minnesota including Balaton, Bemidji, Canby, Ely, Fairmont, International Falls, Littlefork, Sherburn, and surrounding communities. Other areas in Minnesota were sold off to Comcast.\n\nIn June 2011, Midcontinent Communications acquired 33,000 Minnesota and Wisconsin subscribers from US Cable.\n\nMidco previously provided paging service, starting in 1985, but sold its paging services to another South Dakota company, Vantek Communications, in 2004. The former paging service was renamed Midco Connections.\n\nOn January 12, 2016, the company officially adopted the shortened Midco name across all of their operations, rendering it in all-caps as \"MIDCO\", with the new tagline of \"Let's Go\".\n\nIn October 2016, Midco acquired the assets of the cable system serving Lawrence, Kansas from Wide Open West.\n\nMidco offers a regional sports network called Midco Sports Network (formerly MC23 until August 2010) exclusive to their service in standard and high definition which carries coverage of University of North Dakota, North Dakota State University, University of South Dakota and South Dakota State University sports, along with many other smaller colleges in the Dakotas and Minnesota. Midco Sports Network is also the primary television provider for Summit League men's and women's basketball, providing a game of the week along with every game in both tournaments, and they broadcast the Summit League baseball championship. All the Summit League Midco Sports Network productions are simulcast on ESPN3 for areas where Midco Sports Network isn't available.\n\nMidco Sports Network launched a new network, Midco Sports Kansas, in Lawrence. The network broadcasts high school sports and college games in the northeastern Kansas area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053961", "title": "P42", "text": "P42\n\nP-42 or P42 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2053963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053963", "title": "Bob Elson", "text": "Bob Elson\n\nRobert A. Elson (March 22, 1904 – March 10, 1981) was a pioneering American sportscaster.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Elson got into broadcasting by accident. While vacationing in St. Louis in 1928, he took a tour of radio station KWK. A receptionist saw him among 40 men in line for an audition, and thought he was going to audition as well. He became a finalist, and was hired after a vote by listeners. A few days later, officials at Chicago's WGN heard about Elson's victory and wondered what a Chicago native was doing broadcasting for a St. Louis station. They quickly hired him. Starting in 1929, he began calling all the home games of the Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox. Such double duty would be impossible today, but in those days the Cubs and White Sox almost never played at home on the same day. They, like most teams, \"recreated\" road games in the studio using telegraphed messages from the ballpark rather than sending out their broadcasting crew with the team for road play-by-play, to save money. In 1930, he called his first World Series for the Mutual Broadcasting System, the first of 12 in a row. He also called Chicago Bears football games in the 1930s and early 1940s.\n\nAn article in the December 1940 issue of \"Radio and Television Mirror\" called Elson the top football announcer for Mutual.\n\nIn 1942, he enlisted in the United States Navy and served four years in World War II—a stint which earned him the nickname \"The Ol' Commander.\" But none other than President and Commander-in-Chief Franklin D. Roosevelt himself had him called home to announce the 1943 World Series.\n\nAlso, when Major League Baseball began making annual films of the World Series in 1943, Elson was chosen to narrate them, and narrated the official World Series film from 1943 through 1948.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1970, Elson broadcast for the White Sox exclusively. He missed out on calling the 1959 World Series—the Chisox' first since 1919 and Elson's first since 1943—on the national NBC broadcast because NBC Sports president Tom Gallery (who'd grown up with him in Chicago) didn't like him. He was, however, allowed to call the Series on the White Sox' flagship radio station, WCFL. He called games for the Oakland Athletics in 1971 before returning to Chicago, where he teamed with Lloyd Pettit on Chicago Black Hawks NHL broadcasts. (He had previously called Black Hawks games in the late 1930s.)\n\nHis style was often described as \"relaxed\", not easily succumbing to emotion or hyperbole. However, he left enough room to get emotional while describing dramatic plays favorable to the home team. He was one of the leading play-by-play men in his heyday. He was one of the first broadcasters to do on-field interviews, but in later years he felt uncomfortable with announcers who frequently criticized on-field performances, having grown up in an era where sportscasters were regular drinking buddies of players and managers.\n\nHis style inspired several other broadcasters who grew up in the Midwest, such as the Cubs' Jack Brickhouse, Earl Gillespie, Bert Wilson, Gene Elston, Milo Hamilton (who was Elson's partner with the White Sox from 1961 to 1965), the Phillies' Harry Kalas, the Brewers' Bob Uecker, Harry Caray of the Cardinals, White Sox, and Cubs, and the Mariners' Dave Niehaus.\n\nElson received the Ford C. Frick Award from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1979.\n\nElson's broadcasting achievements went beyond sports. His broadcasts from Chicago's Pump Room brought him recognition \"as the interviewer who drew secrets from celebrities in all fields.\" For five years, he also did \"Bob Elson on Board the Century\", which (in contrast to the title) he broadcast from LaSalle Street Station in Chicago. Elson caught celebrities for spontaneous interviews while they were in the station. In a similar vein, he did \"Bob Elson on the Flagships\" on KNX, interviewing people who were traveling on American Airlines.\n\nElson was co-host of \"An Hour With Elson and Anson\", a daily variety program that began October 13, 1941, on WGN.\n\nElson had a wife, Jeanne, who died in 1975. He was survived by a son and two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053965", "title": "David Lowe (television and radio composer)", "text": "David Lowe (television and radio composer)\n\nDavid Lowe (born 11 April 1959) is an English composer and music producer. His work comprises primarily of music for television, radio, commercials and idents. Lowe is best known for his extensive work on theme tunes for bulletins and programmes for BBC News.\n\nLowe has never received any formal musical education, and began his early career in broadcasting. He started part-time work at BBC Radio Birmingham (now BBC WM) while still a student at Riland Bedford (now Plantsbrook School) in Sutton Coldfield. Based at the former Pebble Mill Studios, he developed a strong interest in sound production, and was keen to work full-time for the BBC. He was unsuccessful at getting a position, however, and continued freelancing at BBC WM until 1981 when he attained a permanent post as a location sound recordist with Magpie Film Productions.\n\nDuring this time he became interested in the relatively new area of electronic music and synthesizers. He borrowed a Crumar Trilogy synthesizer from a friend and created his first multi-track compositions using two domestic cassette decks. He later acquired one of the first affordable polyphonic synthesizers, a Roland Juno 6.\n\nHe formed a band with Samantha Meah called the Cool Fish, which found a reasonable amount of success, supporting Ruby Turner, The Fine Young Cannibals and appearing on Central Television. However Lowe was more interested in writing and studio production than live performance, and the band did not continue.\n\nHis first opportunity to write for television came through a chance meeting with a graphic designer at BBC Pebble Mill, which led to Lowe's first TV commission for Midlands Today. Lowe saw this as the opportunity to fulfil both his passions for working in broadcasting and writing music, and from then on worked on furthering his career as a television composer.\n\nLowe is a member of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) and the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA). He has twice been awarded honorary doctorates, first by Staffordshire University in 2005, and then by Birmingham City University in 2014.\n\nIn 1997, Lowe released his debut album, \"Dreamcatcher\". He performed a live mix that year at the first Thames River Festival, which accompanied a record breaking tightrope walk across the river.\n\nHis single \"Would You...?\" under the name Touch and Go was a top 3 hit in the UK in 1998 and a hit in the rest of Europe in early 1999. The album \"I've Noticed You Around\" spawned more hit singles in Eastern Europe and Russia. \"Straight...to Number One\" was chosen by Apple to launch the iTunes site in the USA, where every track on the album has been used in films, television and/or commercials.\n\nIn 1999, Lowe created perhaps one of his most famous compositions, the current BBC News themes. Whilst previous themes had been orchestral, these new themes made extensive use of the 'pips' that are used on the hour on BBC Radio stations, along with more electric sounds. Since 1999 his themes have been remixed numerous times for BBC News in the UK as well as the international channel, BBC World News. Two CDs of Lowe's music have been released by the BBC. \"BBC World: The Music\", released in 2001, is a compilation of some of Lowe's work for BBC World, made available after significant demand from viewers.\n\nFor the BBC's coverage of the 2019 UK general election, Lowe remixed a version of \"Arthur\" from the rock concept album \"The Myths and Legends of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table,\" bringing back a track that was previously used for BBC election night coverage from 1979 to 2005.\n\nDavid Lowe's first television composition was the 1983 title music for \"BBC Midlands Today\", followed in 1988 by \"BBC Wales Today\" and he went back to BBC Birmingham and \"Midlands Today\" again in 1992, creating title music for both \"Midlands Today\" and Pebble Mill.\n\nHis work on other British television programmes includes \"The One Show\", \"Countryfile\", \"Panorama\", \"Cash in the Attic\", \"Wildlife on One\" and \"The Really Wild Show\" (all on BBC One), \"Newyddion\" on S4C, \"Grand Designs\" on Channel 4, and the Channel 5 motoring programme \"Fifth Gear\". He has also created musical identities for: BBC Worldwide, BBC Entertainment, Euronews, the Al Arabiya Channel and Abu Dhabi TV in the Middle East, NDTV in India, TV2 in Norway, and in 2013 for CCTV 1 China. For radio he produced the current identity for the BBC World Service, and for BBC Arabic Radio.\n\nThrough his website, Lowe has released compilations of some of his television soundtracks. \"TV Chill\" is a mix from a variety of different programmes, whilst \"Grand Designs\" features a full-length arrangement of the main theme, and other music from the Channel 4 series. Both were produced after interest from viewers, including a request from one to have the \"Grand Designs\" music played at her wedding.\n\n\"Wild Caribbean\" features the best of Lowe's music from the BBC2 series of the same name, and remixes of his Touch and Go tracks \"So Hot\" and \"Life's a Beach\".\n\nLowe was invited by the British Academy of Composers and Songwriters to compose the theme for the 50th Ivor Novello Awards ceremony in 2005. In 2006 he was commissioned to write the music for the BAFTA Film and Television Awards and for the BBC's coverage of the Winter Olympics.\n\nHe has performed at several WOMAD festivals worldwide. In 2004, he was commissioned to provide a music soundscape for The Tropical Biome at the Eden Project, which was performed at WOMAD Reading in 2005. Reinforced with several new songs, the material has been reworked to form his second \"Dreamcatcher\" album, \"What...is in Between?\", released on Oval Records in October 2006. Featured vocalists are poet and novelist Benjamin Zephaniah and Japanese artist and composer Mieko Shimizu, while Lowe himself sings on \"Still The Greatest.\"\n\nLowe also co-produced an album for poet Roger McGough. Between excerpts of McGough's live performance, he set some of the poetry to music.\n\nLowe was also commissioned to create a global themed remix of \"Chariots of Fire\" by Vangelis for the London 2012 Olympics Medal Presentations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053970", "title": "Josef Oberhauser", "text": "Josef Oberhauser\n\nJosef Oberhauser (January 21, 1915 – November 22, 1979) was a low-ranking German SS commander during the Nazi era. He participated in Action T4 and Operation Reinhard. Oberhauser was the only person to be successfully convicted of crimes committed at the Bełżec extermination camp. He was charged with 450,000 counts of accessory to murder and sentenced to 4.5 years imprisonment during the Belzec Trial of 1964.\n\nOberhauser was born in Munich during World War I. After finishing \"Volksschule\", he found employment on his uncle's farm in Markt Schwaben. In 1934, Oberhauser enlisted for 18 months in the Reichswehr and was posted to Munich. He joined the SS in November 1935, specifically joining the \"SS-Wachverbände\" (SS member no. 288,121). In April 1937, he was stationed at Sachsenhausen concentration camp. He was a member of the Nazi party. Oberhauser served in the \"SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler\".\n\nIn 1939, Oberhauser was assigned to \"Reichsarbeitsgemeinschaft für Heil- und Pflegeanstalten\", part of the office for Action T4 and one of several front organizations of Hitler's Chancellery, in November 1939. This organization was responsible for the killing of approximately 100,000 mentally ill and disabled people during Action T4. At the killing centers of Grafeneck, Brandenburg and Bernburg, where these people were murdered en masse by gas (carbon monoxide poisoning), Oberhauser was a \"Brenner\" (burner), or \"Leichenbrenner\" (corpse burner): he was responsible for the burning of the bodies in the specially installed crematory ovens.\n\nAfter finishing Action T4 in August 1941, in November Oberhauser was transferred to the staff of the SS and Police Leader (SSPF) for the Lublin district, SS-\"Brigadeführer\" Odilo Globocnik, to take part in Operation Reinhard, the extermination of Poland's three million Jews. From November 1941 until 1 August 1942, Oberhauser was posted to Bełżec extermination camp as the leader of a guard platoon. He first visited Bełżec in the fall of 1941, before the extermination camp existed, to remove military equipment at the site. He was responsible for the development of the camp. In December 1941, Oberhauser returned to Bełżec with construction materials and a team of Ukrainian Trawnikis. He was under the command of camp commandant Christian Wirth, and he also served as Wirth's liaison to Globocnik.\n\nFor his work in the implementation of Operation Reinhard, Oberhauser was promoted from SS-\"Hauptscharführer\" to SS-\"Untersturmführer\", effective 20 April 1943, reaching officer rank in the SS. Previously, the \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler had made a personal visit to the Operation Reinhard camps, including Bełżec, on 12 February 1943, and had decided to promote Oberhauser. In the 21 January 1965 judgment of the Munich District Court I (Case No. 110 Ks 3/64), his work at Belzec is described as follows (translated to English):\n\nAfter the completion of Operation Reinhard, Oberhauser, along with many of his colleagues, was sent to northern Italy in the group \"\" to participate in anti-partisan warfare and the deportation and killing of Jews there. He was promoted to the rank of SS-\"Obersturmführer\" on 30 January 1945. Purportedly, Oberhauser was commandant of Risiera di San Sabba until its closure in late April 1945 (3,000 to 5,000 people died there). He then went to Austria with his unit, and was arrested by the British authorities in May 1945 in Bad Gastein.\n\nAfter his release, Oberhauser was employed as a sawmill worker in Bevensen. On 13 April 1948, he was arrested during a stay in the Soviet occupation zone. On 24 September 1948, he was convicted by the Soviet Military Administration in Germany of violating of 20 December 1945 (which also served as a basis at the Nuremberg Trials), by his membership in a criminal organization (the SS) and his killing of victims in Grafeneck, Brandenburg and Bernburg. Oberhauser was sentenced to 15 years in prison and 10 years deprivation of civil rights. He was granted an amnesty on 28 April 1956, and released after only 8 years. Following his release, Oberhauser served as a casual labourer, bartender and waiter in Munich.\n\nIn 1963 the Bełżec trial began and Oberhauser was one of 8 defendants charged with war crimes committed at the extermination camp. On 30 January 1964, all of the defendants but Oberhauser were acquitted due to the collapse of the prosecution case but re-arrested shortly thereafter. Oberhauser appeared before the court again in January 1965. He was found guilty of a number of charges, namely:\n\nOberhauser was sentenced to 4 years and 6 months imprisonment. He was released after serving half of his sentence. Oberhauser was sentenced to life imprisonment \"in absentia\" for his crimes committed in Italy, but the Italian extradition request failed. Oberhauser died on 20 November 1979 in Munich.\n\nOberhauser was unwillingly filmed for Claude Lanzmann's documentary \"Shoah\", released in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053971", "title": "Duke of Mayenne", "text": "Duke of Mayenne\n\nDuke of Mayenne (duc de Mayenne) is a title created for a cadet branch of the House of Guise. It subsequently passed by marriage to the Gonzaga in 1621. They sold it to Cardinal Mazarin in 1654; he bestowed it on his niece, Hortense Mancini in 1661. Due to the terms of entailment on the title, it became extinct in 1781, but it is still claimed by the Sovereign Prince of Monaco, a descendant of Hortense.\n\n\nDue to various entailments, Louise-Jeanne could not pass on the title, which became extinct at her death. Her daughter, Louise-Félicité d'Aumont, married Honoré IV, Prince of Monaco, and their descendants still claim the title.\n\n"}
{"id": "2053976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053976", "title": "June 20 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "June 20 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJune 19 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - June 21\n\nAll fixed commemorations below celebrated on July 3 by Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar.\n\nFor June 20th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 7.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2053979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053979", "title": "The Spanish Tragedy", "text": "The Spanish Tragedy\n\nThe Spanish Tragedy, or Hieronimo is Mad Again is an Elizabethan tragedy written by Thomas Kyd between 1582 and 1592. Highly popular and influential in its time, \"The Spanish Tragedy\" established a new genre in English theatre, the revenge play or revenge tragedy. The play contains several violent murders and includes as one of its characters a personification of Revenge. \"The Spanish Tragedy\" is often considered to be the first mature Elizabethan drama, a claim disputed with Christopher Marlowe's \"Tamburlaine\", and has been parodied by many Elizabethan and Jacobean playwrights, including Marlowe, William Shakespeare and Ben Jonson.\n\nMany elements of \"The Spanish Tragedy,\" such as the play-within-a-play used to trap a murderer and a ghost intent on vengeance, appear in Shakespeare's \"Hamlet.\" (Thomas Kyd is frequently proposed as the author of the hypothetical \"Ur-Hamlet\" that may have been one of Shakespeare's primary sources for \"Hamlet\".)\n\nLord Strange's Men staged a play that the records call \"Jeronimo\" on 23 February 1592 at The Rose for Philip Henslowe, and repeated it sixteen times to 22 January 1593. It is unlikely, however, that the performance in February 1592 was the play's first performance, as Henslowe did not mark it as 'ne' (new). It is unclear whether \"Jeronimo\" was \"The Spanish Tragedy\", or \"The First Part of Hieronimo\" (printed in 1604), the anonymous \"prequel\" to Kyd's play, or perhaps either on different days.\n\nThe Admiral's Men revived Kyd's original on 7 January 1597, and performed it twelve times to 19 July; they staged another performance conjointly with Pembroke's Men on 11 October the same year. The records of Philip Henslowe suggest that the play was on stage again in 1601 and 1602. English actors performed the play on tour in Germany (1601), and both German and Dutch adaptations were made.\n\n\"The Spanish Tragedy\" was performed at London's National Theatre, first in 1982 at the Cottesloe Theatre, with Michael Bryant in the role of Hieronimo, directed by Michael Bogdanov. It transferred to the Lyttelton Theatre in 1984.\n\nThe Royal Shakespeare Company performed \"The Spanish Tragedy\" in May 1997 at the Swan Theatre, directed by Michael Boyd. The cast included Siobhan Redmond as Bel-imperia, Robert Glenister as Lorenzo, Peter Wright as Hieronimo, Jeffry Wickham as the King of Spain. The production later transferred to The Pit at London's Barbican in November 1997.\n\nAn amateur production of \"The Spanish Tragedy\" was performed 2–6 June 2009 by students from Oxford University, in the second quad of Oriel College, Oxford. Another amateur production was presented by the Hyperion Shakespeare Company 21–30 October 2010 with students from Harvard University in Harvard's New College Theatre. In November 2012, Perchance Theatre in association with Cambridge University's Marlowe Society staged a site-specific production in King's College Chapel, Cambridge. In October/November 2013, the Baron's Men of Austin, TX performed the work in a near-uncut state, with period costumes and effects, at Richard Garriott's Curtain Theater, a mini replica of the Globe Theater. Another amateur production was presented by the Experimental Theater Board of Carleton College 27–29 May 2015.\n\nOther professional performances include a modern-dress production staged at the Arcola Theatre in London in October–November 2009, directed by Mitchell Moreno, with Dominic Rowan as Hieronimo, as well as a production in \"Belle Époque\" era costume, staged by Theatre Pro Rata in Minneapolis in March 2010, directed by Carin Bratlie.\n\nThe play has never been filmed or staged on television.\n\nIn the \"Induction\" to his play \"Bartholomew Fair\" (1614), Ben Jonson alludes to \"The Spanish Tragedy\" as being \"five and twenty or thirty years\" old. If taken literally, this would yield a date range of 1584–1589, a range that agrees with what else is known about the play. The exact date of composition is unknown, though it is speculated that it was written sometime between 1583 and 1591. Most evidence points to a completion date before 1588, noting that the play makes no reference to the Spanish Armada, and because of possible allusions to the play in Nashe's \"Preface to Greene's Menaphon\" from 1589 and \"The Anatomie of Absurdity\" from 1588–1589. Due to this evidence, the year 1587 remains the most likely year for completion of the play.\n\nKyd's play was entered into the Stationers' Register on 6 October 1592 by the bookseller Abel Jeffes. The play was published in an undated quarto, almost certainly before the end of 1592; this first quarto was printed by Edward Allde—and published not by the copyright holder Jeffes, but by another bookseller, Edward White. On 18 December that year, the Stationers Company ruled that both Jeffes and White had broken the guild's rules by printing works that belonged to the other; both men were fined 10 shillings, and the offending books were destroyed so that Q1 of \"The Spanish Tragedy\" survives in only a single copy. Yet the Q1 title page refers to an even earlier edition; this was probably by Jeffes, and no known copy exists.\n\nThe popular play was reprinted in 1594. In an apparent compromise between the competing booksellers, the title page of Q2 credits the edition to \"Abell Jeffes, to be sold by Edward White\". On 13 August 1599, Jeffes transferred his copyright to William White, who issued the third edition that year. White in turn transferred the copyright to Thomas Pavier on 14 August 1600 and Pavier issued the fourth edition (printed for him by William White) in 1602. This 1602 Q4 contains five additions to the preexisting text. Q4 was reprinted in 1610, 1615 (two issues), 1618, 1623 (two issues), and 1633.\n\nAll of the early editions are anonymous. The first indication that the author of the play was Kyd was in 1773 when Thomas Hawkins, the editor of a three-volume play-collection, cited a brief quotation from \"The Spanish Tragedy\" in Thomas Heywood's \"Apology for Actors\" (1612), which Heywood attributes to \"M. Kid\". The style of \"The Spanish Tragedy\" is considered such a good match with Kyd's style in his other extant play, \"Cornelia\" (1593), that scholars and critics have universally recognised Kyd's authorship.\n\nIn 2013, scholar Douglas Bruster theorised that some awkward wordings in the \"Additional Passages\" of the 1602 fourth edition resulted from printers' errors in setting type from the (now lost) original manuscript. Furthermore, after examining the \"Hand D\" manuscript (widely accepted as in Shakespeare's handwriting) from the play \"Sir Thomas More\", Bruster opined that the speculated printers' errors could have resulted from reading a manuscript written by someone with Shakespeare's \"messy\" handwriting, thus bolstering the likelihood that Shakespeare wrote the Additional Passages.\n\n\n\n\n\nBefore the play begins, the Viceroy of Portugal rebelled against Spanish rule. A battle took place in which the Portuguese were defeated and their leader, the Viceroy's son Balthazar, killed the Spanish officer Andrea before being taken captive by the Spanish. Andrea's ghost and the spirit of Revenge are present onstage throughout the entirety of the play and serve as chorus. At the beginning of each act, Andrea bemoans the series of injustices that have taken place and then Revenge reassures him that those deserving will get their comeuppance. There is also a subplot concerning the enmity of two Portuguese noblemen, one of whom attempts to convince the Viceroy that his rival has murdered the missing Balthazar.\n\nThe King's nephew Lorenzo and Andrea's best friend Horatio dispute over who captured Balthazar. Though it is made clear early on that Horatio defeated Balthazar and Lorenzo has essentially cheated his way into taking partial credit, the King leaves Balthazar in Lorenzo's charge and splits the spoils of the victory between the two. Horatio comforts Lorenzo's sister, Bel-imperia, who was in love with Andrea against her family's wishes. Despite her former feelings for Andrea, Bel-imperia soon falls for Horatio. She confesses that her love for Horatio is motivated partially by her desire for revenge: Bel-imperia intends to torment Balthazar, who killed her former lover Andrea.\n\nMeanwhile, Balthazar is falling in love with Bel-imperia. The Spanish king decides that a marriage between Balthazar and Bel-imperia would be an excellent way to repair the peace with Portugal. Horatio's father, the Marshal Hieronimo, stages an entertainment for the Portuguese ambassador. Lorenzo, suspecting that Bel-imperia has found a new lover, bribes her servant Pedringano and discovers that Horatio is the man. He persuades Balthazar to help him murder Horatio during an assignation with Bel-imperia. Hieronimo and his wife Isabella find the body of their son hanged and stabbed, and Isabella is driven mad. (Revisions made to the original play supplement the scene with Hieronimo briefly losing his wits as well.)\n\nLorenzo locks Bel-imperia away, but she succeeds in sending Hieronimo a letter, written in her own blood, informing him that Lorenzo and Balthazar were Horatio's murderers. Hieronimo's questions and attempts to see Bel-imperia convince Lorenzo that he knows something. Afraid that Balthazar's servant Serberine has revealed the truth, Lorenzo convinces Pedringano to murder Serberine, then arranges for Pedringano's arrest in the hopes of silencing him too. Hieronimo, appointed judge, sentences Pedringano to death. Pedringano expects Lorenzo to procure his pardon, and Lorenzo, having written a fake letter of pardon, lets him believe this right up until the hangman drops Pedringano to his death.\n\nLorenzo manages to prevent Hieronimo from seeking justice by convincing the King that Horatio is alive and well. Furthermore, Lorenzo does not allow Hieronimo to see the King, claiming that he is too busy. This, combined with his wife Isabella's suicide, pushes Hieronimo past his limit. He rants incoherently and digs at the ground with his dagger. Lorenzo goes on to tell his uncle, the King, that Hieronimo's odd behaviour is due to his inability to deal with his son Horatio's newfound wealth (Balthazar's ransom from the Portuguese Viceroy), and he has gone mad with jealousy. Regaining his senses, Hieronimo, along with Bel-imperia, feigns reconciliation with the murderers, and asks them to join him in putting on a play, \"Soliman and Perseda\", to entertain the court.\n\nWhen the play is performed, Hieronimo uses real daggers instead of prop daggers, so that Lorenzo and Balthazar are stabbed to death in front of the King, Viceroy, and Duke (Lorenzo and Bel-imperia's father). Unfortunately, this also means that when Bel-imperia's character commits suicide, she also dies. Hieronimo tells everyone of the motive behind the murders, bites out his own tongue to prevent himself from talking under torture, and kills the Duke and then himself. Andrea and Revenge are satisfied, and promise to deliver suitable eternal punishments to the guilty parties.\n\nMany writers influenced \"The Spanish Tragedy\", notably Seneca and those from the Medieval tradition. The play is ostensibly Senecan with its bloody tragedy, rhetoric of the horrible, the character of the Ghost and typical revenge themes. The characters of the Ghost of Andrea and Revenge form a chorus similar to that of Tantalus and Fury in Seneca's \"Thyestes\". The Ghost describes his journey into the underworld and calls for punishment at the end of the play that has influences from Thyestes, Agamemnon and Phaedra. The use of onomastic rhetoric is also Senecan, with characters playing upon their names, as Hieronimo does repeatedly. Hieronimo also references the Senecan plays, \"Agamemnon\" and \"Troades\", in his monologue in Act 3, scene 13. The character of the Old Man, Senex, is seen as a direct reference to Seneca.\n\nThe play also subverts typically Senecan qualities such as the use of a ghost character. For Kyd, the Ghost is part of the chorus, unlike in \"Thyestes\" where the Ghost leaves after the prologue. Also, the Ghost is not a functioning prologue as he does not give the audience information about the major action on stage nor its conclusion. The Ghost is similar to those in metrical medieval plays who return from the dead to talk about their downfall and offer commentary on the action. Revenge is akin to a medieval character that acts as a guide for those on a journey.\n\n\"The Spanish Tragedy\" was enormously influential, and references and allusions to it abound in the literature of its era. Ben Jonson mentions \"Hieronimo\" in the Induction to his \"Cynthia's Revels\" (1600), has a character disguise himself in \"Hieronimo's old cloak, ruff, and hat\" in \"The Alchemist\" (1610), and quotes from the play in \"Every Man in His Humour\" (1598), Act I, scene iv. In \"Satiromastix\" (1601), Thomas Dekker suggests that Jonson, in his early days as an actor, himself played Hieronimo.\n\nAllusions continue for decades after the play's origin, including references in Thomas Tomkis's \"Albumazar\" (1615), Thomas May's \"The Heir\" (1620), and as late as Thomas Rawlins's \"The Rebellion\" (c. 1638).\n\nIn modern times, T. S. Eliot quoted the title and the play in his poem \"The Waste Land\". The play also appears in Orhan Pamuk's 2002 novel \"Snow\".\n\nThe White/Pavier Q4 of 1602 added five passages, totalling 320 lines, to the existing text of the prior three quartos. The most substantial of these five is an entire scene, usually called the painter scene since it is dominated by Hieronimo's conversation with a painter; it is often designated III,xiia, falling as it does between scenes III,xii and III,xiii of the original text.\n\nHenslowe's diary records two payments to Ben Jonson, dated 25 September 1601 and 22 June 1602, for additions to \"The Spanish Tragedy\". Yet most scholars reject the view that Jonson is the author of the 1602 additions. The literary style of the additions is judged to be un-Jonsonian; Henslowe paid Jonson several pounds for his additions, which has seemed an excessive sum for 320 lines. And John Marston appears to parody the painter scene in his 1599 play \"Antonio and Mellida\", indicating that the scene must have been in existence and known to audiences by that time. The five additions in the 1602 text may have been made for the 1597 revival by the Admiral's Men. Scholars have proposed various identities for the author of the revisions, including Dekker, John Webster, and Shakespeare—\"Shakespeare has perhaps been the favorite in the continuing search...\"\n\nThe morality of revenge has been a source of discourse for years, and as revenge is one of the key themes of the play, a lot of debate has been made over it. Hieronimo's pursuit for revenge and subsequent scheme is open to moral based judgement, but the question many scholars face is whether the responsibility and fault of Hieronimo's desire for revenge belongs solely to him. In one theory, Steven Justice proposes that the fault lies not in Hieronimo, but rather in the society at the time. It is argued that Kyd used the revenge tragedy to give body to popular images of Catholic Spain. Kyd tries to make Spain the villain in that he shows how the Spanish court gives Hieronimo no acceptable choice. The court turns Hieronimo to revenge in pursuit of justice, when in reality it is quite different.\n\nSome critics claim that Hieronimo's attitude is what central Christian tradition calls the Old Law, the Biblical notion of an \"eye for an eye\". Hieronimo's passion for justice in society is revealed when he says, \"For blood with blood shall, while I sit as judge, / Be satisfied, and the law discharg'd\" (III.vi.35–36).\n\nThe nature of murder and death, performed and as natural phenomena, is also questioned. Smith considers the decade of the play relevant to the use of hangings, murders, and near deaths throughout the play. Multiple characters are killed or nearly killed throughout the play. Horatio is hanged, Pedringano is hanged, Alexandro is nearly burnt at the stake, and Villuppo is assumed tortured and hanged. Kyd consistently refers to mutilation, torture, and death, beginning early in the play when the ghost of Don Andrea describes his stay in the underworld: \"And murderers groan with never killing wounds, / And perjured wights scalded in boiling lead, / And all foul sins with torments overwhelmed\" (I.i.68–70). He vividly describes in these lines as well as others the frequency of murder and torture in the underworld. Murder and death make up the tragedy theme that holds true through the last scene of the play.\n\nAnother theme is social mobility—characters such as Lorenzo and Pedringano are driven by their ambition and desire for more power. Pedringano especially so as he is a servant, belonging in the lowest rank of the hierarchy. His efforts to curry favor (and go beyond his 'place') with Lorenzo leads to his resulting downfall as he is barred from social mobility, a mere tool in the end.\n\nIn addition to that, Hieronimo and his family are labeled as a \"middling sort\" by many scholars. Essentially the 'middle class,' Kyd establishes a situation in which conflict between Hieronimo's household and the nobility is inevitable as the middle class is seen as a threat, one that is pressing up on the aristocrats. This is evident in scenes such as the resulting competition from the 'middling sort' Horatio and Lorenzo, the King's nephew.\n\nScholars cite oeconomia as the philosophy Kyd is adhering to in the play.\n\nThe structure in essence is a \"play within a play\". The play begins with a background of why Hieronimo wants to seek revenge. He is seen as a minor character and eventually becomes the protagonist to add to the revenge plot. When he becomes the main character, the plot begins to unfold and become the revenge story that it is. Kyd incorporates the buildup to the revenge as a way to show the internal and external struggles of the characters. The actual revenge takes place during the play that Hieronimo stages, making this the climax of the play. The resolution is the explanation to the king of what has happened. The play within the play is not described until the actual play is performed, intensifying the climax, and the resolution is short due to the explanations that have already occurred.\n\nCritics say that \"The Spanish Tragedy\" resembles a Senecan Tragedy. The separation of acts, the emphasized bloody climax, and the revenge itself, make this play resemble some of the most famous ancient plays. Kyd does acknowledge his relations to Senecan Tragedies by using Latin directly in the play but also causes Christianity to conflict with pagan ideals. We also see Kyd's use of Seneca through his referencing three Senecan plays in \"The Spanish Tragedy\". It is said that this play was the initiator of the style for many \"Elizabethan revenge tragedies, most notably Hamlet\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053985", "title": "Artenara", "text": "Artenara\n\nArtenara is a village and a Spanish municipality in the western part of the island of Gran Canaria in the Las Palmas province in the Canary Islands.\n\nThe village of Artenara is situated in the mountains, south-west of Las Palmas.\n\nIts population is (2013), and the area is . Artenara is the smallest municipality of Gran Canaria in population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054011", "title": "Military Intelligence Hall of Fame", "text": "Military Intelligence Hall of Fame\n\nThe Military Intelligence Hall of Fame is a hall of fame established by the Military Intelligence Corps of the United States Army in 1988 to honor soldiers and civilians who have made exceptional contributions to military intelligence. The hall is administered by the United States Army Intelligence Center at Fort Huachuca, Arizona.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054016", "title": "Battles (band)", "text": "Battles (band)\n\nBattles is an American experimental rock band, founded in 2002 in New York City by Ian Williams (formerly of Don Caballero and Storm & Stress). The current line-up is a duo, composed of guitarist/keyboardist Williams and drummer John Stanier (formerly of Helmet, Tomahawk and The Mark of Cain). Former members include composer/vocalist Tyondai Braxton and guitarist/bassist Dave Konopka.\n\nThey released two EPs, \"EP C\", \"B EP\", and the single \"Tras\" before signing to Warp Records. Warp compiled these early recordings and released them as an album, titled \"EP C / B EP\", in February 2006.\n\nTheir first studio album, \"Mirrored\", was recorded by Keith Souza at Machines with Magnets, and released on May 14, 2007, preceded by a single, \"Atlas\". The single was the NME's Single of the Week, and went on to be number one in the Dandelion Radio Festive Fifty. The album received positive reviews and appeared on several top album lists for 2007. The group would go on to play at 2007's All Tomorrow's Parties festival and on BBC television's Later With Jools Holland. Before the end of the year they collaborated with United Visual Artists in a video for track \"\"Tonto\"\". Music was used in video games, short films, television programs, and on the soundtracks of films \"\" and \"Big Fan\" in the following years.\n\nBraxton left the group in August 2010, indicating that he did not wish to tour although Battles already had a touring schedule lined up for the upcoming year. Speaking about the split in 2013 to \"The Brag\", Braxton pointed to a \"long standing divide\" between himself and his bandmates.\n\nBattles' second album, \"Gloss Drop\", was released on June 6, 2011 featuring guests including Gary Numan, Kazu Makino, and Yamantaka Eye, and the band announced a spring tour in support of the record. In December 2011 the band curated the All Tomorrow's Parties \"Nightmare Before Christmas\" festival in Minehead, England alongside co-curators Les Savy Fav and Caribou. From February to April 2012, a series of four 12\" vinyl EPs were released, titled \"Dross Glop\" (a spoonerism of the album's title) 1 through 4, featuring dance remixes of all the songs on \"Gloss Drop\" by various artists, including Gui Boratto, Kode9 and Hudson Mohawke. A compilation album featuring the 11 remixes (plus one not included, \"Sundome\") was released on April 16, 2012.\n\nThird album, In 2014, \"La Di Da Di\", was released on September 18, 2015. This was preceded by a live session through Warp Records of them performing four new songs in New York City. The stream was up for 24 hours only, and was set on a constant loop.\n\nKonopka left the band in 2018, although the news was not confirmed until May 2019. Battles played their first show as a duo in September 2018, at the Meteor Festival in Israel. Their fourth album, \"Juice B Crypts\", was released on October 18, 2019. It features collaborations with Shabazz Palaces, Liquid Liquid's Sal Principato, Xenia Rubinos and Tune-Yards' Merrill Garbus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054032", "title": "Patricia Meunier-Lebouc", "text": "Patricia Meunier-Lebouc\n\nPatricia Meunier-Lebouc (born 16 November 1972) is a French former professional golfer who played on the Ladies European Tour and the LPGA Tour. Her birth name was Meunier and she is married to Antoine Lebouc, a French professional golfer who played on the European Tour in the 1990s.\n\nMeunier was born in Dijon, France. She won the French Cup and the Greece International in 1993. In 1992, she won the French Ladies Championship, placed fifth in the World Team Championship and finished third at the European Team Junior Championship.\n\nMeunier-Lebouc turned professional in 1994 and initially played on the Ladies European Tour, gaining her maiden victory in her rookie season at the Waterford English Open. She has won 5 more times on the LET and finished in the top 10 in the Order of Merit in 1997 and 2000. She qualified for the LPGA Tour by tying for 27th at the LPGA Final Qualifying Tournament to earn non-exempt status for the 2001 season.\n\nIn her rookie year in 2001, Meunier-Lebouc recorded two top-ten finishes, then won the State Farm Classic in 2002, and the Kraft Nabisco Championship in 2003, a major title. She was the 54-hole leader at the 2003 Women's British Open, but finished in solo fifth place. In February 2004, she gave birth to her first child, daughter Phildine Pearl, and opted not to defend her title at the 2004 Kraft Nabisco Championship in late March. \n\nIn 2000, Meunier-Lebouc became the first French player to compete in the Solheim Cup, and returned in 2003.\n\nMeunier-Lebouc retired from playing professional golf in 2009, and became a golf instructor at the Ibis Golf & Country Club in 2010.\n\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nWD = withdrew<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2054056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054056", "title": "Extension of the Wish", "text": "Extension of the Wish\n\nExtension of the Wish is the debut album by Andromeda.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054059", "title": "San Diego City College", "text": "San Diego City College\n\nSan Diego City College (City College or City) is a public community college in San Diego, California. It is part of the San Diego Community College District and the California Community College System. San Diego City College is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC), Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges (ACCJC).\n\nCity College is located in Downtown San Diego. The campus consists of 40 buildings, and is adjacent to Balboa Park, the I-5 freeway and San Diego High School. Courses are provided in general education, lower-division transfer programs, and occupational and developmental education.\n\nCommunity college education has its roots directly linked to San Diego City College when in 1914, the Board of Education of the San Diego City Schools authorized postsecondary classes for the youth of San Diego. Classes then opened that fall at San Diego High School with four faculty members and 35 students, establishing San Diego City College as the third community college in California.\n\nIn 1921, City College moved from the high school to share facilities with San Diego State Teachers College (now known as San Diego State University). For 25 years, the Junior College program remained at San Diego State University. During this period, in 1938, the San Diego Vocational Junior College was established to offer training in technical-vocational skills to post high school students. The following year, the San Diego Evening Junior College was set up to provide college classes in the evening for adults who were unable to attend classes during the day.\n\nCity Times, the student newspaper, was founded in 1945 as The Jay Sees and later renamed Fortknightly as a bi-weekly publication. The paper was to become City Times in 1978. The journalism program also published a yearbook through the 1950s called Legend.\n\nBy 1946, City College moved back to San Diego High School and reorganized into three branches: San Diego Vocational High School, San Diego College Arts and Sciences, and San Diego Evening Junior College. City College took its permanent campus and during the 1950s and 60s, land was acquired to allow expansion through various blocks of today's northeast Downtown San Diego. Additional property was added to the campus in the 1970s.\n\nThe campus has received extensive expansion and renovations in the last 20 years starting with the opening of a Fitness Center in 1992. The Educational Technology Center opened in 2000 along with the Learning Resource Center (LRC) in 2002. This happened at the same time SDCC changed its placement test from APS to COMPASS. The Harry West Gymnasium opened in 2005, the Academic Success Center in 2009 and Career Technology Center was inaugurated in late 2010.\n\nThe latest projects are being funded by the bond measure, Propositions S and N, passed in 2002 and 2006, of $1,979 billion with monies dispersed throughout the District. Further construction and renovations are taking place and will continue through 2014 at City College, including construction of new Arts and Humanities, Math and Science and Engineering Technology buildings.\n\nSan Diego City College is governed through a \"shared governance\" process where the college is headed by a President who acts as chief executive officer and is responsible for carrying out districtwide policies as directed by the District's Chancellor, as approved by the District's Board of Trustees.\n\nWithin the college, shared governance activities involve faculty, students and staff in the development of solutions to key policy and college-related issues. The different governing bodies in the governance process assist in the communication of the nature and the necessities of college projects throughout the college community. The college's institutional governance is structured to promote a process of independent and critical thinking based on observation, questioning and research protocols. This governance process is participatory, meaning that all vested interest groups or individuals have the opportunity to voice opinions and in turn achieve decisions formulated based on the creativity of participating groups.\n\nThe governing body will make recommendations, through the College President, to the District's Chancellor and the Board of Trustees.\n\nSan Diego City College has four major governing components: the Executive Administration, an Academic Senate, an Associated Students Government and a Classified Senate. The college's administration is then represented in institutional governance through membership on the Deans' Council, leadership of the schools, and representation on the President's Cabinet and other participatory governance committees. Governing bodies work together to carry out the responsibilities that fall within the college administration, including provision of educational programs, student support services, staff development, direct campus operations, and various ancillary functions.\n\nAll administrative departments and operations are under the final authority of the President, who reports to the Chancellor. The Board of Trustees is the final level of authority for all functions outside the college and within the District.\n\nThe President serves as City College's chief executive officer and is responsible for carrying out policies as directed by the District's higher authority. The President also serves as the leader for the college and is also responsible for the day-to-day operations at the college and approving and carrying out college-wide policies as reached with the aid of college's governing bodies.\n\nThe college offers 250 majors and certificate programs and 1,500 classes each semester to more than 17,000 students.\n\nWhile the campus is a relatively safe campus for students to study at, security on campus was called into question when a student was murdered on campus in October 2010. The campus murder prompted administrators to re-evaluate campus security planning, which looked at adequacy of lighting, the availability of panic buttons, and other security measures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054066", "title": "Charlie Grimm", "text": "Charlie Grimm\n\nCharles John Grimm (August 28, 1898 – November 15, 1983), nicknamed \"Jolly Cholly\", was an American professional baseball player and manager. He played in Major League Baseball as a first baseman, most notably for the Chicago Cubs; he was also a sometime radio sports commentator, and a popular goodwill ambassador for baseball. He played for the Pittsburgh Pirates early in his career, but was traded to the Cubs in 1925 and worked mostly for the Cubs for the rest of his career. Born in St. Louis, Missouri to parents of German extraction, Grimm was known for being outgoing and chatty, even singing old-fashioned songs while accompanying himself on a left-handed banjo.\n\nWhile still playing as first baseman, Grimm was enlisted to replace Rogers Hornsby as manager after his dismissal on August 2, 1932. The team was 53-46 at the time, five games back in the standings in second place. In the 55 games that Grimm managed for the Cubs, he rallied them to a 37-18 record for an overall record of 90-64, winning the National League pennant for the first time since 1929. The Cubs were subsequently swept by the New York Yankees in the World Series. The team regressed in the following two seasons, winning 86 games each and finishing in third place. However, Grimm's team made a dramatic improvement in 1935, going 100-54. It was the first time the Cubs had won 100 games since 1910 and it was the last until 2016 (along with Grimm's only 100-win season as manager). They were bolstered by a 21-game winning streak in September that carried them to a second league pennant in four seasons. In the World Series that year against the Detroit Tigers, they won the first game in Detroit before losing the next three. They rallied to win Game 5 at Wrigley Field, but the Tigers won a walk-off hit from Goose Goslin to win 4-3 and seal the Series. The Cubs went 87-67 for a third place finish the following year (which was Grimm's last as a player-manager), but they improved to 93-61 and second place the year after. 1938 was his last season of his first tenure as manager of the Cubs. The team was 45-36 when he was replaced by catcher Gabby Hartnett. As Grimm had done six years earlier, the newly installed player-manager led the Cubs to a dramatic comeback to win the league pennant that season.\n\nAfter a sluggish start by the Cubs in 1944 in which the team lost ten in a row after winning the Opening Day game, Grimm was hired to manage the club again. The team finished fourth in the standings with a 75-79 record (the fifth straight losing season for the team). However, Grimm led them to a dramatic improvement the following year, going 98-56 to win the league pennant for the first time since 1938. In the World Series that year, Grimm's team faced off against the Tigers once again. It was a hard-fought series, going down to the decisive seventh game at Wrigley Field. The Cubs were trounced 9-3, with six of the Tiger runs coming in the first two innings. It was the last pennant for the Cubs for 71 years. The Cubs went 82-71 the following year, finishing 3rd in the standings. It was the last time the team had a record of .500 until 1963. Grimm finished his last three seasons with losing record (69-85, 64-90, 19-31) before resigning in 1949.\n\nAfter his resignation from being manager, he served as the Cubs' Director of Player Personnel, then the club's title for general manager, doing so until February 1950 due to not feeling comfortable in his front-office post. He subsequently was hired to manage a Double A team, the Dallas Eagles of the Texas League.\nGrimm was also a major baseball figure in Milwaukee. He was hired by Bill Veeck to manage his Milwaukee Brewers, then the Cubs' top farm team, during World War II. He returned to the Brewers in 1951 when they were a farm team of the Boston Braves. He was highly successful as a manager during each term, winning the regular season American Association title in 1943 and 1951, and the playoff championship in 1951. On May 30, 1952, Grimm was promoted from Milwaukee to manager of the big league Braves; he would prove to be the last skipper in the history of the Boston NL club. He went 51-67 (with two ties) as the Braves finished seventh place.\n\nHe then managed the Milwaukee Braves for their first three years after their move to Wisconsin in March 1953. Being of German extraction, he was popular in the Beer City. The following year, the Braves went 92-62 (with three ties), finishing 13 games behind in second place to the Brooklyn Dodgers. It was the first time the Braves had won over 90 games since 1948. The next year, they regressed a bit as a team with an 89-65 record for a third place finish (eight games back), but it was the first time that they had consecutive winning seasons since 1947-48. The next year, they went 85-69, finishing 13.5 games back of the Dodgers. The 1956 season proved to be a nail-biter for the team, but Grimm was not to be a big part of said season. He was dismissed after a 24–22 start to the season, replaced by Fred Haney. Haney led them to a 68–40 record while losing the league pennant to the Dodgers by one game. Haney led the team to a World Series championship the following year.\n\nHe was brought out of retirement to direct the Cubs again in early 1960, but the team got off to a slow start, and owner P.K. Wrigley made the novel move of swapping Grimm with another former manager, Lou Boudreau, who was doing Cubs radiocasts at that time. Grimm had done play-by-play in the past, so he gave it one more go in 1960, before stepping back to the ranks of coaching and then front office duties.\n\nIt was in 1961 that Wrigley began his \"College of Coaches\", of which Grimm was a part but was never designated \"Head Coach\". One of the Cubs' coaches during that 5-year experiment was baseball's first black coach, Buck O'Neil.\n\nGrimm finished with a record of 1,287 wins and 1,067 losses in the regular season and five wins and 12 losses in the post-season. His 946 wins as Cubs manager rank second behind Cap Anson.\n\nIn 2166 games over 20 seasons, spanning from 1916-1936, Grimm posted a .290 batting average (2299-for-7917) with 908 runs, 394 doubles, 108 triples, 79 home runs, 1077 RBI, 57 stolen bases, 578 bases on balls, .341 on-base percentage and .397 slugging percentage. He finished his career with a .993 fielding percentage as a first baseman. In the 1929 and 1932 World Series, he hit .364 (12-for-33) with 4 runs, 2 doubles, 1 home run, 5 RBI and 3 walks.\n\nAfter his retirement from baseball, he lived adjacent to Lake Koshkonong, near Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin. Grimm died in Scottsdale, Arizona at age 85, from cancer. His widow was granted permission to spread his ashes on Wrigley Field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054072", "title": "Henry Percy, 11th Duke of Northumberland", "text": "Henry Percy, 11th Duke of Northumberland\n\nHenry Alan Walter Richard Percy, 11th Duke of Northumberland FRS (1 July 1953 – 31 October 1995), styled Earl Percy until 1988, was a British peer. He was the eldest son of Hugh Percy, 10th Duke of Northumberland, and a godchild of Queen Elizabeth II. He was educated at Eton College and Christ Church, Oxford. After succeeding to the dukedom on the death of his father, 11 October 1988, he was noted for planting many trees at Syon House, the Ducal residence at Brentford; for an unsuccessful foray into film-making involving the Duke in front of and behind the camera; for romantic relationships with Naomi Campbell's mother Valerie and with American actress Barbara Carrera; and for excessive and adventurous drug taking.\n\nPercy was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome.\nHe never married and died aged 42 from heart failure after an overdose of amphetamines.\n\nHe was succeeded to the Dukedom by his younger brother Lord Ralph Percy.\n"}
{"id": "2054078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054078", "title": "Thom Brennaman", "text": "Thom Brennaman\n\nThomas Wade Brennaman (born September 12, 1963) is an American television sportscaster. He is the son of former Cincinnati Reds radio sportscaster Marty Brennaman.\n\nAfter graduating in 1982 from Cincinnati's Anderson High School Thom attended Ohio University, where he was president of the Beta Kappa chapter of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He entered college uncertain of whether to follow in his father's footsteps and become a broadcaster. While at Ohio he joined station WATH, developing his own love for radio. After graduating in 1986, Brennaman worked as a sports reporter/anchor for WLWT-TV, the NBC affiliate in Cincinnati. During this same period, he worked as the television play-by-play announcer for the Cincinnati Reds alongside Major League Baseball Hall of Famer Johnny Bench. In the early 1990s he did Chicago Cubs broadcasts, alternating with Hall of Fame broadcaster Harry Caray between television and radio. In 1994, he was hired by Fox Sports to call the network's National Football League and Major League Baseball telecasts. Brennaman has also called college football and college basketball for FOX as well. He served as the first television voice for the Arizona Diamondbacks from 1998 to 2006 and left after the 2006 season to join his father Marty in Cincinnati.\n\nIn 2006, Brennaman was named as Fox's lead play-by-play announcer for the Bowl Championship Series. In addition to calling the BCS National Championship Game, Brennaman called the 2007 Fiesta Bowl. On both broadcasts, Brennaman worked with former University of Wisconsin–Madison head coach Barry Alvarez (only in 2007), and former University of Tennessee defensive back and current broadcaster Charles Davis. Brennaman also called the 2008 Sugar Bowl and the 2009 Orange Bowl.\n\nAdditionally, the Big Ten Network named Brennaman as its lead play-by-play announcer for college football games for two seasons beginning in September 2007. He would return to calling NFL games for Fox full-time in 2009 (Prior to this, Brennaman worked NFL games for FOX previously from 1994-1997, 1999-2000 and 2004-2008 as a regular and/or fill-in announcer), working primarily with Brian Billick (and later, on David Diehl, Charles Davis, and Chris Spielman) but also filling in as lead announcer while Joe Buck did the MLB playoffs. Prior to that, Brennaman had been the voice of the Cotton Bowl Classic on Fox from 2000 to 2006.\n\nBrennaman, along with Brian Billick, Laura Okmin, and Chris Myers called the 2012 NFC Divisional Playoff matchup between the Seattle Seahawks and the Atlanta Falcons instead of Kenny Albert, Daryl Johnston, and Tony Siragusa. This was Brennaman's first time calling an NFL playoff game, although Brennaman and Billick called the 2011 Pro Bowl along with Terry Bradshaw and sideline reporters Tony Siragusa and Jay Glazer.\n\nOn October 3, 2006, Cincinnati Reds owner Robert Castellini hired Brennaman through the 2010 season to announce 45 Reds games on FS Ohio television and 45 games on the Cincinnati Reds Radio Network, flagship station being 700 WLW. His father's contract with the Reds was set to expire after the 2010 season. Currently, Thom continues to broadcast for the Cincinnati Reds, while Marty retired near the end of the 2019 season.\n\nBrennaman was a part of Fox Sports' #2 baseball broadcast team from the beginning of Fox's involvement in Major League Baseball in 1996 until 2015. He has teamed with Bob Brenly, Steve Lyons, Joe Girardi, and Eric Karros. In this capacity, he called play-by-play for numerous postseason games from 1996 until 2006. From 2007 to 2013, the #2 team was not given any postseason assignments due to Fox not holding the rights to any concurrent postseason series.\n\nIn 2014, Brennaman and Karros began to split the #2 role with Matt Vasgersian and John Smoltz. Fox also returned to using multiple broadcast teams in the postseason that year, however, Brennaman and Karros were passed over in favor of Vasgersian and Smoltz for the playoff assignment. In 2015, Matt Vasgersian and Smoltz took over the role full-time, with Brennaman pretty much ending his active MLB on FOX role. Brennaman eventually moved over to the Reds broadcasts full-time (except when he's working the NFL on FOX).\n\nBrennaman has contributed voice-over work for video games \"Microsoft Baseball 2001\", \"All-Star Baseball 2002\", and \"All-Star Baseball 2003–2005\" for GameCube, PlayStation 2 and Xbox. He has also done college basketball announcing for CBS Radio and Fox Sports Net cable. He is also a spokesman for CBTS, a Cincinnati Bell company, in television commercials. He also called basketball games for the Cincinnati Bearcats and Fox College Hoops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054087", "title": "William Hudson (botanist)", "text": "William Hudson (botanist)\n\nWilliam Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London. His main work was \"Flora Anglica\", published in 1762. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1761.\n\nHudson was born between 1730 and 1732 at the White Lion Inn, Kendal, which was kept by his father. He was educated at Kendal grammar school, \n\nHudson was subsequently apprenticed to an apothecary in London. He obtained the prize for botany given by the Apothecaries' Company which was a copy of Ray's \"Synopsis\". However, he also paid attention to mollusca and insects and in Pennant's \"British Zoology\" he is mentioned as the discoverer of \"Trochus terrestris\". From 1757 to 1768 Hudson was resident sub-librarian of the British Museum, and his studies in the Sloane herbarium enabled him to adapt the Linnean nomenclature to the plants described by Ray far more accurately than did John Hill in his \"Flora Britannica\" of 1760.\n\nIn 1761 Hudson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and in the following year the first edition of his \"Flora Anglica\" appeared, which, according to Pulteney and J. E. Smith, \"marks the establishment of Linnean principles of botany in England.\" Smith writes that the work was \"composed under the auspices and advice of Benjamin Stillingfleet\". Hudson, at the time of its publication, was practising as an apothecary in Panton Street, Haymarket, and from 1765 to 1771 acted as 'praefectus horti' to the Apothecaries' Company at the Chelsea Physic Garden. He communicated with Linnaeus and sent plants to him.\n\nA considerably enlarged edition of the \"Flora\" appeared in 1778 and he planned a \"Fauna Britannica\". However, in 1783 his house in Panton Street caught fire, his collections of insects and many of his plants were destroyed, and the people narrowly escaped with their lives. Hudson retired to Jermyn Street.\n\nIn 1791 he joined the newly established Linnean Society. He died in Jermyn Street from paralysis on 23 May 1793, being, according to the \"Gentleman's Magazine\", in his sixtieth year. Hudson was buried in St James's Church in Westminster, London.\n\nHe bequeathed the remains of his herbarium to the Apothecaries' Company and some have subsequently been transferred to the herbaria at the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Natural History Museum in London. \n\nLinnaeus gave the name \"Hudsonia\" to a North American genus of Cistaceae.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054092", "title": "Klokotnica (Doboj Istok)", "text": "Klokotnica (Doboj Istok)\n\nKlokotnica (Cyrillic: Клокотница) is a town in the municipality of Doboj Istok, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Klokotnica is administrative centre of Doboj Istok.\n"}
{"id": "2054095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054095", "title": "National Liberation Front (Greece)", "text": "National Liberation Front (Greece)\n\nThe National Liberation Front (, \"Ethnikó Apeleftherotikó Métopo\" (EAM)) was the main movement of the Greek Resistance during the Axis occupation of Greece. Its main driving force was the Communist Party of Greece (KKE), but its membership throughout the occupation included several other leftist and republican groups. ΕΑΜ became the first true mass social movement in modern Greek history. Its military wing, the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS), quickly grew into the largest armed guerrilla force in the country, and the only one with nation-wide presence. At the same time, from late 1943 onwards, the political enmity between ΕΑΜ and rival resistance groups from the centre and right evolved into a virtual civil war, while its relationship with the British and the British-backed Greek government in exile was characterized by mutual mistrust, leading EAM to establish its own government, the Political Committee of National Liberation, in the areas it had liberated in spring 1944. Tensions were resolved provisionally in the Lebanon Conference in May 1944, when EAM agreed to enter the Greek government in exile under Georgios Papandreou. The organisation reached its peak after liberation in late 1944, when it controlled most of the country, before suffering a catastrophic military defeat against the British and the government forces in the \"Dekemvriana\" clashes. This marked the beginning of its gradual decline, the disarmament of ELAS, and the open persecution of its members during the \"White Terror\", leading eventually to the outbreak of the Greek Civil War.\n\nDuring the Metaxas Regime, the Communist Party of Greece (KKE) was outlawed and its members persecuted. Its hierarchy and organisation suffered heavy blows from Metaxas' efficient security forces, and more than 2,000 Communists were imprisoned or sent to internal exile. The fact that a great many of the Communists in Greece had been tortured under the 4th of August Regime, and that the party had been heavily infiltrated by the secret police had contributed much to an embittered, paranoid view of the world. The majority of the Communists had acquired a mentality that saw power has something to be gained and not to be shared.\n\nWith the German invasion and occupation of the country in April–May 1941, several hundred members were able to escape and flee to the underground. Their first task was to reform the party, along with subsidiary groups like the \"National Solidarity\" (Εθνική Αλληλεγγύη, EA) welfare organization 28 May. After the German attack on the Soviet Union on 22 June and the break of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, the newly reconstituted Communist Party found itself firmly on the anti-Axis camp , a line confirmed by the Party's 6th Plenum during 1–3 July. The Communists were committed to a \"Popular Front\" tactic, and tried to engage other parties from the left and the centre, including established pre-war politicians. However, the efforts proved largely fruitless. On 16 July, however, the \"National Workers' Liberation Front\" (Εθνικό Εργατικό Απελευθερωτικό Μέτωπο, ΕΕΑΜ) was established, bringing the country's labour union organisations together.\n\nAt the ΚΚΕ's 7th Plenum, the establishment of ΕΑΜ was decided despite the refusal of mainstream politicians to participate. ΕΑΜ was founded on 27 September 1941 by representatives of four left-wing parties: Lefteris Apostolou for the ΚΚΕ, Christos Chomenidis for the Socialist Party of Greece (SKE), Ilias Tsirimokos for the Union of People's Democracy (ELD) and Apostolos Vogiatzis for the Agricultural Party of Greece (ΑΚΕ). ΕΑΜ's charter called for the \"liberation of the Nation from foreign yoke\" and the \"guaranteeing of the Greek people's sovereign right to determine its form of government\". At the same time, while the door was left open to cooperation with other parties, the ΚΚΕ, with its large size in relation to its partners, assumed a clearly-dominant position within the new movement. Furthermore, the ΚΚΕ's well-organized structure and its experience with the conditions and necessities of underground struggle were crucial to ΕΑΜ's success. Georgios Siantos was appointed as the acting leader, since Nikolaos Zachariadis, the ΚΚΕ's proper leader, was interned in Dachau concentration camp. Siantos with his affable manner and modest ways was much popular in the party than Zachariadis.\n\nIn many ways, EAM was a continuation of the Popular Front that the KKE had attempted to create in 1936, but was far more successful. In 1941, the conditions of extreme poverty owing to the economic exploitation by the Axis occupation, most notably the Great Famine of 1941-42 together the experience of defeat in April 1941 made many Greeks receptive to EAM's message. Before the 4th of August Regime was established in 1936, Greek politics were characterized by a \"clientelist\" system under which a politician, who was usually from a well-off family, would set up a patronage machine that would deliver goods and services in his riding in exchange for the votes of the local people. Under the clientelist system in Greece, issues of ideology or even popularity were often irrelevant as all that mattered was the ability of a politician to reward the men who had voted for him. The clientelist system made politics in Greece very much a transactional and personalized affair, and as a result, most Greek political parties were weakly organized. Greek men usually voted more for the man best perceived to be able to reward his voters rather than a party. Greek politicians jealously guarded control of their patronage machines, and vigorously resisted efforts to create better organized political parties as a threat to own power. Most notably the attempt by Eleftherios Venizelos in the 1920s to give the Liberal Party more structure was defeated by various Liberal grandees as a threat to the clientelist system. Unlike the traditional Greek parties that were loose coalitions of various politicians, the Greek Communist Party was a well organized party designed for an underground struggle, and was much better suited for resistance work. Starting under the 4th of August regime and even more so under the Triple occupation, the clientist system broke down as none of the politicians had the power to alter the policies carried out by the Bulgarians, Italians and Germans. Much of EAM's appeal centered around the fact that it argued the people should mobilize and organize themselves to cope with the disastrous occupation, instead of passively hoping that one of the traditional politicians might be able to arrange some deal with the Germans to improve living conditions. The British historian David Close wrote: \"EAM became a party unique in Greek history in achieving mass support while its leaders remained obscure\".\n\nOn 10 October, ΕΑΜ published its manifesto and announced itself and its aims to the Greek people. During the autumn of 1941, its influence expanded throughout Greece, either through pre-existing Communist cells or through the spontaneous actions of local \"people's committees\". The Great Famine had radicalized Greek opinion. One women from Athens who joined EAM later recalled in an interview::\"The first goal EAM had set was the fight for life. Against hunger. The first song that was heard was (starts to sing) 'For life and for freedom, bread for our people! The old, women, men and children, for our beloved country.' That was the first hymn of EAM that was heard around the city. It was sung to an old island tune and it went, 'Brothers and sisters, we who are faced with starvation and slavery; we will fight with all our hearts and our strength; for life and for freedom, so that our people might have bread.' That was our first song.\" About 300,000 Greeks starved to death during the Great Famine, and as the best organized resistance group, EAM attracted much support. Additionally, the experience of being occupied by Fascist Italy, a nation that Greece had defeated in 1940-41 caused many to join EAM. Another EAM veteran recalled in interview:\"The Greek Resistance was one of the most spontaneous, that is, it wasn't necessary for someone to tell us, \"come join this organization to fight the Germans\" but, by ourselves, as soon as we saw the Germans were coming down, we experienced a \"shock\" because, \"we\" were the winners, and that played a large role; that is, if the Greeks in Albania hadn't won against the Italians, we might have been otherwise. But, since we felt so proud of winning, so...the feeling in the souls of the young people in Greece and of others, of everyone, was so enormous because of the victory of the Greeks up in the mountains of Epirus and in Albania, where they pushed the Italians out, abruptly, and without any declaration of war, that came later when they had crossed our border; the enthusiasm of the Greeks at that time was such that, and so great the heroism of the boys that were constantly leaving for the Albanian mountains to confront the enemy that had so underhandedly tried to cross the border. And in Athens, every Greek victory was something...very triumphant. And suddenly, we the victors, had become slaves to a much greater power, the Germans...Suddenly, we found ourselves faced with a conqueror that we had already won against, because the Germans had brought in the Italians...that is, Italian orders on the walls, kommandatoura, blockades...for instance, to go from Filothei where we lived by bus (with the very rare buses then) the Italians would make checks. At a stop, they would board the bus, searching around, yelling \"Madonna\"...and we \"despised\" them. The Germans we hated, but we just couldn't \"believe\" that now we were faced with the Italians in this way\". Another reason for EAM's appeal was a desire for a better future after all the wartime sufferings and humiliations, and the feeling that the Greece of the 4th of August Regime was not that future. The 1930s were remembered as the time of the Great Depression and the oppressive 4th of August Regime, and many Greeks, especially younger Greeks, did not have fond memories of that decade. \n\nFollowing Communist practice, ΕΑΜ took care to set up a refined system with which to engage and mobilize the mass of the people. ΕΑΜ committees were thus established on a territorial and occupational basis, starting from the local (village or neighbourhood) level and moving up, and subsidiary organizations were created: a youth movement, the \"United Panhellenic Organisation of Youth\" (EPON), a trade union, the \"Workers' National Liberation Front\" (ΕΕΑΜ), and a social welfare organization, \"National Solidarity\" (EA). ΕΑΜ's military wing, the \"Greek People's Liberation Army\" (ELAS) was formed in December 1942, and a crude navy, the \"Greek People's Liberation Navy\" (ELAN), was established later, but its strength and role were severely limited.\n\nOne of the great successes of ΕΑΜ was the mobilization against the plans of the Germans and the collaborationist government to send Greeks into forced labour in Germany. Public knowledge of the plans created \"a kind of pre-insurrectional atmosphere\", which in February 1943 led to a mounting series of strikes in Athens, culminating in an ΕΑΜ-organized demonstration on 5 March, which forced the collaborationist government to back down. In the event, only 16,000 Greeks went to Germany, representing 0.3% of the foreign labour force total.\n\nELAS fought against German, Italian and Bulgarian occupation forces as well as, by late 1943, anticommunist rival organizations, the National Republican Greek League (EDES) and the National and Social Liberation (EKKA). It succeedied in destroying the latter entirely in April 1944.\n\nΕΑΜ-ELAS activity resulted in the complete liberation of a large area of the mountainous Greek mainland from Axis control, where in March 1944, ΕΑΜ established a separate government, the \"Political Committee of National Liberation\" (PEEA). ΕΑΜ even carried out elections to the PEEA's parliament, the \"National Council\", in April; for the first time in Greek electoral history, women were allowed to vote. In the elections, it is estimated that 1,000,000 people voted.\n\nIn the territories that it controlled, ΕΑΜ implemented its own political concept, known as \"laokratia\" (λαοκρατία, \"people's rule\"), based upon \"self-administration, involvement of new categories (mainly women and youths) and popular courts\". At the same time, the mechanisms of the \"revolutionary order\" created by ΕΑΜ were often employed to eliminate political opponents. Within \"Free Greece\" as the area under EAM control was known, EAM's rule was broadly popular as the elected councils that EAM set up to rule the villages were made up of local people and were responsible to local people. Before the occupation, Greece was ruled in a very centralised way with prefects appointed by the government in Athens ruling the villages and decisions about even matters of purely local concern being made in Athens. A recurring complaint before the war was the decision-making process in Athens was slow and indifferent to local opinion while EAM's system of \"people's councils\" was considered an improvement. Likewise, the legal system before the war was widely considered to be cumbersome and unfair in the sense that poor and illiterate farmers could not afford a lawyer nor understand the law, causing them to be victimized by those who did. Even for those who could afford lawyers, trials were held only in the district capitals, requiring those concerned to make time-consuming trips to testify. EAM's system of \"people's courts\" which met in the villages every weekend to hear cases was very popular as the \"people's courts\" did not require lawyers and the rules of the \"people's courts\" were very easy to understand. The \"people's courts\" usually made their decisions quite quickly and tended to respect the informal rules of the village instead of being concerned with the legalities. The \"people's courts\" were very draconian in their punishments with people who stole or killed livestock being executed for instance, but the simplicity and speed of the \"people's courts\" together with the convenience of trials being held locally were all felt to compensate. In both the \"people's courts\" and \"people's councils\", EAM did not use \"Katharevousa\", the formal Greek that was the language of the elites, instead using \"demotic\", the informal Greek of the masses.\n\nIn Free Greece, there was much differences of opinion about the sort of society that EAM should establish. The Greek Communist Party following Moscow's orders to establish a \"Popular Front\" against fascism allowed other parties a say in ruling \"Free Greece\", which considerably diluted its Marxist programme. Furthermore, the majority of the Greek Communists were intellectuals from urban areas who before the war had paid little thought to the problems of rural Greece, and thus most Communists found that the Party's theories were not relevant in the predominately rural \"Free Greece\". Several of the ELAS \"kapetans\" such as Aris Velouchiotis and Markos Vafeiadis were frustrated during with the way that the Party's leadership remained focused on the urban working class as the \"vanguard of the revolution\", charging that Party needed to broaden its appeal in rural areas. It was pressure from Velouchiotis who has emerged as the most successful of the \"andarte\" leaders which forced the Party to start making an appeal to rural people in 1942. The British historian Mark Mazower wrote that EAM \"was far from being a Communist monolith\", and there was much lively debate within EAM about how a \"People's Democracy\" was to function. The \"kapetans\" who commanded the \"andarte\" bands were often independent-minded men who did not always follow the Party line.\n\nThe EAM established \"People's Committees\" to govern villages in \"Free Greece\" who were supposed to be elected by all people over the age of 17, through in practice EAM sometimes set up \"People's Committees\" without elections. Much of the work of the \"People's Committees\" was to mitigate the devastating effects of the Great Famine of 1941-42 and to carry out social reforms intended to ensure that everyone would receive food. There was constant tension between the demands of the national EAM leadership vs. the local \"People's Committees\" who often resisted orders to supply food to other villages in \"Free Greece\". As part of its \"Popular Front\" message, EAM appealed to Greek nationalism, saying all Greeks should unite under its banner to fight against the occupation. As EAM was the resistance group most committed to fighting the occupation, many Greek Army officers joined EAM. By 1944, about 800 Army officers together with about 1, 000 officers from the prewar reserves were commanding ELAS \"andarte\" bands. About 50% of the men who served as ELAS \"andartes\" were veterans of the Albanian campaign of 1940-41, the \"epic of 1940\" when Greece defied the world's expectations by defeating Italy, and gave as one of their reasons for joining EAM a desire to uphold Greek national honor by continuing the fight.\n\nA notable aspect of EAM was the emphasis upon sexual equality, which attracted much support from Greek women. Before the war, Greek women were expected to be highly subservient to men, being treated as almost slaves by their fathers, and after their marriages, by their husbands. In rural areas, three quarters of Greek women were illiterate in the 1930s, and were generally not allowed to go outside alone. One agent from the American Office of Strategic Services serving in rural Greece during the war reported that women were \"regarded as little better than animals and treated about the same\". Since women did not have the right to vote or hold office in Greece, the clientist system had led Greek politicians to almost totally ignore the concerns and interests of Greek women, and EAM as the first organization that took female concerns seriously won significant female support. To justify involving women in public life, EAM argued that in a time of national emergency it was necessary for all Greeks to serve in the resistance. The American historian Janet Hart noted that all of the female EAM veterans whom she interviewed in 1990 gave their first reason for joining EAM as \"love of country\", noting that in Greece the concept of patriotism is closely linked to the more individualistic concept of \"timi\" (self-worth and honor).\n\nIn terms of gender relations, EAM affected a revolution in the areas under its control, and many Greek women recalled serving in EAM as an empowering experience. EAM differed from the other resistance groups by involving women in its activities and sometimes granting them positions of authority such as appointing women as judges and deputies. A popular story was that Velouchiotis had an \"andarte\" who was against women serving in EAM taken out and shot; regardless if this story was true or not, it was widely believed, and the slogan for EAM members was \"respect women or die!\" A typical EAM pamphlet \"The Modern Girl and Her Demands\" criticized the traditional patriarchal nature of Greek society and stated: \"In today's struggle for liberty, the mass participation of the modern girl is especially impressive. In city demonstrations, we see her as a pioneer, a fighter, courageous and defying death: first in the line of battle the country girl defends her bread, her crops; but we see her even as an \"andartissa\", wearing the crossed belt of the \"andartes\", and fighting like a tigress\". In the EAM propaganda play \"O Prodotis\" (\"The Traitor\") by Yorgos Kotzioulos, the story line concerns an old man living in a village named Barba Zikos who argues with his son Stavos about EAM's reforms; the elder Zikos contends that equality for women will destroy the traditional Greek family while his son maintains that sexual equality will make the Greek family stronger.\nOne female EAM member later recalled in an interview as an old women in the 1990s: \"we women were, socially, in a better position, at a higher level than now...Our organization and our own government...gave so many rights to women that only much later, decades later we were given.\" Another woman EAM member recalled:\"I couldn’t go anywhere without my parents knowing where I was going, with whom I was going with, when I would be back. I never went anywhere alone. That is, until the occupation came and I joined the resistance. In the meantime, because we were right in the midst of the enemy, we had an underground press, there at the house...It was very dangerous [but my parents] had to support us...The minute you confront the same danger as a boy, the minute \"you also\" wrote slogans on the walls, the moment \"you also\" distributed leaflets, the moment \"you also\" attended protest demonstrations along with the boys and some of you were \"also\" killed by the tanks, they could no longer say to you, ‘You, you’re a woman, so sit inside while I go to the cinema.’ You gained your equality when you showed what you could endure in terms of the difficulties, the dangers, the sacrifices, and all as bravely and with the same degree of cunning as a man. Those old ideas fell aside. That is, the resistance always tried to put the woman next to the man, instead of behind him. She fought a double liberation struggle.\"\n\nEAM allowed women to vote in the elections it organized and for the first time in Greek history declared that men and women would receive equal pay. EAM tried to establish a universal education system in rural areas, using the slogan \"A school in every village\", and made education for girls compulsory. Women were enlisted in EAM were engaged in social work such as running the food kitchens in towns and villages in \"Free Greece\" while also working as nurses and washerwomen. At least a quarter of the \"andartes\" (guerrillas) serving in the ELAS were women. The Special Operations Executive (SOE) agent C.M Woodhouse complained in a radio message to SOE headquarters in Cairo that \"many weapons are wasted in the hands of women\", charging that it was absurd on the part of ELAS to have women fighting as \"andartes\". To address traditional concerns about \"family honor\", EAM had a strict rule forbidding sexual relationships outside of marriage between male and female members. One female EAM member in a 1990 interview recalled: \"We girls and boys weren't really allowed to have romances\" Despite the emphasis upon the equality of sexes, in its propaganda recruiting for the \"andartes\", EAM emphasized traditional masculine values such as \"leventia\" and \"pallikaria\", untranslatable Greek words for which there are no precise English equivalents, but which roughly mean \"bravery\" and \"courage\". Women who joined EAM when captured by the Security Battalions were always raped to punish them for having in the opinion of the Battalions betrayed their sex by abandoning the traditional subservient role expected of them. It was also common for the Security Battalions to rape women who merely had relatives serving as \"andartes\".\n\nAnother play by Kotzioulos, \"Ta Pathi to Evraion\" (\"The Suffering of the Jews\") was one of the first to engage the subject of the Holocaust. The plot concerned two Greek Jews who have both fled to \"Free Greece\" to escape being deported to the death camps named Haim, the son of a wealthy businessman and Moses, a former employee of Haim's father who has joined EAM. Haim who has become a Zionist plans to move to Palestine after the war and is uncomfortable with living with Christians, but Moses urges him to stay in Greece, arguing that in the \"New Greece\" that EAM is creating that there will be no more ethnic, racial or religious bigotry. The play ends with Moses persuading Haim to give up his \"prewar mentality\" and both men become \"andartes\". The play's message was that all Greeks, regardless of their religion will a place in the \"New Greece\", where Moses insists \"Here everything is shared. We live like brothers\".\n\nThe position of EAM/ELAS in occupied Greece was unique in several aspects: whereas the other two main resistance groups, the National Republican Greek League (EDES) and National and Social Liberation (EKKA), as well as the various minor groupings, were regionally active and mostly military organizations centred on the persons of their leaders, EAM was a true nation-wide mass political movement that tried to \"enlist the support of all sections of the population\". Although precise numbers do not exist, out of a total Greek population of 7.5 million, at its height in late 1944 EAM numbered, from a low estimate of 500,000–750,000 (according to Anthony Eden) up to some 2,000,000 (according to EAM itself) members in its various affiliated organizations, including 50,000–85,000 men in ELAS. The American political scientist Michael Shafer in his 1988 book \"Deadly Paradigms\" estimated the total EAM membership in 1944 as about 1.5 million while ELAS fielded about 50, 000 \"andartes\"; by the contrast EDES, EAM's main rival, fielded about 5, 000 \"andartes\" in 1944. Although the poorer sections of society were naturally well represented, the movement included many of the pre-war elites as well: no fewer than 16 generals and over 1,500 officers of the army, thirty professors of the University of Athens and other institutions of higher education, as well as six bishops of the Church of Greece and many ordinary priests. At any given time in 1943 and 1944, about 10% of German forces in Greece were engaged in anti-\"andarte\" operations while during the course of occupation ELAS killed about 19, 000 Germans.\n\nThe elections organized by EAM in 1944 to its National Council undeniably included a far broader and representative sampling of Greek society than ever before with women sitting on the National Council and in addition on the National Council there were farmers, journalists, workmen, village priests, and journalists; in contrast before the war, almost the only men elected to represent rural areas were doctors and lawyers. Electoral fraud had been common in rural Greece even before the 4th of August regime was imposed in 1936, and Mazower wrote \"...in this respect at least, things were not much different during the war in \"Free Greece\", and we should avoid idealising the National Council as an expression of free will\". Mazower cautioned that these elections organized by EAM bore a close similarity to the elections organized in wartime Yugoslavia by the Partisans, and that in the same way that the wartime \"People's Democracy\" in Yugoslavia became a Communist dictatorship after the war, the same thing might have happened in Greece had EAM came to power after the war. Through very sympathetic towards EAM, Mazower wrote that historians should avoid \"excessive naivety\" about what EAM meant by \"revolutionary elections\". However, Mazower also wrote that EAM was generally \"not regarded as an instrument of Soviet oppression, but on the contrary, as an organisation fighting for national liberation\".\n\nAfter Liberation in October 1944, the tensions between ΕΑΜ and anticommunist forces, which were supported by Britain, escalated. Originally, as agreed at the Lebanon conference, ΕΑΜ participated in the government of national unity under George Papandreou with 6 ministers. Disagreements regarding the disarmament of ELAS and the formation of a national army made their ministers, on 1 December, resign. ΕΑΜ organized a demonstration in Athens on 3 December 1944 against British interference. The exact details of what happened have been debated ever since, but gendarmes opened fire on the crowd, resulting in 25 dead protesters (including a six-year-old boy) and 148 wounded. The clash escalated into a month-long conflict between ELAS and the British and Greek governmental forces, known as the \"December events\" (\"Dekemvrianá\"), which resulted in a government victory.\n\nIn February, the Varkiza agreement was signed, leading to the disbandment of ELAS. In April, the SKE and ELD parties left ΕΑΜ. ΕΑΜ was not dissolved but was now for all intents and purposes merely an expression of the ΚΚΕ. During the 1945-1946 period, a conservative terror campaign (the \"White Terror\") was launched against ΕΑΜ-ΚΚΕ supporters. The country became polarized, eventually leading to the outbreak of the Greek Civil War in March 1946, which lasted until 1949.\n\nIn its aftermath, and in the context of the Cold War, ΚΚΕ was outlawed, and ΕΑΜ/ELAS vilified as an attempt at \"communist takeover\" and accused of various crimes against political rivals. The issue remains a highly controversial subject. During the civil war and afterwards, those who joined EAM were vilified by the government as \"symmorites\"-an untranslatable Greek word meaning roughly hoodlums. In Greece, the term \"symmorite\" evokes a lifestyle of extreme criminality, as the word is applied to the most disreputable criminals such as serial rapists. By applying the term \"symmorite\" to EAM members, the government was suggesting that EAM was a criminal organization of the most unsavory type, which reflected a broader campaign to present resistance by EAM to the Axis occupation as illegitimate and wrong. The government's line was always that EAM was an \"anti-national\" movement loyal to the Soviet Union, and that therefore EAM membership was incompatible with being Greek. Former members of EAM were considered by the police to be \"dangerous to public welfare\", and a great many of the women who served in EAM were raped while a smaller number were executed as \"enemies of the Greek family and state\".\n\nWith the coming of the socialist Andreas Papandreou to power in 1981, however, ΕΑΜ was recognized as a resistance movement and organization (as were already recognized other resistance organizations by the previous conservative governments) and the fighters of ELAS were honoured and given state pensions.\n\nSome notable members (political, not fighters of ELAS) included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054103", "title": "Tom fool's knot", "text": "Tom fool's knot\n\nThe Tom fool's knot is sometimes considered a handcuff knot but is somewhat inferior for this purpose to the knot which usually bears that name. It is a good knot with which to commence a slightly fancy sheepshank. It is also used as a trick knot due to the speed with which it can be made.\n\nTom fool's knot is believed to be the knot \"epankylotos brokhos\" described by the 1st Century Greek physician Heraklas.\n\nIt is formed by making two loops, not exactly overlaying each other. The inner half of each hitch or loop is pulled under and through the outer side of the opposite loop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054114", "title": "Jim Frey", "text": "Jim Frey\n\nJames Gottfried Frey (May 26, 1931 – April 12, 2020) was an American professional baseball manager, coach, general manager, and Minor League Baseball (MiLB) outfielder. In , Frey led the Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB) to their first American League (AL) championship, in his first year with the team. In the World Series, they lost to the Philadelphia Phillies, who won their first World Series championship.\n\nA native of Cleveland, Ohio, Frey (a lifelong friend of Don Zimmer — they were teammates at Western Hills High School in Cincinnati, Ohio) never reached the major leagues as a player. A left-handed batting-and-throwing outfielder, Frey spent much of his career in the farm systems of the Boston/Milwaukee Braves and St. Louis Cardinals. A recurring arm injury prevented him from his best shot at the big leagues, in .\n\nFollowing the end of Frey's playing career in , he joined the Baltimore Orioles as a scout and MiLB manager. Frey was promoted to the MLB Orioles' coaching staff under Earl Weaver, in 1970, and coached on three AL pennant winners and one World Series champion through 1979.\n\nA week after the end of the 1979 World Series on October 24, Frey was named to succeed Whitey Herzog as manager of the Kansas City Royals. He led the Royals to a 97–65 mark and the American League West Division title in 1980; then, in the 1980 American League Championship Series, the Royals swept their long-time postseason nemesis, the New York Yankees, in three straight games to capture the AL title. (The Yanks had defeated Herzog's Royals for three consecutive seasons (1976–78) in the ALCS.) But Frey's Royals dropped the World Series to the Philadelphia Phillies, in six games.\n\nDuring the strike-marred 1981 season, in which the Royals finished the first half with a 20–30 record, Frey was criticized widely for not taking full advantage of a team built for speed and for failing to motivate his players by Kansas City vice president/general manager Joe Burke. Frey was relieved of his duties on August 31, despite the 10–10 ballclub leading the second-half American League West standings. His replacement was Dick Howser, who had lost his managerial job with the Yankees after the previous year's ALCS. Frey's record in just less than two seasons as Royals manager was 127–105.\n\nFrey then returned to the coaching ranks with the New York Mets for 1982–83. He was hired by the Chicago Cubs for the 1984 season, and again struck paydirt as the Cubs won the division title, earning their first post-season appearance since 1945. During the clubhouse celebration following the division-clinching in Pittsburgh, Frey declared, \"The monkey's off our back!\"\n\nThe Cubs won the first two games against the San Diego Padres in the National League Championship Series at Wrigley Field, before they went to San Diego needing to win just one of the next three games. The Cubs lost the next three games, and many critics blamed Frey for mishandling the pitching staff. Still, the 1984 Cubs are revered among Cubs fans.\n\nAfter a trying 1985 season in which the entire five-man starting rotation simultaneously spent time on the disabled list, the Cubs sputtered in 1986. Frey was fired two months into the season and replaced by John Vukovich. The next year, Frey surfaced as a color commentator on the Cubs' WGN Radio broadcasts.\n\nIn December 1987, the Tribune Co. hired Frey to replace his old boss, general manager Dallas Green, who had resigned two months earlier. Frey hired his lifelong friend, Zimmer, to manage the team, and immediately made his presence felt. Within weeks of his hiring, Frey dealt relief pitcher Lee Smith to Boston for journeyman pitchers Al Nipper and Calvin Schiraldi, the latter of whom was best known for playing a part in the Red Sox' 1986 World Series collapse. Frey also traded the popular Keith Moreland to San Diego for closer Goose Gossage, who had played a big part on the Padres team that eliminated the Cubs, four years earlier. Neither move worked, and the Cubs were without a closer.\n\nSo Frey made a bold move in the winter of 1988, trading budding star Rafael Palmeiro and young pitcher Jamie Moyer to the Texas Rangers for a number of players, including Mitch Williams. The trade appeared to pay off for the Cubs with respect to the 1989 season as Williams saved 36 games, the Cubs won a division title and Moyer and Palmeiro struggled in Texas. But Williams had just one more forgettable year for the Cubs before being traded to Philadelphia in 1991, and Palmeiro and Moyer went on to have productive careers. Following the 1989 campaign, Frey was named co-Executive of the Year by United Press International (UPI).\n\nAfter a disappointing 1990 season, Frey was active on the free agent market, acquiring former Toronto Blue Jay and American League MVP George Bell, former Cincinnati Reds starting pitcher Danny Jackson, and former Houston Astros closer Dave Smith. Jackson and Smith flopped in their roles in 1991, and Zimmer was fired – apparently on orders from Tribune Co. CEO Donald Grenesko, in May 1991. Jim Essian, a former journeyman catcher and Iowa Cubs manager, replaced Zimmer for the remainder of the season. Frey was reassigned within the organization after the 1991 season, replaced by former Chicago White Sox general manager Larry Himes.\n\nLater on, Frey became Vice Chairman of the Independent Somerset Patriots of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball. He died in Ponte Vedra, Florida, on April 12, 2020, at the age of 88.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054117", "title": "Greek People's Liberation Army", "text": "Greek People's Liberation Army\n\nThe Greek People's Liberation Army (, \"Ellinikós Laïkós Apeleftherotikós Stratós\" (ELAS)), also mistakenly called the National People's Liberation Army (Εθνικός Λαϊκός Απελευθερωτικός Στρατός, \"Ethnikós Laïkós Apeleftherotikós Stratós\"), was the military arm of the left-wing National Liberation Front (EAM) during the period of the Greek Resistance until February 1945, when, following the \"Dekemvriana\" clashes and the Varkiza Agreement, it was disarmed and disbanded.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany attacked the Soviet Union with the initiation of Operation Barbarossa (June 22, 1941 — with most of Greece having fallen under Axis occupation since April and the Battle of Crete having ended on June 1 — the Greek Communist Party (KKE) called for national resistance. The KKE, together with minor parties of the Left, formed a political structure called the National Liberation Front. They were joined by other center-left or non-politicised Greek Resistance militants.\n\nOn February 16, 1942, EAM gave permission to a communist veteran, Athanasios (Thanasis) Klaras (later known as Aris Velouchiotis) to examine the possibilities of an armed resistance movement, which led to the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS). ELAS initiated actions against the German and Italian forces of occupation in Greece on 7 June 1942. Velouchiotis, with a small group of 10–15 guerrillas, entered the village of Domnista in Evrytania and proclaimed in front of the surprised villagers that they were about to \"start the war against the forces of Axis and their local collaborators\". Initially, Velouchiotis also recruited traditional local mountain-living bandits, like Karalivanos, in order to create a small group of experts in guerilla warfare.\n\nOn a night in September 1942, a small group of British SOE officers parachuted into Greece near Mt. Giona. This group, led by Brigadier Eddie Myers, had been tasked to blow up one of three bridges (Gorgopotamos, Papadia or Asopos) of the country's main railway line, and to get the two main, but competing, guerrilla groups of ELAS and EDES to cooperate.\n\nAfter much deliberation, the Gorgopotamos bridge was chosen due to the difficulty of making repairs to the structure. But, for the mission to succeed, it was important to meet the guerrillas. Dimos Karalivanos, an ELAS guerrilla, was the first guerrilla the British found. At the end of October a second group of British officers were parachuted into the Greek mountains. Their leaders were Themis Marinos and Colonel Christopher Woodhouse. Their mission was to locate the guerrillas of EDES and their leader Napoleon Zervas, who were friendlier to the British Headquarters of the Middle-East than ELAS, and co-operate with them. The resulting mission was a challenge for the two guerrilla groups, EDES and ELAS. Finally, they agreed to collaborate. The British did not favour the participation of ELAS, because it was a pro-communist group, but the forces of ELAS were larger and better organised, and without their participation, the mission was likely to fail. So, in a rare and unique event, ELAS and EDES-EOEA joined forces.\n\nOn November 14, the 12 British saboteurs, the forces of ELAS (150 men) and those of EDES (60-65 men) met in the village Viniani in Evrytania and the operation started. Ten days later, the forces were at Gorgopotamos. On the night of November 25, at 23:00, the guerrillas started the attack against the Italian garrison. The Italians were startled, and after little resistance, they were defeated. After the defeat of the Italians, the saboteurs set the explosives. ELAS forces also had placed ambushes on the routes towards the bridge, to block the approach of Italian reinforcements. The explosion occurred at 03:00. Afterwards, the guerrillas' forces returned to Viniani, to celebrate the success of the mission.\n\nThe destruction of the Gorgopotamos bridge was, along with the Norwegian heavy water sabotage in Rjukan, one of the two biggest guerrilla acts in occupied Europe. The blowing up of the bridge disrupted the German transportation of ammunition via Greece to Rommel's forces for several weeks, taking place at a time where the German forces in North Africa, retreating after the defeat of El Alamein, were in absolute necessity of provisions.\n\nThe blowing up of Gorgopotamos bridge favored ELAS. Soon, lots of the inhabitants of the villages of Central Greece became members of ELAS. Furthermore, people sympathised with the ELAS guerrillas because they weren't helped by the British in contrast with EDES. When 25 guerrillas deserted from ELAS, Aris Velouchiotis went to Epirus to threaten Napoleon Zervas not to come in touch with them. Later, the 25 deserters were arrested and executed in the village of Sperhiada. The winter of 1942, ELAS groups were formed in other Greek regions, like Thessaly and Macedonia. In Central Greece, Aris Velouchiotis succeeded to form a powerful semi-conventional army which could attack German and Italian forces. Aris became a legendary figure who imposed an iron discipline in ELAS. At the same time, some members of ELAS (Periklis, Tasos Leuterias, Diamantis, Nikiforos, Thiseas, Dimos Karalivanos, and Belis) have been distinguished during the battles. Aris Velouchiotis formed a group of 30–35 men, called \"Mavroskoufides\" (the \"black caps\"), who were his personal guards. During the winter of 1942–1943, new units of ELAS were composed in many regions of Greece. Some areas in the mountains of Central Greece passed from the control of Axis forces to that of ELAS.\n\nThe leadership of ELAS followed a triadic form, from its top down to platoon level: the captain (\"kapetánios\"), elected by the men and the overall leader of the unit, the military specialist (\"stratiotikós\"), usually a regular Army officer, responsible for tactical planning and training, and the political leader (\"politikós\"), usually a KKE member, as EAM's representative. At its top, the General Headquarters of ELAS, these positions were filled by Aris Velouchiotis, Stefanos Sarafis and Andreas Tzimas (\"nom-de-guerre\": Vasilis Samariniotis).\n\nTwo events of great importance took place in this period. KKE, after passing great difficulties, succeeded in reorganizing its groups destroyed by Metaxas. Lots of members were recruited and with the help of ELAS, which became the largest partisan army in Greece, EAM became the largest mass political organization in Greek history, claiming over 1.5 million members, enlisted in organizations that covered every neighborhood in every village. The second great event was the foundation of the United Panhellenic Organization of Youth (EPON) (). In 1943, a small naval auxiliary navy, the Greek People's Liberation Navy (ELAN) was also founded.\n\nTwo years after its foundation, ELAS' military strength had grown from the small group of fighters in Domnitsa to a force of some 50,000 partisans (estimates of the British government) or even as many as 85,000, according to EAM sources; EAM itself, and its associated organizations, had grown to a membership of anywhere from 500,000–750,000 (according to Anthony Eden) up to two million, in a country of 7.5 million inhabitants. ELAS was thus one of the largest resistance groups formed in Europe, similar to the French Maquis, the Italian Resistance and the Yugoslavian Partisans, but smaller than the Polish resistance.\n\nOn 10 March 1944 the EAM-ELAS, now in control of most of the country, established the \"Political Committee of National Liberation\" (PEEA), widely known as the \"Mountain Government\" (), in effect a third Greek government to rival the collaboration one in Athens and the government-in-exile in Cairo. Its aims, according to its founding Act, were, \"\"to intensify the struggle against the conquerors (...) for full national liberation, for the consolidation of the independence and integrity of our country (...) and for the annihilation of domestic fascism and armed traitor formations.\"\"\n\nPEEA was elected in liberated territories and in occupied ones by 2,000,000 Greek citizens. It was historically the first time that women could vote.\nPEEA ministers covered a wide political spectrum from left to center.\n\nAfter the Soviet victory in the Battle of Stalingrad in early 1943, it was clear that Axis would lose the war. Soon, clashes appeared between the various Resistance organizations regarding the post-war political situation in Greece.\n\nIn October 1943 ELAS launched major attacks against EDES and the guerrilla group of Tsaous Anton in Northern Greece, precipitating a civil war across many parts of Greece which continued until February 1944, when the British agents in Greece negotiated a ceasefire (the Plaka agreement); ELAS broke the agreement by attacking the 5/42 Evzone Regiment, murdering the EKKA resistance group leader, Dimitrios Psarros, in as yet unclear and hotly debated circumstances and executing all the captives.\n\nELAS became the strongest of all resistance armed organizations, controlling by 1944 military three-fifths of the country (mainly the mountains) having in its ranks more than 800 military officers of the former National Army. ELAS engaged in battles against other resistance groups, besides the para-military forces of the collaborationist government. ELAS initially began to attack the National Republican Greek League (EDES) on accusations of collaboration with the Germans. ELAS attacked also the Panhellenic Liberation Organization (PAO), another resistance organization, concentrated in Northern Greece, in the area of Macedonia with accusations of collaboration. The armed power of the two major organizations was not comparable, as EDES had approx. 12,000 guerrillas, while ELAS' power was much stronger. Small battles were taking place in Epirus where EDES had its main force. This situation led to triangular battles among ELAS, EDES and the Germans. Given the support of the British and the Greek Cairo Government for EDES, these conflicts precipitated a civil war. \nIn autumn 1944, after the liberation, ELAS was the dominant force in the country and had captured all the major Greek cities, except Athens (after an agreement in Caserta with the Greek government in exile).\n\nAfter the events of the \"Dekemvriana\", ELAS was disarmed, though later some of its fighters (mostly KKE members) joined the Democratic Army during the civil war.\n\nThe hymn of ELAS was written in March 1944 by Sofia Mavroeidi-Papadaki and music by Nikos Tsakonas.\n\n1942\n1943\n1944\n\nThis list contains the names of the most well-known ELAS leaders or simple members, with their \"nom de guerre\" in parentheses:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054126", "title": "John Franklin (actor)", "text": "John Franklin (actor)\n\nJohn Franklin (born John Paul Salapatek; June 16, 1959) is an American actor, best known for playing Isaac Chroner in \"Children of the Corn\" (1984), and Cousin Itt in \"The Addams Family\" (1991).\n\nHe was born John Paul Salapatek in Blue Island, Illinois, a southern suburb of Chicago, on June 16, 1959. As a child, Franklin had a growth hormone deficiency; as a result, his adult height is \"barely 5 feet\", or roughly 152 centimeters.\n\nIn 1977, John graduated from Dwight D. Eisenhower High School. He graduated from the University of Illinois in 1983 with a BFA in theater and teaching.\n\nIn 1983, John Franklin moved to Los Angeles, California to pursue a career in acting. He appeared in commercials before successfully auditioning for the role of Isaac in Stephen King's \"Children of the Corn\".\n\nAfter \"Children of the Corn\", Franklin went on to guest star in two episodes of the kids' variety show \"Kids Incorporated\", \"The Leprechaun\" and \"Space Case.\" He appeared in many commercials before guest starring on \"Highway to Heaven\" as Arnie, a mentally handicapped teenage runaway. He would also play Chucky in shots where the killer doll was seen walking in the 1988 movie \"Child's Play\". \n\nIn 1991, Franklin landed the role of Cousin Itt in \"The Addams Family\"; he reprised the role in 1993's \"Addams Family Values\". Throughout the 1990s, Franklin appeared as a guest on several TV shows, including \"Chicago Hope\" and \"\". He co-starred with David Morse in the independent 1997 film \"George B.\" and with Steve Guttenberg in Disney’s TV movie \"Tower of Terror\" the same year. \n\nIn 1999, Franklin reprised his debut role, Isaac, in \"\", co-writing the script with his cousin Tim Sulka. In 2000, he landed a small role in \"Python\" and co-starred as Morluv in \"The Christmas Secret\".\n\nFranklin formerly worked as an English teacher at Golden Valley High School in Santa Clarita, California. He explained, \n\nAfter the events of 9/11, I saw the shallowness of showbiz and felt a great desire to leave a greater legacy than just being Cousin Itt. Teaching seemed to be a perfect fit for my theatrical talents and to touch many lives.\"\n\nAt the end of the 2015-2016 school year, Franklin announced to the students and staff of Golden Valley High School that he would be retiring from teaching to reprise his career as a writer and actor. He is currently working on several projects, including a young adult novel.\n"}
{"id": "2054139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054139", "title": "Bob Dernier", "text": "Bob Dernier\n\nRobert Eugene Dernier (born January 5, 1957), also known as \"Bobby\", is an American former professional baseball center fielder, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Philadelphia Phillies and Chicago Cubs, in the 1980s. The fleet-afoot 1984 Gold Glove Award winner was also known as \"The Deer\", to fans at Chicago's Wrigley Field.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in Kansas City, Missouri, Dernier attended Longview Community College, where he played baseball and majored in journalism. He led the minor leagues three times in stolen bases—77 with Peninsula in 1979, 71 with Reading in 1980, and 71 for Oklahoma City in 1981.\n\nDernier was the leadoff hitter for the Cubs' 1984 N.L. East division championship team. Hall of Fame second baseman Ryne Sandberg batted second and the lead-off pair was dubbed \"The Daily Double\" by Cubs announcer Harry Caray. Dernier was a member of the 1983 Phillies team, which won the National League pennant but lost the World Series to the Baltimore Orioles, and the 1984 Cubs team which won the NL East but lost in the playoffs to the San Diego Padres. He homered leading off the first inning of Game 1 in the 1984 National League Championship Series to kick off a 13-0 victory for the Cubs, but they dropped the series, three games to two.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s through at least 2004, Dernier was an instructor at a baseball training academy in Kansas City. Dernier was named the Cubs major league first base coach on August 23, 2010, after serving as the team's minor league outfield and base-running coordinator since 2007. He remained a Cub coach until the end of the 2012 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054147", "title": "The Trip (Seinfeld)", "text": "The Trip (Seinfeld)\n\n\"The Trip\" is a two-part story (the 41st and 42nd episodes to air) of NBC's popular sitcom \"Seinfeld\". Airing on August 12, 1992 and August 19, 1992, it kicked off the fourth season of the show.\n\nJerry is offered two free tickets from New York City to Hollywood to appear on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\". He offers one to George and they decide that while they are in Los Angeles they will track down Kramer, who had headed to Los Angeles in the previous episode, \"The Keys\", to become an actor. In the meantime, Kramer has tried several auditions but without any luck. At one point, he hooks up with a woman he met at one of the auditions and inadvertently unnerves actor Fred Savage. \n\nDuring this time, a series of murders take place in L.A. and the police are determined to find the culprit. The same woman Kramer interacted with turns up dead in another part of the city with the script Kramer had given to her found on her body. \n\nGeorge thinks he has insightful conversations with the talk show guests (Corbin Bernsen and George Wendt) but they both call him \"some nut\" during their subsequent interviews. Jerry can't remember the words for a joke and blames the hotel maid, Lupe (Dyana Ortelli), who threw it away while cleaning the room. As Jerry and George leave \"The Tonight Show\", they see Kramer's picture on the news - he is the prime suspect for the \"Smog Strangler\". Jerry and George look at each other in shock and confusion.\n\nKramer is arrested when he is mistaken for \"The Smog Strangler,\" a serial killer roaming the streets of Los Angeles. While also in L.A., Jerry and George try to help clear him of the accusation. They use a pay phone to call the police and they say they have some important information regarding the stranglings. Two policemen in a cruiser come to pick them up and take them back to the station. On their way, the officers see a man (Clint Howard) trying to break into a car. They arrest him and put him in the back with Jerry and George; Jerry and the man get into an argument about tipping, with the latter insisting that Jerry's tipping habits are too cheap. They have to stop again when they get a police call regarding the \"Smog Strangler\" and happen to be close to the scene. Jerry and George want to make sure Kramer is not imprisoned, so they open the door of the car, and, in their haste, leave the door open. The man who had been in the back seat with them escapes.\n\nKramer is taken to the police station and is brutally interrogated by the lieutenant (Peter Murnik), causing Kramer to have a nervous breakdown, which leads to his hysterical sobbing. While he is being questioned, the lieutenant receives a phone call revealing that the Smog Strangler has killed another victim while Kramer was in custody, and so he is released. After Kramer is exonerated, Jerry and George decide to return to New York, but Kramer opts to remain in Los Angeles. Jerry apologizes to Kramer about the whole keys incident, and Kramer appears emotionally moved. After Jerry and George have returned home, Kramer surprisingly returns to New York as well, and is once again living across the hall from Jerry. He offers no explanation of his return. He and Jerry return each other's spare keys as a sign that they have reconciled after their falling out in \"The Keys\".\n\nAt the end of the episode, it is revealed that the actual Smog Strangler is suspected to be the man that was in the back seat with George and Jerry, who they had accidentally allowed to escape. It is broadcast on the news that his whereabouts are unknown, but that he is a generous tipper.\n\nThe scene in which the man breaks into the car was shot near the Bicycle Shack on Ventura Place in Studio City, California, a short distance from CBS Studio Center, the main studio for \"Seinfeld\". When Kramer is confronted by the police at his apartment (about 12 minutes into the episode), Larry David and episode writer Larry Charles can be seen standing in the crowd behind the officers, at the far right of the scene. The cop riding shotgun is the same actor that would later portray Jake Jarmel. The hotel/apartment that Kramer is staying in while in Hollywood is in the same building that was used in \"Pretty Woman\", in which Jason Alexander co-starred.\n\nThis was the only two-part episode of \"Seinfeld\" in which both parts had the same name but were aired on two separate dates instead of a one-hour special. However, \"The Wallet\"/\"The Watch\" is a continuation episode pairing which also aired on separate dates with a \"To Be Continued\" at the end of \"The Wallet\".\n\nElaine does not appear in either part of \"The Trip\", and appears only minimally in \"The Pitch\" and \"The Ticket\". This was due to the fact that Julia Louis-Dreyfus was on maternity leave.\n\nKramer's first name is missing from the script found on the dead woman's body, a reference to how—at this point in time—no one knows his full name.\n\nThe episodes were broadcast much earlier than typical, as NBC wanted to cash in on ratings from the 1992 Barcelona Olympics (which NBC also covered) and as such these two episodes got some of the highest Nielsen ratings thus far.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054153", "title": "Avimimus", "text": "Avimimus\n\nAvimimus ( ), meaning \"bird mimic\" (Latin \"avis\" = bird + \"mimus\" = mimic), is a genus of oviraptorosaurian theropod dinosaur, named for its bird-like characteristics, that lived in the late Cretaceous in what is now Mongolia, around 85 to 70 million years ago.\n\n\"Avimimus\" was a small, bird-like dinosaur with a length of 1.5 m (5 ft). The skull was small compared to the body, though the brain and eyes were large. The size of the bones which surrounded the brain and were dedicated to protecting it are large. This is also consistent with the hypothesis that \"Avimimus\" had a proportionally large brain.\n\nThe jaws of \"Avimimus\" were thought to form a parrot-like beak lacking teeth, and a thorough review of the holotype specimen's anatomy confirmed that no teeth were preserved, although a series of tooth-like projections along the tip of the premaxilla were. However, subsequently discovered specimens have been reported to preserve small premaxillary teeth. The small teeth or possible lack thereof in \"Avimimus\" suggests that it may have been an herbivore or omnivore. Kurzanov himself, however, believed that \"Avimimus\" was an insectivore.\n\nThe foramen magnum, the hole allowing the spinal cord to connect with the brain, was proportionally large in \"Avimimus\". The occipital condyle, however, was small, further suggestive of the skull's relative lightness. The neck itself was long and slender, and is composed of vertebrae that are much more elongate than in other oviraptorosaurs. Unlike oviraptorids and caenagnathids, the back vertebrae lack openings for air sacs, suggesting that \"Avimimus\" is more primitive than these animals.\nThe forelimbs were relatively short. The bones of the hand were fused together, as in modern birds, and a ridge on the ulna (lower arm bone) was interpreted as an attachment point for feathers by Kurzanov. Kurzanov, in 1987, also reported the presence of quill knobs, and while Chiappe confirmed the presence of bumps on the ulna, their function remained unclear. Kurzanov was so convinced they were attachment points for feathers that he concluded that \"Avimimus\" may have been capable of weak flight. The presence of feathers is now widely accepted, but most paleontologists do not believe \"Avimimus\" could fly.\n\nThe ilium was almost horizontally oriented, resulting in exceptionally broad hips. Little is known of the tail but the hip suggests that the tail was long. The legs were extremely long and slender, suggesting that \"Avimimus\" was a highly specialized runner. The proportions of the leg bones add further weight to the idea of \"Avimimus\" was quick on its feet. The animal's shins were long in comparison with its thighs, a trait common among cursorial animals. It also had three-toed feet with narrow pointed claws.\n\nThe remains of \"Avimimus\" were recovered by Russian paleontologists and officially described by Dr. Sergei Kurzanov in 1981. The \"Avimimus\" fossils were initially described as having come from the Djadokta Formation by Kurzanov; however, in a 2006 description of a new specimen, Watabe and colleagues noted that Kurzanov was probably mistaken about the provenance, and it is more likely that \"Avimimus\" hailed from the more recent Nemegt Formation. The type species is \"A. portentosus\". Because no tail was found with the original find, Kurzanov mistakenly concluded that \"Avimimus\" lacked a tail in life. However, subsequent \"Avimimus\" finds containing caudal vertebrae have confirmed the presence of a tail. A second nearly complete specimen of \"Avimimus\" was discovered in 1996 and described in 2000 by Watabe and colleagues. Additionally, these authors identified a number of small theropod footprints in the same area as belonging to \"Avimimus\".\n\nA variety of isolated bones that have been attributed to \"Avimimus\" were considered to be distinct from \"A. portentosus\", and were initially referred to as \"Avimimus sp.\" In 2008, a team of Canadian, American, and Mongolian paleontologists headed by Phil Currie reported the 2006 an extensive bonebed of \"Avimimus sp.\" fossils, discovered in 2006. The bonebed is in the Nemegt Formation, 10.5 meters above the Barun Goyot Formation, in the Gobi Desert. The team reported finding abundant bones of at least ten individuals of \"Avimimus\", but the deposit may hold more. All individuals were either adult or subadult, and the adults showed little variation in size, suggesting determinate growth. The team also suggests that the individuals were found together because they were gregarious in life, providing possible indications that \"Avimimus\" formed age-segregated groups for either lekking or flocking purposes. The adults showed a greater degree of skeletal fusion in the tarsometatarsus and tibiotarsus, and also more prominent muscle scars. The preservation of the bonebeds suggest that they were buried rapidly, uncovered by rapid flow of water, and then buried again a short distance away. In 2018, \"Avimimus sp.\" was formally described as a new species, \"A. nemegtensis\".\n\n\"Avimimus\" was originally suggested to be a very close relative of birds, given its unique suite of bird-like features not known in other dinosaurs at the time. In fact, Kurzanov argued that \"Avimimus\", rather than the famous early bird \"Archaeopteryx\", was close to the direct ancestor of modern birds, and that \"Archaeopteryx\" was not as closely related to birds as had previously been suggested. However, this view has not been supported by later phylogenetic analyses of dinosaur and bird relationships. Most modern scientists find that \"Avimimus\" in fact belongs to a diverse group of bird-like dinosaurs more primitive than \"Archaeopteryx\", the oviraptorosaurs.\nKurzanov placed \"Avimimus\" in its own family, Avimimidae, in 1981. In 1991, Sankar Chatterjee erected the Order Avimimiformes to include \"Avimimus\". Neither of these group names is used frequently by paleontologists as they include only a single species. More recent studies have shown that \"Avimimus\" is best grouped within the Oviraptoridae, within the subgroup Elmisaurinae.\n\nThe following cladogram follows an analysis by Phil Senter, 2007.\n\nThe Barun Goyot Formation of Mongolia, is estimated to date back to the Campanian stage, between 84 and 70 million years ago of the Late Cretaceous period. During the Late Cretaceous period, the land that is now the Barun Goyot Formation had an arid environment with fields of sand dunes and only intermittent streams. It is slightly younger than the nearby Djadochta Formation, and seems to have been slightly wetter. This formation is noteworthy for the exquisite preservation of small and fragile dinosaur skeletons, a rare occurrence considering that these fossils are typically broken up and dispersed when found in other rock formations.\nThe region that is preserved in the Barun Goyot Formation was home to the maniraptoran \"Hulsanpes perlei\", the oviraptorids \"Conchoraptor gracilis\" and \"Ajancingenia yanshini\", the alvarezsaurids \"Ceratonykus oculatus\", \"Mononykus\" and \"Parvicursor remotus\", the pachycephalosaur \"Tylocephale gilmorei\", the ankylosaurs \"Saichania chulsanensis\" and \"Tarchia gigantea\", and the ceratopsians \"Bagaceratops rozhdestvenskyi\", \"Breviceratops kozlowskii\", \"Lamaceratops tereschenkoi\" and \"Platyceratops tatarinovi\". The largest dinosaur among them was the titanosaur \"Quaesitosaurus orientalis\". It was observed that many of the same genera were present at the Barun Goyot and Djadochta Formations, though there was variation at the species level. Vertebrates present in the Barun Goyot Formation included the primitive birds \"Gobipteryx minuta\" and \"Hollanda luceria\" and the lizards \"Estesia mongoliensis\", \"Ovoo gurvel\", \"Proplatynotia longirostrata\" and \"Gobiderma pulchrum\". The early mammals that were present in this region during the time of \"Avimimus\" were the placental mammals \"Asioryctes nemegetensis\" and \"Barunlestes butleri\", the amphibian \"Gobiates khermeentsavi\", the multituberculate mammals \"Catopsbaatar catopsaloides\", \"Chulsanbaatar vulgaris\" and \"Nemegtbaatar gobiensis\", and the marsupial mammal \"Asiatherium reshetovi\" and \"Deltatheridium pretrituberculare\". Numerous dinosaur eggshells found in this region support the presence of sauropods and maniraptors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054168", "title": "1992 King Fahd Cup", "text": "1992 King Fahd Cup\n\nThe 1992 King Fahd Cup (), named after Fahd of Saudi Arabia, was the first association football tournament of the competition that would later be known as the FIFA Confederations Cup. It was hosted by Saudi Arabia in October 1992, and was won by Argentina, who beat Saudi Arabia 3–1 in the final. The 1992 tournament was the only one not to feature a group stage and only featured four nations. Disputed as the King Fahd Cup, in honor of the then Saudi ruler who organized the tournament with his country's federation, (thus in the form of an unofficial tournament)he was recognized by FIFA in 1997.\n\nAll matches were played at the 67,000-capacity King Fahd II Stadium in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.\n\n\nWith two goals, Gabriel Batistuta and Bruce Murray were the top scorers in the tournament. In total, 18 goals were scored by 16 different players, with none of them credited as own goal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054178", "title": "Mary Badham", "text": "Mary Badham\n\nMary Badham (born October 7, 1952) is an American actress who portrayed Jean Louise \"Scout\" Finch in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" (1962), for which she was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. At the time, Badham (aged 10) was the youngest actress ever nominated in this category.\n\nMary Badham had no film acting experience before being cast in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\". The Oscar in her category went to another child actress, Patty Duke for \"The Miracle Worker\". During filming, Badham became particularly close to actor Gregory Peck, who played Scout's father, Atticus Finch; she kept in touch with him, always calling him 'Atticus', until his death in 2003.\n\nBadham played Sport Sharewood in \"The Bewitchin' Pool\", the final episode of the original \"Twilight Zone\" series. Due to technical issues, her voice in outdoor scenes was dubbed in post production by adult voice actress June Foray. She also appeared in the films \"This Property Is Condemned\" and \"Let's Kill Uncle\" before retiring from the acting profession.\n\nIn 2005, at the urging of actor/writer/director Cameron Watson, Badham came out of retirement to play an offbeat cameo opposite Keith Carradine for his film, \"Our Very Own\". Watson stated he would not accept any other actress for the part. He had managed to contact her in Monroeville, Alabama, where she had been invited to attend a stage version of \"To Kill a Mockingbird\".\n\nBadham is the younger sister of director John Badham.\n\n, Badham was an art restorer and a college testing coordinator. She is married to Richard W. Wilt, dean of Library and Educational Support Services at Lehigh Carbon Community College, and the mother of two children. She has traveled around the world recalling her experiences making \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", while expounding the book's messages of tolerance and compassion.\n\nIn 2012, she attended a screening with President Barack Obama at the White House to mark the 50th anniversary of \"To Kill a Mockingbird\". In 2015, she defended the release of Harper Lee's first draft of \"Go Set a Watchman\" and its portrayal of an older, more bigoted, Atticus Finch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054179", "title": "List of high schools in Kansas", "text": "List of high schools in Kansas\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the state of Kansas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054180", "title": "American Canoe Association", "text": "American Canoe Association\n\nThe American Canoe Association (ACA) is the oldest and largest paddle sports organization in the United States, promoting canoeing, kayaking, and rafting. The ACA sponsors more than seven hundred events each year, along with safety education, instructor certification, waterway conservation and public information campaigns. There are more than four thousand ACA certified canoe and kayak instructors. More than two hundred local paddling clubs and fifty thousand individuals are members. The Association publishes the bi-monthly \"Paddler Magazine\".\n\nThe ACA was founded in 1880 by Scottish lawyer, John MacGregor, who had founded the British Royal Canoe Club (RCC) in 1866. In 1883, ACA Secretary Charles Neide and retired sea captain “Barnacle” Kendall paddled and sailed over from Lake George, New York to Pensacola, Florida. The site of Neide and Kendall's launch and the formation of the American Canoe Association is located on the grounds of the Wiawaka Holiday House. In 1886 the ACA and the RCC held the first international canoe sailing regatta.\n\nThe Adirondack Museum in Blue Mountain, New York has many artifacts from the early years of the ACA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054181", "title": "The Jackson 5ive (TV series)", "text": "The Jackson 5ive (TV series)\n\nThe Jackson 5ive is a Saturday morning cartoon series produced by Rankin/Bass and Motown Productions on ABC from September 11, 1971, to October 14, 1972; a fictionalized portrayal of the careers of Motown recording group the Jackson 5. The series was rebroadcast in syndication through during the 1984–1985 Saturday morning season, during a period when Michael Jackson was riding a major wave of popularity as a solo artist. It also briefly re-aired in 1999 on TV Land as part of their \"Super Retrovision Saturdaze\" lineup. The series was animated mainly in London at the studios of Halas and Batchelor, and some animation done at Estudios Moro, Barcelona, Spain and Topcraft, Japan. The director was Spanish-American Robert Balser.\n\nDue to high demands on the group, the roles of Jackie, Tito, Jermaine, Marlon, and Michael were played by voice actors, with records of the group's songs being used for the musical tracks of the show. The group did make some contribution to the cartoon in the form of live photographs of each member morphing into a cartoon which was shown in the title screen medley. Although the musical scenes of the cartoon were chiefly animation, an occasional live-action footage of a concert or music video of the Jackson 5 would be spliced into the cartoon series. The actual Jackson 5 also contributed to the show by posing for pictures prior to the cartoon's debut which were used as posters, newspaper clips and \"TV Guide\" spots advertising the forthcoming TV series.\n\nThough Berry Gordy did not provide the original voice (his character was voiced by Paul Frees) nor advertised his name, his character was frequently involved as the \"adult figure\" to the group. R&B/Pop singer Diana Ross contributed to voice her fictionalized self in the debut episode. The premise of the show is that the Jackson Five would have adventures similar to \"Josie and the Pussycats\", \"Alvin & the Chipmunks\" or \"The Partridge Family\", with the unique addition being that Berry Gordy, the manager of the band in the show's universe, would come up with an idea for publicity for the band, such as having to do farm work or play a concert for the President of the United States. The series was followed by \"The Jacksons\", a live action variety show, in 1976.\n\nA specially recorded medley of five Jackson 5 #1 hits—\"I Want You Back\", \"The Love You Save\", \"ABC\", \"I'll Be There\", and \"Mama's Pearl\"—served as the show's theme song. Each episode would feature 2 songs by the Jackson 5. The songs were derived from their albums \"Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5\", \"ABC\", \"Maybe Tomorrow\", and \"Third Album\". In the newer episodes, from 1972, eight songs were derived from Michael Jackson's album \"Got to Be There\" and two songs from the Jackson 5 album \"Lookin' Through the Windows\".\n\nBecause Michael Jackson owned many pets in real life, a few pets were added as extra characters to the cartoon. They included Michael's pet rats, Ray and Charles (alluding to singer Ray Charles, one of his idols), and his pet snake Rosey 'The Crusher' (who is male). Other than the mice chirping, the pets never spoke, but usually either attributed to assistance, mischief or joining the Jackson brothers in performances on the show.\n\nLike most 1970s-era Saturday morning cartoon series, \"The Jackson 5ive\" contained an adult laugh track. Rankin-Bass experimented with creating their own laugh track, a practice Hanna-Barbera had implemented in 1971. This was done to avoid paying large fees to Charley Douglass, who edited laugh tracks onto the majority of network television shows at the time. Like Hanna-Barbera, Rankin/Bass isolated several snippets of canned chuckles from Douglass’ library, and inserted them onto the soundtrack. The laughs initially consisted of only loud eruptions; mild jokes received unnatural bouts of laughter, while other times, the laughter would erupt mid-sentence.\n\nThe studio had improved the process by the second season, using more modulated laughs culled from Douglass's 1971-1972 library. Laughs did not erupt mid-sentence like the first season and were better timed by Rankin/Bass sound engineers. The improved technique was also utilized for sister series \"The Osmonds\". Unlike Hanna-Barbera's laugh track, Rankin/Bass provided a larger variety of laughs.\n\nRankin/Bass ceased using laugh tracks after \"The Jackson 5ive\" and \"The Osmonds\" ended their original run.\n\nThis season is billed as \"The New Jackson 5ive Show\".\nOn January 15, 2013, DreamWorks Classics released \"The Jackson 5ive: The Complete Animated Series\" on DVD and Blu-ray in Region 1 for the very first time. The 2-disc set features all 23 episodes of the series. For the remastered print (\"The Jackson 5ive: The Complete Animated Series\"), the mono soundtrack was replaced by the 5.1 surround soundtrack in the songs, the rest of the scenes kept the mono soundtrack. Unlike the television version, there were no laugh tracks. As of 2018, both the Blu-ray and the DVD are now out of print and very hard to find.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054188", "title": "Electoral district of Mitchell (South Australia)", "text": "Electoral district of Mitchell (South Australia)\n\nMitchell is a former electoral district of the House of Assembly in the state of South Australia. It was first created in the redistribution of 1969, taking effect at the 1970 election. Mitchell was replaced by Black at the 2018 election, resulting from the 2016 electoral redistribution.\n\nMitchell was named after philosopher Sir William Mitchell.\n\nMitchell was located in inner-south western Adelaide, and covered and encompassed the suburbs of Dover Gardens, Old Reynella, Reynella, Seacombe Gardens, Seacombe Heights, Seaview Downs, Sheidow Park, Sturt and Trott Park and parts of Darlington, O'Halloran Hill, Oaklands Park and Warradale. The suburbs contained within the seat in 2010 were completely different as recently as 1989. The 1989 seat centred on Park Holme, north-east of the current incarnation of Mitchell, where much of the seat of Elder is. The 1989 boundary bordered the 2010 boundary in the south-west and north-east respectively.\n\nMitchell tended to be a marginal Labor-held seat. While Colin Caudell succeeded in winning the seat for the Liberal Party for the first time at the 1993 election, he was narrowly defeated by Kris Hanna at the 1997 election. Hanna markedly increased his majority at the 2002 election, but defected to the SA Greens in 2003. He subsequently left the Greens in February 2006, and won his seat at the 2006 election narrowly as an independent candidate on a 50.6 two-candidate vote, though Labor got a 65.2 percent two-party vote against the Liberals. Hanna failed in his attempts to retain the seat at the 2010 election, losing to Labor candidate Alan Sibbons. Hanna unsuccessfully contested the seat at the 2014 election. Liberal Corey Wingard won the seat with a 51.2 percent two-party vote which made it the most marginal seat in parliament. It was the first time Labor was in government with the Liberals winning Mitchell.\n\nAt the 2018 state election, Wingard chose to contest the seat of Gibson, and was successful; and the seat of Black was won by David Speirs, the former member for Bright; both members of the Liberal Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054194", "title": "Hank Sauer", "text": "Hank Sauer\n\nHenry John Sauer (March 17, 1917 – August 24, 2001) was an American professional baseball player, coach and scout. He appeared in 1,399 games, primarily as a left fielder, in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cincinnati Reds (1941–1942, 1945, 1948–1949), Chicago Cubs (1949–1955), St. Louis Cardinals (1956), New York Giants (1957) and San Francisco Giants (1958–1959). \n\nA two-time All-Star, Sauer hit more than 30 home runs six times in the seven seasons of 1948 through 1954. He was a feared slugger for the early-1950s Cubs, exceeding the 30-homer mark five times in a Chicago uniform, with a career-high of 41 in . His most productive season came in , when Sauer led the National League in home runs (37, tied with Ralph Kiner) and runs batted in (121), and was named the Most Valuable Player. Sauer and Johnny Bench are the only players in major league history ever to have hit three homers in a single game twice against the same pitcher. He did it and 1952 while with the Cubs, victimizing Curt Simmons of the Philadelphia Phillies. A younger brother, Ed, also an outfielder, played in 189 games in the majors for three National League teams during the 1940s.\n\nA native of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Hank Sauer was listed as tall and . He threw and batted right-handed. He started his professional career in the New York Yankees' organization, and was acquired by Cincinnati in October 1939 after three minor league seasons. After two short stints totaling 16 games with the – Reds, World War II service in the United States Coast Guard, then another audition, this time 31 games, for the Reds, Sauer spent the full seasons of 1946 and 1947 with the Triple-A Syracuse Chiefs. In the latter year, Sauer led the 1947 International League in runs scored (130), hits (182) and runs batted in (141); he slugged 50 homers, three fewer than league leader Howie Moss, and hit .336, one percentage point behind batting champion Nippy Jones. He was named the circuit's MVP.\n\nHis breakout season in Syracuse earned him a permanent major league spot, at age 31, with the Reds, and Sauer would play in over one hundred games in every season through 1954. As Cincinnati's regular left fielder in 1948, Sauer slugged 35 home runs, fourth in the National League. But he started slowly in , with only four homers in his first 32 games, and on June 15, he was traded to the Cubs in a two-for-two, all-outfielder trade involving Frank Baumholtz, Harry Walker and Peanuts Lowrey.\n\nDuring a time when the Cubs were especially moribund, Sauer provided some joy for the team's fans with his power hitting, earning him the nickname \"The Mayor of Wrigley Field\". In addition to his 37 blasts in 1952 and 41 in 1954, Sauer also put up seasons of 27, 32 and 30 home runs as a Cub. He was well known for using smokeless tobacco, and it has often been reported that after he hit a home run, when he returned to his left field position, bleacher fans might shower him with packets of his favorite chew, Beech Nut tobacco.\n\nSauer was not especially fleet afoot. In contrast to radio's \"Quiz Kids\" or the 1950 Phillies \"Whiz Kids\", according to Chicago columnist Mike Royko the 1950s Cubs had an outfield \"that was so slow they were known as the Quicksand Kids.\" Sauer, Baumholtz and Kiner played left, center and right fields respectively. (\"One More Time: The Best of Mike Royko\", University of Chicago, 1999, p. 29-31)\n\nIn , Sauer batted only .211 in 79 games for the Cubs, and was traded to the Cardinals during spring training in . He appeared in 75 games for the Redbirds that season and batted .298 in part-time duty, but—nearing his 40th birthday—he was handed his unconditional release October 16. He signed as a free agent with the Giants, and in , the club's last year in New York City, he slugged 26 home runs in 127 games, finishing tenth in the Senior Circuit in long balls. He played two more years with the franchise in San Francisco before becoming a coach late in , and then a long-time scout and roving minor league batting instructor for the Giants. \n\nIn his 15-season MLB career, Sauer was a .266 hitter with 288 home runs and 876 runs batted in. His 1,278 hits also included 200 doubles and 19 triples. He died of a heart attack while playing golf in Burlingame, California, on August 24, 2001, at the age of 84.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054199", "title": "Gáldar", "text": "Gáldar\n\nGáldar is a town and a Spanish municipality in the north of the island of Gran Canaria in the Province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. Its population is (2013), and the area is .\n\nThe town Gáldar is situated at the foot of the mountains, 2 km from the coast and west of Las Palmas. The GC-2 motorway passes south of the town. The municipality includes the settlements Puerto de Sardina, San Isidro, Los Quintanas, Barrial and Marmolejos.\n\nIt holds the Painted cave, a major archaeological site consisting of a remarkable painted cave and an entire pre-Hispanic village visited yearly by over 50,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054217", "title": "Semeka Randall", "text": "Semeka Randall\n\nSemeka Chantay Randall-Lay (born February 7, 1979, in Cleveland, Ohio) is a former collegiate and professional basketball player. She was hired as recruiting coordinator at Wright State in June 2016 after serving as the head coach of the Alabama A&M University women's basketball team for three years. Randall was the former head coach of the Ohio Bobcats, until being fired from that position on March 10, 2013. She previously served as an assistant coach of the women's basketball teams at West Virginia University and Michigan State University.\n\nShe attended Trinity High School in Garfield Heights, Ohio, where she starred in basketball until 1996. Randall was named a WBCA All-American. She participated in the WBCA High School All-America Game where she scored seventeen points.\n\nShe was a member of the University of Tennessee women's basketball team, the \"Lady Vols\", which won the NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Championship in 1998, with a perfect 39–0 won-loss record.\n\nShe was one of the three star players on the team collectively known as \"The Meeks\": Randall, Chamique Holdsclaw, and Tamika Catchings. Her reputation as a standout defensive player won her the nickname \"Hard to Handle Randall\". A game at UConn where the Huskies' fans booed her relentlessly earned her the nickname \"Boo\".\n\nShe was named on the Kodak All-American First Team in (1999–2000), and to the \"Associated Press\" All-American Second Team in (1999, 2000).\n\nShe graduated in December 2000, a semester ahead of her class, with a Bachelor's Degree in Speech Communications.\n\nRandall was named to the USA Basketball Women's Junior National Team (now called the U18 team). The team participated in the third Junior World Championship, held in Chetumal, Mexico in late August and early September 1996. The USA team won their early games easily, but lost by four points to the team from Brazil, ending up with the silver medal for the event.\n\nRandall was named to the USA Basketball Women's Junior National Team when it was invited to the 1997 FIBA Junior World Championship (now called U19) held in Natal, Brazil. After beating Japan, the next game was against Australia, the defending champion. The USA team pulled out to a 13-point lead in the second half, but gave up the lead and lost the game 80–74. The USA rebounded with a close 92–88 victory over Cuba, helped by 23 points each from Maylana Martin and Lynn Pride. The USA then went on to beat previously unbeaten Russia. After winning the next two games, the USA faced Australia in the gold medal game. The USA team has a three-point lead late, but the Aussies hit a three-pointer with three seconds left in regulation to force overtime. Although the Aussies scored first, the USA team came back, then pulled into the lead and held on to win 78–74 to earn the gold, and the first medal for a USA team at a Junior World Championship. Randall was injured and unable to play in the event.\n\nRandall was named to the team representing the US at the 1998 William Jones Cup competition in Taipei, Taiwan. The USA team, coached by Nell Fortner, won all five games, earning the gold medal for the competition. Randall was the leading scorer on the team, averaging 10.6 points per game.\n\nRandall joined the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) after being selected by the Seattle Storm in the second round (17th pick overall) of the 2001 WNBA Draft.\n\nShe played for the Storm until she was traded to the Utah Starzz in exchange for Kate Starbird during the middle of the WNBA's 2002 season.\n\nShe remained with the Starzz franchise when the team relocated to San Antonio, Texas, and changed its name to the San Antonio Silver Stars for the 2003 season.\n\nIn the last game of the 2004 season, Randall set a Silver Stars record by recording eight steals in the Silver Stars' 82–65 win over the Charlotte Sting on September 17. After the game, Randall announced that she would be retiring from the WNBA to take an assistant coaching job at Michigan State University.\n\nLike most WNBA players during the off-season, Randall kept playing basketball in international leagues.\n\nIn 2001-02, Randall started all 16 games at point guard and averaged 19 points while playing for the Israeli Professional Basketball League.\n\nThe following year, she played in the Greek Professional Basketball League, again starting all 16 games for her squad.\n\nIn 2003, she was a member of the Tennessee Fury of the National Women's Basketball League, averaging 12.2 points as a shooting guard.\n\nRandall's first coaching job was an assistant coach for the women's basketball team at Cleveland State University, during the 2002-03 season.\nOn September 17, 2004, Michigan State University (MSU) announced that Randall was hired as an assistant coach. During that season, the MSU team made it all the way to the NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Championship game, only to lose to Baylor University. On April 17, 2007, Randall was hired as an assistant coach at West Virginia University.\n\nShe was named head coach of the Ohio Bobcats women's basketball team on May 9, 2008. Upon her hiring, she stated: \"It is my dream job to coach in the state of Ohio. If you look at my previous coaching experiences, you'll see that I've always positioned myself around this state because it's a great place for women's basketball. Ohio is a great school. I like that it urges student-athletes to excel in the classroom and on the court. It's just a great place and I'm looking forward to becoming part of the Ohio basketball family and the Athens community!\" Jim Schaus, Athletic Director of Ohio University, described her hiring as \"a winning half-court shot at the buzzer.\"\n\nOn March 10, 2013, Randall was released from the Ohio coaching staff where she held a five-year record of 50-112; during her fifth year as head coach, Semeka held a record of 6-23, going 1-14 in the Mid American Conference (MAC).\n\nIn May 2013, Randall was named as the new head coach of the Alabama A&M University women's basketball team.\n\nRandall is currently the interim head coach for the women’s program at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, South Carolina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054219", "title": "Rey Sánchez", "text": "Rey Sánchez\n\nRey Francisco Guadalupe Sánchez (born October 5, 1967) is a former Major League Baseball infielder. He attended high school in California and was drafted in the 13th round of the amateur baseball draft by the Texas Rangers. He played in their minor league system until , when he was traded to the Chicago Cubs for minor leaguer Bryan House. In , he broke through to the majors, playing 13 games. He continued to play there, often on a regular basis until August 16, , when he was traded to the New York Yankees for minor leaguer Frisco Parotte. He finished the season there, and then started to become a journeyman. He played (in order) in a season for the San Francisco Giants, two and a half seasons for the Kansas City Royals, 50 games for the Atlanta Braves, and a season for the Boston Red Sox. In , he played 56 and 46 games for the New York Mets (where he allegedly received a controversial haircut during a game ) and Seattle Mariners, respectively, and moved on to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays for . He became a Yankee for the second time in .\n\nHe spent most of his career occasionally starting, replacing injured players, and pinch hitting at shortstop, second base, and third base, although he consistently started at shortstop for the Royals and Braves, and consistently started at second base for the Red Sox. Other than this, he played any infield position off the bench. He had a career .272 batting average and only 15 home runs through 15 years experience. He was often used for his ability to successfully perform the sacrifice bunt.\n"}
{"id": "2054223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054223", "title": "Carl Gardner", "text": "Carl Gardner\n\nCarl Edward Gardner (April 29, 1928 – June 12, 2011) was an American singer, best known as the foremost member and founder of The Coasters. Known for the 1958 song \"Yakety Yak\", which spent a week as number one on the Hot 100 pop list, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987.\n\nGardner was born in Tyler, Texas, to Rebecca and Robert Gardner. As a singer, his first major career success came with The Robins, a rhythm and blues group that had a big hit in 1955, \"Smokey Joe's Café\". \n\nAfter leaving that group, in 1956 Gardner formed the Coasters with the Robins' bass singer Bobby Nunn, Leon Hughes and Billy Guy, at the behest of the songwriting/producing team of Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, and had a two-sided hit in 1957, \"Young Blood\" (on which Gardner sang lead) and \"Searchin'\". With new members Cornel Gunter and Will \"Dub\" Jones, the Coasters went on to produce several enduring classics of 1950s rock and roll music including \"Yakety Yak\", \"Charlie Brown\", and \"Poison Ivy\".\n\nTogether with the other members of the Coasters – Cornell Gunter, Billy Guy and Will \"Dub\" Jones – Gardner was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987.\n\nGardner's son, Carl Jr., officially joined the Coasters in late 2005, after Gardner semi-retired, although Carl Jr. had been touring with them since at least 1998. His father officially made him a member to carry on his group as the lead singer.\n\nSince Gardner was the last of the original members the list of early Coaster songs performed live was limited in a sense, a fan recalls meeting Gardner after a concert in his last years, where this was mentioned:\n\n\"\"There was a nightclub in Fayetteville, NC called Cagney's and they announced they were having the Coasters. When on stage, they did their set and asked for requests. They did whatever was requested except for mine. I went outside with them between sets and spoke to the leader of the group. I asked him why they wouldn't do Run Red Run. He just smiled and said that he was the only member of the original Coasters and that these fellows had never rehearsed it. I told him it was my favorite and right then and there, the two of us did it. When they went back inside to do their next set, I was high. What a great experience.\"\"\n\nCarl Gardner, Sr. died on June 12, 2011, after suffering with congestive heart failure and vascular dementia (according to the Coasters website). Carl, Jr., took over as lead singer, but was fired by Veta Gardner. Together Carl Jr. and Thomas (Curly) Palmer vowed to keep the legacy alive by \"The Coasters featuring Carl Gardner Jr. And Thomas Curly Palmer The legacy continuous\". Carl Jr and Thomas Palmer both recorded with The Coasters before Carl Sr death. Veta Gardner, Carl's widow, owns the rights to the Coasters name and manages a performing group, which has no original members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054235", "title": "Hippo Vaughn", "text": "Hippo Vaughn\n\nJames Leslie \"Hippo\" Vaughn (April 9, 1888 – May 29, 1966) was an American left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. In a career that spanned thirteen seasons, he played for the New York Highlanders (1908, 1910–1912), the Washington Senators (1912), and the Chicago Cubs (1913–1921). Vaughn won over twenty games in five seasons for the Cubs. His highlight year was , where he won a National League-leading 22 in , when the season was ended a month early due to government restrictions brought about by World War I. That same year, Vaughn also led the National League in earned run average (ERA) and strikeouts to become the ninth triple crown winner in the modern era and the fifteenth overall. His nickname of \"Hippo\" came from his height and weight of 6-foot-4 and 215 pounds.\n\nVaughn was born in Weatherford, Texas to Josephine and stonemason Thomas Vaughn. \n\nHe began his career in baseball in 1906 in the Texas League, playing for the Temple Boll Weevils. He played the following year with the Corsicana Oilers/Desperados in the North Texas League. Vaughn played with two teams for 1908; he first played 12 games for the Hot Springs Vaporites of the Arkansas State League, going 9-1 before being called up by the New York Highlanders. Later in the year, he pitched for the Scranton Miners of the New York State League, where he went 2-4 in nine games. Vaughn began 1909 with the Macon Peaches of the South Atlantic League. He went 9-16 with a 1.95 ERA, although he threw a no-hitter. Later, he played with the Louisville Colonels of the American Association, where he went 8-1 with a 2.05 ERA with another no-hitter. \n\nVaughn made two appearances in the 1908 season for the New York Highlanders. In two and a third innings pitched, he allowed one hit and a run with four walks and two strikeouts. \n\nIn 1910, he joined the Highlanders for spring training. His showcase of pitching led to manager George Stallings naming Vaughn to pitch the first game of the season. Facing the Eddie Cicotte of the Boston Red Sox on April 14, 1910 at Hilltop Park, Vaughn pitched fourteen innings, allowing four runs (none unearned), although he held them scoreless after the fifth inning. Both teams had eleven hits, although New York committed three errors. Vaughn walked two and struck out seven. However, the game was called after 14 innings due to darkness. He pitched a shutout in his next appearance nine days later against the Washington Senators in a shortened six inning effort, although the game ended with a 0-0 tie. On May 7, he received his first winning decision when he pitched a complete ten inning victory over Boston, allowing one run on seven hits while striking out four in a 4-1 win. Vaughn appeared in 30 games for the season, going 13-11 with a 1.83 ERA while having 18 complete games and one save. In 221.2 innings, he had 107 strikeouts with 58 walks. Fielding wise, he made five putouts with 73 assists along with eight errors and two double plays for a .907 fielding percentage. He ranked in the top ten in ERA (9th), shutouts (5th with five), home runs per 9 innings (8th with 0.041), but also hit by pitch (9th with ten) and errors committed (5th). The Highlanders finished in second in the American League by 14.5 games to the Philadelphia Athletics going 88-63.\n\nThe following year, he was selected to pitch the Opening Day game for the Highlanders, this time in Shibe Park against the defending World Series champion Philadelphia Athletics and Chief Bender. He pitched a complete game while allowing one run on four hits with three strikeouts and one walk while earning a 2-1 win. The rest of the year was not as shining. After three games in April, he didn't pitch again until June. He went 8-10 with a 4.39 ERA in 26 games in 145.2 innings, having 74 strikeouts and 54 walks while having ten complete games. He improved in fielding, making nine putouts, 41 assists, four errors with one double play for a .926 fielding percentage. \n\nVaughn spent 1912 with three teams. Vaughn appeared for the final two outs of the Opening Day game against the Boston Red Sox, pitching in relief of Ray Caldwell. He went 2-8 with a 5.14 ERA in 15 games and 63 innings for the Highlanders, having 46 strikeouts and 37 walks while having just five complete games. On June 26, he was sold to the Washington Senators. He went 4-3 with a 2.89 ERA in 12 games and 81 innings, having 49 strikeouts and 43 walks with four complete games before being sold to the Kansas City Blues of the American Association. He went 2-3 in his appearances with the team.\n\nHe spent a majority of the 1913 season with the Blues, going 14-13 with a 2.05 ERA and a no-hitter. He was claimed by the Chicago Cubs in late August of the season. He made seven appearances with the team, the first being a four inning effort on August 22 against the New York Giants, where he allowed three hits and four runs. In his subsequent six games, he had five of them go the distance, winning each of them while only losing once. In 56 total innings of work, he had a 1.45 ERA with 36 strikeouts and 27 walks. He pitched a two-hitter on September 13 against the Brooklyn Dodgers, striking out ten. Although the Cubs finished 88-65 and 13.5 games back of the Giants, Vaughn proved to be a mainstay of the Cubs for the next couple of seasons.\n\nFor 1914, he went 21-13 with a 2.05 ERA in 42 games and 293.2 innings. He had 23 complete games and one save while having 165 strikeouts and 109 walks, the latter a career high. He made 11 putouts with 75 assists, 13 errors and a double play for a .869 fielding percentage. He finished in the top ten of the National League in numerous categories, such as 4th in ERA, 7th in wins, 3rd in strikeouts, but also 4th in walks, 2nd in wild pitches with 13, and 1st in errors.\n\nIn 1917, he returned to form, going 23-13 with a 2.01 ERA in 41 games and 295.2 innings. He had a career high 195 strikeouts with 91 walks. On fielding, he had 14 putouts, 89 assists, seven errors and two double plays for a .936 fielding percentage. On May 2, he participated in what the record books used to refer as a \"double no-hitter\". At the ballpark now known as Wrigley Field, Vaughn dueled with Fred Toney of the Cincinnati Reds for nine hitless innings. In the top of the 10th, the Reds scored on a couple of hits after Vaughn had retired the first batter. Larry Kopf singled and later scored on a hit by Jim Thorpe. Toney continued to hold the Cubs hitless in the bottom of the inning, winning the game for the Reds. With changes to the scoring rules in recent years, this game is no longer considered as a no-hitter for Vaughn, but is still the only occasion in major league history nine innings were played without a hit.\n\nThe 1921 season proved to be his downfall. He went 3-11 with a 6.01 ERA before flaming out on July 9. In his final appearance against the New York Giants, he went 3.1 innings while allowing six hits and six runs. His final two batters, Frank Snyder and pitcher Phil Douglas, each hit home runs off him. After the game, Vaughn could not be found by the team for days. In August, Cubs manager Bill Killefer and Cubs president William Veeck attempted to reinstate him back to the team. However, commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis suspended him for the remainder of the season, noting that he had signed a contract to pitch for the Fairbanks-Morse semi-pro team in Beloit, Wisconsin, finding it to be a violation of his contract with the Cubs. For the next fifteen years, Vaughn pitched in minor and semi-pro leagues, such as the Beloit Fairies of the Midwest League, with his minor league/semi-pro record being 223-145.\n\nWith 151 wins, Vaughn ranks 8th all-time for most by a Cub, the most by a left handed pitcher, with his 105 losses being 9th by a Cub. He also ranks 9th with a 2.33 ERA, 7th in WAR with 39.9, and both 8th in innings pitched (2,216.1) and strikeouts (1,138). \n\nAfter his career ended, he was an assembler for a refrigeration products company. Vaughn died at age 78 in Chicago, Illinois on May 29, 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054237", "title": "Lizzie West", "text": "Lizzie West\n\nLizzie West (born in Brooklyn, NY on July 21, 1973) is a singer/songwriter. Her music can be described as a blend of many genres including country, folk, blues, pop, and rock. Her debut album, \"Holy Road: Freedom Songs\", was released in 2003 on Warner Bros. Records. This album earned her the title of Breakout Artist of the Year by both AOL and Entertainment Weekly. It was recorded with her former band, the Gangs of Kosmos. Popular songs on the album include \"Dusty Turnaround\", \"Sometime\", and \"Holy Road\". Her second album, \"I Pledge Allegiance To Myself\", was released in April 2006 by Appleseed Records. A film entitled \"Holy Road: The Movie\" which describes Lizzie West, her touring, personal experiences, and musical career was in production around the time of her first album release. However, this project was likely abandoned since her departure from Warner Bros. Records.\n\nWest spent most of her early adult life traveling across the United States while writing stories and plays. She moved to London when she was 18. After returning to America four years later (1995), she purchased her first guitar from a pawn shop in Nashville. Upon returning to New York City the following year, she began performing her songs on street corners, subways, and her sister's bar, the Stinger, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Her first tour of the United States came in the summer of 2000 in which she performed in bars and small clubs. West also appeared in a commercial directed by Spike Lee for IAM.com in which she performed her song, \"Holy Road\". After touring again in April 2001 with the Kenny Wayne Shepherd Band and Double Trouble, she caught the attention of an A&R representative for major label Warner Bros. Records. A multi-album recording deal with Warner Bros. Records was made in August 2001.\n\nSome of her songs have been featured in television shows and films. The 2002 film \"Secretary\" featured \"Chariots Rise\" on its soundtrack. The song was re-recorded for the film, with the lyrics \"What a fool am I/To fall so in love\" changed to \"What grace have I/To fall so in love.\" The HBO feature \"Rock the Boat\" included the songs \"Dusty Turnaround\" and \"Sometime\". \"Sometime\" was also used in commercials advertising the show \"Dawson's Creek\" in 2003. NBC's \"Third Watch\" and ABC's \"Alias\" featured the song \"Prayer\", while \"Doctor\" was used in the WB drama \"Everwood\".\n\nWest claims inspiration from the poetry and works of Walt Whitman, Jack Kerouac, William Blake, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and most notably Leonard Cohen. (In fact she met Cohen while on tour in 2000). She refers to her fans as \"Kickers,\" meaning catalysts for consciousness, individual and/or collective. West owns a dog named Figaro (aka the \"dharma dog\") whose pictures are featured on her album and official website. She is known for signing her correspondence x=h/m.\n\nLizzie West was also involved in a podcast called \"The Holy Road Medicine Show\" with her husband, Baba.\n\nLizzie West was also involved with a webcast called \"This Abundant Life\" with her husband, Baba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054244", "title": "Johnno", "text": "Johnno\n\nJohnno is a semi-autobiographical novel written by Australian author David Malouf and was first published in 1975. It was Malouf's first novel.\n\nIn 2004 it was selected by the Brisbane City Council as the joint-winner of the annual \"One Book One Brisbane\" competition to find the book that best represents Brisbane. \"Johnno\" shared the honours with another, more recent, debut novel, \"The Girl Most Likely\" by Rebecca Sparrow.\n\nThe book has been adapted for the stage. It premiered at Brisbane's La Boite Theatre in 2004 and then transferred to the Derby Playhouse.\n\n\"Johnno\" is written in the first person past tense and the narrator is only ever known by the nickname \"Dante\". \"Johnno\" is heavily autobiographical. The novel is centred upon the friendship between Dante and a schoolmate known as \"Johnno\" in their adolescence and early adulthood in the 1940s and 1950s in Brisbane.\n\nThe subtropical Brisbane environment and various elements of upper-class Australian culture in the twentieth century recur throughout the book. There are many references to Brisbane's verdant gardens and parklands and other aspects of its urban geography such as its now-defunct tramways and the Brisbane River.\n\nThe novel takes the form of an extended reminiscence and begins with the narrator finding a photograph of Johnno among his recently deceased father's belongings. The story then begins in Dante's childhood and education at Brisbane Grammar School and then follows the development of the friendship between the staid, conventional Dante and the unruly, eccentric and frequently intoxicated Johnno through school, university and a period of Bohemian-style living in Europe. The novel ends with Johnno presumed to have committed suicide (though the reader does not know for sure) and his funeral in suburban Brisbane.\n\nThough both major characters reference gay experiences Malouf explicitly denies that \"Johnno\" is a gay novel. \n\nReaders of a later and more knowing time have taken this to be a gay novel in disguise. It is not. If I had meant to write a gay novel I would have done so. If there was more to tell about these characters I would have told it.\n\nJohnno's occasional experience that way is frankly admitted, so is Dante's relationship with his \"boy from Sarina\", but they do not see themselves as being defined by these involvements and they are not.\nIn an epilogue written over two decades after \"Johnno\" was first published, David Malouf makes clear that Johnno's character is based on a real schoolfriend of his, John Milliner, who died in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054245", "title": "Arrowhead Region", "text": "Arrowhead Region\n\nThe Arrowhead Region is located in the northeastern part of the U.S. state of Minnesota, so called because of its pointed shape. The predominantly rural region encompasses of land area and includes Carlton, Cook, Lake and Saint Louis counties. Its population at the 2000 census was 248,425 residents. Aitkin, Itasca, and Koochiching counties are also sometimes considered as part of the region. This would increase the land area to and the population to 322,073 residents.\n\nThe Arrowhead Region is quite rugged and dotted with thousands of lakes surrounded by boreal forest, and is home to Voyageurs National Park, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, and the Superior Hiking Trail, which lie amidst the Superior National Forest. Also located in the Arrowhead is Minnesota's only mountain range, the Sawtooth Mountains. For these reasons, a large portion of the economy depends on tourism; it is a common vacation destination for residents of the Minneapolis-Saint Paul metropolitan region.\n\nThe other primary portion of the Arrowhead economy is the iron mining industry. Taconite is mined on the Mesabi Range, shipped by train to Duluth, Silver Bay, and Two Harbors, and shipped by freighter from these ports to major metropolitan areas farther down the Great Lakes such as Chicago, Detroit, and Cleveland. In the first half of the 20th century, iron was also mined on the Vermilion Range.\n\nThe area is one of several distinct regions of Minnesota. Its largest cities are Duluth, Hibbing, Cloquet, Virginia, Grand Rapids, Hermantown, and International Falls.\n\nThe Arrowhead Region contains three watersheds, the Lake Superior Basin, the Mississippi River Basin, and the Hudson Bay (Rainy River) Basin. A unique geological feature is a point north of Hibbing, Minn. from where water has the potential to flow any one of three ways. The only other location that this phenomenon occurs within North America is at Glacier National Park in Montana.\n\nWaterways have played an important role in the history of the Arrowhead Region, to include the delineation of the United States and Canadian Borders using the Pigeon and Rainy Rivers and numerous other connected waterways as the boundary. This same route has been used for centuries by fur traders for the transportation of furs, trade goods, communication, and ideas. Another significant water trade route to the interior is the St. Louis River. This route could be followed to the present day Mesabi Iron Range or could be transferred to the Mississippi River using the historic Savannah Portage. These two waterways made up the main routes from Lake Superior to the \"interior,\" or lands west of the Great Lakes.\n\n\"The Minnesota Arrowhead Country\"\n\nAuthor: Writers' Program of the Work Projects Administration in the State of Minnesota.; Minnesota Arrowhead Association.\n\nPublisher: Chicago, Ill. : A. Whitman & Co., 1941.\n\nPg. 3\n\n\"\"THE MINNESOTA ARROWHEAD is a region of superlatives.\nIt contains the State's most rugged topography, lowest and highest altitudes, its only three-way watershed, and richest iron ore deposits; its finest trout streams and best deer hunting; greatest national forest, the Superior; longest and wildest canoe trips; its most elaborately equipped schools; its largest county, St. Louis, one of the most extensive in the nation, covering 6,611.75 square miles and having,\nin addition to the courthouse in Duluth, two full-time auxiliary courthouses, at Hibbing and Virginia, and one part-time courthouse, at Ely.\n\nIn 1924, the Northeastern Minnesota Civic and Commerce Association sponsored an international contest for naming the area. An observing Pittsburgher, Odin MacCrickart, noted that the boundaries outlined by the association roughly suggested the form of a Native American arrowhead. His proposed name, \"Minnesota Arrowhead,\" was adjudged\nbest of the 30,000 letters submitted.\n\nA glance at the map will show that the tip of the Arrowhead is marked by Pigeon Point, one side by the Canadian boundary of rivers and lakes, the base by a curving line from International Falls, through\nBemidji, Brainerd, Aitkin, Moose Lake, and Carlton, to Duluth, and the other side by the north shore of Lake Superior. The air-line distance from east to west, Pigeon Point to Bemidji, is about 260 miles; from north to south, International Falls to Malmo, it is about 160 miles. The area approximates 20,500 square miles, or more than 13,000,000 acres. Included are all or parts of the following counties: \"Cook, Lake, St. Louis, Carlton, Itasca, Aitkin, Koochiching, Beltrami, Crow Wing, Hubbard, and Cass\".\"\"\n\nA 1925 map of Northeastern Minnesota, created by A & E Supply Co., Duluth, Minn. mentions the Arrowhead Region.\n\nThe term \"The Arrowhead Country\" appeared on an American Legion medal for the 9th Annual Convention, Dept. of Minnesota, August 8–10, 1927 in Hibbing. The reverse reads \"The Arrowhead Country\". The medal, made of a cupreous metal, is in the shape of Minnesota with a Native American style projectile point or 'Arrowhead' covering the northeastern portion of the state.\n\nA 1929 map titled 'The Arrowhead of Minnesota.' illustrates a very stylized representation of important aspects in Northeastern Minnesota history, from geological history to iron mining. It was published by the American Association of University Women, Hibbing, Minn. Branch. Participants included Mrs. C. H. Stewart, Pres., Research Committee of Dorothy Hurlbert and Irma Walker, Map by Irene Anderson and Block and Border by Kathryn Arnquist.\n\nThe 1924 contest to name the unnamed region defined this region as \"\"all or parts of the following counties: Cook, Lake, St. Louis, Carlton, Itasca, Aitkin, Koochiching, Beltrami, Crow Wing, Hubbard, and Cass.\"\"\n\nThe region is often defined by counties of northeastern Minn. Occasionally, Douglas County, Wisc., in the northwestern part of the state, is included in modern maps or definitions. The three main counties are St. Louis, Lake, and Cook Counties in Minn. These three make up the northeasternmost counties in the state. When an expanded definition is made, it often includes all or parts of Koochiching, Itasca, and Carlton Counties of Minn.; the other counties that are adjacent to St. Louis County to the west and south of it.\n\nThe most far reaching definitions, either on maps or in description, include Beltrami, Crow Wing, Hubbard, and Cass Counties. These are all to the west or southwest of St. Louis, Lake, and Cook Counties.\n\nOther attempts at geographically defining the Arrowhead have been using land cover and vegetation type, hydrology, and resource extraction (logging and mining), and trying to make a geographic area fit into a generalized stone arrowhead shape.\n\nOutside the Twin Cities, the Arrowhead Region is warmly receptive towards candidates from the Democratic Party in federal and statewide elections. None of the four counties in the region have voted for a Republican presidential candidate since Cook County voted for George W. Bush in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054248", "title": "Steve Trout", "text": "Steve Trout\n\nSteven Russell Trout (born July 30, 1957, in Detroit, Michigan) is a former major league baseball pitcher who played during the 1980s.\n\nHe is the son of former major league pitcher Dizzy Trout. He had the nickname \"Rainbow\".\n\nAfter attending Thornwood High School in South Holland, Illinois, Trout was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in the first round of the draft. He played three years in the minor leagues before joining the White Sox and pitching in his first big league game on July 1, 1978 against the Minnesota Twins.\n\nBefore the season, Trout was traded to the Chicago Cubs along with Warren Brusstar for Scott Fletcher, Pat Tabler, Randy Martz, and Dick Tidrow. Trout had 32 starts in his first season with the Cubs, going 10-14 with a 4.65 ERA.\n\nThe following season in , he stayed in the Cubs rotation, pitching along with Rick Sutcliffe, Dennis Eckersley, and Lee Smith. They led the Cubs to 96 victories and their first trip to the playoffs in 39 years. Steve pitched the Cubs home opener on April 13 against the New York Mets, pitching a complete game and allowing just two hits in the 11-2 victory. On May 30, Trout took a no-hitter into the eighth inning against the Atlanta Braves that was broken up by Albert Hall.\n\nTrout finished the season with a 13-7 record in 31 starts, posting a 3.41 ERA. Steve pitched effectively in the 1984 National League Championship Series against the San Diego Padres, going 8.1 innings for the victory in Game 2, which put the Cubs one victory away from their first World Series since 1945. He pitched in relief in the series-deciding Game 5 in San Diego, which the Cubs lost.\n\nTrout started strong in with a 6-1 record through June 8, until ulnar nerve problems caused him to miss time on the disabled list, as he was only able to make nine starts for the remainder of the season Trout was traded in to the New York Yankees, for Bob Tewksbury, Rich Scheid, and Dean Wilkins.\n\nTrout's acquisition by the New York Yankees in a mid-season trade proved to be a disastrous trade for the Yankees. Though his last two starts with the Cubs were complete game shutouts, and his ERA was one of the best in the National League, with the Yankees he proved unable to locate the strike zone. He walked 37 batters and threw 9 wild pitches in 46 innings and lasted an average of only four innings a start in his nine starts Yankee starts. The Yankees traded Trout to Seattle after the 1987 season, paying the Mariners over one million dollars to offset some of Trout's substantial salary.\n\nTrout was traded to the Mariners before the season. He pitched infrequently over the next season and a half before being released by the team.\n\nTrout runs a baseball clinic from his home in Venice, Florida from November through April. It is open to all ages. In 2002, he authored a book about his and his father Dizzy Trout's baseball lives called \"Home Plate: The Journey of the Most Flamboyant Father and Son Pitching Combination in Major League History\".\n\nHe has been a pitching coach for the Brockton Rox of the Can-Am League and Chicago's Windy City ThunderBolts of the Frontier League. On January 25, 2008, it was announced that Trout would be the manager of the Texarkana Gunslingers for their inaugural season \n\nMoloka'i high school in Hawaii hired Trout in March 2010 to be its head coach. Trout answered an ad in the local newspaper.\n\nHe started the Chicago-based Trout Baseball Academy in 2015 and conducts baseball camps for children throughout the year.\n\nTrout recently co-wrote a children's illustration book called \"Loosey-Goosey Baseball\" that is available for purchase on his website.\n\nAccording to the Chicago Sun-Times in 2015, Trout sued a North Side baseball camp claiming the camp unlawfully used his name in the source code of their website for monetary gains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054249", "title": "The Blue Hearts", "text": "The Blue Hearts\n\nIts members were Hiroto Kōmoto (vocalist), Masatoshi Mashima (guitarist), Junnosuke Kawaguchi (bassist) and Tetsuya Kajiwara (drummer). Mikio Shirai was not an official member of the band, but often toured with them as their keyboardist. Formed in 1985, the group made its major debut in May 1987, and released its first album, the self-titled \"The Blue Hearts\", and followed that up with seven more albums. Though they started on an independent label, each album sold more copies than the previous one, with their last recording selling in the millions. In 1990, The Blue Hearts had a self-titled EP released in the United States, which they supported with a US tour.\n\nIn addition to having popular albums, they also had many popular singles. Two of the most well-known are \"Train-Train\" and \"Linda Linda\", which can be found on many karaoke machines. A cover version of \"Linda Linda\" was used in the 2004 dramas \"Socrates in Love\" and \"Gachi Baka\", as well as the 2005 film \"Linda Linda Linda\", the plot of which centers on a high school girls' band practicing The Blue Hearts' songs for the finale concert of their school's culture festival. The song also appears in the 2005 Nintendo DS video game \"Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan,\". Other songs, including \"Train-Train\", \"Owaranai Uta\" and \"Hito ni Yasashiku\", have been featured in the Konami arcade games \"Drummania\" and \"Guitar Freaks\". The 2015 anime series \"The Rolling Girls\" features covers of several Blue Hearts songs sung by the cast, including covers of \"Hito ni Yasashiku\" and \"Tsuki no Bakugekiki\" in the opening and ending sequences.\n\nThey were seen as controversial in Japan, where antics such as using the taboo Japanese word for crazy, and spitting on television cameras got them banned from TV for a year.\n\nAfter The Blue Hearts broke up in 1995, Kōmoto, Mashima and Shirai formed a new group, The High-Lows. In addition to retaining the hardcore fans of The Blue Hearts, The High-Lows were also able to attract new fans and lasted another ten years. When The High-Lows broke up in 2005, Kōmoto and Mashima again formed a new band in 2006, this time calling themselves The Cro-Magnons. Kawaguchi became a record producer and occasionally plays support for several bands, in 2009 he became the deputy director of propaganda for the Happiness Realization Party. Kajiwara formed The 3Peace in 1997, then The Big Hip in 2005 with Shirai, and his solo project Thunderbeat in 2008.\n\nAfter the breakup of The Blue Hearts, both Kōmoto and Mashima chose not to sing any of the band's songs, with few exceptions. Kōmoto has sung \"Boku no Migite\" while performing live with other artists, and Mashima has occasionally performed \"Aozora\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054250", "title": "Gastrointestinal perforation", "text": "Gastrointestinal perforation\n\nGastrointestinal perforation, also known as ruptured bowel, is a hole in the wall of part of the gastrointestinal tract. The gastrointestinal tract includes the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. Symptoms include severe abdominal pain and tenderness. When the hole is in the stomach or early part of the small intestine the onset of pain is typically sudden while with a hole in the large intestine onset may be more gradual. The pain is usually constant in nature. Sepsis, with an increased heart rate, increased breathing rate, fever, and confusion may occur.\nThe cause can include trauma such as from a knife wound, eating a sharp object, or a medical procedure such as colonoscopy, bowel obstruction such as from a volvulus, colon cancer, or diverticulitis, stomach ulcers, ischemic bowel, and a number of infections including \"C. difficile\". A hole allows intestinal contents to enter the abdominal cavity. The entry of bacteria results in a condition known as peritonitis or in the formation of an abscess. A hole in the stomach can also lead to a chemical peritonitis due to gastric acid. A CT scan is typically the preferred method of diagnosis; however, free air from a perforation can often be seen on plain X-ray.\nPerforation anywhere along the gastrointestinal tract typically requires emergency surgery in the form of an exploratory laparotomy. This is usually carried out along with intravenous fluids and antibiotics. A number of different antibiotics may be used such as piperacillin/tazobactam or the combination of ciprofloxacin and metronidazole. Occasionally the hole can be sewn closed while other times a bowel resection is required. Even with maximum treatment the risk of death can be as high as 50%. A hole from a stomach ulcer occurs in about 1 per 10,000 people per year, while one from diverticulitis occurs in about 0.4 per 10,000 people per year.\n\nSigns and symptoms may include a sudden pain in the epigastrium to the right of the midline indicating the perforation of a duodenal ulcer, while a gastric ulcer perforation reveals itself by burning pain in epigastrium, with flatulence and dyspepsia.\n\nIn intestinal perforation, pain starts from the site of perforation and spreads across the abdomen.\n\nGastrointestinal perforation results in severe abdominal pain intensified by movement, nausea, vomiting and hematemesis. Later symptoms include fever and or chills. In any case, the abdomen becomes rigid with tenderness and rebound tenderness. After some time the abdomen becomes silent and heart sounds can be heard all over. Patient stops passing flatus and motion, abdomen is distended.\n\nThe symptoms of esophageal rupture may include sudden onset of chest pain.\n\nUnderlying causes include gastric ulcers, duodenal ulcers, appendicitis, gastrointestinal cancer, diverticulitis, inflammatory bowel disease, superior mesenteric artery syndrome, trauma, vascular Ehlers–Danlos syndrome, and ascariasis. Typhoid fever, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, ingestion of corrosives may also be responsible.\n\nEating multiple magnets can also lead to perforation if the magnets attract and stick to one another through different loops of the intestine.\n\nOn x-rays, gas may be visible in the abdominal cavity. Gas is easily visualized on x-ray while the patient is in an upright position. The perforation can often be visualised using computed tomography. White blood cells are often elevated.\n\nSurgical intervention is nearly always required in form of exploratory laparotomy and closure of perforation with peritoneal wash. Occasionally they may be managed laparoscopically. A Graham patch may be used for duodenal perforations.\n\nConservative treatment including intravenous fluids, antibiotics, nasogastric aspiration and bowel rest is indicated only if the person is nontoxic and clinically stable.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054258", "title": "Soulside Journey", "text": "Soulside Journey\n\nSoulside Journey is the first studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released 13 January 1991 by Peaceville Records. It is notable as the band's only death metal album, before they became an integral part of the Norwegian black metal scene.\n\nThe band's drummer, Fenriz, used the nickname \"Hank Amarillo\". Being that they had finally made it \"big\" and released an album, and due to his negativity toward the then-crop of death metal bands, Fenriz thought it would be appropriate to mockingly choose a \"Western\" name. Later pressings of the albums listed all of the band's pseudonyms rather than their real names.\n\nThe album was remastered and reissued by Peaceville in 2003, as well as being repackaged in a cardboard digipak. The first chapter of a four-part video interview with Fenriz and Nocturno Culto, spanning the first four albums, was also included as bonus material.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054276", "title": "Robert Balderrama", "text": "Robert Balderrama\n\nRobert \"Bobby\" Lee Balderrama was born in O'Donnell, Texas, and grew up in Saginaw, Michigan. He is the lead guitarist for the band Question Mark & the Mysterians and was when they recorded their first hit song 96 Tears. He later played with Joe King Carrasco and the Crowns on their 1987 \"Bandido Rock\" album. He still periodically plays shows with the original members of ? and the Mysterians. Balderrama also formed a smooth jazz group, The Robert Lee Revue. The band has released two albums: \"For the Love of Smooth Jazz\", in 2010, and \"City of Smooth Jazz\", in 2012.\n\nIn October 2017, Balderrama was diagnosed with prostate cancer.\n\nIn March 2019, Balderrama released a book, \"Famous Guitarists I Have Met Who Influenced Me.\"\n"}
{"id": "2054277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054277", "title": "Aftab Habib", "text": "Aftab Habib\n\nAftab Habib (born 7 February 1972) is an English cricketer.\n\nHabib was formerly the Hong Kong national coach, having been appointed on a three-year contract, including Hong Kong's appearance in the 2008 Asia Cup in Pakistan and has worked as Women’s and Girls’ Cricket Development Officer for the Buckinghamshire Cricket Board. He is currently Head Coach of Berkshire Women, having been appointed at the start of the 2016 season.\n\nIn county cricket he represented Leicestershire and Essex, after having been on the books at Middlesex. With Leicestershire, he broke the 1,000 first-class run barrier in both the 1999 and 2000 seasons and won the County Championship in 1998.\n\nIn 1999, he played two test matches for England in a 2–1 home series loss to New Zealand.\n\nHe is of Pakistani heritage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054278", "title": "Buddy Groom", "text": "Buddy Groom\n\nWedsel Gary \"Buddy\" Groom Jr. (born July 10, 1965) is a former Major League Baseball left-handed middle relief pitcher. He attended the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor and was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in the 1987 amateur draft.\n\nHe played in the minor leagues, and he eventually signed with the Detroit Tigers in 1990. He moved up through the minors and broke into the majors as a spot starter for the Tigers in 1992. He lost all of his 5 decisions, and he did not win a decision until 1995, his first year as a bonafide reliever.\n\nIn 1995, he was traded to the Florida Marlins for Mike Myers, where he finished the year. The next year, he signed with the Oakland Athletics, where he played until 1999. He signed with the Baltimore Orioles and played there through the 2004 season. In 2005, he signed with the New York Yankees. On July 30, 2005, Groom was designated for assignment. During his exit from the Yankees, the \"New York Post\" reported that Groom said that he wasn't one of \"Joe's boys\", and claimed he was used as a \"mop up guy\". Groom was referring to Yankees manager Joe Torre. On July 31, Groom was traded to the Arizona Diamondbacks. After the 2005 season, Groom became a free agent.\n\nGroom had a career 31–32 record, a 4.64 ERA, and 27 career saves. He started 15 games and recorded 494 strikeouts. He led the league in appearances in 1999 with 76, and is 35th on the all-time list of appearances with 786. He holds the major league record for most games pitched without recording a plate appearance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054287", "title": "Dress shirt", "text": "Dress shirt\n\nA dress shirt, button shirt, button-front, button-front shirt, or button-up shirt is a garment with a collar and a full-length opening at the front, which is fastened using buttons or shirt studs. A button-down or button-down shirt is a dress shirt which has a button-down collar – a collar having the ends fastened to the shirt with buttons.\n\nA dress shirt is normally made from woven cloth, and is often accompanied by a tie, jacket, suit, or formalwear, but a dress shirt may also be worn more casually.\n\nIn British English, \"dress shirt\" (\"formal shirt\" or \"tuxedo shirt\" in American English) means specifically the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white-tie. Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached with collar studs.\n\nTraditionally dress shirts were worn by men and boys, whereas women and girls often wore blouses or, sometimes, known as chemises. However, in the mid-1800s, they also became an item of women's clothing and are worn by both sexes today.\n\nA shirt has several components: A one-piece back, which is usually pleated, gathered, or eased into a section of fabric in the upper part of the back behind the neck and over the shoulders known as the yoke (either one-piece or seamed vertically in the middle); one-piece sleeves with plackets at the wrist, or else short-sleeved (cut off above the elbow), though this is not traditional; a band of fabric around each wrist known as a cuff; the collar, a strip around the neck, which is normally a turndown collar, with the strip folded down away from the neck, leaving two points at the front, the width of which is known as the spread; and finally two front panels which overlap slightly down the middle on the placket to fasten with buttons (or rarely shirt studs).\n\nThere are various styles of collar, which is the primary indicator of the formality of a shirt. Those discussed here are all attached collars, not styles specific to detachable collars. The very top button is number 1.\n\n\nThe less-common styles below were all once common, but have waned in popularity.\n\nContrast collar shirts are occasionally made, which are white collars on a coloured or patterned shirt. These are worn for a variety of reasons, such as to offset certain complexions; because of a tradition started by detachable collars, where it is impractical to have many collars in different matching colours; and finally because when a collar is replaced it is unlikely an exact colour match will be found. These collars are generally considered more formal than matching fabric in shirts that are not white.\n\nThe main distinctions between cuffs are whether they require buttons or cufflinks to fasten, and whether they are folded back (\"double\") or single. The main resulting types are therefore:\n\n\nIn addition, there are some variations, for example barrel cuffs may be mitred, with the corner cut off at 45°. Less common styles include the \"Portofino\", or \"cocktail\" cuff, which is a double cuff closed with buttons, first made by the Jermyn Street shirtmakers Turnbull & Asser, and later popularised by the fictional character James Bond in the films from 1962 onwards.\n\nA high quality traditional shirt has long tails, extending almost to the knees at the back, and so has seven or eight buttons. The vertical strip of fabric running down the front opening is called the placket, and gives a more symmetrical appearance to the joint between the left side, on top, and the right. This left over right order is also seen in waistcoat and coat fastenings, though women's clothing buttons the other way (right over left). The buttonholes, aligned vertically, are placed on the placket, though the top button and buttons at the bottom of stiff fronts are aligned horizontally. The buttonholes are one of the few places where the difference between hand and machine stitching can be observed while the shirt is being worn, and fashion designers sometimes use contrasting thread here or on the buttons themselves for extra impact.\n\nTo give extra fullness to the back, there are often pleats where the back panel joins to the yoke. On some fittings these are not needed, and handmade shirts may feature the extra fabric being worked continuously into the seam. In America, a box pleat is common (two pleats together in the centre), while in Britain the pleats are placed wider out under the shoulders.\n\nThe less casual shirts in Britain will have no pockets, but the standard shirt in America has a single one on the wearer's left side, which is a sewn-on patch with a plain upper hem, optionally with a single button for closure. This small pocket is large enough to hold a pack of cigarettes or a few pens (a pocket protector can be used). Less formal shirts may feature larger pockets, dual pockets, or pockets with flap closures; safari or other military styled shirts often feature two large pockets with buttoned flaps. Less formal shirts may have small pockets on the sleeves as well. Shoulder straps are virtually non-existent on formal shirts, with the exception of military clothing.\n\nShort-sleeved shirts have a plain (no-button) hem above the wearer's elbow. They are considered a casual summer or tropical option, though many people wear only the traditional long sleeves in all circumstances.\n\nIn the UK, the term \"dress shirt\" is reserved for a particular type of formal shirt. There are formal day shirts for wearing with morning dress, and the white dress shirts used as eveningwear.\n\nA day dress shirt is fairly similar to a normal shirt, and is usually white, with a stiff detachable collar, though other designs, such as a vertical blue stripe, are also appropriate. Double cuffs are most common. This sort of shirt is also conventionally worn by some barristers and judges.\n\nAn evening shirt, for wear with eveningwear, for example as part of black or white tie has some unique features. In the U.S., this shirt is often called a \"tuxedo shirt\" or \"tux shirt\". The shirt is always white.\n\nThe shirt required for white tie is very specific. It should have a detachable wing collar and be fastened with shirt studs instead of buttons on the front. The studs are normally mother of pearl set in gold or silver, but black onyx inlay is also permissible. The cufflinks should match the studs. The shirt front has panels made of different material from the rest of the shirt which are the only parts seen under the waistcoat. The shape of the panels, one on each side, is either rectangular, or the older U-shape (designed to sit under the older 1920s U-shaped waistcoats, now largely replaced by the more modern V-shape). The material for the panels is either layers of thick plain cotton that is heavily starched (this type is often called a \"boiled front shirt\" as the shirt needs to be put in boiling water to remove the starch before cleaning), or marcella (piqué) cotton. Marcella is more common, but a little less formal, though still appropriate, since it was originally designed to be used on formal evening shirts, as the ribbing can pick up more starch and create an even stiffer front. Traditionally, collarless shirts with a detachable wing collar fastened on with collar studs have been used, but all-in-one designs are occasionally seen, though this is considered incorrect and to give a poor appearance by many. Cuffs are single, and heavily starched (if the front is marcella, the cuffs usually match).\n\nBlack tie offers more leeway. Shirts may be soft (not starched), which gives the options of unstarched marcella or a pleated front, as well as the white tie shirts, which may also be worn with black tie. The collar is still sometimes a stiff high wing collar (common in America, though the attached variety is more popular there), or a turndown collar (more frequently seen in Britain). In past decades, particularly the 1970s, ruffled shirt fronts were made fashionable by Will Hunter, although they are now out of favour. Dress-studs are optional, and are onyx set in either silver or gold if used; otherwise the buttons are normally concealed under a placket. Cufflinks tend to be as simple and understated as possible, and harmonise with, if not match, the studs.\n\nThe placket of the shirt is the part that holds the buttons and the button holes. This is highly regarded as the focal point of the dress shirt when worn casually. Unfortunately due to the lack of reinforcement, the weight of the collar will cripple the placket throughout the day. No amount of starch, ironing, pressing nor does the type of fabric matter when it comes to combating the collapse.\n\nShirts are made of woven cloth. The natural fibers used more commonly in the past were cotton (the most frequent), linen (the oldest), ramie, wool or silk. Nowadays, artificial fibers, such as polyester or polyester blends, are also used, due to their low cost, despite being considered by most shirtmakers the poorest material, owing to less softness and breathability. However, while high quality cotton shirts can survive with care a few decades, a polyester/cotton blend may be used in more demanding environments. Giza cotton is a type of high-quality cotton which is the preferred choice among high-end shirtmakers, because of its long staple length. Linen produces a cool fabric that wrinkles heavily, and is mostly used in light summer shirts. Cotton is therefore the standard material for all but the cheapest shirts. Silk is occasionally worn, though it is hot to wear and has a marked sheen.\n\nYarns from these fibers are woven into a variety of different weaves, the most notable of which include broadcloth, with double the number of warp to weft threads, giving a smooth, formal shirting; twill, where the tucks of the weft do not line up, giving a diagonal pattern, a weave used for most country checked (\"e.g.\" Tattersall) shirtings; poplin, with a heavier warp than weft, giving more formal fabric; and Oxford weaves. Plain Oxford or pinpoint Oxford weaves are popular as casual fabrics, so are generally used in combination with a button-down collar, while royal Oxford is versatile enough to be used on both sporty and formal shirts. There are many other weaves or variations on these, including end-on-end patterns, where alternate white and coloured threads are used, giving a mottled appearance, or more exotic weaves, including voile and batiste, which are extremely light fabrics only used for summer shirts or on the unseen parts of formal shirts.\n\nThe use of pattern and colour is also significant. Originally, in the Edwardian era, when the modern shirt emerged, all shirts were white. Gradually more colours were introduced, including blue, the most popular colour, particularly in lighter shades such as Wedgwood. A full range of colours is now commonly available, although white, light blue, cream, and to a lesser extent pale shades of pink and lavender, remain the mainstays of conventional business attire. Less traditional shirts are also made with darker colours, even black. Bright colours and prints for very casual wear were popularised after the War by light holiday clothes such as the Hawaiian shirt.\n\nFor more formal business shirts, a plain weave or subtle pattern like herringbone is the norm. In more casual settings, stripes and checkered patterns are common. In more rural areas, plaid or checkered shirts may be more common, such as the tattersall shirts associated with British country clothing. The size of the pattern is meant to coordinate with tweeds of different patterns. Further, the use of colour may be somewhat seasonal, with shades like green being associated more with autumn than summer ones like yellow. Colours and patterns may also be chosen for more than simply aesthetic reasons, as trends such as power dressing (first noted in Molloy, \"Dress for Success\" [1975]) emphasise the social impact of clothing. For example, a business executive might stereotypically prefer pinstriped suits and red neckties to project a particular image.\n\nWrinkle-free shirts have become popular after being first introduced by Brooks Brothers in 1953.\n\nA resin used for making non-wrinkle shirts releases formaldehyde, which could cause contact dermatitis for some people - particularly those who have already developed an allergy; no disclosure requirements exist, and in 2008 the U.S. Government Accountability Office tested formaldehyde in clothing and found that generally the highest levels were in non-wrinkle shirts and pants.\n\nA dress shirt is typically ironed to remove any wrinkles and can be treated with starch for added smoothness and stiffness. There are also cotton shirts available in the market which do not require ironing.\n\nThe hem is tucked into the trousers. For informal- or formalwear, a coat and tie (or bow tie) are compulsory. When a tie is worn, the top button of the shirt is fastened, so the tie can fit snugly around the wearer's neck with a neat appearance.\n\nWhen a tie is not worn, conventions on buttoning differ globally: in the United States and the United Kingdom, the top button is virtually never buttoned if a tie is not worn – but unbuttoning two or more buttons is seen as overly casual. In France, unbuttoning two buttons is more common, and politicians appear on TV in this style.\n\nIn casual usage, these conventions are often not followed, with many choosing to wear shirts not tucked in, or leaving the top button undone with a tie. This is commonly done by children and young men, particularly as part of school uniform, where it is not allowed. Even more casually, some now choose not to iron their shirts, or use nontraditional 'non-iron' fabrics.\n\nSimilarly, as part of more casual work attire, some American men wear shirts with the top two buttons unbuttoned (buttoned at the third button), though buttoning at the fourth button is widely seen as too casual. Accordingly, some shirts are manufactured with a difference at the second or third button, by way of subtle cue as to where to button. Most casually, the shirt can be worn entirely unbuttoned, over a T-shirt.\n\nIn the US, ready-to-wear sizes of dress shirts traditionally consist of two numbers such as \"15½ 34\", meaning that the shirt has a neck in girth (measured from centre of top button to centre of corresponding buttonhole) and a sleeve long (measured from midpoint of the back and shoulders to the wrist). However, to reduce the number of sizes needed to be manufactured and stocked, an average sleeve length is sometimes given in the form \"15½ 34/35\" (indicating a neck in girth and a sleeve). Since the cuff frequently features two buttons, the cuff diameter can be reduced so that the cuff does not come down over the hand, allowing the shirt to fit the shorter length. Since the sleeve and neck size do not take into account waist size, some shirts are cut wide to accommodate large belly sizes. Shirts cut for flat stomachs are usually labeled, \"fitted\", \"tailored fit\" \"athletic fit\" or \"trim fit\". The terms for fuller cut shirts are more varied (\"Traditional\", \"Regular\" \"etc.\") and are sometimes explained on a shirt maker's website. Additionally, \"Portly\" or \"Big\" are often used for neck sizes of or more. Very casual button-front shirts are often sized as small, medium, large, and so on. The meaning of these \"ad-hoc\" sizes is similarly not standardized and varies between manufacturers.\n\nIn the bespoke (custom-made) industry where each shirt is made from an individually drafted pattern, these sizing problems are avoided, though there are still different ways of making the shirt fit. While many choose to cut the sleeve long and have the cuff catch on the hand to regulate its length, some prefer the much harder option of using a high armhole and carefully tailored shape, so that the cuff can be loose and still sit in exactly the right place wherever the arm moves.\n\nMade-to-measure shirts may not fit quite as well as bespoke, but can provide a similar degree of customisation and fit at a lower cost.\n\nFor sixty years, US designers and manufacturers of neckties and dress shirts were members of the Men's Dress Furnishings Association but the trade group shut down in 2008 due to declining membership caused by the declining numbers of men wearing neckties.\n\nDress shirts were formerly worn by men most times for nearly all activities. Although they have largely been replaced today by pullover tops such as T-shirts or hoodies as casual wear, they remain overwhelmingly dominant as formal or business attire, and they are almost always expected (or even required where dress codes are enforced) to be worn for such occasions. This tends to apply even when neckties or suit jackets are not, or when even jeans may be worn in lieu of dress pants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054290", "title": "A Blaze in the Northern Sky", "text": "A Blaze in the Northern Sky\n\nA Blaze in the Northern Sky is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released on 26 February 1992 by Peaceville Records. It contained the band's first black metal recordings, and is considered a classic within the genre. It was the first album of what fans dub the \"Unholy Trinity\", the other albums being \"Under a Funeral Moon\" and \"Transilvanian Hunger\". It was the last album to feature bassist Dag Nilsen.\n\nDarkthrone's first album, 1991's \"Soulside Journey\", was a Swedish-styled death metal release. After recording \"Soulside Journey\", the band began writing songs with more black metal traits. This yielded the instrumental demo \"Goatlord\".\n\nAfter recording \"Goatlord\", three of the band members—Fenriz, Nocturno Culto and Zephyrous—decided that they wanted to focus on making black metal music. Bassist Nilsen disliked this shift in direction, and quit the band. However, he agreed to record his bass parts for the album as a session member. \"A Blaze in the Northern Sky\" was recorded during August 1991 at Creative Studios in Kolbotn; the same studio where Mayhem recorded their influential \"Deathcrush\" EP. In an interview, Fenriz said that the album was somewhat \"rushed\" and that many of the songs have \"death metal guitar riffs\" played in a \"black metal style\".\n\nDue to Darkthrone's sudden change from death metal to black metal, Peaceville was unwilling to release the album as it was. The shocked record label had expected that the band would continue recording death metal in the vein of \"Soulside Journey\". Peaceville agreed to release the album only if they were able to remix it, stating that the sound was \"too weak\". The band then threatened to release it through Deathlike Silence Productions, the record label owned by Øystein \"Euronymous\" Aarseth of Mayhem (to whom the album is dedicated). However, Peaceville eventually agreed to release the album as it was recorded.\n\nThe album was released by Peaceville on 26 February 1992. The first CD pressing was limited to 2,000 copies and had a white disc. The front cover featured Ivar Enger (Zephyrous), the band's rhythm guitarist.\n\nIt was remastered and reissued by Peaceville in 2003, as well as being repackaged in a cardboard digipak. The second chapter of a four-part video interview (spanning the first four albums) with Fenriz and Nocturno was also included. \"A Blaze\" was reissued again by Peaceville in December 2009 as a double gatefold LP on 180 gram vinyl, limited to 2,000 copies.\n\nIn his retrospective review of the album, Eduardo Rivadavia from AllMusic gave \"A Blaze\" 5 out of 5 stars, calling it \"a classic whose almost indefensibly lo-fi standards would reinvigorate an entire strain of black metal\". Valefor from \"Metal Reviews\" wrote that it \"would come to epitomize True Black Metal [...] raw production, simple riffs, no color on their album covers... just pure frozen evil.\" Channing Freeman of \"Sputnikmusic\" called the album \"triumphant,\" with a balanced blend of \"frozen production and guttural screams\" and \"a sense of community\".\n\nIn 2009, \"IGN\" included \"A Blaze in the Northern Sky\" in their \"10 Great Black Metal Albums\" list, while a 2007 article in \"Decibel\" magazine called it \"the first truly blackened death metal album\". \"Kerrang!\" called it \" a dark watershed for the black metal genre\" and the song \"In the Shadow of the Horns\" as \"seven minutes of defiant lo-fi production, frostbitten purpose and blunt-force simplicity\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054307", "title": "Me Me Me (band)", "text": "Me Me Me (band)\n\nMe Me Me were a one-off English Britpop supergroup formed in 1996, consisting of Alex James of Blur (vocals, bass), Stephen Duffy (vocals, guitar) previously of Duran Duran/The Lilac Time and Justin Welch of Elastica (drums), and James' friend Charlie Bloor (credited as \"musician\"). The band's first and only single, \"Hanging Around\" was released on 5 August 1996 and reached Number 19 on the UK Singles Chart. \n\n\"Hanging Around\" was released on 7-inch single (DUFF005) and cassette (DUFF005C), also featuring \"Hollywood Wives\", and on CD-single with a third track, \"Tabitha's Island\" (DUFF005CD). There were also promotional versions released in July 1996 on 12-inch single (DOLE041) and CD-single (DOLE044). The tracks were originally recorded as a soundtrack for Damien Hirst's film \"Hanging Around\", first shown at the \"Spellbound Exhibition\", which took place at London's Hayward Gallery in March 1996.\n\nThe lead track was produced by the band. The other tracks were produced by Stephen Street.\n"}
{"id": "2054313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054313", "title": "Leaellynasaura", "text": "Leaellynasaura\n\nLeaellynasaura (meaning \"Leaellyn's lizard\") is a genus of small herbivorous ornithischian dinosaurs from the Albian stage of the Early Cretaceous (dated to between 118 and 110 million years ago), first discovered in Dinosaur Cove, Australia. The only known species is \"Leaellynasaura amicagraphica\". It was described in 1989, and named after Leaellyn Rich, the daughter of the Australian palaeontologist couple Tom Rich and Patricia Vickers-Rich who discovered it. The specific name \"L. amicagraphica\" translates to \"friend writing\" and honours both the Friends of the Museum of Victoria and the National Geographic Society for their support of Australian paleontology.\n\n\"Leaellynasaura\" is a relatively small dinosaur, about 90 centimeters (3 feet) in length. It is known from several specimens including two nearly complete skeletons and two fragmentary skulls. Herne (2009) argued that, unlike more advanced ornithischians, \"Leaellynasaura\" lacked ossified tendons in its tail. He also argued that the tail is noteworthy as among the longest relative to its body size of any ornithischian: the tail was three times as long as the rest of the body combined; it also has more tail vertebrae than any other ornithischians except for some hadrosaurs. However, in a subsequent revision of fossil material attributed to \"Leaellynasaura\" Herne (2013) could not confidently assign the postcranial skeletons with long tails (or indeed any fossils other than the holotype incomplete cranium MV P185991, right maxilla MV P186352 and left maxillary tooth MV P186412, all from late Aptian-early Albian Eumeralla Formation) to \"Leaellynasaura amicagraphica\".\n\n\"Leaellynasaurus\" has been variously described as a hypsilophodontid, a primitive iguanodontian or a primitive ornithischian (Genasauria). Recent studies have not found a consensus; some analyses describe it as a non-iguanodontian ornithopod, whereas others describe it as a basal neornithischian.\n\n\"Leaellynasaura\" was an Australian polar dinosaur. At this period in time, Victoria would have been within the Antarctic Circle. Although this latitude is very cold today, it was significantly warmer during the mid-Cretaceous. Because of the Earth's tilt, \"Leaellynasaura\" and its contemporaries would still have been living under conditions with extended periods of both daylight and night. Depending on latitude, it is possible that the sun might not have risen for several weeks or months in the winter, which means that \"Leaellynasaura\" would have had to live in the dark for perhaps months at a time. A skull fragment interpreted as being from \"Leaellynasaura\" has been reported as showing enlarged eyes and the suggestion of proportionally large optic lobes, implying an adaptation to low-light conditions. However, the relatively large orbits of this specimen were more recently interpreted as representing characteristically large eyes of a juvenile individual, rather than any low-light adaptation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054314", "title": "Fictional company", "text": "Fictional company\n\nFictional companies are often used in film, television books and comics where copyright or the likely chance of being prosecuted exists from using the name of a real company. They may be used on television in countries where the use of real company names or trademarks is prohibited in dramatic presentations to avoid the possibility of product placement. An example of a generic fictional company is the Acme Corporation.\n\nOften, when a fictional company is used, it will be a parody of a real world counterpart, which would avoid any unwanted legal issues.\n\nIn other cases fictional brands have been carried across multiple series and even from movies to TV. Oceanic Airlines first appeared in the 1996 movie \"Executive Decision\" and has been seen in multiple series and films, including its high-profile place in \"Lost\".\n\nOther times a fictional corporation is an in-joke carried across multiple products by the same games developer, director, or writer. The Ultor Mining Corporation, for instance, shows up in several video games from Volition including their modern-day Saint's Row series and the science fiction Red Faction series. Similarly Big Kahuna Burger fast food franchises have received at least a passing mention in several Quentin Tarantino movies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054315", "title": "Bela Gold", "text": "Bela Gold\n\nBela Gold, also Bill Gold, (1915–2012), was a Hungarian-born American businessman and professor.\n\nBela Gold was born on 30 January 1915, in Kolozsvár (then Austria-Hungary, now Romania: Cluj-Napoca). His parents were Esther (b. 1891) and Leo Gold (b. 1890), a dry goods salesman. His brother was William Gold (born 1921). In 1920, the family emigrated to the U.S. \n\nIn the early 1940s, Gold began work at the Senate Subcommittee on War Mobilization, while his wife Sonya worked in government as well, for a time for Harry Dexter White.\n\nThe Golds were spied upon by J Edgar Hoover's FBI for a time in the 1940s. \n\nThe Golds came to testify at the House Unamerican Activities Committee because of the accusations of Elizabeth Bentley. The Golds denied working with the Soviets and denied they were members of the communist party. Haynes, Klehr, and Vassiliev wrote a book published in 2009 claiming that the Golds were recruited to give information to Soviet agents. Some of their work has been debated by other historians.\n\nAfter the war, Bill Gold went to the University of Pittsburgh and became a professor. He later became a research director at Case Western Reserve University, and eventually a professor at Claremont Graduate School (now Claremont Graduate University). He also worked on the National Research Council and wrote several books.\n\nIn 1938, Gold married Sonia Steinman Gold.\n\nGold died aged 96 on 14 April 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2054324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054324", "title": "Super Buster Bros.", "text": "Super Buster Bros.\n\nSuper Buster Bros., released as Super Pang (スーパーパン) outside of North America, is a cooperative two-player shooting puzzle arcade video game developed by Mitchell and released in the United States in 1990 by Capcom. It is the second game in the \"Pang\" series and was ported to the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1992. It is also featured in the compilations \"Buster Bros. Collection\" for the original PlayStation and \"Capcom Puzzle World\" for PlayStation Portable – from Capcom's creator of Mega Twins (1990). It was the tenth game released for the CP System hardware.\n\nThe object of the game is to use a gun to pop bubbles that bounce around the screen. There are two different modes: Panic mode and Arcade mode. Similarly to \"Asteroids\", when a player pops a bubble, it splits into two smaller bubbles. Sufficiently small bubbles simply vaporize when popped. Occasionally, monsters walk or fly on to the screen. When the player character touches a monster, they die. Monsters can also pop bubbles. Although the arcade game and the PlayStation version included in \"Buster Bros. Collection\" allow two players to play simultaneously, the Super NES version only has one player mode. Powerups are found by popping certain bubbles, shooting boxes, or shooting certain unmarked spots in the level. The gun power-ups cannot be used in conjunction with each other.\n\nIn this mode, the player faces a rain of bubbles. The default weapon is the bubble shot and cannot be changed at any time. Every time a bubble is popped, a rainbow bar at the bottom is slowly filled. Filling the bar all the way causes the player to advance to the next level. As more bubbles are popped, the remaining and incoming bubbles move faster.\n\nThere is also one special type of bubble that appears rarely. The bubble can appear at any random time, and has a clock image engraved. Whenever the bubble bounces, the engraving changes to a star, and when the bubble bounces again, the engraving changes back to a clock. Popping the bubble when the clock engraving is present causes all bubbles to stop movement completely for 9 seconds, while popping the bubble when the star engraving is present causes all bubbles to be popped and the game screen gets cleared, filling the rainbow bar with every pop made from the bubbles that are being destroyed.\n\nPanic mode is beaten when the player reaches level 99, fills the rainbow bar and destroys any remaining bubbles on the screen (after the bar is filled and level 99 is reached, no new bubbles appear). The ending of the game is different in panic mode than in Arcade mode.\n\nIn this mode, each of the stages has a set layout, consisting of walls, destructible glass walls, invisible walls, ladders and ice. There are items such as candy and 1-ups. In the SNES version, there are four difficulty levels in the arcade mode: easy, normal, hard and expert. Each difficulty has their own stage layouts, some remaining the same, some varying slightly and some changed completely. The amount of continues and general speed of bubbles is also affected by the difficulty level chosen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054327", "title": "1995 King Fahd Cup", "text": "1995 King Fahd Cup\n\nThe 1995 King Fahd Cup () was the second and last tournament held under the King Fahd Cup name before the competition was retroactively sanctioned by FIFA and recognized as FIFA Confederations Cup. Disputed as the King Fahd Cup, in honor of the then Saudi ruler who organized the tournament with his country's federation (thus in the form of an unofficial tournament), it was hosted by Saudi Arabia in January 1995. It was won by Denmark, who beat defending champions Argentina 2–0 in the final.\n\nAll matches were played at the 67,000-capacity King Fahd II Stadium in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.\n\n\nWith three goals, Luis García was the top scorer in the tournament. In total, 19 goals were scored by 14 different players, with none of them credited as an own goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054328", "title": "Saint Spyridon", "text": "Saint Spyridon\n\nSaint Spyridon, Bishop of Trimythous also sometimes written Saint Spiridon (Greek: ; c. 270 – 348) is a saint honoured in both the Eastern and Western Christian traditions.\n\nSpyridon was born in Askeia, in Cyprus. He worked as a shepherd and was known for his great piety. He married and had one daughter, Irene. Upon the death of his wife, Spyridon entered a monastery, and their daughter, a convent.\n\nSpyridon eventually became Bishop of Trimythous, or Tremithous (today called Tremetousia), in the district of Larnaca. He took part in the First Ecumenical Council of Nicaea (325), where he was instrumental in countering the theological arguments of Arius and his followers.\n\nHe reportedly converted a pagan philosopher to Christianity by using a potsherd to illustrate how one single entity (a piece of pottery) could be composed of three unique entities (fire, water and clay); a metaphor for the Christian doctrine of the Trinity.\n\nAs soon as Spyridon finished speaking, the shard is said to have miraculously burst into flame, water dripped on the ground, and only dust remained in his hand (other accounts of this event say that it was a brick he held in his hand).\n\nAfter the council, Saint Spyridon returned to his diocese in Tremithous. He later fell into disfavor during the persecutions of the emperor Maximinus, but died peacefully in old age. \n\nSpyridon was popular in Byzantine literature. A poem, now lost, was dedicated to him by his pupil Triphyllios. It inspired two 7th-century vitae, one by Theodore of Paphos (c. 655) and another possibly by Leontios of Neapolis. The former was used by Simeon Metaphrastes. Arabic and Georgian hagiographies also survive.\n\nWhen the Arabs took Cyprus, Spyridon's body was disinterred and taken to Constantinople. The relics were found to be incorrupt, and contained a sprig of basil, the \"royal plant,\" both of which were taken as a sign of divine confirmation of his sanctity.\n\nWhen, in 1453, Constantinople fell to the Ottomans, Spyridon's relics were removed again; this time, to the island of Corfu by a Corfiote monk called Kalohairetis (Καλοχαιρέτης), where they remain to this day, in Saint Spyridon Church.\n\nThe relics are taken in procession every Palm Sunday and on other special occasions, for veneration by the faithful. All Philharmonics of Corfu, including the Philharmonic Society of Corfu take part in these ceremonial events. The relic of his right hand was located in Rome in the Church of Santa Maria in Vallicella, to which it was given by Pope Clement VIII to Cardinal Cesare of Baronio of the Oratory of Saint Philip Neri. There it remained until 1986 when the right arm of Saint Spyridon was brought back to Kerkyra.\n\nSpyridon is the patron saint of potters (from the miracle of the potsherd) and the island of Corfu where he is called: \"Αγιος Σπυρίδων ο πολιούχος\", \"Saint Spyridon, the Keeper of the City\" for the miracle of expelling the plague (πανούκλη) from the island.\n\nIt is believed by the faithful that the plague, on its way out of the island, scratched one of the fortification stones of the old citadel (Palaio Frourio) to indicate its fury for being expelled. This scratch is still shown to visitors.\n\nSt. Spyridon is also believed to have saved the island at the second great siege of Corfu which took place in 1716. At that time the Turkish army and naval force led by the great Sultan Achmet III appeared in Butrinto opposite Corfu.\n\nOn July 8 the Turkish fleet carrying 33,000 men sailed to Corfu from Butrinto and established a beachhead in Ipsos. The same day the Venetian fleet encountered the Turkish fleet off the channel of Corfu and defeated it in the ensuing naval battle. On July 19 the Turkish army reached the hills of the town and laid siege to the city. After repeated failed attempts and heavy fighting, the Turks were forced to raise the siege which had lasted 22 days.\n\nThere were also rumors spreading among the Turks that some of their soldiers saw St. Spyridon as a monk threatening them with a lit torch and that helped increase their panic. This victory over the Ottomans, therefore, was attributed not only to the leadership of Count Schulenburg who commanded the stubborn defense of the island against the Ottomans but also to the miraculous intervention of St. Spyridon.\n\nAfter the victorious outcome of the battle, Venice honored Schulenburg and the Corfiotes for successfully defending the island. The great composer Vivaldi was commissioned to write an opera, \"Juditha triumphans\", in celebration of the victory.\n\nRecognizing St. Spyridon's role in the defense of the island, Venice legislated the annual \"Litany of St. Spyridon\" on August 11 as a commemoration of the event. His feast day is celebrated in the East on the Saturday before Great Lent (known as \"Cheesefare Saturday\") and December 12. For those Eastern Churches that follow the traditional Julian Calendar, December 12 falls on December 25 of the modern Gregorian Calendar. In the West he is commemorated on December 14.\n\nSt. Spyridon is also the patron saint of the Tolstoy family. Andrei Tolstoy (fl. 15th century) chose St. Spyridon as the family's saint and he remains so in both branches. The Grand Prince of Muscovy Basil II (1425–1462) apparently gave a gold cross containing relics of the saint to Andrei. This reliquary survives and is held by the senior member of the Tolstoy family, now Nikolai Tolstoy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054336", "title": "Rick Monday", "text": "Rick Monday\n\nRobert James \"Rick\" Monday Jr. (born November 20, 1945) is a former Major League Baseball (MLB) center fielder and is currently a broadcast announcer. Monday is best remembered for saving the American flag from being burned in Dodger Stadium during the American Bicentennial and for hitting the game-winning home run in the ninth inning of the decisive game of the 1981 National League Championship Series at Olympic Stadium in Montreal. Also notable is that he was the first player picked in the inaugural 1965 Major League Baseball draft.\n\nMonday played 19 seasons for the Kansas City/Oakland Athletics (1966–71), Chicago Cubs (1972–76) and Los Angeles Dodgers (1977–84). He compiled a lifetime .264 batting average, 1,619 hits, 241 home runs, and 775 RBI. He was selected an All-Star in 1968 and 1978. He batted and threw left-handed.\n\nBorn in Batesville, Arkansas, Monday starred in baseball at Santa Monica High School in southern California and earned league honors.\n\nTommy Lasorda, then a scout for the Los Angeles Dodgers, offered Monday, and his mother Nelda, US$20,000 to sign with the Dodgers out of high school in 1963. But Arizona State University coach Bobby Winkles, who was also from Monday's native Arkansas, convinced them that he would look after Monday.\n\nA star for head coach Winkles' Sun Devils team that included freshman and future baseball hall of fame member Reggie Jackson, Monday led the Sun Devils to the 1965 College World Series championship (over Ohio State) and earned All-America and College Player of the Year honors as a sophomore. For the 1965 season he hit .359 with 34 extra-base hits.\n\nMonday was the first overall selection in the inaugural Major League First-Year Player Draft in 1965 by the Kansas City Athletics.\n\nThe top pick of the first MLB draft as a 19-year-old, Monday signed with the A's for a $104,000 bonus on June 15. He began his professional career in the Single-A Northwest League with the Lewiston Broncs in Lewiston, Idaho. He singled in his professional debut on June 29 at Bethel Park in Eugene, Oregon, and played his first home game two nights later at Bengal Field in Lewiston. After the season, he and Bronc teammate Dave Duncan entered boot camp with the U.S. Marine Corps in San Diego in September, serving actively in the Reserve for six months before the beginning of spring training.\n\nMonday played the 1966 season with the Mobile As of the Double-A Southern League in Mobile, Alabama. Mobile won the league title and five of its players were called up to the major league club in early September, including Monday, Sal Bando, and Rene Lachemann.\n\nFollowing his major league debut in September 1966, Monday began the next season in the majors, the A's last year in Kansas City. The team moved west to Oakland prior to the 1968 season, his first as an All-Star. Monday was with the A's through 1971, their first as American League West champions. He was traded for pitcher Ken Holtzman that November, and spent five productive seasons with the Chicago Cubs. In January 1977, Monday was traded in a five-player deal to the Los Angeles Dodgers for Bill Buckner and Iván DeJesús. The Dodgers won the National League pennant in 1977 and 1978.\n\nMonday's best season in the major leagues came in 1976, his last with the Cubs. Batting in the leadoff position, he hit .272, establishing career highs in home runs (32), runs (107), RBI (77), total bases (271), slugging percentage (.507), and OPS (.853). He also finished 18th in the Most Valuable Player voting.\n\nOn May 16, 1972, Monday hit 3 home runs as a member of the Cubs against the Phillies in an 8-1 victory at Veterans Stadium.\n\nPerhaps the most outstanding accomplishment in his playing career was his domination over pitcher Tom Seaver, arguably the best of his generation. Monday hit 11 home runs against Seaver, more than any other player, and batted .349 (30 hits in 86 at bats).\n\nAt Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles on April 25, 1976, two protesters ran into left-center field and tried to set fire to an American flag after the start of the bottom of the 4th inning. Monday, the Cubs center fielder, had been tossing a practice ball with left fielder José Cardenal before the incident happened. After Ken Crosby of the Cubs threw a pitch that made Ted Sizemore pop out, Monday dashed over and grabbed the flag to thunderous cheers. Monday ran through the infield with the flag and while walking towards the Dodgers dugout met and handed the flag over to Dodgers pitcher Doug Rau. The ballpark police officers arrested and escorted the two intruders, William Thomas and his 11-year-old son, off the field and afterwards the father of the boy was fined, charged with trespassing, and put on probation. When Monday came to bat in the top half of the 5th inning, he got a standing ovation from the crowd and the big message board behind the left-field bleachers in the stadium flashed the message, \"\" He later said, \"If you're going to burn the flag, don't do it around me. I've been to too many veterans' hospitals and seen too many broken bodies of guys who tried to protect it.\" Monday had served, while playing Major League Baseball, a six-year commitment with the United States Marine Corps Reserve as part of his ROTC obligation after leaving Arizona State.\n\nOn August 25, 2008, Monday was presented with an American flag flown over Valley Forge National Historical Park in honor of his 1976 bicentennial flag rescue. Monday still has the flag he stole from the protesters that was presented to him on \"Rick Monday Day\", May 4, 1976, during a pregame ceremony at Wrigley Field by an executive of the Dodgers organization; he has been offered up to $1 million to sell it, but has declined all offers.\n\nDuring a Dodger Stadium game on September 2, 2008, Monday was presented with a Peace On Earth Medallion and a medallion lapel pin by Patricia Kennedy, founder of the non-profit organization Step Up 4 Vets, for his valor and patriotic actions on April 25, 1976 at Dodger Stadium.\n\nWhen Monday was mostly a utility player he played a role in the deciding Game 5 of the NLCS at Olympic Stadium in Montreal. Played on a Monday afternoon due to an earlier rain-out, he smashed a two-out ninth-inning home run off the Expos' Steve Rogers that proved to be the difference in a 2–1 Dodgers victory. Monday's home run dashed what turned out to be the Expos' only chance at a pennant in their 36-year history in the National League representing Montreal. Even today, heartbroken Expos fans refer to the fifth game of the NLCS as \"Blue Monday.\" Los Angeles went on to win the 1981 World Series, defeating the New York Yankees 4 games to 2.\n\nSoon after his retirement as a player, Monday became a broadcaster for the Dodgers. He began in 1985 by hosting the pregame show and calling play-by-play on cable TV. From 1989-92, Monday moved farther south to call San Diego Padres games alongside Jerry Coleman, replacing outgoing announcer Dave Campbell. He was also a sports anchor at KTTV for a time in the 1980s. In addition, he served as a color commentator for CBS-TV at the College World Series championship game in 1988. Monday rejoined the Dodgers in 1993, replacing Don Drysdale who died suddenly from a heart attack in his hotel room on a Dodger road trip in Montreal.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2008, Monday mostly handled the analyst role, with Charley Steiner handling most of the play-by-play, except during road trips outside of the National League West division, during which Steiner broadcast the games on television (because until Vin Scully's retirement at the end of the 2016 season Vin Scully limited his broadcasting to all home games and road games involving either the NL West or AL West,) and Monday handled the radio play-by-play, usually with Jerry Reuss as his analyst.\n\nIn 2009, Steiner (play-by-play) and Monday (analysis) began covering all games on radio, with Eric Collins doing TV play-by-play for games not covered by Scully. When Steiner replaced Collins on the road TV broadcasts in 2014, Monday switched over to the play-by-play duties alongside Nomar Garciaparra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054351", "title": "Hugo Koblet", "text": "Hugo Koblet\n\nHugo Koblet (; 21 March 1925 – 6 November 1964) was a Swiss champion cyclist. He won the Tour de France and the Giro d'Italia as well as competing in six-day and pursuit races on the track. He won 70 races as a professional. He died in a car accident amid speculation that he had committed suicide.\n\nHugo Koblet was the son of Adolf and Héléna Koblet (pronounced Kob-lett), bakers in Zürich. He lived with his mother, a widow, and with an elder brother. His brother baked bread and cakes and Hugo was restricted to sweeping the floor and making deliveries by bicycle. He left the bakery at 17 and worked as a trainee mechanic at the Oerlikon velodrome in the city. His first race was a 10 km hill-climb, which he won. That caught the attention of Léo Amberg, a former Tour de France rider who had come second in the Tour of Switzerland. Amberg insisted he ride the track and Koblet became national amateur pursuit champion in 1945. He turned professional in 1946 and won the New York and Chicago six-day races. It was after the races that he developed a love of the United States, driving to California and Florida. He had learned English by watching American and British films. \nHe won the Swiss pursuit championship every year from 1947 to 1954. In 1947 he finished third and in 1951 and 1954 second in the world championship.\n\nKoblet won the 1950 Swiss road championship and then became the first non-Italian to win the Giro d'Italia. In 1951 he defeated Fausto Coppi to win the Grand Prix des Nations, an individual time trial with the status of unofficial world championship. The most important victory came that year at the Tour de France. He won overall and took five stages – two time-trials, two conventional stages and another in the mountains. In 1951 he \"rode the best off his wheel\" between Brive and Agen, said \"Cycling Plus\", \"just 20 miles into the stage, then covered 88 miles on his own to win by three minutes. This was despite a frantic chase by such greats as triple Tour winner Louison Bobet, double winner Gino Bartali and Fausto Coppi.\" The time differences when the Tour ended at the Parc des Princes meant he had beaten Raphaël Géminiani by 12 km, Lucien Lazarides by 18, Bartali by 18 and Coppi by 27.\n\nThe 1951 Tour de France started in Metz, the second time outside Paris. The main riders were Louison Bobet for France, Fausto Coppi and an ageing Gino Bartali for Italy. Coppi was hindered by grief at the death of his brother, Serse. Both Coppi and Bobet were pushed out of the running when Koblet won the time-trial from La Guerche to Angers. Their position was confirmed four days later when Koblet attacked on a gentle descent after two hours of the stage from Brive to Agen, a day expected to be a quiet journey towards the Pyrenees. He won again at Luchon, Montpellier and Geneva.\n\nHugo Koblet was a handsome man whose fame brought beautiful women and a lifestyle that affected his career. He was \"the most charming of men to talk to,\" said Jock Wadley. René de Latour wrote in Sporting Cyclist: \"Koblet had not an enemy at all. His ready and kindly smile came from deep down inside, and one knows from the start that this was a man without rancour, a rare thing to say of anybody who has raced in top competition on the road where the intense physical struggle often leads to jealousy and dispute.\"\n\nHe never rode again at the same level as the 1951 Tour de France. Jean Bobet said Koblet began to suffer in the mountains at 2,000m, then 1,500, then at 1,000 until \"we saw him unable to ride over the smallest hill.\". The author Olivier Dazat said photographs showed not the handsome man he had been but a rider suddenly aged, worried and preoccupied. René de Latour wrote: \"There is a question mark about Hugo Koblet's life, the mystery of why he was never as good again as in the 1951 Tour. After this year, his pedalling had less power. Soon after that magnificent win, Koblet was invited to Mexico to follow the national amateur tour. When he came back he was still, it seemed, the same incredibly easy pedaller. But the efficiency was partly gone. He visited specialists and took courses of treatment, but without any real success. He went to Mexico in 1951 [and] never came back from the land of guitars and sombreros. And nobody knows why!\"\n\nHe came second in the Giro d'Italia in 1951 and 1952 and retired in 1958.\n\nSix years after his retirement, Koblet died at 39, four days after a car crash, with speculation that his death may have been suicide. He had been profligate with his money and was in debt. He was being pursued for unpaid tax and his marriage had broken up. A witness, Émile Isler, saw Koblet driving his white Alfa Romeo at 120–140 kmh. between Zürich and Esslingen. He drove past a pear tree, turned then drove back. He passed it again finally turned a third time and drove into it.\n\nKoblet married a 22-year-old model, Sonja Buhl, in 1953. They spent their honeymoon in Spain and bought a villa at Forch, overlooking the lake at Zürich. Pirelli and Alfa-Romeo employed him in South America but the couple returned, Koblet disappointed and confused. The marriage began to break up. His confusion included forgetting that he had signed a contract for 7 million lire for a comb to be made in his name in Italy. He and Sonja parted and Koblet moved alone into a studio apartment alongside a garage he opened near the Oerlikon velodrome.\n\nHe asked Sonja for a reconciliation in 1964 but she refused. It was later that year that he died. Sonja refused her husband's inheritance rather than take on his debts.\n\nKoblet always carried a comb and a bottle of eau de cologne when he raced, sometimes combing his hair before the finish, always cleaning his face before meeting photographers. Philippe Brunel wrote in L'Equipe that at the end of his long ride to Agen in 1951, \"followers were astonished to see him sit up, blow kisses to girls and take out of his pocket a sponge soaked in water. He was barely across the line when he rinsed his face in Perrier, combed his hair, then started his stopwatch.\" The music hall artist Jacques Grello nicknamed him the \"Pédaleur de Charme\" in \"Parisien Libéré\" in 1951.\n\nKoblet's life was the subject of a cinema film, \"Hugo Koblet: Pédaleur de Charme\", in 2010. It starred Manuel Löwensberg as Koblet, Sarah Bühlmann as his wife Sonja, Chantal Le Moign and Dominique Müller. It attributed his decline to \"doping abuse.\" It was directed by Daniel von Aarburg, who included archive film and interviews with Koblet's contemporaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054353", "title": "Raymond Kelly (disambiguation)", "text": "Raymond Kelly (disambiguation)\n\nRaymond Kelly or Ray Kelly may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054367", "title": "Binocular", "text": "Binocular\n\nBinocular may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054373", "title": "Wanda Does It", "text": "Wanda Does It\n\nWanda Does It was a television show on Comedy Central that displayed \"a day in the life\" of the world of comedian Wanda Sykes. The show was canceled in early January, 2005 though the last episode aired November 16, 2004. Six episodes were made.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054378", "title": "Hugh Percy, 2nd Duke of Northumberland", "text": "Hugh Percy, 2nd Duke of Northumberland\n\nLieutenant General Hugh Percy, 2nd Duke of Northumberland (14 August 174210 July 1817) was an officer in the British army and later a British peer. He participated in the Battles of Lexington and Concord and the Battle of Long Island during the American War of Independence, but resigned his command in 1777 due to disagreements with his superior, General William Howe.\n\nBorn Hugh Smithson, he assumed the surname of Percy by Act of Parliament along with his father in 1750 and was styled Lord Warkworth from 1750 until 1766. He was styled Earl Percy from 1766, when his father was created Duke of Northumberland. He acceded to the dukedom in 1786.\n\nHe was the son of Sir Hugh Smithson and Lady Elizabeth Seymour, heiress of the House of Percy. In 1750, upon the death of his maternal grandfather Algernon Seymour, 7th Duke of Somerset, his father became Earl of Northumberland and changed his name to Percy.\n\nIn 1759, he joined the British Army as a teenager and was a captain of the 85th Regiment of Foot by age 17, an achievement that demonstrated the power of wealth and family standing. He was, nonetheless, a good soldier and fought with distinction in 1759 at the battles of Bergen and Minden. In 1760, he went up to St John's College, Cambridge. Afterwards, he married Lady Anne Crichton-Stuart, daughter of Lord Bute, on 2 July 1764. In 1766, his father was granted a dukedom and he was styled Earl Percy. As a Member of Parliament and the son-in-law of Lord Bute, Percy was promoted to full colonel and appointed an aide-de-camp to the King in 1764, having barely reached his majority. Percy was in chronically poor health from gout and had poor eyesight. He was physically unattractive, being overly thin and having a large nose. Yet, \"He was honorable and brave, candid and decent, impeccably mannered, and immensely generous with his wealth.\"\n\nIn Parliament, where he was member for Westminster from 1763 to 1776, he had opposed the policy that led to the American War of Independence. However, he was sent to Boston in 1774 with the local rank of brigadier general, colonel of the 5th Regiment of Foot (later called the Northumberland Fusiliers). His views on the military discipline were ahead of their time. \"He detested corporal punishments. At a time when other commanders were resorting to floggings and firing squads on Boston Common, he led his regiment by precept and example.\" Politically a Whig, he at first sympathized with the colonials, but he soon began to despise their behavior. He led the relief column at the Battle of Lexington and Concord. Percy's intelligent actions probably saved the British forces from complete disaster that day.\n\nWhen his brigade relieved Francis Smith's demoralized troops at Lexington, Percy carefully organized his forces so as to provide all-around protection. He also used his two 6-pounder field guns to break up large formations of American militia. Even so, William Heath, who led the colonials, managed to surround the retreating British column with fire during a grueling forced march. When the British found that the bridge over the Charles River in Cambridge was blocked, Percy turned his column down a side road and led them west to Charlestown. \"This sudden change of direction, and the brilliant use of an obscure and unexpected road, took the New England men by surprise. It broke the circle of fire around Percy's brigade.\" When a final colonial force tried to block British progress at Prospect Hill, \"Percy advanced his cannon to the front of his column, and cleared the hill with a few well-placed rounds. It was the last of his ammunition for the artillery. Percy's attitude towards New Englanders turned from contempt to grudging respect. He wrote:\nDuring the whole affair, the rebels attacked us in a very scattered, irregular manner, but with perseverance and resolution, nor did they ever dare to form into a regular body. Indeed they knew too well what was proper, to do so. Whoever looks upon them as an irregular mob, will find himself very much mistaken. They have men amongst them who know very well what they are about, having been employed as rangers against the Indians and Canadians, and this country being very much covered with wood, and hilly, is very advantageous for their method of fighting.\n\nHe was absent from the field during the Battle of Bunker Hill, perhaps due to a quarrel with General Howe, a man with whom Percy could not get along. The following year, Percy commanded a division during the Battle of Long Island and led the storming of Fort Washington. By 1777, he had achieved the rank of lieutenant general, but grew so disgusted with the conduct of the war by General Howe that he resigned his command and left America in 1777 after a dispute over a quantity of hay.\n\nPercy was granted a divorce in Parliament from Lady Anne in 1779 on the grounds of her adultery and immediately married Frances Julia Burrell on 23 May 1779, with whom he had six daughters and three sons, with three daughters and two sons surviving him.\n\nIn 1786, he acceded to the title upon his father’s death and continued his father's agricultural improvements. For example, when corn prices fell after 1815, he reduced his rents by twenty-five percent. He held twice-weekly gatherings at Alnwick Castle, inviting tenants and local tradespeople. He exercised considerable influence in politics, though he never obtained office. He became a general in 1793, and assumed command of the Percy Yeomanry Regiment in 1798 and as colonel of the Royal Horse Guards in 1806.\n\nNotorious for a bad temper as well as for being one of the richest men in England, the second Duke of Northumberland died suddenly of \"rheumatic gout\" in July 1817. He was buried in the Northumberland Vault, within Westminster Abbey, and was succeeded by his son Hugh Percy, 3rd Duke of Northumberland. Percy's illegitimate half brother was James Smithson, whose bequest founded the Smithsonian Institution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054388", "title": "Carol Patrice Christ", "text": "Carol Patrice Christ\n\nCarol Patrice Christ (born in California, United States in December 20, 1945) is a feminist historian, thealogian, author, and foremother of the Goddess movement. She studied Women's studies and issues and finished her PhD from Yale University. She has also served as a professor in other universities such as Columbia University, Harvard Divinity School and many others. \nOne of the most well known published essay she has written is \"Why Women Need The Goddess\". It was initially a keynote presentation at a conference at the University of Santa Cruz in 1978. Why Women Need the Goddess essay helped starting a feminism prominent movement and to launch a goddess movement as well and it became a part of the heresies which is the \"Feminist Publication on Art and Politics\". The essay discusses the importance of religious symbols as well as the effects of male symbolism of God on women. Religious symbols act as a powerful pervasive worth to a society and the people within in. Christ also happens to be one of the world's most influential and premier Thealogians. The idea behind it is centered on female moral, spiritual, biological differences where Christ is imagining females as Goddess.\n\nIn the spring of 1978, Christ presented \"Why Women Need the Goddess\" to address \"Great Goddess Re-emerging\" conference.\" Christ has written five influential books on women's spirituality and feminist theology. Carol P. Christ also co-edited the classic feminist religion anthologies \"Weaving the Visions: New Patterns in Feminist Spirituality\" (1989) and \"Womanspirit Rising\" (1979/1989); the latter included her essay \"Why Women Need the Goddess\" Both anthologies included feminist religious writing from writers from a very diverse range of religious backgrounds. She holds a PhD from Yale University. Carol P. Christ has taught at major universities in the United States, including Columbia University, Harvard Divinity School, Pomona College, San Jose State, and the California Institute of Integral Studies. As director of the Ariadne Institute, she conducts pilgrimages to sacred sites in Greece containing artifacts of matriarchal religion. She has for many years been a resident of the Greek island of Lesbos, the home of the poet Sappho.\n\nThe first conference of Women Thealogian took place in 1971 at Alverno College in Wisconsin, USA. According to Christ, the meaning of thealogy to her is the idea of religious symbols having influence on human beings but also the understanding of ethical decision making. It is having the consciousness rising process where women fit together. She has taken her approach imagining the Goddess in a patriarchal tradition. Judith Plaskow has also contributed to the idea of religion shaping the culture and norm into male dominance and putting men in the hierarchy of societal power. There are multiple different stories depicting the idea of sexuality and the reasons behind the creation of women being from different religious perspectives, from different significant religious prophesies as well as religious books. Judith Plaskow's \"Coming of Lilith\" story of Lilith, questions the creation of women and the reasoning behind it.\nIn Genesis 2, it states that \"It is not good that Adam should be alone; I will make a helper fit for him\" (Genesis 2:18) hence, Eve was created. Therefore, it depicts the idea of the reason behind the creation of Eve was solely to serve her husband, Adam and she was infact created \"for him\", \"After Adam\". It shows the fact that Eve was created after Adam and for Adam, it implicates the key foundation of Patriarchy. However, since Lilith was technically the first wife of Adam but she disregarded her given norms and performed disobedience towards God as well as Adam, she was sent away due to her willfulness and was represented as the evil character. Lilith was created the same time as Adam and is said to be the first women of the world. She was sent away because she was considered more intelligent and that she would not obey any commands of Adam. Plaskow discussed in her essay that Lilith being witty and disobeying any orders given to her was a not an accurate depiction of how a woman should be or the reason to why woman is born. Hence, Eve was an accurate depiction of a woman who would consider any command given to her and must obey her husband. Plaskow wanted to bring Lilith into the image for better understanding that as a woman, there are more restrictions given to women compared to of men and Lilith show how she wanted to be free of obedience and how her approach to not taking any commands is a representation of disobeying authority of men and hence, it is represented as a crime.\n\nSince her essay has been influential to many women in terms of opening the possibilities to understanding how religion has a great impact on our lives. Christ also talks about how Religion that is focused solely on the male dominance representation of God impacts how the political and psychological aspects of human being work. Religion that created a male representation of God aid the societal power of a man as well as in the political side as they are automatically given the privilege. \nChrist specifically mentioned in her essay that \"religion centered on the worship of a male God create \"moods\" and \"motivations\" that keep women in the state of psychological dependence on men and male authority.\" which gives a solidified explanation as to how influential a Male given God's representation affects the moods as well as motivation of why women and their privileges are the way they are. There are many restrictions a woman has to follow and go through in either Christianity or Judaism or other religion because of the way Religions has structured men in the hierarchy of everything and women being under it. Because of how religion is controlled in the hands of men, feminists did not want leave it as it is and make amendments so that women are valued as well.\n\nThe essay also talks about other important figures in history to supports the idea of needing a female representation of Goddesses like Philosopher Simone de Beauvoir, as she said \" Man enjoys the great advantage of having a god endorse the code he write; and since man exercises a sovereign authority over women it is especially fortunate that this authority has been vested in him by the supreme being.\"\n\nCarol discusses four aspects of Goddess symbolism that are important to discuss to order to understand her step towards needing a Goddess in Women's lives to minimized the male representation of God. She talks about \nAccording to Christ, the most simplest and basic idea behind women Goddess \"is the acknowledgement of the legitimacy of female power as a beneficent and independent power\" meaning that female power should be invested in a way that they are superior to themselves and have independent power to themselves as well and sustaining the power by herself so that she will no longer be dependent on men or male figures as saviors to situations. Feminist Priestess Starhawk also say that the symbol of goddess to her means it depends of how a woman feels and more so \"When I feel weak, she is someone who can help and protect me. When i feel strong, she is the symbol of my own power\". Another aspect related to the female body is that Christ portrays women as an unique creature. Women are mensrtuants, birthgivers and women's connection of their body is related to the nature and the world around us. Menstruating women have been looked differently for a long period of time and the taboo with this issue is also quite generalized. It was often seen as an issue with a woman's bodily functions and many women were also forbidden to enter holy sacred places of different religions due to seeing menstruation as a negative means of a women's body. Christ has also spoken of how a Goddess is also a representation to a birthgiver which is where women are privileged and it's a life-giving power that women carry. Since Goddess is seen as a creator of the universe and of life, Carol's idea of women as birth-giver automatically aids the idea of women's capacity of creating a new life and bringing into life as an act of Goddess. Then, the female will is also an important one to acknowledge for women and to know their own worth even being in patriarchal society. She needs to understand that her opinions are valid and \nthat she does not devalue herself while trying to please others due to being in a patriarchal society as well. Lastly, women's bond and heritage because that is also often controlled by the men as the dominant source. Christ says that \"The celebration of women's bonds to each other, as mother and daughters, as colleagues and co-worker, as sisters, friends, and lovers, is beginning to occur in the new literature and culture created by women in the women's movement\" meaning that women empowering each other and making a move for better living standards is only possible when one woman starts supporting another. A mother-daughter bond is known to be a special bond because the mother being the creator of her child, already symbolized herself as a Goddess of birth-giving. Simon de Beauvoir has also mentioned that \"The mother daughter relation is distorted in patriarchy because the mother must give her daughter over to men in a male-defined culture which women are viewed as inferior\" \n\nAccording to a scholarly source, Carol believed that \"it is necessary to take the risk of writing personally because in that way we remain true to what we know at the deepest levels of our being and to the insights with which we create feminist theology\". Christ's ideology is not neglecting or questioning religion, it is solely based on the authoritarian justice and worship of male figures which is demeaning to women. Christ has written another follow up of \"Why Women Need a Goddess\" to \"Why Women, Men, and Other Living Things Still Need the Goddess\" It shows that even till today, every one needs a Goddess figure to control the power of hierarchy and patriarchy. The Goddess movement helps people understand the psychological theory behind the idea of male representation of God and Christ has portrayed it through her essays even after 35 years. The Goddess movement is a way for one woman to connect with other women, with their sisters and daughters. Christ has written six books in her areas of Feminism study and the Following are mentioned.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054392", "title": "Royal Canoe Club", "text": "Royal Canoe Club\n\nThe Royal Canoe Club (RCC), founded in 1866, is the oldest canoe club in the world and received royal patronage in the 19th century. The club promotes canoeing and kayaking, focusing on flatwater, sprint and marathon disciplines. Members of the club have represented Great Britain at World Championships and the Olympic Games. The club is based at Trowlock Island on the River Thames in Teddington near London. The premises are also used by Walbrook Rowing Club, The Skiff Club and Kingston Royals Dragon Boat Racing Club.\n\nJohn MacGregor, a Scottish lawyer, popularised canoeing in the late 19th century. He went on extensive tours on the rivers and canals of Central and Northern Europe and the Mid-east in a boat he designed named the 'Rob Roy'. Through a series of books and lectures he formed a group of sportsmen who met in 1866 to form the Canoe Club. The first recorded regatta was held on 27 April 1867. This is now known as The Paddling Challenge, and runs every year as the oldest canoe race in the world. In the same year, Edward VII, Prince of Wales, later to become King Edward VII, became Commodore of the Club and in 1873 the Canoe Club became the Royal Canoe Club by command of Queen Victoria. Evidence to support this exists in club records in the form of correspondence with Whitehall.\n\nThe Paddling Challenge is the world's oldest canoe race. It continues to run every year. People come from all over the country to compete. Sometimes people from other countries have come to compete. We see 10 km and 5 km courses being ran for senior men, senior women, junior men, junior women and outriggers. Prizes for top three of each and trophies. There is an additional trophy for the fastest junior from Royal Canoe Club.\n\nAs part of British Canoeing's hasler series, Royal host a race yearly as part of the London Region. Clubs from in and out of the region come to race the Thames in many different divisions. It is always held at the start of summer and the club sees all ages come in for a day with friends.\n\nThe Royal Sprint Regatta is held annually at a smaller scale than the other races. It is a chance for people to race at a regional level. Typically the club welcomes mainly juniors from nearby clubs but we also see adults racing. Distances can include 200m, 500m and 2 km.\n\nRoyal Canoe Club has many junior members. The club works with juniors from the ages as young as 8 until they reach senior age of 18. They also coach from beginner level all the way up to advanced level. A coaching structure is in place that can see children not only advance and become phenomenal athletes, but they also learn a lot about themselves, life and each other. The aim of the club is to get people paddling and enjoying it.\n\nRecently, Royal Canoe Club have employed a head coach - Beata Fabinska. As part of the head coach employment the club have got structured groups for juniors. They are named after famous kayakers to help motivate the juniors. The top group Abraham is named after Attila Ábrahám, a Hungarian kayaking legend. The next group Brabants named after Tim Brabants, one of the best British kayakers and member of Royal Canoe Club. The third group Carrington is named after Lisa Carrington, a New Zealand kayaker who continues to break records and astonish the crowds. Our final group Dietze is named after Tina Dietze, a German kayaker who has had her fair share of international medals.\n\nThe juniors at the club compete in regional, national and international level. Receiving medals in all three.\n\nRCC is the home club of the 2008 Olympic champion in the men's K1 1000 m kayak class, Dr. Tim Brabants, who won his gold medal in Beijing on 22 August 2008, and followed this up with the bronze medal in the K1 500m the following day. Along with Brabants, the club membership includes several world championship medallists (among them Alan Williams, Grayson Bourne, Chris Canham, Steve Jackson, Jeremy West) and Ian Wynne who won a bronze medal at the Olympic Games in Athens 2004. The club provides support and coaching for all levels from beginner to advanced. The club also sees juniors excel in international competitions, with many medals being won.\n\nClub members represented Great Britain at the Berlin Olympics in 1936 when canoeing was introduced as an Olympic sport and at every Olympic Games since. In 1922, Edward, Prince of Wales (later to become the Duke of Windsor), became Commodore, a position he held until he acceded the throne.\n\nClub member Jessica Walker continues to represent both her club and her country. She has attended Beijing Olympics, London Olympics and Rio Olympics making 3 finals as a total.\n\nA notable member of the club was Warrington Baden Powell (brother of Lord Baden Powell). Uffa Fox was not a member, but was nevertheless closely associated with members of the club including Roger de Quincey for whom he designed \"Wake\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2054396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054396", "title": "Dino Andrade", "text": "Dino Andrade\n\nDino Andrade (born 16 September 1963) is an American voice actor in video games and animated projects. He manages dual careers as both a voice actor and the creator, owner and operator of the geek dating/community website SoulGeek.com.\n\nAndrade was born at Norton Air Force Base Hospital, in San Bernardino, California, to Hispanic parents. He is the first-born son of José Roberto Andrade and Gloria Esther (Mendez) Andrade. His father was serving in the United States Air Force at the time of Dino's birth. The family moved to McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey where Dino spent the first five years of his life before his father left the armed services and the family returned to California. Andrade has one sister, Sabrina, born, six years later to the day, on September 16, 1969. He says that his love of all things science fiction, horror and fantasy is lifelong and in his blood. He has been quoted saying, \"I was that guy in acting class that, while everyone was reading Mamet and O'Neill, I was reading Batman comics,\" thus attributing his love of animation and graphic storytelling to making his career in voice acting the natural choice for him.\n\nAndrade started as an actor on stage and doing comedy improvisation, having been trained at the Groundlings by the actors Mindy Sterling and Julia Sweeney. His official start in voice over work happened when he drove a friend and fellow actor to an audition to do some background looping on the 1985 feature film \"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun\", starring the then unknowns Sarah Jessica Parker and Helen Hunt. He was asked if he would like to audition as well and was hired for the film. From this, he was recommended to the director Steve Miner who was doing post-production on the horror/comedy film \"House\", starring William Katt, George Wendt and Richard Moll. Though not credited in the final release, Andrade was hired to do the creature sounds of the demons that kidnap a child that Katt's character has to rescue. He continued in voice acting and acting in general until the early 1990s when he left acting to pursue independent film making. Around 2002, Andrade returned to acting with a focus on voice acting training and has been in voice acting ever since.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAndrade was married to the voice actress Mary Kay Bergman until her bipolar disorder and generalized anxiety disorder led to her suicide. Andrade has become active in raising mental health awareness and plans to launch the Mary Kay Bergman Project, a mental health outreach program for artists and entertainers.\n\nAndrade has an interest in science fiction, horror, fantasy and animation. He was inspired to create SoulGeek.com, a geek dating and community website. The site was launched in July 2007.\n\nAndrade has a passion for symphonic film scores and is an avid baseball fan, supporting the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054399", "title": "Folly Cove Designers", "text": "Folly Cove Designers\n\nThe Folly Cove Designers were a mid-20th-century group of American artists block printing in Gloucester, Massachusetts, on Cape Ann. Their blocks were made of linoleum, and they primarily printed on fabric.\n\nThe Folly Cove Designers grew out of a design course taught by Virginia Lee Burton. She lived at Folly Cove, the most northerly part of the Lanesville neighborhood of Gloucester, Massachusetts. Burton was an accomplished artist in her own right, as well as a talented author and illustrator of several children's books. Her design course at Folly Cove began with a simple agreement she made with her neighbor Aino Clarke. Clarke would teach Burton's two sons the violin, and in exchange, Burton would teach Clarke about the principles of design. Before long, more and more neighbors began to attend each Thursday night, and the group was born. Burton's strength lay in her comprehensive ability to clearly relay a thorough understanding of design and its principles to a group with no prior artistic training or inclination. \n\nHer block printing thesis grew out of the home industries/arts and crafts movements of the past. Apart from design theory, her classes focused on the practicality of hand-producing decorations for the home. The idea of fine art for home use was one of the main factors driving and maintaining the popularity of the movement within the neighborhood. To this end her design course helped members to refine their abilities to see the elements of design in the world around them. Also important was the attention to the craftsmanship of carving the linoleum, and then printing on the fabric itself.\n\nOver time, the small neighborhood classes began to legitimize and take on more of the look and feel of a guild. Upon completion of the course, the graduate was permitted to submit a design to a small jury of designers. Selected designers who had established themselves began to rotate this responsibility starting in 1943. If the design was accepted, then the graduate would carve it into a linoleum block and print it as an official Folly Cove Design.\n\nThe design course started in 1938. In 1940 they had their first public exhibition (in the Burton studio). The following year they officially adopted the name \"The Folly Cove Designers\". Every year they had an opening to present new designs, and everyone enjoyed coffee and nisu (Finnish coffee bread, popular among the largely Finnish population of Lanesville). They established a relationship to wholesale their work to the America House of New York which had been established in 1940 by the American Craftsman Cooperative Council. In 1944 they hired Dorothy Norton as an executive secretary to run the business end of the successful young enterprise. In 1945, Lord and Taylor bought non-exclusive rights to five designs which pushed the reputation of the group, and began some national publicity and diverse commissions for their work.\n\nThe Home Industries shop in Rockport, Massachusetts, owned by the Tolfords, sold the Designer's work to the public starting in 1943. It wasn't until 1948 that the Designers opened \"The Barn\" in Folly Cove as their own summer retail outlet. In the late 1950s they extended the season to ten months. Virginia Lee Burton died in 1968. The following year the group disbanded, ending a period of unique creativity and cooperation. Some Designers were with the group for only a season and others continued with the group for decades. In 1970 the sample books, display hangings and other artifacts from the Folly Cove Designer's Barn were given to the Cape Ann Museum in Gloucester, Massachusetts who are now the primary source for information about the Folly Cove Designers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054401", "title": "Wainwright Building", "text": "Wainwright Building\n\nThe Wainwright Building (also known as the Wainwright State Office Building) is a 10-story, terra cotta office building at 709 Chestnut Street in downtown St. Louis, Missouri. The Wainwright Building is considered the first expression of high rise as a tall building early skyscrapers. It was designed by Dankmar Adler and Louis Sullivan and built between 1890 and 1891. It was named for local brewer, building contractor, and financier Ellis Wainwright.\n\nThe building, listed as a landmark both locally and nationally, is described as \"a highly influential prototype of the modern office building\" by the National Register of Historic Places. Architect Frank Lloyd Wright called the Wainwright Building \"the very first human expression of a tall steel office-building as Architecture.\"\n\nThe building is currently owned by the State of Missouri and houses state offices.\n\nIn May 2013 it was listed by an episode of the PBS series 10 That Changed America as one of \"10 Buildings That Changed America\" because it was \"the first skyscraper that truly looked the part\" with Sullivan being dubbed the \"Father of Skyscrapers.\"\n\nThe Wainwright building was commissioned by Ellis Wainwright, a St. Louis brewer. Wainwright needed office space to manage the St Louis Brewers Association. It was the second major commission for a tall building won by the Adler & Sullivan firm, which had grown to international prominence after the creation of the ten-story Auditorium Building in Chicago (designed in 1886 and completed in 1889). As designed, the first floor of the Wainwright Building was intended for street-accessible shops, with the second floor filled with easily accessible public offices. The higher floors were for \"honeycomb\" offices, while the top floor was for water tanks and building machinery.\n\nAesthetically, the Wainwright Building exemplifies Sullivan's theories about the tall building, which included a tripartite (three-part) composition (base-shaft-attic) based on the structure of the classical column, and his desire to emphasize the height of the building. He wrote: \"[The skyscraper] must be tall, every inch of it tall. The force and power of altitude must be in it the glory and pride of exaltation must be in it. It must be every inch a proud and soaring thing, rising in sheer exultation that from bottom to top it is a unit without a single dissenting line.\" His 1896 article cited his Wainwright Building as an example. Despite the classical column concept, the building's design was deliberately modern, featuring none of the neoclassical style that Sullivan held in contempt.\nHistorian Carl W. Condit described the Wainwright as \"a building with a strong, vigorously articulated base supporting a screen that constitutes a vivid image of powerful upward movement.\" The base contained retail stores that required wide glazed openings; Sullivan's ornament made the supporting piers read as pillars. Above it the semi-public nature of offices up a single flight of stairs are expressed as broad windows in the curtain wall. A cornice separates the second floor from the grid of identical windows of the screen wall, where each window is \"a cell in a honeycomb, nothing more\". The building's windows and horizontals were inset slightly behind columns and piers, as part of a \"vertical aesthetic\" to create what Sullivan called \"a proud and soaring thing.\" This perception has since been criticized as the skyscraper was designed to make money, not to serve as a symbol.\nThe ornamentation for the building includes a wide frieze below the deep cornice, which expresses the formalized yet naturalistic celery-leaf foliage typical of Sullivan and published in his \"System of Architectural Ornament\", decorated spandrels between the windows on the different floors and an elaborate door surround at the main entrance. \"Apart from the slender brick piers, the only solids of the wall surface are the spandrel panels between the windows. ... . They have rich decorative patterns in low relief, varying in design and scale with each story.\" The frieze is pierced by unobtrusive bull's-eye windows that light the top-story floor, originally containing water tanks and elevator machinery. The building includes embellishments of terra cotta, a building material that was gaining popularity at the time of construction.\n\nOne of Sullivan's primary concerns was the development of an architectural symbolism consisting of simple geometric, structural forms and organic ornamentation. The Wainwright Building where he juxtaposed the objective-tectonic and the subjective-organic was the first demonstration of this symbolism.\n\nUnlike Sullivan, Adler described the building as a \"plain business structure\" stating:\n\nIn a utilitarian age like ours it is safe to assume that the real-estate owner and the investor in buildings will continue to erect the class of buildings from which the greatest possible revenue can be obtained with the least possible outlay ... The purpose of erecting buildings other than those required for the shelter of their owners is specifically that of making investments for profit.\n\nThe building is considered the first skyscraper to forgo the normal ornamentation used on skyscrapers at the time.\n\nSome architectural elements from the building have been removed in renovations and taken to the Sauget, Illinois storage site of the St. Louis Building Arts Foundation.\n\nUpon its initial completion, the Wainwright Building was \"popular with the people\" and received \"favorably\" by critics.\n\nIn 1968, the building was designated as a National Historic Landmark and in 1972 it was named a city landmark.\n\nThe Wainwright building was initially rescued from demolition by the National Trust for Historic Preservation when the Trust took an option on the structure. Later, it was acquired by Missouri as part of a state office complex and the St. Louis Landmarks Association, in one of its early victories, is credited with having rescued the Wainwright Building from a construction project.\n\nThe neighboring Lincoln Trust building (later known as the Title Guaranty building; designed by Eames and Young, built in 1898 at 706 Chestnut St.) was demolished to make way for the Gateway Mall in 1983. Carolyn Toft, Landmarks Association's executive director, stated that this building \"... formed an ensemble with three other late-19th century commercial buildings, including [the Wainwright Building], that could not be equaled anywhere else in the country. Saving the Wainwright was important, but how much more important it would have been to save the entire group.\" Architect John D. Randall led an extensive letter-writing campaign to the governor and other noted officials; the campaign resulted in the restoration of the building as a state office building instead of its demolition.\n\nAfter a period of neglect, the building now houses Missouri state offices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054404", "title": "KOIN Center", "text": "KOIN Center\n\nKOIN Tower (formerly KOIN Center) is a , 35-story, skyscraper in Portland, Oregon, United States. The building, the third-tallest in the city, was designed by the firm of Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Partnership and opened in 1984 at a cost of .\n\nThe building was originally named Fountain Plaza, but it quickly came to be known as the KOIN Center reflecting the name of its highest-profile occupant, KOIN television, the CBS affiliate in Portland. The building was controversial while being constructed because its location blocked the view of Mount Hood that had long been seen by drivers emerging from the Vista Ridge Tunnel under Portland's West Hills going eastbound on U.S. Route 26.\n\nKOIN Center was the first building completed in a projected three-block development sponsored by the Portland Development Commission (PDC) that also included the city blocks immediately to the north and east. The latter was the long-time location of the KOIN broadcast studios and offices, which relocated to the KOIN Center upon its completion. Of the additional projected buildings, only the Essex House apartments, occupying half of the northern block facing SW Third Avenue were completed, in 1992. A 15-story office building on the eastern block, 100 Columbia, was proposed but construction never commenced. This building has now been cancelled.\n\nThe PDC had a number of goals in sponsoring the Fountain Plaza project. One was to provide a link between the government and central business core of downtown and the nearly completed South Auditorium redevelopment district immediately to the south. This redevelopment project, initiated in 1960, had been the first for the PDC and, though controversial at the time, has been considered by some to be one of the nation's few successful such projects from that era. Reflecting that goal, the southwest entrance to the KOIN Center faces its own street-corner plaza diagonally across the intersection from the Ira C. Keller Fountain, making a visual and pedestrian connection that important public space. The Keller Fountain, built in 1970 and originally named the Forecourt Fountain in reference to the adjacent Municipal (now Keller) Auditorium, was described by \"New York Times\" architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable as maybe \"one of the most important urban spaces since the Renaissance.\" It is this fountain that gave the name to the KOIN Center project. A second goal of the PDC in proposing this mixed-use building was to promote the type of condominium apartment living common in the central business districts of large cities such as New York City and Chicago but not in Portland at the time.\n\nThe firm of Olympia & York of Oregon, a joint venture of Olympia & York Properties of Toronto and Arnon Development, both Canadian-owned, won the PDC competition for the Fountain Plaza project and completed the building in 1984. Between 1992 and 1995, the real estate holdings of Olympia & York of Toronto were auctioned off in bankruptcy court, with the KOIN Center going to an ownership group headed by the Louis Dreyfus Property Group (LDPG) in 1993. The LDPG owned the building until it was sold on July 3, 2007 to a group of California investors for , a purchase that included the two remaining building sites for potential high-rise office and residential development. In August 2009, these investors, including the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) and CommonWealth partners, surrendered control of the KOIN Center after defaulting on their mortgage of US$70 million from the New York Life Insurance Company. The condos on the upper floors are owned separately and were unaffected by the default.\n\nIn December 2009, Portland-based American Pacific International Capital purchased the office portion of the building for between $50 and $60 million, approximately half the paid by CalPERS in 2007. ScanlanKemperBard bought the office tower for $88 million in January 2015. In 2016, the building underwent major upgrades, including a full renovation of the main lobby, improvements throughout the building and some vacant suites. The lobby is home to a 32-screen media wall, which is the largest media wall in the city of Portland. As part of the improvements, KOIN Center underwent a rebranding and was renamed KOIN Tower.\n\nKOIN Tower occupies an entire city block and is clad in orange brick and trimmed with white limestone at the base; the sloping roof forming the pyramidal crown is prefinished galvanized steel. The ziggurat-like profile and blue crown sets it apart from most of the other buildings in the downtown Portland area and gives it an instantly recognizable appearance, \"one of the most important things a downtown skyscraper can accomplish.\" The step backs in its footprint with increasing height and its multi-faceted form are reminiscent of the Art Deco skyscrapers of the 1920s, leading some commentators to describe its architecture as Neo-Art Deco. In addition to the KOIN broadcast studios and offices below grade, the building has three principal functional programs, each with its own entrance and distinctive facade—commercial/office on SW Columbia Street, retail and former theater space on the southwest corner, and residential condominiums on SW Third Avenue. In addition, a restaurant space has its own entrance on SW Clay Street. Thus, the building relates to its surroundings in several distinct ways. Of these, most important is the southwest corner as an extension of the public space represented by the Keller Fountain and adjacent Keller Auditorium. A feature unique in Portland, and resulting from the multi-block nature of the original project, is the location of the entrance to the underground parking and loading docks on the adjacent block to the east. This spares any of the four street frontages from accommodating a parking entrance or loading dock, a distinct design advantage for a building on one of the small blocks typical of downtown Portland.\n\nThe limestone at street level is rich with fossils — including sand dollars, byrozoa, and barnacles — as well as pieces of green chert.\n\nAs discussed above, there are four distinct uses for the KOIN Tower, all hosted in separate parts of the building. The first three floors house mixed retail and office space. The ground-floor restaurant space, originally occupied by a branch of the Seattle-based Thirteen Coins, is now the location of a Morton's The Steakhouse. Floors 4 through 19 are office space, with tenants including Skanska USA Building, First American Title Insurance, ECONorthwest, Helmy Law Firm PC, Evanta, Robert Half International, Schnitzer Steel, and others. The Fountain Plaza Condominiums occupy Floors 20 through 31. The studios and production facilities of KOIN, Portland's CBS affiliate, occupy the basement and a portion of the ground floor. The blue spire crowning the building houses the equipment used for broadcasting radio and television signals. The building previously housed the six-screen KOIN Center Cinema, which closed in 2004 after 19 years in operation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054406", "title": "Girls' Brigade", "text": "Girls' Brigade\n\nThe Girls' Brigade is an international and interdenominational Christian youth organisation. It was founded in 1893 in Dublin, Ireland. The modern organization was formed as the result of the amalgamation of three like-minded and similarly structured organizations in 1964. These organizations were the Girls' Brigade of Ireland (1893), the Girls' Guildry of Scotland (1900), and the Girls' Life Brigade of England (1902). The International Headquarters are currently based in Derbyshire, England.\n\nThe organization operates in over 50 countries worldwide and is divided into five Fellowships: African, Asian, Caribbean and Americas, European, and Pacific. International Conferences are held every four years, this has been happening since 1998 when the conference was in Australia. It was in Thailand in 2002, Northern Ireland in 2006, Malaysia in 2010, Australia in 2014 and Zambia in 2018.\nThe Queen Mother and Princess Alice were Girls' Brigade's patrons until their deaths in 2002 and 2004 respectively. There are, at the moment, no living patrons.\n\nThe international vision statement is \"Girls' lives transformed, God's world enriched\"\n\nThe Girls' Brigade's principles are as follows:\nThe motto of the Girls' Brigade is \"Seek, Serve and Follow Christ\" and its Aim is \"To help girls become followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, and through self control, reverence and a sense of responsibility to find true enrichment of life\". Because of the youth development aspect of its work, the Girls' Brigade is a member of The National Council for Voluntary Youth Services (NCVYS) and has been since 1936, when it was one of NCVYS's founding organisations.\n\nThe Aim of The Girls' Brigade is to help girls become followers of the Lord Jesus Christ and through self-control, reverence and a sense of responsibility to find true enrichment of life.\n\nThe GB programme in many countries follows four themes: \"Spiritual\", \"Physical\", \"Educational\" and \"Social\". These words spell SPES which is Latin for Hope. It was said that each girl in Girls' Brigade was a \"hope\" for the future. The four themes of the program are based on a Bible verse in Luke \" And Jesus grew in body and wisdom, gaining favor with God and men \" (Luke 2v52). Physical is in relation to Jesus growing in body, educational in relation to Jesus growing in wisdom, spiritual is in him growing closer to God and the social is the way that Jesus develops in his relationships with men.\nAlso the girls are encouraged to participate in activities other than just badge work. These include leadership courses for 14- to 21-year-olds, and most companies or districts arrange camps or holidays, usually one per year. Moreover, GB helps its members with the Duke of Edinburgh Award scheme.\n\nThe Girls' Brigade around the world provides a range of projects to engage girls and young women in activities that reflect friendship, faith and fun. The type of activities range from weekly activity-packed programmes to social engagement projects. Summer camps, activity days, residential training events and mission trips are also common. As an International organization the Girls' Brigade worldwide family is united with common goals but how we achieve these goals varies. The variety of projects are as diverse as the cultures and communities in which The Girls' Brigade works.\n\nIn Ireland, The Girls Brigade are divided into the following sections \n\n\"The Main leader is called the \"Captain\" and her next in charge is the \"Lieutenant\" \"\n\nIn Scotland, the Girls Brigade is divided into the following sections:\n\nIn England and Wales, the Girls' Brigade is divided into the following Sections:\n\nGirls cannot carry onto the next section of n:fluence 14-18 training without completing the previous section. They may however start at a slightly older age.\nHowever, if someone joins Girls' Brigade later in life and has not previously participated in Girls' Brigade they can complete n:fluence 18+ training in order to gain Leader status.\n\nAs of 31 March 2005, there were 6,109 n:vestigate members, 7,534 n:gage members, 4,016 n:counta members, 1,913 n:spire, 405 young leaders, 124 helpers, 1,967 leaders in 707 Companies within England & Wales. All Officers are now called \"Leaders\".\n\nIn other countries, the names of the Sections (sometimes called Units) may vary, as may the ages of girls in those units. These age variations are usually based around the local schooling ages. Explorers may be called Cadets. Brigaders are sometimes called Pioneers. In some countries, there are 4 different Sections or Units. \n\nIn Australia, the Units are:\n\nIn New Zealand, the Girls Brigade companies are divided as follows:\n\n\nIn Malaysia, the Girls Brigade companies are divided as so:\n\n\nGirls who have reached 15 years of age can become Young Leaders. A girl can become an officer after they are 18 years old.\n\nThe crest is a registered trade mark of Girls' Brigade England & Wales. However, all Girls' Brigade companies around the world have the right to use it. \nIn the centre is a Cross, the symbol of Christ and his Church. Below the cross is a Lamp, which represents the light of the Girls' Brigade shining upon the World. Above it is a Crown, of Christ as King. Behind it all, is a Torch, the flame of Christ's living spirit.\nThe badge incorporates symbols from the three original organizations and is, therefore, in itself a symbol of union, as well as faith and allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ.\n\nThe Girls Brigade which formed in Ireland in 1893, brought in the Cross. The Girls' Guildry which formed in 1900 in Scotland, brought in the Lamp. Lastly, the Girls' Life Brigade, which formed in 1902 in England, brought in the Crown. They amalgamated in 1965. A competition was held to design the crest for the amalgamated organisation, it was won by Constance Fasham. \n\nThe International President of the Girls' Brigade is Vivienne Aitchison (England & Wales). The International Treasurer is Ms. Joyce Evans of (England and Wales). The International Vice-Presidents are the Chairmen from each Fellowship.\n\n\"Bridget Leher\" (Zimbabwe) is the Fellowship Chairman. There are 14 African countries that have Girls' Brigade companies: \nBotswana (149) \nDemocratic Republic of Congo \nGhana (6,000) \nKenya (4,050) \nMalawi (184) \nNamibia \nNigeria (14,961) \n\nSierra Leone (338) \nSouth Africa (1,664) \nSwaziland (125) \nTanzania (600) \nUganda (1,217) \nZambia (3,090) \nZimbabwe (671) \n\nTay Poh Imm (Singapore) is the Fellowship Chairman. There are 12 Asian countries that have Girls' Brigade companies: \nBangladesh (215) \nBrunei (65) \nCambodia \nHong Kong (1,700) \nIndia (125) \nMalaysia (3,145) \n\nMongolia (55) \nPhilippines (1,100) \nSiberia (20) \nSingapore (3,695) \nThailand (1,205) \nWestern New Guinea (43) \n\nAndrea Stevens (Cayman Islands) is the Fellowship Chairman. There are 21 countries in the Americas that have Girls' Brigade companies: \nAnguilla (132) \nAntigua (210) \nBahamas (653) \nBelize (67) \nBermuda (20) \nBrazil (216) \nBritish Virgin Islands (181) \nCanada (20) \nCayman Islands (299) \nCuraçao \nDominica (82) \n\nHaiti (40) \nJamaica (1,032) \nMontserrat (24) \nNevis (92) \nSint Eustatius (28) \nSaint Kitts (296) \nSaint Martin (215) \nSaint Vincent (64) \nTrinidad & Tobago (86) \nUnited States (105) \n\nClaire Rush (Northern Ireland) is the Fellowship Chairman.\n\nThere are six (see below) countries within the Europe fellowship that have Girls' Brigade companies: \nEngland and Wales (600) \nRepublic of Ireland (1,868) \nNorthern Ireland (22,540) \n\nRomania (92) \nScotland (13,753) \nKosovo (15) \n\n\"Note: Currently England & Wales run as one country for Girls' Brigade even though they are distinct countries.\"\n\nJennifer Box (New Zealand) is the Fellowship Chairman. There are 13 countries within the Pacific Fellowship that have Girls' Brigade companies: \nAmerican Samoa (67) \nAustralia (3,051) \nCook Islands (355) \nKiribati \nNew Zealand (1,907) \nNiue (161) \nPapua New Guinea (435) \n\nSamoa \nSolomon Islands (3,299) \nTonga (114) \nTokelau \nTuvalu (116) \nVanuatu (75) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054409", "title": "Marchantia", "text": "Marchantia\n\nMarchantia is a genus in the family Marchantiaceae of the order Marchantiales, a group of liverworts.\n\nThe \"Marchantia\" shows differentiation into two layers: an upper photosynthetic layer with a well-defined upper epidermis with pores and a lower storage layer. The thallus features tiny cup-like structures called gemma cups, containing gemmae, small packets of tissue that are used for asexual reproduction. The combination of barrel-shaped pores and the circular shape of the gemma cups are diagnostic of the genus.\n\nMulticellular purple colored scales with single cell thickness and unicellular rhizoids are present on the ventral surface of the thallus.\n\n\"Marchantia\" can reproduce both sexually and asexually. Sexual reproduction involves sperm from antheridia on the male plant fertilizing an ovum (egg cell) in the archegonium of a female plant. The antheridia and archegonia are borne atop special gametophore stalks called antheridiophores and archegoniophores, respectively. These are borne on separate thalli; hence, the plants are dioicous.\n\nOnce fertilized, the ovum is called a zygote and develops into a small sporophyte plant, which remains attached to the larger gametophyte plant. The sporophyte produces spores which develop into free-living male and female gametophyte plants.\n\nAsexual reproduction occurs by means of gemmae, discoid clumps of cells which are genetically identical to the parent and contained in cup-like structures on the upper surface of the plant. These are dispersed when rain splashes into the cups and develop into new plants. Asexual reproduction can also occur when older parts of the plant die and the surviving newer branches develop into separate plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054413", "title": "Under a Funeral Moon", "text": "Under a Funeral Moon\n\nUnder a Funeral Moon is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was recorded in June 1992 and released 24 June 1993 by Peaceville Records. \"Under a Funeral Moon\" was the last album on which guitarist Zephyrous (Ivar Enger) performed; he left the band shortly after its release.\n\nDarkthrone's previous album, \"A Blaze in the Northern Sky\", is regarded as their first black metal album, although some have noted death metal traits and Fenriz stated that after the abrupt style change, if \"A Blaze in the Northern Sky\" \"would be PURE black metal, it would only have 3 songs\". He claimed that they began writing \"Under a Funeral Moon\" in late 1991 with the goal of creating a \"pure black metal album\".\n\nThe album was recorded at Creative Studios in Kolbotn during June 1992. The studio production was toned down to achieve a sound that was more \"cold\" and \"grim\". AllMusic journalist Eduardo Rivadavia described the album's sound: \"The record's songs—already shorter and more focused than those of its epic-filled predecessor—were absolutely buried under disfiguring cobwebs of fuzzy amp distortion that effectively made them sound and feel like third-generation cassette copies\".\n\n\"Under a Funeral Moon\" was released by Peaceville on 24 June 1993. The cover artwork featured vocalist Nocturno Culto, who regards the writing and recording of the album as the foundation for Darkthrone's later work.\n\nThe album was remastered and reissued by Peaceville in 2003, repackaged in a cardboard digipak. It was also released by Back on Black in the form of a limited edition (2,000 copies) picture disc LP. The third chapter of a four-part video interview with Fenriz and Nocturno Culto (spanning the first four albums) was included as bonus material.\n\n"}
{"id": "2054424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054424", "title": "Lyell Highway", "text": "Lyell Highway\n\nThe Lyell Highway (Route A10) is a highway in Tasmania, running from Hobart to Queenstown.\nIt is the one of two transport routes that passes through the West Coast Range, the other being the Anthony Road (B28).\n\nThe name is derived from Mount Lyell, the mountain peak where copper was found in the late 19th century; the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company was the predominant business in Queenstown for almost 100 years.\n\nStarting at Granton it winds along the southern side of the Derwent River in a generally north westerly direction to New Norfolk. This section has in the past been susceptible to flooding.\n\nAt New Norfolk it crosses the Derwent River and winds its way through hilly terrain to Hamilton.\nJust prior to Hamilton is the turnoff to Bothwell via a sealed route that passes Arthurs Lake and ultimately goes on to Launceston.\n\nAfter Hamilton, the small town of Ouse is the only other population centre on the highway until the former Hydroelectricity town of Wayatinah.\n\nWhen the highway was first constructed, it made use of existing tracks and roads in the Victoria Valley area, directly north of Ouse, leaving the Ouse and Derwent River valleys and climbing the hilly country through the towns of Osterley, Victoria Valley and Dee before rejoining the present highway near Brontë. This route closely skirts Dee Lagoon, and runs close to several other lakes, particularly Lake Echo. The now-bypassed road is narrow, and unsealed.\n\nWhen the hydro-electric system was expanding and their works were under construction at Tarraleah, the highway was re-aligned to follow the Derwent River until it passed Tarraleah to provide better access to the area for construction vehicles. The Ouse-Tarraleah section was opened to traffic in August 1940 even though construction work had not finished. After Tarraleah the road climbs steeply out of the Nive River gorge until it re-joins the original route near Brontë.\n\nAt Brontë the Marlborough Highway (B11) turns off the main road and leads to the Great Lake, where it joins the Lakes Highway and eventually runs to Deloraine.\n\nA common short-cut is the \"14-Mile Road\" (C601), a gravel road which cuts across the Nive Plains just after Tarraleah, by-passing the steep Tarraleah Gorge section, re-joining the highway several kilometres past Brontë. It is not a safe alternative as it is a narrow, unsealed road, and can be frequented by log-trucks.\n\nIn wintry conditions the whole of the Central Highlands section is susceptible to black ice, and it can be exceptionally bad in the heavily forested section west of Ouse, but it can be encountered all the way to the west coast. Snow is usually encountered in the Derwent Bridge area during most winters and may force closure of the road occasionally for several days. This applies to both the newer Tarraleah section and the older Osterley-Lake Echo-Dee section.\n\nAs the highway enters Derwent Bridge it strikes a midpoint between Lake St Clair to the north, and Lake King William to the south.\n\nThis section is usually known as that west of Derwent Bridge or Mount King William.\n\nIt runs through the Franklin-Gordon Wild Rivers National Park, and through the West Coast Range before reaching Queenstown. There has also been a state reserve along the highway.\n\nThe highway did not reach Queenstown until November 1932, and was not properly surfaced for some time after that, and frequently blocked.\n\nDuring construction in the late 1920s and early 1930s it was called the \"West Coast Road\".\n\nDue to its altitude, the section of the highway over the plateau between Derwent Bridge and Mount King William is often closed during winter due to ice and snow. It can also be affected by rockfalls.\n\nWith the damming of the King River and the creation of Lake Burbury, the highway was re-routed to a narrow point where the Bradshaw bridge could be constructed across the lake.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054427", "title": "Blackadder Water", "text": "Blackadder Water\n\nBlackadder Water () is a river in Berwickshire in the Scottish Borders area of Scotland, forming part of the River Tweed system. It reached 2.84m at Mouthbridge, which was its highest level ever recorded on Tuesday 22 October 2002 at 2:45pm.\n\n\"Adder\" may be derived from Brittonic \"*ador, *edir\" or Old English \"edre\", possible ancient hydronymic terms derived from an Indo-European formation meaning \"a watercourse, a channel\" (compare River Etherow). From the possible Old English derivation of \"ǣdre\", \"a vein\" (Anglian \"ēdre\"), or \"*ǣdre\", meaning \"quickly\", arises objections on the basis that these would have maintained the long initial vowel in English and Scots.\n\nAlso suggested is derivation from Gaelic \"fad dûr\", meaning \"long water\".\n\nRising in the Harecleugh Forest plantation just south of the Twin Law cairns, north of the village of Westruther, the headwaters of the Blackadder join with those of the Wedderlie, Edgar, and Fangrist Burns, before reaching the town of Greenlaw. The river proceeds in a meandering path through the Merse until it meets with the Langton Burn between the estates of Kimmerghame House and Wedderburn Castle. The Blackadder later becomes a tributary of the Whiteadder Water and joins with that river at the village of Allanton, where Blackadder House and its estate once stood.\n\nThe Whiteadder then crosses the English Border below Edrington where it joins the Tweed which empties into the North Sea at Berwick-upon-Tweed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054440", "title": "Karşıyaka", "text": "Karşıyaka\n\nKarşıyaka () is a district of İzmir Province in Turkey. The district extends for twelve kilometres along the northern and eastern coastline of the tip of the Gulf of İzmir. Its centre is at a distance of to the north from the traditional centre of İzmir, which is Konak Square in Konak at the opposite coast. Karşıyaka's district area neighbours the district areas of Menemen to the north, Bornova to the east and Çiğli to the west. Besides being an active venue of commerce, culture and educational actitivies and tourism, Karşıyaka also has an urban culture centred on the sports club Karşıyaka SK, which commands a large and passionate fan base.\n\nLate created formations around Izmir consist of sandstone, \nshale and limestone blocks some of which may be larger \nthan several kilometers. Such formations which are generally \nobserved on hills around the region, are the main reasons for \nresistance on the hills. \nIn addition to these, the community of neogen age can easily \nbe estimated through the andesitic compounds of volcanic origin, \naround Mount Yamanlar. Such units can be listed as silisium, \naluminum, sodium, lava with magnesium content, tuff and tuff \nstuffed lava agglomerates. The lava also contains reddish brown \nand greenish gray large feldspar crystals. \nNeogen sedimentary rocks are made up of clay stone, \nsandstone and pebble stones at dept while being made up only \nof limestone on the top. At some places clay stone is observed \non limestone layers. It is possible to say that ground resistance \nis satisfactory in regions covered with limestone on top, while \nground resistance is low in regions which has thin layers of \nlimestone intercalated with mud rocks.\n\nKarşıyaka bears the general characteristics of the Mediterranean climate zone. It is rainy in winter and hot in summer. As it is the case for İzmir's entire coastline, Karşıyaka benefits on a daily basis from the north-west wind called \"imbat\", because of which ships in the Gulf of İzmir will always be anchored in a northwest–southeast position, and which cools the city during summer days. It has beautiful scenery and is mosly known for her mountains.\n\nThe industrial zone bringing together principally firms of local-scale, exception made of the notable presence of Alaybey shipyard are located in the eastern part of Karşıyaka. The same eastern corner also covers a zone of sparse settlement around the locality called Soğukkuyu, originally a seaside village of semi-nomadic Turkmens (Yörüks) made to settle here in the 19th century, and to the north is a large forest area. Karşıyaka's centre is connected to İzmir's centre by a busy schedule of railways, roads, and commuter ferries, works for the extension of İzmir's underground line to Karşıyaka currently being carried out at a rapid pace, and there are also good road links to Menemen and Aliağa to the north, to reach Çanakkale in north-west Turkey, and beyond. Originally a hamlet, then a remote suburb of İzmir in the 19th century, Karşıyaka became much larger and grew in stature in the 1960s when its waterfront developed as a prosperous residential neighbourhood.\n\nKarşıyaka S.K. is the sports club of Karşıyaka. It is also called \"KSK\", and locally as \"Kaf Sin Kaf\", following the initials in Arabic script since the club's past dates back to Ottoman times. The club has a large and very passionate fan base. Karşıyaka supporters like to call the club \"The 35 and a half\", to differentiate themselves from Izmir that license plate number is 35. Although its football team is presently in the fourth level of the Turkish football league system mainly due to financial problems that the club has faced over recent years, Karşıyaka S.K.'s basketball and volleyball branches, known respectively as Pınar Karşıyaka (by the name of their sponsors) and Karşıyaka Women's Volleyball Team, are leading contenders in their fields. Pınar Karşıyaka has won twice Turkish League, twice Turkish President's Cup and a Turkish Cup victory. In 2015-2016 season, Pınar Karşıyaka played the first Euroleague match in club's history against Barcelona Lassa, started group stage with victory but couldn't manage to qualify to the top 16. The club also has cue sports, bowling, motorcycle, tennis, sailing, judo and swimming divisions. Karşıyaka have a fierce rivalry with Göztepe; the two İzmir teams are collectively known as the Izmir Derby. \n\nDistrict of Karşıyaka has hosted to 7th stage to finish of Tour of Turkey 2014 and Tour of Turkey 2015.\n\nKarşıyaka is deeply associated with commerce, construction of residences, education and literature, and is a prized area for pensioners, not only in the scale of İzmir but also from across Turkey as a whole. A total of 220,000 residences make up the urban area and the average yearly increase of the district population is 2.3 per cent. The district area having been almost entirely built up, Karşıyaka today acts principally as a residential centre for the workforce of İzmir's industry and services, who generally commute for work to neighbouring Çiğli and Bornova, Alsancak across the gulf, or even to locations further afield like Kemalpaşa and Manisa. The share of agriculture and industry in its economy is in constant decrease, while Karşıyaka's tourism potential remains an open field.\n\nThe waterfront is the wealthier part of Karşıyaka and it is here that residents of long date are generally concentrated. The neighbourhoods located along the slopes are poorer, with slum-type residences in parts, and these continue receiving flows of immigration, especially from Turkey's Eastern Anatolia Region. The district counts a total of 11,570 enterprises, 207 of which are identified as industrial firms, and 3,180 categorised under commerce. Nine industrial companies have full or partial foreign capital and 143 commercial establishments in Karşıyaka are registered exporters. There are eighteen banks providing services through 61 branches in Karşıyaka, and a handful of hotels with a total bed capacity of 180. There is one teacher for 24 students and one doctor for 1,127 patients overall. The literacy rate is very high at 92 per cent. An environment of urban consciousness also favoured the foundation of a high number of professional organisations in varied fields in Karşıyaka, ranging from trade (such as KASİAD, BESİAD, BOGİAD) to education, usually centred on teachers or alumni of the district's rooted institutions.\n\nTraces of the earliest phases of the timeline of İzmir, such as \"The Tomb of Tantalus\" and \"Old Smyrna\" are located at a stone's throw from Karşıyaka, in the very recently constituted metropolitan district of Bayraklı, which was formerly within the boundaries of the district of Karşıyaka.\n\nKarşıyaka was described in frequent terms of admiration by travellers who visited İzmir, and they could not help but mention in detail the dense forests of Mount Yamanlar, reaching as far as the coast, and the gardens and orchards which garnish the shoreline and along the beds of its four streams, namely Ahırkuyu, Serinkuyu, Laka and Bornova. Named Karşıyaka (\"literally \"the opposite shore\"\") in Turkish since the 11th century, the locality was alternatively called \"Cordelio\" or \"Cordelieu\" or \"Kordelyo\" in European or Greek sources until the beginning of the 20th century. These names were supposed to make reference to Richard the Lionheart (\"Coeur de Lion\"), who is not attested to have come to these waters in person, but it was usually claimed that the area was named in the 1190s by a contingent of Crusaders of the Third Crusade who was accosted here and had named it in honour of Europe's most famed soldier of the time. This explanation of the name is disputed, some sources taking as point of departure the mention of the name (\"in the form \"Kordeleon\"\") in Byzantine documents of the 14th century and questioning whether the name Cordelio is the continuation of a more ancient settlement yet unexplored, as is most of ancient Aeolia.\n\nStill very leafy and lush generally despite intensive construction of medium- to high-rise apartments and office buildings in recent decades, Karşıyaka grew in size after the entry into service of İzmir-Menemen railroad in 1865, and the start of urban ferry services in 1874 by a British company under an Ottoman imperial lease accorded by Abdülhamid II and named \"Hamidiye\" for this reason. A second shipping company put two other ferries in service starting 1880, followed in 1884 by a third company. Very rapidly, it became fashionable for European and Levantine inhabitants of İzmir, concentrated in Bornova and Buca until then, to build or purchase houses in Karşıyaka particularly for the dowry of their daughters, which contributed to the growing popularity among the rich of the gulf's northern shores.\n\nIn pace with its resort-like atmosphere, Karşıyaka saw a number of Ottoman konaks or Levantine mansions erected within its boundaries, especially along the shoreline and serving as secondary residence. Luxury multi-storey residences at immediate seaside quickly rose next to modest inner quartiers around the train station where the working class was concentrated and the Turkish village of Soğukkuyu The commuting movements and the way of life of İzmir's inhabitants were profoundly changed since then with Karşıyaka becoming part of the urban fabric.\n\nBy the time of the 1891 census, Karşıyaka had already acquired the appearance of a large township with 832 houses and a permanent population of 1080. A sizable Turkish population settled in Karşıyaka's Soğukkuyu some time before that date and that area is still distinguished by its rustic houses in the middle of the urban zone. In the meantime, the former village of Papa Scala or Papazkale or Papazköyü or Papaz İskelesi (\"Priest's quay\") to the west came to be known as Bostanlı, in reference to melons and watermelons from Menemen which were discharged and loaded on ships here.\n\nThe four most important reminders of the Levantine heritage still intact in Karşıyaka are the Alliotti, Penetti, Van Der Zee, and Löhner houses. The first was built by a prominent Levantine family of Italian origins in 1914 and was exchanged in the 1920s against property belonging to Durmuş Yaşar, the founder of Yaşar Holding. The mansion is known today under Yaşar's name and serves as a vocational training centre. The last two have recently been restored; the first floor of the Van Der Zee mansion has been put to public use by the municipality in the form of a café (\"Eski Ev Cafe\").\n\nThere is also a 1904-built Catholic Church (Saint Helen church) that served a community of about 200 families and which is recently restored. Edouard Balladur, the former Prime Minister of France, notably, was baptised there.\n\nThere are also more modest but still lovely little houses, characterised by their engaged front doors and narrow lines, termed as \"Sakız houses\", and which are highly typical of the region surrounding İzmir.\n\nKarşıyaka is also where Zübeyde Hanım, Atatürk's mother, spent her last days in end-1922 and January 1923, and is where she is buried. The house she died, which belonged to the family of Latife Uşşaki, Mustafa Kemal Pasha's wife, is restored and it is located right in the centre of the urban zone, near the main commercial street, Karşıyaka's famous \"Çarşı\".\n\nAtatürk's feelings and words about Karşıyaka:\nİzmir‘in Karşıyakalıları ... \nSizi derin muhabbetle selamlarım ... Ben bütün İzmir’i ve bütün İzmirlileri severim. Güzel İzmir’in temiz \nkalpli insanlarının da beni sevdiklerine eminim. Yanlız bir rastlantı beni Karşıyaka’ya daha fazla bağlamıştır. \nKarşıyakalılar, annem sinenizde, sizin topraklarınızda yatıyor. Karşıyakalılar, İzmir’i gördüğüm gün öncelikle \nKarşıyaka’yı ve orada sizin Türk topraklarınızda yatan anamın mezarını gördüm.\n\nThe urban zone of Karşıyaka is divided into 43 officially constituted neighbourhoods, and the district also counts two depending villages, Sancaklı and Yamanlar, the last being located near the summit of the mountain of the same name, Mount Yamanlar, which towers over Karşıyaka and the Gulf.\n\nKarşıyaka is a stronghold of the social-democrats. Currently, the municipality is administered by Hüseyin Mutlu Akpınar of the CHP (Republican People's Party).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054441", "title": "Chronicles of the Raven", "text": "Chronicles of the Raven\n\nChronicles of the Raven is the first of two trilogies by James Barclay which revolves around a band of mercenaries named The Raven.\n\nThe trilogy consists of three novels, all set in the fantasy world of Balaia:\n\nHis trilogy \"Legends of the Raven\" continues on from the events of \"Nightchild\" after an interval of two seasons.\n\n\"Dawnthief\" is the first in the trilogy and introduces the reader to the mercenary band known as The Raven, having been successfully together for about ten years. However, this all changes when they meet the Xeteskian Mage Denser. They learn of the approaching danger of the Wesmen and their shaman and set off on a quest to collect objects needed to perform the spell Dawnthief, which will effectively take away the shaman's powers. Along the way they are captured by the Black Wings, a radical group against all magic, suffering some losses but also acquiring new members, including the Dordovan mage Erienne Malanvai, Will Begman (a thief), Jandyr (an elf) and Thraun (a shapechager). The mercenary band travel to the ancient city of Parve in the West of Balaia and successfully cast the Dawnthief spell.\n\n\"Noonshade\" is the second book in the trilogy, and starts half an hour (book time) after the end of \"Dawnthief\". At the end of \"'Dawnthief\" Denser had cast the Dawnthief spell to destroy the Wytch Lords, and just to make sure they don't come back he opened a dimensional rip leading to nowhere. But he had unknowingly opened it into Sha-kaan's (the golden dragon in the last book) dimension. The Raven have to close the dimensional rip hovering above Parve, which is growing. If they fail then the Khaan brood won't be able to hold the other, larger broods off.\n\nThe trilogy spans a long period of time due to a gap of 4 and a half years between \"Noonshade\" and \"Nightchild\".\n\nHirad Coldheart: A barbarian warrior of unknown origin, Hirad is one of the original founders of the Raven. Erienne once described him as 'the heart of the raven' and Ilkar said that Hirad 'made the Raven live.' Although he is not the smartest member of the group his faith and unflinching loyalty to his friends are really their vital pulse. It is Hirad who reminds everyone that the members of the Raven never work away from each other and maintain their awesome strength precisely because they are always united.\n\nThe Unknown Warrior (Sol): Another founding member of the Raven. The Unknown owns a tavern with a friend named Tomas in Korina, the capital city of Balaia. The tavern, called The Rookery, is the only real headquarters of the Raven and gave the group its name. The Unknown's true identity is initially concealed but it later emerges that his true name is Sol and he comes from the city of Xetesk. His soul had been earmarked from birth to become one of the fabled Protectors, an elite force of masked soldiers whose souls are held in thrall by demons after death and forced to protect the magical college of Xetesk, and he had been trained from childhood to become a truly effective warrior. However, on discovering in his teens that he was destined for eternal servitude as a Protector, he ran away to Korina, where he met Tomas, and later formed The Raven. He does eventually escape that destiny, earning the undying loyalty of his former Protector brothers in the process. He has a wife named Diera, and a son, Jonas.\n\nIlkar: He is a Julatsan mage and another of the founders of the Raven. As an elf he is presumed to be very old, occasionally alluding to his great age in jokes at Hirad's expense. While providing vital mage support to the Raven, Ilkar is also often the voice of reason in the group. He feels his responsibility to his college very strongly, more so after the Wesmen invasion that nearly destroys it. He has a troubled relationship with his existing family, conflict stemming from the fact that he rejected his 'chosen' path as a protector of Aryndeneth (a site of great religious importance to the elves in their home on Calaius) and instead became a mercenary mage in Balaia. While you are never introduced to his parents, his brother Rebraal features in the second trilogy, Legends of the Raven. He has a relationship with the Julatsan mage Pheone during the period following the burying of the heart of Julatsa, but his true love is an elf from the Guild of Drech named Ren'erei.\n\nErienne Malanvai: She is a Dordovan lore mage and a later addition to the Raven group. Her life is streaked with terrible tragedies but she is nonetheless a truly strong woman. In many ways her character is really developed through grief. When she is first introduced she and her young twin sons have been kidnapped by Travers, the leader of the anti-mage Black Wings, and his lieutenant Selik. Although Erienne is eventually freed by the Raven (and notably not Dordover, her magical college) her sons and husband, Alun, are brutally murdered by the Black Wings. Though she believes she has exacted her revenge by helping The Raven defeat the Black Wings, and personally killing Selik with the spell IceWind, it is later revealed that he survived although terribly disfigured. Erienne is eventually persuaded to join the Raven despite her grief. She is elemental in helping them obtain one of the Dawnthief catalysts from Dordover thus breaking her association with the college that let her sons die and proving her faith in the Raven. She enters into a relationship with the Xeteskian mage Denser and it is not until later in the first trilogy that it's revealed that the child they conceive together harbours a new kind of magic known as the One. Erienne initially lay with Denser in order to produce a child of the One, but this soon develops into love and they later marry. Lyanna, their daughter, is the subject of the third book in the trilogy, \"Nightchild\". In an attempt to protect her daughter from the four greedy colleges, all eager to control the power of the One magic, Erienne and Lyanna escape to an island known as Herendeneth, home to the last practitioners of the One magic, four ancient elves known as the Al Drechar. After a turbulent time Lyanna is finally killed despite the best efforts of the Raven and the power of the One magic is transferred to a devastated Erienne. When it becomes clear that the Al Drechar deliberately effected the transference at the cost of Lyanna's life because she couldn't contain the One entity, Erienne's fury is understandable; however, she now has the One magic whether she likes it or not and is eventually forced to allow the remaining Al Drechar help her shield her mind from the ravages of the One.\n\nThe Raven are band of mercenaries, from the continent of Balaia, who are famous, with a reputation for being the best at what they do. As a result, they already have all the money they need and so the fights and missions they choose to do during the books are what they choose to do and not what they are paid to do - this means that they do what they consider to be the just and right thing to do. The Raven have been together ten years before the beginning of DawnThief, and have already lost two members named Kirst and Halyn.\n\nEach time a member of the Raven dies they observe their own private rituals, holding a Vigil and promising never to forget the dead member.\n\nThe Raven are a very close knit group of friends. They share an utter belief that they will succeed in what they choose to do simply because they are The Raven.\n\nTheir code of conduct is such that they will never commit an act of murder, never take an action without consulting the rest of the group and will trust one another with their lives.\n\nNothing is more important to them then their group and whilst they will fight for country, plane and the greater good of their world; it is wholly because of their love for one another that they decide on which missions to undertake. Even then the matter is discussed by The Raven as a whole before it is acted upon and all major decisions for the group are discussed openly amongst them.\n\nThey all devote themselves entirely to each other, such that should any one of them need help then the others will let nothing stand in their way to give it, even war or death.\n"}
