{"id": "2107054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107054", "title": "The Sheik (film)", "text": "The Sheik (film)\n\nThe Sheik is a 1921 American silent romantic drama film produced by Famous Players-Lasky, directed by George Melford, starring Rudolph Valentino and Agnes Ayres, and featuring Adolphe Menjou. It was based on the bestselling romance novel of the same name by Edith Maude Hull and was adapted for the screen by Monte M. Katterjohn. The film was a box-office hit and helped propel Valentino to stardom.\n\nIn the 1926 sequel \"The Son of the Sheik\", Valentino played both the Sheik and his son, while Ayres reprised her role. A third film in the series, \"She's a Sheik\", was produced in 1927 by Paramount and starred Bebe Daniels in a comedic role reversal of the original film.\n\nIn the North Africa town of Biskra, headstrong Lady Diana Mayo (Agnes Ayres) refuses a marriage proposal because she believes it would be the end of her independence. Against her brother's wishes, she is planning a month-long trip into the desert, escorted only by natives.\n\nWhen Diana goes to the local casino, she is informed it has been appropriated for the evening by an important sheik, and that none but Arabs may enter. Annoyed at being told what she cannot do, and her curiosity piqued, Diana borrows an Arab dancer's costume and sneaks in. Inside, she finds men gambling for new wives. When she is selected to be the next prize, she resists. Sheik Ahmed Ben Hassan (Rudolph Valentino) intervenes, then realizes she is white. Amused, he sends her away. Afterward, Mustapha Ali (Charles Brinley) informs the Sheik she is the woman he has been hired to guide tomorrow. The Sheik hatches a plan. Early the next morning, he sneaks into her room and tampers with the bullets in her revolver as she is sleeping.\n\nAs her brother leaves her to her desert excursion, she assures him he will see her in London next month. The Sheik and his men come upon Diana riding alone. She tries to flee while shooting at the Sheik, but he easily captures her. Back at his encampment, he orders her about. She is unused to such treatment, but the Sheik tells her she will learn and demands she dress like a woman (she is wearing pants) for dinner.\n\nDiana tries again to escape, this time into a raging sand storm. The Sheik saves her from certain death, and tells her she will learn to love him. Later, he finds Diana alone in her quarters weeping. The Sheik considers forcing himself upon her, but decides against it and calls for a serving girl, Zilah (Ruth Miller). Zilah offers her a hug. Diana accepts, and pours out her tears in Zilah's arms.\n\nAfter a week, the Sheik is delighted by the news that his close friend from his days in Paris, where he was educated, is coming for a visit. Diana is dismayed at the thought of being seen in Arab dress by a Westerner, but the Sheik does not understand her shame. He does, however, return her gowns before his friend comes so she can wear them to dinner. When she is introduced to writer and doctor Raoul St. Hubert (Adolphe Menjou), Diana's spirit is nearly broken. He befriends her and reprimands the Sheik for his callous treatment of her. The Sheik returns her Western clothing, though he refuses to release her.\n\nWhen Raoul is called away to tend to an injured man, Diana shows concern that it might be the Sheik. Seeing this from hiding, the Sheik is elated that she may be warming up to him at last. He gives Diana her gun back, telling her he trusts her.\n\nDiana is allowed to go into the desert under the watchful eye of the Sheik's French valet Gaston (Lucien Littlefield). She escapes. Making her way across the sands, she spots a caravan, unaware that it belongs to the bandit Omair (Walter Long). The Sheik and his men reach her first.\n\nThe Sheik reveals to Raoul he is in love with Diana; his friend convinces him to let her go. Meanwhile, Diana is allowed out once more. She playfully writes \"I love you Ahmed\" in the sand. Then Omair's band captures her, killing her guards and leaving the wounded Gaston for dead.\n\nWhen the Sheik goes looking for Diana, he sees her message, then learns from Gaston who has abducted her. He gathers his men to attack Omair's stronghold. Omair tries to force himself on Diana, but is almost stabbed by one of his women. Then the Sheik and his men sweep in. After a long fight, the Sheik kills Omair, but is himself gravely injured.\n\nRaoul tends to him and tells Diana he has a chance. She sits and holds the Sheik's hand. When she remarks that his hand is big for an Arab, Raoul reveals that the Sheik is not one. His father was British and his mother Spanish. They died in the desert, and their child was rescued and raised by the old Sheik; when the old man died, Ahmed returned to rule the tribe. When Ahmed wakes up, Diana confesses her love.\n\n\nThe film was based on Edith Maude Hull's best selling novel \"The Sheik\". The novel became a best seller partly because of its controversial dealings with racial miscegenation and rape. Due to the controversial subject matter, certain aspects of the novel were left out of the film. In the novel, Sheik Ahmed rapes Lady Diana. George Melford said, \"We have handled the frank scenes in 'The Sheik' so delicately that I think the censors will be the only disappointed reviewers.\"\n\nThere appears to be some dispute as to where the film was shot. Emily W. Leider, author of \"Dark Lover: The Life and Death of Rudolph Valentino\", argues that the desert exterior scenes were filmed in Oxnard, California, and the Guadalupe Dunes of Santa Barbara County. However, one 1983 newspaper article featured in the \"Suffolk County News\" contends that exteriors scenes were shot at the \"Walking Dunes\" in Montauk, New York and at the Kaufman Astoria Studios. Author Richard Koszarski claims that this is incorrect and cites it as an \"urban legend\". Another source says filming was done in the desert near Palm Springs, California.\n\nJames Kirkwood, Sr. was George Melford's original choice for the starring role of Sheik Ahmed Ben Hassan.\n\n\"The Sheik\" premiered in Los Angeles on October 21, 1921. Critical reception was mixed, as some critics felt that it was a mistake to leave out the rape of Lady Diana by Sheik Ahmed as it altered the original message of the novel. Some critics felt that the \"toned-down\" film version would not be well received; however, the film was a major success with audiences, and set new attendance records where it premiered. In its first week of release, it set attendance records at two of New York's major theaters, the Rialto and the Rivoli. The \"New York Telegraph\" estimated that in the first few weeks 125,000 people had seen the film.\n\nDue to the film's success, Jesse Lasky declared the last week of November 1921 as \"The Sheik Week\", and screened the film at 250 theatres in the United States on November 20, 1921. The film ran for six months in Sydney, Australia, as well as 42 weeks in one theatre in France. It was the first Valentino film to show in his native Italy.\n\nWithin the first year of its release, \"The Sheik\" exceeded $1 million in ticket sales (the film was made for under $200,000). \"The Sheik\" helped to solidify Valentino's image as one of the first male sex symbols of the screen and made him an international star. While he was a popular draw with female audiences, some male audiences mocked his onscreen persona and questioned his masculinity. Valentino would later attempt to portray roles that went against his \"Sheik\" image with limited success. His final film was the sequel \"The Son of the Sheik\", which premiered nationwide after his death in August 1926.\n\nA reviewer for \"Photoplay\" described it as \"Popular entertainment—that and nothing more. But that is enough.\"\n\nThe review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 88% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 8 reviews, with an average rating of 7.33/10.\n\nFilm rights were bought by Edward Small who recreated segments of \"The Sheik\" in the biographical picture \"Valentino\" (1951), starring Anthony Dexter, who Small announced would star in a remake of \"The Sheik\", but which was never made. \"Harum Scarum\" (1965), which starred Elvis Presley, was inspired by the film.\n\n\"The Sheik\" has been released on Region 1 DVD by several companies over the years, including Image Entertainment in 2002. In 2004, Instant Vision released the film on Region 2 DVD.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107060", "title": "Arthur Rhys-Davids", "text": "Arthur Rhys-Davids\n\nArthur Percival Foley Rhys-Davids (26 September 1897 – 27 October 1917) was a British flying ace during the First World War.\n\nRhys-Davids was born in 1897 to a distinguished family. His father was a professional academic and his mother a prolific author, which afforded the young Rhys-Davids thorough schooling. He showed considerable potential in all subjects and was an excellent student. At the age of 14 Rhys-Davids joined Eton College as a King's Scholar. He gained his School Certificate in July 1913 with higher marks than any other student. In 1914 war had broken out and in mid-1916 Rhys-Davids applied for a commission in the Royal Flying Corps. On 28 August 1916 he reported for training. Rhys-Davids completed his training in the spring of 1917 and was assigned to No. 56 Squadron RFC on 7 March 1917.\n\nRhys-Davids gained his first victory on 23 May 1917 and began a steady run of success. Only two days later he gained his fifth air victory and became an ace. It was during the Third Battle of Ypres (July–November 1917) that Rhys-Davids scored the majority of his successes, gaining 22 more victories by the time of his death. On 23 September Rhys-Davids shot down the German ace Werner Voss (48 victories), who was killed; and possibly also Carl Menckhoff (39 victories). By 11 October 1917, Rhys-Davids had shot down five more enemy aircraft for an official total of 27 aerial victories – 23 of them individual kills.\n\nRhys-Davids had earned a reputation as a \"fighter\", and pursued enemy aircraft wherever and whenever he spotted them. On 27 October 1917 he pursued a group of German aircraft over Roeselare, Belgium. He was never seen or heard from again. Post-war analysis suggests Rhys-Davids may have been shot down by German ace Karl Gallwitz. Despite disappearing less than five miles from the crash site of Werner Voss, shot down by Rhys-Davids one month earlier, his remains have never been found.\nRhys-Davids was born to Thomas William Rhys-Davids and Caroline Augusta Foley Rhys-Davids in Forest Hill, London. His father was of Anglo-Welsh descent and his mother was English. Thomas Rhys-Davids was born in 1843 the son of a Congregational minister. After schooling at Brighton he refused to be trained as a solicitor and he enrolled at Breslau University to study Sanskrit in which he took a Ph.D. While there, he learned Pali and studied Buddhism. In 1864 he joined the Ceylon Civil Service as acting secretary to the Governor. While acting as a magistrate Rhys-Davids ruled in favour of a native over an Englishmen during a land-ownership dispute leading him to be ostracised by the British community on the island. In 1872 he left for England. In 1877 he passed the Bar examination but practised little law. In 1877 he joined the Middle Temple and four years later founded the Pali Text Society, translating Buddhist literature. In 1882 he was appointed Professor of Pali at University College London. It was there he met Caroline Foley.\n\nCaroline Augusta Foley was born in 1859, one of ten children of Reverend John Foley and Caroline Augusta Windham. Rhys-Davids' great-grandfather was Vice Admiral William Lukin who had assumed the name Windham in 1824 upon inheriting Felbrigg Hall. Caroline joined University College London and gained her Bachelor of Arts degree in 1886. She was awarded a master's degree in 1889 and was elected a fellow in 1896. While reading Economics, Caroline was advised by her professor to further her interests in Indian philosophy by studying Sanskrit and Pali. Upon contacting the language department she was assigned to Professor Rhys-Davids. They began a relationship which was formalised into marriage in 1894.\n\nThe couple had three children within the first three years: Vivien Brynhilda Carloine Foley (b. July 1895 – 1978), Arthur Percival Foley (b. 27 September 1897) and a second daughter, Nesta Foley (1900–1973). Unlike most parents of the Victorian era, the parents of Rhys-Davids spent a great deal of their time with their children, although they employed a child minder named Minna, a German woman. The first words of Arthur and his sister were German and the children often used German phrases. Nevertheless, Rhys-Davids's parents continued to be busy academics. In 1905 his father became a professor at the University of Manchester. His mother became a prolific author.\n\nAt the age of three Rhys-Davids started kindergarten at the Manor Mount High School For Girls in Forest Hill. In 1905 he left Manor Mount High School, sixth in his class, before spending the summer in Switzerland by Lake Champex.\n\nOn 27 September 1905 he joined the Sale, Brooklands and Ashton-Upon-Mersey High School for Boys. Excelling at school, his parents sent him to Doctor Summerfield's Preparatory School near Oxford. Rhys-Davids stayed there until September 1910, when he completed the Scholarship examinations for Eton College. After two and a half days of exams, Rhys-Davids was questioned by a formidable array of Eton notables. Rhys-Davids was duly elected as a \"Colleger\"—a term used for successful candidates, who usually numbered 10. There were two types of pupil: Oppidans—fee-paying pupils numbering 1,000—and King's Scholars or Collegers. The distinction was held to be between money and ability; Oppidans viewed Collegers, financially poorer, as \"unwashed saps, tugs and swots\", while Collegers regarded Oppidans as \"philistines\" and \"hearties\".\n\nIn spring 1911 he was enrolled at Eton College as a King's Scholar. Despite poor health—he was asthmatic and had other unspecified maladies—he took part in football, cricket, the Eton Wall Game, and the Eton Field Game. He was also an accomplished rugby player. Rhys-Davids excelled at Classics—Ancient Greek and Latin.\n\nIn July 1913 Rhys-Davids won his Division or Class, beating his nearest rival by 53 marks. In Eton terms, he was now considered a specialist. On 12 December 1915 he was nominated for the Newcastle (Domus Exhibition) Scholarship to Balliol College, Oxford, and by 1916 was named Captain of the School. He was also inducted into the Eton Debating Society. As a person of consequence he was mentioned in \"The Eton Chronicle\", the school's newspaper. On 7 April 1916 it was announced that Rhys-Davids had won the Newcastle Scholarship. At this point, Rhys-Davids gave the first indication he was interested in becoming a pilot and joining the Royal Flying Corps (RFC).\n\nOn 28 August 1916 Rhys-Davids reported to No. 2 School of Aeronautics at Oxford and billeted in Exeter College, Oxford. Rhys-Davids began flight training but did not enjoy life in the British Army and complained about the \"coarse and uneducated company\". Rhys-Davids's time did not last long at Exeter, for he was transferred to the Central Flying School at Upavon Aerodrome for further training. One of his instructors there was Keith Muspratt, who was the same age as Rhys-Davids and had been educated at Selborne College in East London, South Africa. He had taken his Royal Aero Club certificate in his last year of school; a talented pilot, the RFC recognised his ability and commissioned him as an instructor. Rhys-Davids became firm friends with Muspratt.\n\nRhys-Davids completed basic training by flying three hours solo at Netheravon. He graduated to operational types. He hoped to gain his flight certificates by Christmas 1916, but that involved 25 hours solo flying, night landings, cross country, artillery observations, bomb dropping and aerial photography. At Upavon he flew Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2s and Avro 504s. By December 1916 he had completed his training and was flying without an instructor regularly.\n\nBy late January 1917 Rhys-Davids was flying Sopwith Pups almost exclusively. On 28 January he \"looped\" one for the first time. At the end of the month he was sent to Turnberry Airfield and Ayrshire for gunnery training. The course finished on 1 March 1917 and he was given leave. By 6 March he was back at Upavon awaiting a posting. On 7 March he received news he was to be posted to No. 56 Squadron RFC. The squadron boasted the most famous ace in the RFC—Captain Albert Ball, a fighter pilot with 30 air victories. The squadron had also re-equipped with the S.E.5, considered one of the most successful designs of the First World War. On 7 April 1917, Rhys-Davids left for France.\n\nRhys-Davids' beginning as a fighter pilot was inauspicious. He misjudged a landing and totally wrecked his SE5 \"A4847\" when it overturned on landing and broke its fuselage in two. Rhys-Davids sprained his back. Lacking an aircraft he was effectively grounded for a month. After a brief test on 2 May 1917 in \"A4868\" Rhys-Davids flew his first combat mission the following morning escorting Martinsyde G.100 bombers from 27 Squadron.\n\nOn 7 May Rhys-Davids took part in a disastrous sortie. The day was cloudy with thick layers of cumulus between 2,000 and 10,000 feet. Rhys-Davids's flight kept just below the cloud to avoid attack, and headed towards Cambrai. Eleven Royal Aircraft Factory SE5s of 56 Squadron ran into the experienced German airmen of Jasta 11 of the Flying Circus. One of the Squadron 56 flight commanders, famous ace Albert Ball (44 victories), was killed when he likely flew into the ground after becoming disorientated in low-lying cloud. Three other British pilots were shot down, including Rhys-Davids. He came under attack from an Albatros D.V which was painted red, with a green band behind the cockpit. The pilot was Kurt Wolff, a very experienced pilot and ace with 20 victories. Rhys-Davids was unaware he was under attack until he saw Wolff's tracers pass his aircraft. He evaded Wolff's initial attack and a duel for position followed. Rhys-Davids's guns jammed but he managed to get up to Wolff's height and took evasive action. But he had taken hits to the wing, undercarriage and engine. He kept cool and continued turning, denying the German an easy shot. As Rhys-Davids was deciding just how best to escape his hazardous position, Wolff abandoned the fight and headed for Douai. Rhys-Davids headed for British lines, his engine streaming water; west of Arras his engine finally seized up. He attempted to glide to Belle Vue but had insufficient height and force-landed near La Herliere. The reason for Wolff's decision to break off combat is unknown. He may have run out of ammunition or perhaps was low on fuel.\n\nMore bad luck followed as \"A4868\" seemed plagued with engine trouble and he was forced to crash-land again on 18 May. On 20 May he flew a bomber escort mission and fought off an interception by German fighters.\n\nOn 23 May, Rhys-Davids gained his first victory, shooting an Albatros D.III fighter down out of control. On 24 May he scored three victories in an hour. One day later, he shot down another for his fifth victory and became a flying ace. The second to fifth victories were against enemy observer aircraft; Rhys-Davids repeated the tactics of diving and eliminating the gunner before bringing down the aircraft. In late May No. 56 Squadron moved to Saint-Omer. On 26 May he destroyed another Albatros followed by another on 4 and 7 June, the former date being the first day of the seven-day battle for Messines. On 5 June 1917, after his sixth triumph, he received a telegram informing him that along with Captain Cyril M. Crowe and Second Lieutenant Reginald Hoidge he had been awarded the Military Cross (MC). During the last battle Rhys-Davids's SE5, A4563, had its propeller damaged and its right top wing's main spar was shattered by ground fire.\n\nIn June, Rhys-Davids returned to England to take part in Home Defence duties. He returned to France in late June. On 12 July Rhys-Davids bounced and shot down an enemy scout then followed it up with a DFW CV which crash-landed. Its crew—Eugen Mann and Albert Hahnel—were taken prisoner. Hahnel was badly wounded. Rhys-Davids followed this success with victories against Albatros' on the 13, 17 and 21 July 1917.\n\nThe beginning of the Third Ypres Campaign on 31 July provided Rhys-Davids with the opportunity to increase his successes. On 3 September, he destroyed an Albatros D.V. On the 5th, he shot down two more D.Vs and drove another one out of the battle claiming it out of control, all within 45 minutes. On 9 September he scored again, downing two more Albatros' whilst dispatching another on 14 September.\n\nOn 23 September, Rhys-Davids was the victor in one of the most famous dogfights of the war. McCudden led the Squadron on a trip over the front lines at 9,000 feet. There were large numbers of aircraft, both British and German, in the air. McCudden dived on a German reconnaissance machine and shot it down.\n\nRe-grouping at 6,000 feet another German formation was spotted. McCudden was about to attack, but noticed ahead, an SE5 spinning down with a German fighter on its tail. The SE5, from No. 609 Squadron RFC, was piloted by a Lieutenant Harold A. Hamersley. His aircraft mortally wounded, he spun downwards hoping to throw the German off and get closer to the ground. The German stayed behind, firing all the way. A fellow member of 609, Chidlaw-Roberts, attempted to assist, but was shot up by the German Fokker F.I pilot and retired from the fray. Squadron leader Caldwell, 609, saw the approaching SE5s of 56 Squadron. Believing odds of seven-to-one to be good odds, he \"left them (the SE5's) to it\".\n\nMcCudden and Rhys-Davids attacked from the left and right and soon the German was in the midst of six British machines. McCudden explained;\n... the German triplane was in the middle of our formation, and its handling was wonderful to behold. The pilot seemed to be firing at us all simultaneously, and although I got behind him a second time, I could hardly stay there for a second. His movements were so quick and uncertain ...\nRhys-Davids, James McCudden, Geoffrey Hilton Bowman, Richard Maybery, Keith Muspratt, and Verschoyle Cronyn were all now engaged in battle with the tenacious German, who made no attempt to escape. He fired on and hit McCudden in the wing, and forced Muspratt and Cronyn out of the battle with hits to their engines. C Flight arrived, led by Reginald Hoidge, as another German fighter, a red-nosed Albatros, arrived to assist the besieged triplane. Hoidge and Maybery attempted to attack the triplane but were unsuccessful, as was a counter-move by the Germans which was broken up by McCudden and Rhys-Davids. As Rhys-Davids attacked the Fokker the Albatros engaged him from astern. Maybery forced it to disengage. The triplane was now alone in the fight.\n\nThe German repeatedly evaded the British fighters' attacks. Eventually he made a flat turn, enabling Rhys-Davids to get onto his tail. Bowman believed the German was momentarily distracted and intent on attacking himself, otherwise doubting Rhys-Davids' ability to get onto the Fokker's tail so easily. With his propeller \"boss almost on the rudder\" Rhys-Davids fired.\n\nThe Fokker dived, level and straight for the first time, toward German lines. Rhys-Davids remained behind and then turned away. As Rhys-Davids turned away the German made a fatal error. He turned with the Englishman and brought his machine back into Rhys-Davids' path. Rhys-Davids fired an entire drum of ammunition at the German and broke off to avoid a collision. Climbing, Rhys-Davids saw the German machine, its engine off, heading west. Rhys-Davids made several more attacks with the Fokker going down in a shallow right-hand turn. McCudden saw the machine crash:\n\nhe was very low ... still being engaged by an SE ... the pilot being Rhys-Davids. I noticed the triplane's movements were very erratic ... I saw him go into a steep dive ... and then saw the triplane hit the ground and disappear into a thousand fragments.<br>As long as I live I shall never forget my admiration for that German pilot, who single-handed fought seven of us for ten minutes and also put some bullets through all our machines. His flying was wonderful, his courage magnificent, and in my opinion he was the bravest German airman whom it has been my privilege to see fight.\n\nWhile McCudden watched the triplane crash, Rhys-Davids spotted the Albatros and dispatched it, firing from 100 to 30 yards and severely damaging the machine which force-landed. (The Albatros is said in some accounts to have belonged to Carl Menckhoff, but Menckhoff made no mention of this engagement in his later memoirs, and his involvement has been questioned.) Rhys-Davids then returned to base at 18:35–18:40. That evening there was much speculation about the identity of the German pilot. The Germans soon announced that an ace pilot named Werner Voss had not returned from a sortie and was posted as missing in action. Rhys-Davids came in for a shower of congratulations from the Squadron upon learning the identity of his victory. Rhys-Davids was less sanguine; he lamented to McCudden; \"if only I could have brought him down alive\".\n\nDuring the next three weeks, Rhys-Davids would gain five more victories, his last on 11 October 1917. On 1 October 1917 he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order. It was announced in the \"London Gazette\" on 18 March 1918:\n\n2nd Lt. Arthur Percival Foley Rhys Davids, M.C., R.F.C., Spec Res. For conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty in bringing down nine enemy aircraft in nine weeks. He is a magnificent fighter, never failing to locate enemy aircraft and invariably attacking regardless of the numbers against him.\n\nThe same day Rhys-Davids was selected by Hugh Trenchard and Maurice Baring to have his portrait sketched by artist William Orpen. Orpen remembered \"he hated fighting, hated flying, loved books and was terribly anxious for the war to be over, so that he could get to Oxford\".\n\nHis final tally was 27 enemy aircraft; one shot down in flames, one 'destroyed in flames', one 'driven down', two 'forced to land', 15 'out of control' and seven destroyed. His fighting spirit won admiration from his commanding officer James McCudden:\nIf one was over the salient in the autumn of 1917 and saw an SE5 fighting like hell amidst a heap of huns, one would find nine times out of ten the SE5 was flown by Rhys-Davids.\n\nOn 27 October 1917 Rhys-Davids was promoted to lieutenant, backdated to 1 September 1917. That same day he took off on a routine patrol and was last seen flying east of Roeselare chasing a group of German Albatros fighters. The \"Luftstreitkräfte\" (German Air Service) credited Karl Gallwitz with shooting him down. It was not until 29 December 1917 that a report came through that a German aircraft had dropped a note to inform the RFC of Rhys-Davids's death.\n\nIn March 1920 Rhys-Davids's mother presented the rudder from the plane of Werner Voss—the ace shot down by Rhys-Davids a month before his own death—to the Imperial War Museum. It had been brought back from France by Gerald Maxwell in July 1918. In October 1920 the Secretary of the War Office secured the effects of Rhys-Davids from Germany through diplomatic channels. Rhys-Davids has no known grave but his name is engraved on the Air Services Memorial at Arras, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107067", "title": "Domenico Alfani", "text": "Domenico Alfani\n\nDomenico Alfani di Paride () was an Italian painter of the Renaissance period, active chiefly in his native Perugia.\n\nHe was a contemporary of Raphael, with whom he studied in the school of Pietro Perugino. The two artists were close friends, and the influence of Raphael is so evident in the works of Alfano that they have frequently been attributed to the more famous artist. Towards the close of his life Alfani gradually changed his style and approximated to that of the later Florentine school. The date of his death, according to some, was 1540, while others say he was alive in 1553. Pictures by Alfani may be seen in collections at Florence and in several churches in Perugia, including San Francesco in Deruta.\n\nHis son, Orazio Alfani, was also a prominent painter in Perugia, and founder of the academy of painting in that city.\n"}
{"id": "2107072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107072", "title": "Comeytrowe", "text": "Comeytrowe\n\nComeytrowe is a civil parish in Somerset, England, situated in the south western suburbs of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish has a population of 5,463. The parish includes the area of Galmington.\n\nThe suburb of Comeytrowe was built in the second half of the 20th century to house the growing population of Taunton.\n\nThe parish was formed in 1986 occupying land which was previously part of the parish of Trull.\n\nIn the 1980s new shops and a doctors' surgery were opened. A new parish church dedicated to St Michael was also constructed.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Municipal Borough and Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe South Taunton Streams Local Nature Reserve was created in 2004. It includes four sites: Mill Stream, Killams, Glasses Mead and Blackbrook Open Space which provide a wetland environment in the suburbs of south Taunton before reaching the River Tone.\n\nThe flora and fauna include Water voles, Otters, Kingfishers, Sand martins and Dippers. They are also foraging areas for bats, especially Pipistrelle, Lesser horseshoe and Noctule.\n\nAlong with the rest of South West England, Comeytrowe has a temperate climate which is generally wetter and milder than the rest of the country. The annual mean temperature is approximately . Seasonal temperature variation is less extreme than most of the United Kingdom because of the adjacent sea temperatures. The summer months of July and August are the warmest with mean daily maxima of approximately . In winter mean minimum temperatures of or are common. In the summer the Azores high pressure affects the south-west of England, however convective cloud sometimes forms inland, reducing the number of hours of sunshine. Annual sunshine rates are slightly less than the regional average of 1,600 hours. In December 1998 there were 20 days without sun recorded at Yeovilton. Most the rainfall in the south-west is caused by Atlantic depressions or by convection. Most of the rainfall in autumn and winter is caused by the Atlantic depressions, which is when they are most active. In summer, a large proportion of the rainfall is caused by sun heating the ground leading to convection and to showers and thunderstorms. Average rainfall is around . About 8–15 days of snowfall is typical. November to March have the highest mean wind speeds, and June to August have the lightest winds. The predominant wind direction is from the south-west.\n\nThe Bishop Henderson primary school, named after the then Bishop of Bath and Wells, was built in the 1980s and provides places for 400 pupils aged 4 to 11. Secondary education is provided at The Castle School, which shares its campus with the Somerset College of Arts and Technology. Private education is available at Queen's College.\n\nGalmington is home to a youth football club called Galmington Dragons who play at Musgrove Park in the Taunton Youth League. The teams start playing at the park from eleven and up.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107074", "title": "Royal Antwerp F.C.", "text": "Royal Antwerp F.C.\n\nRoyal Antwerp Football Club, often simply referred to as Antwerp, is a Belgian football club based in the city of Antwerp. Founded around 1880 as \"Antwerp Cricket Club\" by English students residing in Antwerp, 15 years prior to the creation of the Royal Belgian Football Association, Antwerp is regarded as the oldest club in Belgium. At first there was no organised football played by its members, until 1887 when the football division was founded with an own board, named \"Antwerp Football Club\". Being the oldest active club at the time, it was the first club to register to the Association in 1895. Consequently, when matriculation numbers were introduced in 1926, the club received matriculate number one.\n\nIn 1900, most of the players left the club for the new neighbouring club of K. Beerschot V.A.C., and this was the start of a long rivalry between both clubs. Royal Antwerp have won four Belgian league titles so far, as well as two Belgian Cups. The club is also the latest Belgian team to have reached a UEFA competition final, the 1993 European Cup Winners' Cup Final, where they lost 3–1 against Parma at Wembley Stadium. Royal Antwerp have played their home matches at the Bosuilstadion since 1923. Royal Antwerp colours are red and white.\n\nRoyal Antwerp had a long-term partnership with the English club Manchester United, taking their young players on loan so that their development can be aided with first team football, and young players who require European work-permits can benefit from Belgium's more relaxed laws. An example is Dong Fangzhuo, who was unable to play for United, immediately due to work permit problems and was loaned to allow him to gain first team experience.\n\nDespite being one of Belgium's best-supported clubs, Antwerp have been under-achievers for several years. They have not won a league title since 1957, and have spent several seasons in the second division. They were last promoted to the top flight in 2000, only to be relegated in short order in 2004. They returned to the first division after 13 years in 2017.\n\nRoyal Antwerp share a fierce rivalry with city neighbours Beerschot A.C. (now K Beerschot VA). Although in the 2000s-2010s the two clubs have met sparingly, when they do, there is usually fan violence. Royal Antwerp are often seen as a culture club with a diverse, cross-class support across the city while Beerschot have either heavily working class or upper class support, locally based in South Antwerp. Beerschot supporters often refer to RAFC fans as \"\"joden\"\" or Jews due to the fact that to get to Antwerp's stadium 't Bosuil they must pass through the Jewish district, while Great Old supporters refer to Beerschot followers as \"the rats\". \n\nRAFC also have developed a long standing rivalry with FC Bruges. They also have a local rivalry with KV Mechelen, although there is mutual respect due to a shared hatred of Beerschot. \n\nThe best football players of Antwerp and Rotterdam contested a yearly match between 1909 and 1959 for the Meuse- and Scheldt Cup (Maas- en Schelde Beker). It was agreed to play the game at Antwerp's stadium De Bosuil in Belgium and at Sparta Rotterdam's Het Kasteel stadium in the Netherlands. The cup was provided in 1909 by P. Havenith from Antwerp and Kees van Hasselt from Rotterdam.\n\nBelgian First Division\n\nBelgian Second Division\n\nBelgian Cup\n\nUEFA Cup Winners' Cup\n\n\"This is a list of former players acquired on-loan via Manchester United's partnership with Royal Antwerp from 1998 to 2013.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107075", "title": "Universal City/Studio City station", "text": "Universal City/Studio City station\n\nUniversal City/Studio City, formerly Universal City, is a heavy rail subway station on the B Line of Los Angeles Metro Rail. It is located at the intersection of Lankershim Boulevard, Campo de Cahuenga and Universal Terrace Parkway in Los Angeles, California.\n\nUniversal City/Studio City station lies within the Los Angeles neighborhood of Studio City, specifically at the intersection of Lankershim Boulevard, Campo de Cahuenga and Universal Terrace Parkway. Universal City/Studio City station straddles the hills between the Los Angeles Basin to the south and the San Fernando Valley to the north. Just southeast of the station, across the Hollywood Freeway (U.S. Route 101) is the Cahuenga Pass, which is arguably a neighborhood as well, consisting of a strip of shops, restaurants and offices that follow US 101, but along Cahuenga Boulevard, which parallels the freeway through the pass.\n\nUniversal City/Studio City station serves the nearby Universal Studios Hollywood theme park and Universal CityWalk entertainment complex. It also includes the NBC Universal studio complex and the 10 Universal City Plaza building. Riders can cross the street and board the tram to go to City Walk and the theme park, as well as the Studio itself. A pedestrian passageway was originally proposed by Metro but was ultimately scrapped because of Universal's reluctance to pay the growing costs of the project.\n\nUniversal, in conjunction with Metro, constructed a pedestrian bridge over Lankershim Boulevard and Universal Hollywood Drive that opened in April 2016. NBCUniversal agreed to fund a portion of the $19.5 million project, while the remainder was funded through Proposition A.\n\nIn the early planning stages in the 1980s, Universal City/ Studio City station was originally going to be an elevated station; but due to local opposition and safety concerns, the station was put underground as a subway station. Part of MOS-3 of the Red Line, Universal City/Studio City opened on June 24, 2000, as part of an extension from Hollywood/Vine to North Hollywood, the latter of which remains the line's northwestern terminus.\n\nThe Universal City/Studio City station lies underground, in this case beneath Bluffside Drive at its intersection with Campo de Cahuenga. Access is provided by two entrances, one on the northwest and the other on the southwest corner of the intersection between Lankershim Boulevard and Campo de Cahuenga.\n\nThe station features a park and ride lot. There are a few public bus lines that stop or terminate at the bus bays on the west side of Lankershim Boulevard, adjacent to the station while others are found by crossing to the east side of Lankershim Boulevard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107083", "title": "Siping, Jilin", "text": "Siping, Jilin\n\nSiping (), formerly Ssupingkai (), is a prefecture-level city in the west of Jilin province, People's Republic of China. Located in the middle of the Songliao Plain and at the intersection of Jilin, Liaoning and Inner Mongolia, Siping covers an area of . At the 2015 census, Siping has a total population of 3.36 million while the urban population is 625,000.\n\nSiping's history can be stretched to 3000 years ago during Shang Dynasty. The Kingdom of Yan Ruins indicate that the Han Chinese People started moving into Northeast region of China during the Spring and Autumn period. Ancient ethnic tribes such as the Fuyu, the Goguryeo, the Khitans, the Jurchen, the Mongols, the Manchus, and Koreans have left behind cultural artifacts, including Hanzhou, Xinzhou, and the Yehe Tribe Cultural Artifacts.\n\nYehe Town in Siping is also the hometown of two empresses of the Qing Dynasty, Empress Dowager Cixi and Empress Dowager Longyu.\n\nHowever, Siping was a place of little importance until the completion of the railway between Changchun and the port of Dalian in 1902. With a rapidly growing population, Siping became a regional commercial center. After 1907, Siping's economy experienced steady growth under the administration of the South Manchuria Railway Company. The construction of a railway linked to Baicheng in northwestern Jilin Province was completed in 1923, while a railway running south to Tonghua and to Korean Peninsula was built in 1939. A new town was built after 1921, going by the name Ssupingkai. After 1932, under the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, some agriculture-based industry including brewing, oil pressing and flour milling grew up. In the latter part of World War II, the Japanese completed a project in the construction of a refinery for the production of synthetic petroleum from coal.\nSiping was the site of several major battles during the Chinese Civil War between the Chinese Communist and Nationalist forces from 1945 to 1949. After the war, Siping was virtually destroyed.\n\n\nSiping grew rapidly after the Communist government was established in 1949, being the third largest city in Jilin Province.\n\nSiping is located in the transition between plains and hilly terrain, with hills to the southeast and the Songliao Plain to the northwest. The city has a four-season, monsoon-influenced, humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dwa\"). Winters are long (lasting from November to March), cold, and windy, but dry, due to the influence of the Siberian anticyclone, with a January mean temperature of . Spring and fall are somewhat short transitional periods, with some precipitation, but are usually dry and windy. Summers are hot and humid, with a prevailing southeasterly wind due to the East Asian monsoon; July averages . Snow is usually light during the winter, and annual rainfall is heavily concentrated from June to August. The annual mean temperature is . With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 46% in July to 71% in January and February, there are 2,684 hours of bright sunshine annually, with autumn and winter being especially sunny.\n\nSiping prefecture includes two districts, two counties and two county-level cities. Four commodity grain bases in Jinlin Province, namely Lishu County, Yitong Manchu Autonomous County, and Shuangliao City, are under the administration of Siping.Gongzhuling City is under the administration of Jilin Province.\n\nSiping has GDP of RMB 1266.3 billion Yuan in 2015, representing a rise of 6.4% year on year. The city's GDP ranked fourth in Jilin Province(2010). Agricultural products processing, electricity and thermal power, pharmaceutical, and chemicals are the pillar industries. Private economy is also a major contributor of the industrial sector.\n\nSiping is a transportation hub in Jilin Province. The Qiqihar-Siping, Siping-Meihekou and Beijing–Harbin railways\nThe city is served by both the Siping Railway Station and Siping East Railway Station .The Harbin-Beijing Highspeed Railway also run through the Siping East Railway Station.The new airport will be completed in 2030.\n\nWith the Highway, the city run through Beijing-Harbin highway, JiTong highway, Daqiang-Guangzhou Highway, Changchun-Shenzhen Expressway, ChangYing highway, TieChao highway (Beijing-Siping highway), Yi Liao Expressway and Changchun-Liaoyuan highway. The city of Siping also has a ring first grade highway, which is connected to the 102 National Road and 303 National Road in the four directions.\n\nSiping is 550 kilometers away from Dalian international shipping center. It is only 1 hours away from Changchun Longjia Airport and Shenyang Taoxian International Airport. The Siping local dual-use airport is about to open domestic flights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107088", "title": "Darlene Vogel", "text": "Darlene Vogel\n\nDarlene Vogel (born October 25, 1962) is an American actress who was previously a model and who also did commercials before becoming an actress.\n\nVogel's first feature film was the 1989 science fiction film, \"Back to the Future Part II\" and as the IFT intern in the pre-show segment for the 1991 film ride, \"\" for the Universal movie parks.\n\nVogel has appeared in numerous TV roles, with probably best known role being a part on the USA Network TV series, \"Pacific Blue\" as Officer Chris Kelly from 1996 to 1999. She is also known for her role on the soap opera \"One Life to Live\" as Dr. Melanie Farrell McIver from January 2000 to October 2001. Vogel's other films include are \"Ski School\", \"Angel 4: Undercover\", and \"Ring of Steel\". She has made guest appearances on TV shows, including \"Full House\", \"Farscape\", \"Northern Exposure\", \"Boy Meets World\" and \"\".\n\nPresently, Vogel appears regularly on the TV infomercial circuit as a pitchperson for such products as the \"Youtholoy\" wrinkle remover, and the \"DogPedic\" dog sleep system with Montel Williams.\n\nVogel and her husband, Mark, have a son and a daughter. An avid animal activist, Vogel and Howard provide a home for three dogs.\n\nVogel was once engaged to Canadian ice hockey player Adam Oates, however the couple cancelled their planned 1998 marriage at the last moment.\n"}
{"id": "2107089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107089", "title": "Corfe", "text": "Corfe\n\nCorfe is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated below the Blackdown Hills south of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 253.\n\nThe parish of Corfe was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred. The village, along with nearby Pitminster was a tithing of Bishop of Winchester.\n\nBarton Grange was a 16th/17th-century country house, most of which was demolished in 1931 and the remaining kitchen wing later converted to flats. The building is grade II listed.\n\nIn the 12th century the bishop granted to Taunton Priory an estate on the boundary between the parishes of Corfe and Pitminster which became known as Barton Grange, and was the Prior of Taunton's summer residence. After the Dissolution of the Monasteries the estate was granted to the lawyer Humphrey Colles. A country mansion was built in the 17th century and passed down through the Colles family until inherited by Goodenough Earle. It then passed to his cousin, the artist Francis Newton, whose only daughter Josepha married Sir Frederick Cooper, a Baronet. Lady Cooper extensively remodelled the house in the 19th century before leaving it on her death in 1848 to Francis Wheat Newton. It was largely demolished in 1931 and the remaining buildings converted to flats in 1981.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe parish Church of St Nicholas was an 1842 rebuilding, by Benjamin Ferrey of a Norman church on the same site. The south aisle was added in 1858 and tower was rebuilt. In 1969 the chancel was further restored. The Norman font survives.\n"}
{"id": "2107090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107090", "title": "Lucifer (prawn)", "text": "Lucifer (prawn)\n\nLucifer is a little-known and degenerate genus of prawns, the type genus of the family Luciferidae. \"Lucifer\" has a long body, but many fewer appendages than other prawns, with only three pairs of pereiopods remaining, all without claws. It also bears no gills. The females, uniquely among prawns, carry the fertilised eggs on her pleopods until they are ready to hatch. This parallels the development of a similar system in pleocyemates, although the attachment is less strong in \"Lucifer\". The length of the eye-stalks and the form of the petasma are used in distinguishing the eight species from each other.\n\nThe name \"Lucifer\" is Latin for \"light bearer\" was given to the genus because of these prawns' bioluminescence.\n\nTwo species are recognised:\n\nFive nominal \"Lucifer\" species (\"L. chacei\", \"L. faxoni\", \"L. hanseni\", \"L. intermedius\", and \"L. penicillifer\") have been reclassified in a distinct genus, \"Belzebub\".\n"}
{"id": "2107093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107093", "title": "Enyimba International F.C.", "text": "Enyimba International F.C.\n\nEnyimba International Football Club or simply known as Enyimba, is a Nigerian football (soccer) club based in the city of Aba which plays in the Nigerian Professional Football League. Their name means \"People's Elephant\" in Igbo language and is also the nickname used for the city of Aba. Founded in 1976, the club rose to prominence in the 2000s and is considered the most successful Nigerian football club as they won two African Champions League titles, eight Nigerian championships and four Federation Cups since 2001.\n\nThe club was founded as a state-owned club in November 1976 by Jerry Amadi Enyeazu who was the first Director for Sports in the newly established Imo State, a province in southeast Nigeria. In August 1991 Imo State was divided further and the Abia State was created from the part of Imo which included the city of Aba, Enyimba's hometown, so the new state's government took over as owners of Enyimba.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s Enyimba struggled to make a notable impact as the traditional powerhouses such as Enugu Rangers, Shooting Stars, Bendel Insurance and local rivals Iwuanyanwu Nationale dominated Nigerian football. Enyimba's rise to fame began in 1990 when the Professional League was inaugurated.\n\nIn their first season in the top division Enyimba finished 13th out of 16 clubs, winning just five out of 30 games with a goal difference 25–36. In the following season they won eight games but still finished 15th with 36 points, just one point short from escaping relegation behind Stationery Stores, and were relegated to second level for the 1992 season. Enyimba then stayed in the second level for the next two seasons before winning promotion in 1993, finishing first with 29 wins out of 46 games, winning a record 96 points with a goal difference 64–25, with most goals scored and fewest goals conceded in the 24-team league.\n\nBack in top level, their string of good results continued, and they finished the 1994 season third, behind BCC Lions and Shooting Stars, missing out on a spot in the 1995 CAF Cup on goal difference. After a mediocre 1995 season, they won fourth place in 1996, before a series of inconsistent results saw them narrowly escaping relegation on goal difference in 1997 and finishing seventh in 1998.\n\nEnyimba currently uses the Enyimba International Stadium located in the city of Aba in Abia State. The stadium was renovated in 2018.\n\nEnyimba's fortunes began to change in 1999 when Orji Uzor Kalu was elected Governor of Abia State in the first democratic elections held in the country after several years of military rule. Kalu then proceeded to ensure generous funding for the local team and appointed Felix Anyansi Agwu as the new chairman of the club, who in turn appointed Godwin Koko Uwa as the club's first coach in the new era.\n\nThe appointment soon returned results, with Uwa leading Enyimba to their first Nigerian championship title in the 2001 season, as well as winning the Nigerian Super Cup in October 2001 by beating Dolphins 2–0 in Maiduguri. Their first silverware marked the beginning of a period of Enyimba's dominance in Nigerian football.\n\nThe \"People's Elephant\" experienced international football for the first time in August 2001, when they were invited to play Internazionale at San Siro in a charity friendly which marked the return of Ronaldo after a 21-month injury layoff and saw Enyimba thrashed 7–0 with four goals from Christian Vieri.\n\nThey also had their first appearance in a continental competition in the 2002 CAF Champions League. Due to the lack of a good playing pitch at their base in Aba, the club played their home matches in Calabar, a neighbouring town and the capital of the Cross River State. After winning the first round tie against Étoile Filante 5–3 on aggregate, they were knocked out in the second round by the 1998 Champions ASEC Mimosas of Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nThe defeat proved to be another turning point in the history of the club as it was the main cause for the club's rebuilding of what used to be a substandard playing pitch into the Enyimba International Stadium, a 15,000 capacity stadium equipped with floodlights, electronic scoreboard and covered seats, which was later inspected by the CAF president Issa Hayatou and was officially approved for that year's CAF Champions League matches.\n\nThe club went on to win their second successive league title in 2002, and then became the first Nigerian club to win the continent's premier international club competition in the 2003 CAF Champions League by beating Ismaily of Egypt 2–1 on aggregate, under coach Kadiri Ikhana. This was also the first time since 1996 that a Nigerian club had reached the final of the competition. Several key players from Enyimba's 2003 continental success have since gone on to play for Nigeria (Vincent Enyeama, Obinna Nwaneri and Onyekachi Okonkwo) and Benin Republic National Team (Muri Ogunbiyi)\n\nEnyimba then successfully defended their title as won their second consecutive African Champions League title in 2004, beating Tunisia's Étoile du Sahel in the finals. After finishing runners-up in the national championship in 2004 (behind Dolphins), Enyimba won the Double in 2005, winning their fourth Nigerian championship and their first Nigerian Cup.\n\nIn 2003, Enyimba won the best team in Africa award while coach Kadiri emerged the best coach. In 2004, the club retained the best coach award while the club's first choice goalkeeper, Vincent Enyeama won the Champions league player of the year.\n\nThese two Champions league victories in the hands of West African teams, plus the second CAF Super Cup against Accra Hearts of Oak finally brought Enyimba to the limelight of African football. The team signed a $300,000 uniform deal with Joma in 2008.\n\nThe team finished third in the Premier League with 64 points. On 12 July, Enyimba defeated Sharks FC by a lone goal at the Teslim Balogun Stadium to lift the 2009 Federation Cup and qualified for the CAF Confederation Cup 2010.\n\nThe team was on course to reclaim the League title from Kano Pillars but crowd trouble forced the match to be abandoned. A rearranged match on 9 October 2013 in Lokoja saw them lose to Pillars who eventually won the league with 63 points while Enyimba finished with 62 points.\n\nEnyimba would however go on to win the Nigerian FA Cup that year where they faced Warri Wolves in the finals. The match ended 2–2 and 5–4 on penalties.\n\nThe 2013–14 season started in abysmal form for the People's Elephants. They were knocked out of the CAF Champions League by Real Bamako and they had a stuttering start to their own campaign. They ended the first half of the season in 6th place after Giwa FC who were led by Enyimba's Champions League winning coach Kadiri Ikhana held them to a goalless draw in Aba. They made a move for Ikhana at the start of the second half, firing the then technical adviser, Zachary Baraje.\n\nThe team eventually finished second in that Premier League season with 64 points. They finished behind Kano Pillars who they beat 3–1 on the last day of the season. It was a campaign that saw them win just 1 out of their 6 Oriental Derbies, the only win being a 2–1 home win to Rangers International. State Rivals Abia Warriors beat them 1–0 in Aba, Cletus Itodo getting the decisive goal. They also dropped points in Aba to Giwa FC and Heartland of Owerri.\n\nEnyimba striker Mfon Udoh set a new goal scoring record of the season, scoring 23 goals. Emem Eduok of Dolphins finished behind him with 21 goals both beating Jude Aneke's record of 20 goals.\n\nThe season ended on a high like the previous season as Enyimba won the 2014 Edition of the Federations Cup at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos on 23 November 2014, beating Dolphins 2–1 in the finals. Mfon Udoh scored Enyimba's first while Chinonso Okonkwo got the second. Emem Eduok pulled one back for Dolphins.\n\nThe 2016 season was not so favorable for People's Elephants as end the season being ninth on the league with 50 points.\n\nEnyimba finished third in the league with 61 points. The third position saw Enyimba qualify to represent Nigeria at the CAF Confederations Cup the following season. \n\nNigerian Premier League\n\nNigerian FA Cup\n\nNational Second Division\n\nNigerian Super Cup\n\nCAF Champions League\n\nCAF Super Cup\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107094", "title": "Luciferidae", "text": "Luciferidae\n\nLuciferidae is a family of prawns. These prawns are small, characterised by bioluminescence and the loss or reduction of some appendages. They are predators of tiny planktonic crustaceans for which their third pereiopod is adapted to capture by having thick, curved spines covering the limb. Until recently, the family was thought to be monotypic, but a 2016 cladistic analysis recognized a second genus apart from \"Lucifer\", named \"Belzebub\".\n"}
{"id": "2107096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107096", "title": "Henry O. Godwinn", "text": "Henry O. Godwinn\n\nMark Canterbury (born March 16, 1964) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with the World Wrestling Federation in the mid to late 1990s under the ring name Henry O. Godwinn. He is also known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling in the early 1990s as Shanghai Pierce.\n\nCanterbury trained under George South and The Italian Stallion before debuting in 1989 under the ring name \"Mean\" Mark Canterbury. He quickly formed a tag team with Dennis Knight wrestling under the name Tex Slazenger.\n\nIn October 1992, the duo began wrestling for World Championship Wrestling, with Canterbury adopting the ring name \"Shanghai Pierce\". Dusty Rhodes suggested that Canterbury wear a mask because Canterbury's good looks could make him too likable for the heel tag team. They remained with the promotion until 1994, with Pierce forced to unmask on the January 29 edition of \"WCW Saturday Night\" after losing to Johnny B. Badd.\n\nIn mid-1994, Canterbury joined the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), where he was renamed Henry Orpheus Godwinn (the initials spelling \"H.O.G.\"; his middle name \"Orpheus\" was never said on television) and given the gimmick of an Arkansan pig farmer who carried a bucket of \"slop\" to the ring, which he would throw upon his opponents. Canterbury was originally a heel, and assisted the Million Dollar Corporation on several occasions. When the leader of the Corporation, Ted DiBiase, was asked on an episode of \"WWF Action Zone\" whether or not Canterbury was a member of the Corporation, DiBiase insulted Canterbury. This inspired Canterbury to turn face by \"slopping\" DiBiase, and led to a brief feud between Canterbury and Corporation member Sycho Sid.\n\nGodwinn engaged in a feud with the aristocratic Hunter Hearst Helmsley. The feud culminated in December 1995 in an \"Arkansas Hog Pen match\" that Helmsley won and after which Godwinn tossed Helmsley into the slop.\n\nIn 1996, Canterbury was reunited with Knight, who had been renamed Phineas I. Godwinn. The duo were portrayed as being cousins (later brothers) and were collectively known as \"The Godwinns\". The two were faces and were managed by Hillbilly Jim. They began to feud with the Body Donnas with Phineas having a crush on Sunny and signed her as their manager. They would beat the Body Donnas for the WWF Tag Team Championships. Eventually Sunny turned on them costing them their titles. The Godwinns feuded with the now heel Smoking Gunns, in losing efforts. In 1997, the Godwinns began a heel turn dropping Hillbilly Jim as a manager and picking up Uncle Cletus. The Godwinns quickly won the tag titles a second time from The Headbangers and began a heated feud with the Legion of Doom, which saw the team attempt to break Road Warrior Hawk's neck. They eventually dropped the titles to LOD in a match on \"WWF Monday Night Raw\" that had LOD's career on the line. Soon after that match they attacked and fired Cletus.\n\nIn April 1997, in a rematch between The Godwinns and the Legion of Doom, Canterbury cracked his C7 vertebra when he fell on his head after taking the Doomsday Device. He was advised by doctors to rest for fifteen weeks, but returned to the ring in less than eight weeks.\n\nIn 1998, Canterbury entered the Brawl for All, a shoot-fighting tournament held by the WWF. He lost in the first round to Bradshaw.\n\nLater that year, the Godwinns dropped their pig farmer gimmicks, now going by their real names and wearing sharp suits under the name \"Southern Justice\", the bodyguards of Tennessee Lee. Six months later, Canterbury herniated his C7 vertebra and pinched a spinal nerve, necessitating spinal fusion surgery. This came as a result of him returning to the ring too early after his neck injury. He eventually left the WWF and retired, due to the neck injury suffered in 1997.\n\nIn September 2006, Canterbury wrestled several tryout matches with World Wrestling Entertainment. On September 15, 2006, WWE announced that he had been signed to a contract. \nHe debuted in Deep South Wrestling on November 30 as a tag partner for Ray Gordy. Gordy was known as Cousin Ray and they both reformed The Godwinns. Since both Gordy and Drew Hankinson went to the SmackDown brand, however, Godwinn's role remained uncertain.\n\nOn May 19, 2007, the Wrestling Observer reported that Canterbury had been released from his developmental contract.\n\nCanterbury has two sons, named Shane and Jordan. Jordan was accidentally shot by a high school friend and died on October 31, 2003 in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee. On November 9, 2011, Mark suffered two punctured lungs, thirteen broken ribs and a broken leg in a car accident.\n\nIn July 2016, Canterbury was named part of a class action lawsuit filed against WWE which alleged that wrestlers incurred traumatic brain injuries during their tenure and that the company concealed the risks of injury. The suit was litigated by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who has been involved in a number of other lawsuits against WWE. US District Judge Vanessa Lynne Bryant dismissed the case in September 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107097", "title": "Jagged Alliance 2", "text": "Jagged Alliance 2\n\nJagged Alliance 2 is a tactical role-playing game for PC, released in 1999 for Microsoft Windows and later ported to Linux by Tribsoft. It is the third entry in the \"Jagged Alliance\" series. The game was followed by the expansion \"\" in 2000. Two commercial versions of the mod \"\" were released in 2004 in the form of expansion packs. The core game and the \"Unfinished Business\" expansion were combined and released under the title \"\" in 2002.\n\nThe game takes place in the fictional country of Arulco, which has been ruled by the ruthless monarch Deidranna for several years. The player is put in control of several hired mercenaries and with aid of local citizens and militia must reclaim Arulco's cities and ultimately defeat Deidranna.\n\nThe game uses a strategic map screen of Arulco where the player may issue high level strategic orders for their troops, such as travelling or prolonged training. Combat and individual location exploration takes place in tactical screen, where the player can issue individual direct commands to their mercenaries, such as run, shoot, talk and so on. The game features a wide variety of guns, armour and items that the player may use.\n\nThe game was commercially successful; \"Pelit\" estimated its sales at 300,000 units by 2006. However, it sold poorly in the United States. The game received positive scores from reviewers and was praised for its freedom of action, memorable characters and non-linear and tactical gameplay.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2\" takes place in the fictional nation of Arulco, ruled until the late 1980s by a unique democratic monarchy – monarchs led the nation, but elections were held every ten years to assert their legitimacy. In 1988, election candidate Enrico Chivaldori took a wife, Deidranna Reitman of Romania, in order to boost his popularity and consequently was victorious. However, Deidranna proved to be far more than a simple pawn; showing an unquenchable thirst for power, she soon framed Chivaldori for the murder of his father. Enrico managed to escape, faking his own death. Removing all other obstacles from her way, she soon consolidated her power and converted Arulco into an authoritarian state.\n\nWhen the game begins, Chivaldori has hired the player to remove Deidranna by whatever means necessary. He puts the player and his team of mercenaries in contact with a rebel movement in the northern town of Omerta. Omerta suffered a massive raid shortly before the events of the game, leaving the town damaged and nearly deserted. The rebel leader Miguel Cordona, former election candidate and opponent of Enrico, guides the player to the city of Drassen.\n\nThe game also features a sci-fi mode that introduces enemies not present in realistic mode – the \"Crepitus\", a species of giant insect living underground, infesting mines and occasionally emerging to the surface.\n\nThe game puts the player in control of several mercenaries that must explore and reclaim towns and territories from enemy forces. As the game advances, the player can hire new mercenaries and acquire better weapons and armour to combat opponents. The game utilizes a map screen to show the map of Arulco and issue high-level orders to the troops. There is also a tactical screen, where the player takes control of individual mercenaries during real-time interactions and turn-based combat.\n\nThe map screen displays the world map of Arulco in a square grid (called sectors) and the forces deployed by the enemy and the player. This is the strategic side of the game, as the player directs his forces, and controls the progress of time, which may be sped up or paused.\n\nFrom here, the player can also access the game's laptop function, allowing the player to receive emails from characters in the game, buy weapons and equipment, and hire and fire mercenaries.\n\nThis screen is also used to give mercenaries tasks. Mercs with a medical kit and medical skill can be set to tend to wounded mercs; this significantly quickens their recovery. Mercs with a tool box and mechanical skill can be set to repair damaged weapons, tools and armour. Mercs can \"practice\" a skill by themselves or work as a \"trainer\" or \"student\". Training a student increases his or her chosen skill. A trainer may also train local citizens to become militia to defend sectors while the mercs are away.\n\nMercs can be ordered to travel on foot between the sectors. If the player acquires a ground or aerial vehicle in-game, he may load his troops into it to travel between sectors much faster.\n\nThe tactical screen shows a sector from an isometric viewpoint. Here the player can view the terrain, explore buildings and find items. Although the game does not feature a visual fog of war, the non-player characters (NPCs) can only be seen if a player-controlled or allied character sees them. The game time advances in real-time on the tactical screen unless a battle is initiated, then the game switches to a turn-based combat mode.\n\nThe player can control an individual merc or group of mercs, issuing move, communication and various interaction commands. Mercs can run, walk, swim, crouch or crawl. Mercs may also climb onto the roofs of flat-roofed buildings.\n\nBattles occur whenever the player's and enemy forces occupy the same sector. This can happen if enemy or player forces arrive at a hostile sector or the player's actions cause a previously friendly or neutral force to become hostile. The game proceeds in real-time until a member of one force spots an enemy. The game then switches to turn-based play. The battles are played on the tactical screen.\n\nEach force takes alternating turns to move, attack, and perform various other actions. Each character has a limited amount of action points, which are spent to perform actions. The action points are renewed at the beginning of each round, depending on the physical state of the merc. Some unspent action points will also be carried over to the next round. If a combatant has some action points left over during the enemy's turn and spots an enemy, they stand a chance of interrupting the enemy turn and performing actions.\n\nThe game may be played using stealth elements. Mercs may move either in normal or stealth mode. In stealth mode, the merc attempts to move without making any noise. Moving stealthily costs more action points, but may successfully hide their position from enemies. The game also features weapons that do not cause loud noise and camouflage kits, which when used may disguise the merc in his environment. Merc attributes and some special skills affect how stealthy they are.\n\nMercs can attack enemies in many different ways. Firearms such as handguns, machine guns, rifles, close combat and thrown weapons like knives and hand grenades, heavy weapons such as mortars, rocket-propelled grenades and light anti-tank weapons and explosives like mines, and bombs. When a merc attacks, he or she has a certain chance to hit the target depending on the appropriate skill, obstacles in the line of fire and the amount of action points spent aiming. Walls, doors, and many objects can be destroyed using explosives or heavy weapons.\n\nSome battles may be automatically resolved if the player chooses to do so.\n\nThe characters in \"Jagged Alliance 2\" are mercenaries, enemies, allies and the townsfolk; many of the NPC characters may be interacted with.\n\nThe game is played almost entirely through the mercenaries chosen. Mercenaries can be hired from private military company websites, or recruited from the local citizenry. The player may also create one personalized, unique mercenary.\n\nCharacters are defined by their skills expressed in character points. Every character has an experience level, five attributes (agility, dexterity, strength, leadership, wisdom) and four skills (marksmanship, explosives, mechanical, medical). A character's level is increased by actively participating in the game. Skills are increased by performing actions based on these skills or by training. Attribute points may be lost if a character is critically wounded. Apart from this, a mercenary can also have two (or one highly developed) special skills enhancing a certain aspect of his or her performance such as night operations, or lockpicking.\n\nEach character has a certain amount of health points, which are reduced when he or she takes damage. Wounds can be bandaged by using first aid kits. This prevents the character from bleeding and losing more health but doesn't restore health points. A wounded mercenary is given less action points proportionally to his or her wounds. Health can be restored by resting, being treated by another mercenary with 'doctor'-'patient' pair of commands or visiting a hospital. When a mercenary runs very low on health, the character falls to the ground slowly dying, unable to do anything until medically treated. If a character dies, he cannot be resurrected.\n\nCharacters have an energy level, restored by sleep, rest, fluids or injections. Moving, using stealth and getting hit saps energy. Tired mercs who have not rested for a long time become exhausted faster. Exhausted characters will fall to the ground until they regain some energy.\n\nMercenaries also have a morale level, mainly increased by victories and successful kills and decreased by the opposite. Happy mercs perform better, while unhappy mercs will complain and may leave the player's forces altogether.\n\nMercs who like each other and work together will have a higher morale than others. Mercenaries who dislike each other will complain often and eventually one of the two mercenaries will quit. Mercenaries may also refuse to be hired if the player has already hired someone they dislike.\n\nThe game features a large array of various items. These include weapons, armour, tools and miscellaneous items.\n\nItems can be traded between mercs, picked up, dropped or thrown. If a merc dies, he drops all his items. Enemies will sometimes drop items upon dying. Mercs can be hired with their own combat equipment. As the game progresses, the online shop offers a larger and better variety of weapons, armour and tools for sale.\n\nMercenaries can equip and carry various items in their inventory. The mercs can wear armour on their head, chest and legs. Certain skills and interactions require a certain tool or object to be held in the hand.\n\nAlmost all weapons in the game exist in real life. Each weapon has a brief description. The descriptions are informal and often humorous. Each weapon's main strengths and weaknesses are pointed out. Both expansions feature additional weapons not seen in the original game.\n\nThe mercs can hold one large weapon or dual wield two small weapons. Weapons may be improved via special attachments, for instance a silencer or bipod.\n\nThe player needs money to pay the mercenary hire fees and to purchase equipment. At the start of the game, the player is given a set amount of money. The main source of income in the game are silver and gold mines located in several towns. The player has to reclaim these town sectors and convince the local miners to work for the player to receive a daily income. Weaponry, equipment and miscellaneous items may also be sold to local merchants.\n\nAlthough the player is directed by rebels to head to Drassen first, the player may choose to capture the towns and explore the countryside in any order he or she desires. In fact, it is not required to capture any towns. Additionally, almost every sector may be entered via two or more entry points.\n\nThe player may choose between a very large array of different mercs, allowing combinations for specific purposes – e.g. stealth combat, night combat, close-quarters combat and so on.\n\nThe game features random treasure chests, characters and certain events that differ from game to game.\n\nIn an interview with Game.EXE during the game's development, SirTech noted an intention to preserve freedom of movement, character relationships and flexible storyline from the previous title. Among the new features discussed were a real-time mode and player own character's generation. In a later interview during game's alpha release, the game's designer Ian Currie also noted the addition of role-playing and strategy elements compared to the previous title. He also explained that — while the tactical game mode was well suited for multiplayer — it would not be implementing, explaining that non-linear story and role-playing elements didn't suit multiplayer. The developers also explained the game being delayed due to heavy improvements in the game engine, graphics and the creation of a detailed world, and originally expected to release in October 1998. Currie explains the game engine had several ground-up rewrites and that significant time was spent on the game's physics and projectile ballistics, as well as the creation of the non-linear storyline.\n\nA demo of the game, containing a unique map named \"Demotown\", was released in the summer of 1998 through distribution with various gaming magazines.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2\" was released in Germany before the United States.\n\nAn open source AmigaOS 4 port was released in June 28, 2008.\n\nAfter the release of the original \"Jagged Alliance 2\", two sequels and various mods have been released, including a prequel titled \"Jagged Alliance: Flashback\" which was released on Steam in October 2014.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2: Unfinished Business\", alternatively known as \"Jagged Alliance 2.5\" is a short, mission-based standalone sequel released by Sir-Tech on December 5, 2000. This release adds some tweaks to the combat engine, as well as a scenario editor, yet the gameplay remain largely unchanged.\n\nA new plot is introduced in \"Unfinished Business\". The original owners of Arulco's lucrative mines have returned and established a missile base on the nearby island of Tracona, demanding the mines are returned to them. They destroy the Arulco's now empty Tixa prison to show an example for if their demands are not met. The player must put a team of mercenaries together to infiltrate Tracona and disable the missile base. Alternatively, the player may choose to use the characters from a previously saved \"Jagged Alliance 2: Gold\" savegame. \"Unfinished Business\" is notably harder than the original.\n\nThe product appears to be rushed as the gameplay is virtually the same as the original's, the play-time of \"Unfinished Business\" is much shorter, and the plot is linear and thus lacks replayability value. Sir-tech was experiencing financial problems at the time, most significantly trouble finding a publisher.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2: Gold Pack\" was published by Strategy First on August 6, 2002 and adds the improvements of \"Unfinished Business\" to the final release of \"Jagged Alliance 2\". The \"Unfinished Business\" and a scenario editor are also included in the package. The \"Gold Pack\" is typically considered the go-to version of the game for modding and replayability purposes, due to the relatively poor quality and commercial support of \"Wildfire\" and \"Flashback\".\n\n\"Gold Pack\" introduces notable changes to the difficulty setting. The player choosing an advanced difficulty level may also decide to make the player turns timed and whether to disallow saving during combat, as opposed to the original \"Jagged Alliance 2\", which set these settings automatically.\n\nAs of July 2006 it is available via the Steam content delivery system, as well as Turner Broadcasting's GameTap.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2: Wildfire\" was published by i-Deal Games in 2004 as an official expansion pack by Strategy First. The game's source code was also published in the package, under a license permitting non-commercial use.\n\nComparing to the original \"Jagged Alliance 2\", \"Wildfire\" has not altered the game engine or controls. The focus was instead directed into designing revamped environments, new items and stronger enemies. This presents players with a more challenging campaign, however the goals and progression remain the same. In terms of the gameplay features, the game remains almost unchanged.\n\nA renewed commercial release of \"Wildfire\", dubbed version 6, through European publisher Zuxxez Entertainment in the spring of 2005 saw the \"Jagged Alliance\" series staying on shop shelves more than five years after the debut of its second iteration. \"Wild Fire\" version 6 contains changed sourcecode, a tweaked graphics engine that allows for a higher resolution, introduces new mercenaries and increases squad size from 6 to 10.\n\n\"Wildfire\" is also available on Steam, and through it on Mac OS.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2\" became a commercial success and, according to designer Ian Currie, was the second-largest hit ever published by TalonSoft. By October 1999, Udo Hoffman of \"PC Player\" reported that its sales had surpassed 100,000 units in Germany and that distributor TopWare was pleased with the returns. It debuted at #1 in April 1999 on Germany's computer game sales charts and held the position the following month, before falling to ninth in June. It claimed 14th for July. However, the game flopped in North America: PC Data reported sales of 24,000 for \"Jagged Alliance II\" through the end of 1999. The editors of GameSpot nominated it for their 1999 \"Best Game No One Played\" award, which ultimately went to \"\". Regarding \"Jagged Alliance 2\"s global sales, \"Pelit\"s Niko Nirvi reported that \"estimates of sales bounced between 150,000–500,000.\" He remarked that team member Chris Camfield placed its sales at 300,000 units by 2006, a figure that Nirvi said \"sounds credible\".\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2\" received a score of 85.09% from review aggregation website GameRankings. GameSpot praised its non-linear gameplay, freedom of action and variety of tactics and mercenary character traits, while IGN highlighted its story-telling and role-playing, detailed world, challenging opponents and excellent audio. \"Computer Gaming World\" presented the game Editor's Choice award, and Jeff Green described it as a hardcore game, praising its selection of mercenaries, replay value and combat planning, although noted AI was not very intelligent and graphics weren't strong.\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2\" was a finalist for \"Computer Games Strategy Plus\", GameSpot's and \"Computer Gaming World\"s 1999 \"Strategy Game of the Year\" awards, which it lost to \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\", \"\" and \"Homeworld\", respectively. It was also nominated in GameSpot's \"Best Sound\" and \"Best Game No One Played\" categories. The editors of \"Computer Games\" wrote, \"Sirtech's amazing hybrid of detailed tactical strategy and role-playing delivered the goods. How many real-time games have this much tension?\"\n\nIn 2014 game developer and author Darius Kazemi wrote a short book on \"Jagged Alliance 2\", published 15 years after the game's release. Kazemi describes the long-term legacy of the game, how it compares to other critically acclaimed strategy games and what went into making a game of that caliber. Kazemi writes: \"JA2 isn't just impressive for the vast array of things it tries to simulate. It's impressive because these aspects are interconnected, creating a game that is much more than the sum of its parts\".\n\n\"Jagged Alliance 2: Gold\" has seen numerous community mods after its release and especially after the source code release. Notable examples include \"v1.13\", \"Urban Chaos\" and \"Deidranna Lives\".\n\nThe \"JA2-Stracciatella\" project aims for cross platform capabilities for JA2 by porting the vanilla JA2 Wildfire source code to SDL as underlying library. Mac OS, Linux, Android and other source ports were released as result. Also, \"Stracciatella\" can be seen as an unofficial patch project, since the second focus is the fixing of technical errors (like Buffer overflows) and the removal of technical limitations without changing the game's balancing. The last commit of project initiator Tron in the project repository was \"r7072\" from August 2010. In March 2013 the JA2-Stracciatella project was continued by another developer and transferred to a new repository. Support for higher resolutions and additional fixes were introduced. In March 2016 the project was continued on GitHub.\n\n\"v1.13\" is an enhanced version of \"Jagged Alliance 2 Gold\" and partial conversion mod of the game. The main change from the original code is the \"externalisation\" of many previously hardcoded variables to editable XML files, allowing users a great level of modding flexibility. It introduced many new features and items, as well as a multiplayer mode. Since July, 2007, 1.13 has been successfully ported to Linux. It is also backwards-compatible with a base \"Jagged Alliance 2\" installation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107103", "title": "Mesclun", "text": "Mesclun\n\nMesclun () is a mix of assorted small young salad greens that originated in Provence, France. The traditional mix includes chervil, arugula, leafy lettuces and endive, while the term \"mesclun\" may also refer to a blend that might include some or all of these four and baby spinach, collard greens, Swiss chard (silver beet), mustard greens, dandelion greens, frisée, mizuna, mâche (lamb's lettuce), radicchio, sorrel, or other fresh leaf vegetables.\n\nThe term \"mesclun\" for a mixture of young salad greens is quite recent, according to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary first used in 1976. Of Provençal dialect origin, it derives from the verb \"mesclar\", to \"mix thoroughly\" and literally means \"mixture\". According to local lore, mesclun originated with the farmers around Nice, who would each bring their own unique and prized mix of baby greens to the farmers' markets. One of the most representative and authentic versions combined baby dandelion, lettuce and rocket (arugula).\n\nNoted chef Alice Waters comments, \"Outdoor markets in Provence display \"mesclun\" in profusion, a \"melange\" of the first tender young leaves which appear in the garden. \"Mesclun \"can be an extraordinary lettuce mixture: rocket, much like the rugola (arugula) found in Italian markets, chervil, mâche or lamb's lettuce and oak leaf. On occasion, baby curly endive (chicory) or young dandelion greens find their way into the medley, depending solely upon the grower's personal preferences combined with the reality of whatever else might send up shoots in the spot where \"mesclun\" grows.\"\n\nIn the North American foodservice industry, the first appearance of \"mesclun\" traces to restaurants and farm stands in the early 1980s, with a rise in popularity since. A \"mesclun mix\" can be described as comprising baby leaves of lettuces and other greens (and often herbs) in a wide range of leaf shapes, colors, textures and tastes. While the overwhelming amount of mesclun sold approximates the traditional blend of chervil, arugula, leafy lettuces and endive, depending on the season, anywhere from a dozen to three dozen different varieties of baby greens, including red and green oak leaves, romaine and lolla rossa lettuces, frisée, tatsoi, bok choy (joi choi), arugula, spinach, orach, mizuna, dandelion, mustard greens and garden cress may compose what is commercially referred to as a \"spring mix\". When available, locally grown, direct-from-the-farmer sourcing is recommended over commercial bulk packs for best flavor and freshness.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107104", "title": "Cothelstone", "text": "Cothelstone\n\nCothelstone is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated in the Quantock Hills six miles north of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish, which includes the hamlet of Toulton, has a population of 111.\n\nThe view from Cothelstone with a telescope on a fine day is said to include 14 counties and 150 churches.\n\nThere are several bowl barrows on Cothelstone Hill.\n\nThe manor of Cothelstone was given to the Stawell family after the Norman conquest of England in 1066. The parish of Cothelstone was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nDuring the English Civil War, Sir John Stawell of Cothelstone had raised a small force at his own expense to defend the King. When Taunton fell to parliamentary troops and was held by Robert Blake he attacked Stawell at Bishops Lydeard and imprisoned him. After the restoration, Charles II conferred the title of Baron Stawell on Sir John's son, Ralph.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nCothelstone Manor was built in the mid 16th century, largely demolished by the parliamentary troops in 1646 and rebuilt by E.J. Esdaile in 1855–56. The 16th-century gatehouse and gazebo and 17th-century Banqueting Hall have survived.\n\nThe nearby St Agnes' Well is a Grade II* Well house dating from the Medieval period and restored in the nineteenth century. It is constructed of coursed red sandstone masonry with corbel roof. Its water is accessed via an arched doorway behind which is a large volume of clear shallow water. The water is also piped off for farm use. It has a varied folklore, noted as being a healing well, a wishing well of considerable power, an aid to fertility, and virgins used divinations to 'discover' their future husbands on the eve of St Agnes's feast day. It is currently undergoing further restoration.\n\nThe red sandstone Church of St Thomas of Canterbury dates from the 12th century and was largely restored in 1864. It includes memorials to the Stawell family including: Sir Matthew de Stawell, died 1379, and his wife Eleanor, and John Stawell, died 1603. The church has been designated by English Heritage as a Grade I listed building.\n"}
{"id": "2107105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107105", "title": "European route E75", "text": "European route E75\n\nEuropean route E 75 is part of the International E-road network, which is a series of main roads in Europe.\n\nThe E 75 starts at the town of Vardø in Norway by the Barents Sea and it runs south through Finland, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Serbia, North Macedonia, and Greece. The road ends after about (not counting ferries) at the town of Sitia on eastern end of the island of Crete in the Mediterranean Sea, it being the most southerly point reached by an E-road.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 1990s until 2009, there was no ferry connection between Helsinki and Gdańsk. However, Finnlines started a regular service between Helsinki and Gdynia. It is also possible to take a ferry from Helsinki to Tallinn and drive along the E67 from Tallinn to Piotrków Trybunalski in Poland and then continue with the E75.\n\nMajor towns and cities on the E75 are:\n\nNo ferry to Gdynia. Closest alternative is Helsinki - Gdansk\n\n"}
{"id": "2107110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107110", "title": "Atlantia (company)", "text": "Atlantia (company)\n\nAtlantia SpA (formerly Autostrade) is an Italian holding company active in the infrastructure sector, including motorways, airport infrastructure and transport services. The group manages of toll motorways, Fiumicino and Ciampino airports in Italy and the three airstrips of Nice, Cannes-Mandelieu and Saint Tropez in France with more than 60 million passengers a year.\n\nIt is listed on the Borsa Italiana and is a constituent of the FTSE MIB index.\n\nThe main shareholders are: Edizione (a company of the Benetton Family), GIC Pte Ltd, the CRT Foundation, Lazard Asset Management, HSBC Holdings.\n\nAlthough the main motorways in Italy are owned by Atlantia, some of the maintenance work is operated by the state-owned ANAS corporation.\n\nFounded in 1950 as Autostrade, when the company Concessioni e Autostrade S.p.A. was created, it aimed to give a significant contribution, cooperating with other Groups, to the post-war reconstruction of Italy.\n\nBy the first agreement between ANAS signed in 1956, the companies were committed in co-financing, building and managing the Autostrada Del Sole, between Milan and Naples, inaugurated in 1964. Between 1962 and 1968, the Company was granted the concession for the construction and operation of other motorways. In 1982 it was acquired by Italstat and in 1987 Autostrade Concessioni e Costruzioni S.p.A. was listed on Borsa Valori of Milan.\n\nIn 1999, the Autostrade company was privatized. The consortium led by Schemaventotto S.p.A. (Edition of Benetton Group 60%, Fondazione CRT with 13.33%, Acesa Italia with 12.83%, Assicurazioni Generali and Unicredito Italiano both at 6.67% and Brisa International SGPS SA with 0.50%) and another one pulled by the Australian bank Macquarie, who retreated at last, were the other groups in the line.\n\nWith the 30% of the capital, Schemaventotto S.p.A. takes over the IRI Group, which was the reference shareholder. They did the only binding purchase offer for the share package paying IRI €5.05 billion; the remaining 56% of the shareholding held by IRI was intended to the stock market by a public sale offer which led to obtain 8.75 billion lire, for a total sum for IRI of 13,800 billion lire.\n\nIn January 2003 Newco28 made a tender offer, through a leveraged buyout operation: they found the liquidity necessary for the acquisition using the system credit and, consequently, the debt was transferred from Newco28 to Autostrade, following a merger by incorporation. \n\n2003 was marked by a massive reorganisation of the group, the concession activities were separated from non-motorway activities and Autostrade per l'Italia S.p.A., a subsidiary of Autostrade (now Atlantia S.p.A.), was established.\n\nDuring 2005, a process of geographical diversification began with the acquisition of the management of approximately 2,000 km of toll motorways in Brazil, Chile, India, and Poland. In 2007, the Board of Directors approved the change of name into Atlantia S.p.A. \n\nIn 2013, the merger by incorporation of Gemina S.p.A., the majority shareholder of ADR (Aeroporti di Roma) into Atlantia, was concluded, with the consequent aggregation of a second core business in addition to the motorway concessions. Atlantia’s acquisition of Aéroports de la Côte d’Azur, the company that controls the airports of Nice, Cannes-Mandelieu and Saint Tropez, consolidated the Group’s presence in the airport sector.\n\nDuring the summer of 2017, Atlantia declared the intention to make a tender offer on all the issued shares of Abertis Infraestructuras, and in October 2017 the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores authorised this. Just over a week later the Hochtief – Acs Group launched a bid against the tender offer to acquire the Spanish company. In March 2018 Atlantia and Hochtief-Acs reached an agreement for a joint offer for the control of Abertis, which was finalised in October 2018.\nTo acquire 98.7% of the capital of Abertis the parties invested €16.5 billion. \nIn March 2018 Atlantia S.p.A bought 15.49% of Getlink, the company that controls the Channel Tunnel.\n\nOn 14 August 2018, the Atlantia owned Morandi Bridge collapsed causing the death of 43 people.\n\nIn 2018, the net debt level of Atlantia and the subsidiary Autostrade per l'Italia, had raised concerns from journalists and rating agencies.\n"}
{"id": "2107111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107111", "title": "Edward Roy Becker", "text": "Edward Roy Becker\n\nEdward Roy Becker (May 4, 1933 – May 19, 2006) was a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Becker received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1954, and his Bachelor of Laws from Yale Law School in 1957. He had a private law practice in Philadelphia from 1957 to 1970.\n\nBecker's career as a federal judge began with his nomination to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. He was nominated by President Richard M. Nixon on September 24, 1970 to a new seat created by 84 Stat. 294, was confirmed by the United States Senate on October 8, 1970 and received his commission on October 14, 1970. His service terminated on January 22, 1982 due to his elevation to the Third Circuit.\n\nRonald Reagan nominated Becker on November 16, 1981 to the Third Circuit seat vacated by Max Rosenn. Becker was confirmed by the Senate on December 3, 1981 and received his commission on the same day. He served as Chief Judge from 1998 to 2003. He assumed senior status on May 4, 2003.\n\nBecker was known for the case \"Mackensworth v. American Trading Transportation Co.\" a decision that he wrote in verse. He was also known for occasionally inserting humor into judicial rulings.\n\nIn 1977 Becker was assigned the massive Japanese Electronic Products Antitrust Litigation in which Zenith Radio Corp. and National Union Electric (“N.U.E.”) sought billions of dollars in damages against most of the Japanese television manufacturers and two American companies, Sears, Roebuck and Co. and Motorola. The case had been pending since 1970 when it was first filed by N.U.E. and had been in the hands of a number of federal court judges. The case had languished and Becker began to work to get this case to trial. In 1981, Becker entered summary judgment for all defendants on the antitrust and antidumping claims and dismissed the lawsuits. Plaintiffs appealed and the appellate court reversed Becker’s rulings in favor of the Japanese manufacturers on the antitrust claims, but affirmed the summary judgment for Sears, Roebuck and Co., Motorola, Inc. and Sony. In March, 1986 the Supreme Court of the United States affirmed Becker’s ruling in favor of the defendants on Zenith’s antitrust claims.\n\nIn 2003, Becker authored the decision on \"Freethought Society of Greater Philadelphia v. Chester County\", ruling that the display of Ten Commandments outside of a courthouse of Chester County did not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nBecker was known for his humility and humanity; clerks were told to come up with strong arguments against his positions and not merely defer to him. He commuted by train for nearly his entire career, often reading cases along the way. His law clerks accompanied him during afternoon walks to visit his elderly mother in center city, discussing cases along the way and back. He was active in civic affairs, including some involvement in the relocation of the Liberty Bell.\n\nBecker spent virtually all of his life in and around the city of Philadelphia. His family has a strong legal tradition; his father was a lawyer, his wife Flora was also a judge, and two of their three children are also lawyers; son John became a teacher, while son Charles Becker is a lawyer in private practice and daughter Susan has worked for the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. His parents, wife, and friends generally called him Eddie. He was a fan of the Sixers basketball team.\n\nHe was an expert piano player; a former law clerk of his recruited him to become the pianist for Chief Justice Rehnquist's annual all-court sing-along.\n\nThe lobby at the James A. Byrne United States Courthouse in Philadelphia is named in Becker's honor. The block of Chestnut Street that runs from Fifth Street to Sixth Street, between the Liberty Bell and Independence Hall, is marked as Judge Edward R. Becker Way, in recognition of his leadership in the campaign to keep the National Park Service from closing that block to public access in the wake of 9/11.\n\nBecker died of prostate cancer on May 19, 2006.\nHe was both popular and well-connected; the receiving line at his funeral stretched through the synagogue and overflowed into the parking lot, and could not be completed in the two hours time allotted. Eulogies were delivered by Senator Arlen Specter, recently confirmed Supreme Court Justice (and former Third Circuit judge) Samuel Alito, Third Circuit Court colleagues Chief Judge Anthony Scirica and Judge Midge Rendell, and by Stephen Harmelin, managing director of Dilworth Paxson. U.S. Supreme Court Justices Antonin Scalia and David Souter, as well as Justice Alito and Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell attended the ceremony.\n\nAfter his death, the Fox Rothschild Center for Law and Society of the Community College of Philadelphia created the Judge Edward R. Becker Citizenship Award. Recipients have included:\n\nThe award is generally presented by Judge Becker's son, Chip, in the early part of the year, February through April.\n\nAmong his law clerks were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2107116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107116", "title": "Zos Kia Cultus (Here and Beyond)", "text": "Zos Kia Cultus (Here and Beyond)\n\nZos Kia Cultus (Here and Beyond) is the sixth album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was recorded at the \"Hendrix Studios\" in June–September 2002 and mastered at the \"High End Studio\" in Warsaw in September 2002.\n\nThe title refers to Zos Kia Cultus, a form of magic developed by Austin Osman Spare. At the end of the track \"Horns ov Baphomet\", the person speaking is Aleister Crowley. It is from the track \"At Sea\" from the CD \"The Great Beast Speaks\", which contains audio files from the only known recording of his voice. \n\nThe album was re-released through Peaceville Records as a limited edition digipak. It contained an enhanced audio disc with a video of \"As Above So Below\" was included with the release.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107125", "title": "Cam, Gloucestershire", "text": "Cam, Gloucestershire\n\nCam is a large village and civil parish in Gloucestershire, England, situated on the edge of the Cotswolds and contiguous to the town of Dursley, north of Bristol and south of Gloucester. The Cotswold Way runs less than a mile from the village.\n\nCam had 8,160 residents, with 3,575 households in the 2011 census. Its population is actually larger than neighbouring Dursley, which is a town.\n\nThere are 2 electoral wards in Cam. Their area and total population equate to that of the parish. The Parish Council has 16 members.\n\nThe village has an identifiable centre, with several shops including a pharmacy, a good quality florist, a hardware store and funeral directors, three takeaways, a restaurant, a beauty salon, a combined Post Office and card shop, parish council offices, two pubs including the Berkeley Arms and The Railway Inn and a Tesco supermarket clustered loosely around St Bartholemew's Church. There are more businesses, including a national award winning butchers in Woodfields and small industrial estate to the west of the village centre close to Shell garage. There is a delightfully named Nikki's Doorstep Sandwich Bar and a printing shop.\n\nCam supports three state sector primary schools located in the Woodfields, Hopton and Everlands districts of the village. The nearest mainstream secondary school is Rednock, just across the parish boundary in Dursley. A youth centre called GL11 is named after the post code.\n\nCam Bulldogs FC is Cam's football team and plays in the Gloucestershire Northern Senior League Division One. The cricket team is called Cam Cricket Club. Both play at Cam Sports Field, Everlands which was established 200 years ago by the owner of Cam Mills.\n\nThere are three public play areas; Woodfield, Cam Green and Jubilee Fields with well maintained play equipment, including swings, carousels, seesaw, spring rockers, skateboard park, gyro spiral, climbers, climbing wall, slides, fitness equipment, basketball courts and football fields. Some of the facilities are on all weather surfaces. Disabled access and some equipment for disabled use.\n\nThere is a swimming pool, indoor gyms, running clubs, and cycle clubs in nearby Dursley.\n\nThe Council's development strategy for the period to 2031 is contained in the 2015 Stroud District Local Plan. This designates a 29.1 hectare site on the North-East edge of the village for a strategic development, to feature:\n\nOne of the main companies for employment in Cam is Cam Mills which has just under 100 employees. It is the only remaining woollen mill in an area that had many and has been manufacturing cloth, now mainly for tennis balls, for over 200 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107127", "title": "Boiling Lake", "text": "Boiling Lake\n\nThe Boiling Lake is a flooded fumarole located in Morne Trois Pitons National Park, a World Heritage site on the island of Dominica. The lake, located east of Dominica's capital Roseau, is filled with bubbling greyish-blue water that is usually enveloped in a cloud of vapour. The Boiling Lake is approximately to across and is the second-largest hot lake in the world after Frying Pan Lake, located in Waimangu Valley near Rotorua, New Zealand.\n\nThe first recorded sighting of the lake was in 1875 by Edmund Watt and Henry Alfred Alford Nicholls, two Englishmen working in Dominica at that time. In 1942, Henry Prestoe, a government botanist, and Nicholls were commissioned to investigate this natural phenomenon. They measured the water temperature and found it to range from along the edges, but could not measure the temperature at the centre where the lake is actively boiling. They recorded the depth to be greater than .\n\nPeriodically, there have been fluctuations in the level and activity of the lake. In the 1870s it was deep; after a phreatic eruption nearby in 1880, the lake disappeared and formed a fountain of hot water and steam. Another phreatic eruption lowered the lake level by some from December 2004 to April 2005; later the lake level rose again, refilling the lake in just one day. The rapid draining and refilling of the lake implies that it is suspended well above the local water table and that a continuous flux of steam or gas generated by an underlying magmatic intrusion drives water up into the lake. A disturbance to the supply of gas can cause the lake to drain through the porous connection that normally allows steam to rise and heat the lake.\n\nThe lake rests at the bottom of a large sinkhole-like basin. More accurately, it is a flooded fumarole, generally located within the vicinity of a volcano, which emits steam and gases escaping from molten magma below. Currently, the lake is viewable from a broad, cliff-top ledge about directly above its shore. High rock walls surround and create the basin. \nThe lake's grayish-blue water is easily viewed in its perpetual rolling-boil state which looks like a giant pot of water cooking and steaming on a stove. The basin's water is replenished by rainfall and two small streams which drain into the area. The water then seeps down to the magma and is heated to the boiling point. The trail leads through another volcanic area called the Valley of Desolation. The air around the area is hot, steamy and moist, supported by the sharp, acrid smell of sulphur. The area is known to have been filled with vapors and gases that escape from bubbling and boiling sulphur-water pots, small spraying and hissing geysers, cracks and holes, and a small stream that runs through and beneath the terrain. Tiny invisible sprays of steam will easily burn an ankle or foot.\n\nThere is no road leading directly to the lake. It is approximately a return hike to the lake from the nearest road. The hike can be divided into three parts that take about one hour each. Part I starts in Laudat, by Titou Gorge and ends at Breakfast River, where hikers can fill up with fresh water. Part II continues up Morne Nicholls which has an altitude of 3,168 feet, and ends at the top of the Valley of Desolation. Part III starts with a dangerous descent into the Valley of Desolation, followed by a long hike past sulfur springs and hot pools, until finally reaching a peak overlooking boiling lake. \n\nTwo members of a three-man hiking party–a hiker and a Dominican guide–died at the Boiling Lake in 1900 after being asphyxiated by a sudden release of volcanic gases and falling to their deaths. \n\nOn 6 July 2007, adventure-film maker George Kourounis became the first person to ever cross the Boiling Lake from above, suspended by ropes over the most violently boiling section. This event was filmed for the TV series \"Angry Planet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107129", "title": "Voucher privatization", "text": "Voucher privatization\n\nVoucher privatization is a privatization method where citizens are given or can inexpensively buy a book of vouchers that represent potential shares in any state-owned company. Voucher privatization has mainly been used in the early to mid-1990s in the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe — countries such as Russia, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Czechoslovakia and Hungary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107139", "title": "Curland", "text": "Curland\n\nCurland is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 225. The parish includes the hamlet of Abbey Hill.\n\nCurland is home of a thriving equestrian centre.\n\nThe name Curland, which was Curiland in 1252, means land belonging to Curry.\n\nWithin the parish is Castle Neroche, a Norman motte-and-bailey castle on the site of an earlier hill fort.\n\nCurland was part of the hundred of Abdick and Bulstone.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe parish Church of All Saints occupies a prominent position on a hill. It was rebuilt by Benjamin Ferrey in 1856, on the site of an earlier church, but closed in 1970.\n\nThe Curland Methodist Chapel has now been converted into a single dwelling.\n"}
{"id": "2107147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107147", "title": "Right Hegelians", "text": "Right Hegelians\n\nThe Right Hegelians (), Old Hegelians (\"Althegelianer\"), or the Hegelian Right (\"die Hegelsche Rechte\"), were those followers of German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel in the early 19th century who took his philosophy in a politically and religiously conservative direction. They are typically contrasted with the Young Hegelians, who interpreted Hegel's political philosophy as supportive of progressive politics or religion.\n\nHegel's historicism holds that both ideas and institutions can only be understood by understanding their history. Throughout his life, Hegel said he was an orthodox Lutheran. He devoted considerable attention to the Absolute, his term for the infinite Spirit responsible for the totality of reality—something like God, though not the God of classical theism. This Spirit comes to fullest expression in the historical reality of the modern state. In his \"Philosophy of Right\", Hegel writes that:\n\nThe Hegelian right expanded this conception of statism, seizing on it as an affirmation of establishment politics and orthodox religion. Hegel's historicism could be read to affirm the historical inevitability of modern institutions; a nation was an Ideal, existing in Hegelian idealism above and about the people who constituted it. To argue for political change was to attack the Ideal of the national state. The Right Hegelians believed that advanced European societies, as they existed in the first half of the nineteenth century, were the summit of all social development, the product of the historical dialectic that had existed thus far. Most praised the Prussian state, which enjoyed an extensive civil service system, good universities, industrialization, and high employment, as the acme of progress and the incarnation of the \"Zeitgeist\".\n\nMany of the members of the Hegelian right went on to have distinguished careers in public academia or the Lutheran Church. As a school, they were closely associated with the University of Berlin, and held many of the chairs of philosophy and theology there. Generally, the philosophers of the Hegelian right have been neglected; their fame, if not their reputations, has been eclipsed by the Young Hegelians, including Bruno Bauer and Karl Marx. They left their mark chiefly in theology. Their efforts did not have the intended effect of bolstering a sense of the inevitability of faith as a product of history; rather, they pioneered the introduction of higher criticism by demonstrating the influence of an era on the development of Christianity. Other members of the Hegelian Right included the Erlangen School of Neo-Lutherans, whose influence continues to the present day in confessional Lutheranism.\n\nPhilosophers within the camp of the Hegelian right include:\n\n\nOther thinkers or historians who may be included among the Hegelian right, with some reservations, include:\n\n\n\n\nSpeculative theism was an 1830s movement closely related to but distinguished from Right Hegelianism. Its proponents (Immanuel Hermann Fichte, Christian Hermann Weisse, Hermann Ulrici) were united in their demand to recover the \"personal God\" after panlogist Hegelianism. The movement featured elements of anti-psychologism in the historiography of philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107158", "title": "The Headshrinkers", "text": "The Headshrinkers\n\nThe Headshrinkers were a professional wrestling tag team in the World Wrestling Federation who consisted of Fatu and Samu. They previously competed under the name The New Wild Samoans in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), and as The Samoan SWAT Team in World Championship Wrestling (WCW), World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW), World Wrestling Council (WWC) and the American Wrestling Federation (AWF). They started out as heels.\n\nThe Headshrinkers portrayed a pair of Samoan savages, often displaying uncivilized behavior such as biting into a turkey carcass during a match and dragging each other by their hair. They were also billed as having hard heads that were impervious to pain; any attack that targeted a Headshrinker's head would have no effect, and an opponent who tried to headbutt one of them would end up hurting himself. Having hard heads went with typical professional wrestling portrayals of Samoan wrestlers.\n\nWhile Samu and Fatu are the \"Original\" team members several other Samoans have at one time replaced one of the two.\n\nSamula Anoa'i is the son of Wild Samoan Afa and Solofa Fatu is the nephew of Afa as well as both of them being the nephews of Sika and part of the Anoa'i family.\n\nIn 1985, Samu joined Gino Brito and Dino Bravo’s Montreal-based Lutte Internationale promotion, which was the first time he worked in the same territory as his cousin Fatu. When the promotion closed up two years later, the two cousins signed with the World Wrestling Council in Puerto Rico and were packaged as The Samoan SWAT Team: Samu and Fatu. The team adopted the \"Samoan savage\" gimmick that had made their fathers so well known and feared throughout the wrestling world, working barefoot and never speaking English on camera. The team became the first ever WWC Caribbean Tag-Team Champions on November 7, 1987 when they beat Invader I and Invader III. The duo held the titles for just over a month before dropping them to Mark Youngblood and Chris Youngblood before leaving the promotion.\n\nSamu and Fatu next appeared in Texas, working for Fritz Von Erich’s World Class Championship Wrestling promotion. The storyline was that Buddy Roberts brought the team in to fight his fights against the Von Erich Family and former Fabulous Freebirds partner Michael Hayes. The team was presented as an unstoppable force, and even allowed to beat hometown heroes Kerry and Kevin Von Erich for the WCCW Tag-Team Titles on August 12, 1988. The Samoans remained undefeated in WCCW until they came up against Roberts’ former partner Michael Hayes and Hayes new partner, \"Do It To It\" Steve Cox on September 12. The duo recaptured the titles four days later. Hayes and Cox would beat the Samoan SWAT Team for the titles once again on October 15, 1988, but lost it back two days later. On September 12, 1988 The Samoan SWAT Team become double champions as they beat \"Hollywood\" John Tatum and Jimmy Jack Funk for the WCWA Texas Tag Team Championship. The Samoan SWAT Team made their pay-per-view debut at AWA Superclash III, the first (and only) PPV that the American Wrestling Association ever presented. The Samoans successfully defended their WCCW Tag-Team titles against Michael Hayes and Steve Cox. In the beginning of 1989, the Samoans left WCCW, forcing both tag-team titles to be vacated due to the sudden departure.\n\nThe Samoan SWAT Team signed with Jim Crockett Promotions and was brought in as manager Paul E. Dangerously’s replacements for the \"Original\" Midnight Express who had left the promotion. The Samoans also took over the \"Original\" Midnight Express’ feud with the Midnight Express beating the team at Clash of the Champions VI on April 2, 1989. At The 1989 Great American Bash the Samoans teamed with former rival Michael Hayes, Terry Gordy and Jimmy Garvin losing a War Games Match to The Road Warriors, the Midnight Express and Steve Williams. In the fall of 1989 Paul E. Dangerously was phased out and the Samoans were given a new manager: \"The Big Kahuna\" Oliver Humperdink. Their ranks were also bolstered by the addition of The Samoan Savage who is Fatu’s brother. The Samoans started to lose more and more matches as 1989 drew to a close, but their fortunes appeared to be changing due to the injury to Sid Vicious. Because Vicious was injured The Skyscrapers had to pull out of the \"Iron Team Tournament\" at Starrcade 1989. The Samoan SWAT Team, now using the name The New Wild Samoans (a reference to the \"original\" Wild Samoans) were chosen to be their replacements – Fatu and the Samoan Savage with no explanation of why the more experienced Samu was not chosen. For the remainder of the Samoan SWAT Team’s time in WCW Fatu and the Samoan Savage competed under the name New Wild Samoans, while Samu made a few singles appearances. After leaving WCW in the summer of 1990 the Samoan SWAT Team worked for a number of independent promotions in the US, Europe and Japan, often teaming up with family member Rodney Anoa'i who competed as \"Kokina Maximus\".\n\nIn 1992, Samu and Fatu signed up with the World Wrestling Federation, managed by Samu’s father Afa. The team changed their name to \"the Headshrinkers\" but their gimmick remained the same, Samoan wildmen. Rodney Anoa'i also signed with the WWF but he was repackaged as \"Yokozuna\" and the family ties between him and the Samoans were not mentioned on air. The team debuted on an edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\" defeating local jobbers being called The Samoans, however the team vanished quickly. As The Headshrinkers they first made their presence known when they helped Money Inc. beat the Natural Disasters to win the WWF World Tag Team titles. Early in their run with the WWF the Headshrinkers feuded with the Natural Disasters and the recently formed High Energy.\n\nBetween 1992 and the early parts of 1994, the Headshrinkers maintained a position in the middle of the tag team division, occasionally challenging for the titles and making sporadic PPV appearances feuding with teams like The Smokin' Gunns and Men on a Mission. The Headshrinkers assisted their relative Yokozuna in a casket match against The Undertaker at the 1994 Royal Rumble. In March 1994 the Headshrinkers turned face and challenged then tag-team champions The Quebecers, with the addition of manager Lou Albano the team won the gold on May 2nd, 1994. (Taped April 26, 1994). At King of the Ring 1994 on June 19 the Headshrinkers successfully defended their tag team titles against Yokozuna and Crush. Their run with the titles came to a surprising end on an untelevised card on August 28 where they lost the titles to Shawn Michaels and Diesel. The title change happened just one day before they were scheduled to defend against Irwin R. Schyster and Bam Bam Bigelow. Soon after the title change Samu left the WWF to recover from injuries and was replaced by Seone.\n\nThe kayfabe reason given to Samu’s departure was that he \"ate some bad fish and got a disease\" and was not coping well with manager Lou Albano’s attempts to civilize the Headshrinkers, especially wearing boots. For the first time ever, one half of the team was neither a member of the Anoa'i family nor a Samoan as Sione Vailahi was from the island of Tonga. The new combination made only one pay-per-view appearance as a team which was at the 1994 Survivor Series where they were quickly eliminated. The only other notable appearance of Fatu and Seone was as part of the tournament to crown new WWF tag team champions in late 1994, early 1995. The Headshrinkers lost to Bam Bam Bigelow and Tatanka in the Semi Finals. By July, the Headshrinkers dissolved, as Seone left the WWF for WCW. By the time, the team was used to put over new teams such as The Blu Brothers.\n\nAfter being away from the spotlight for a while Samu returned to the WWF in 1995. Samu along with his cousin Matt Anoa'i were known as \"The Samoan Gangster Party\" with Samu being known as \"Sammy the Silk\" and his cousin Matt Anoa'i (son of Sika) became known as \"Big Matty Smalls\", and joined Samu as The Samoan Gangstas. The two men did not wrestle for the WWF but watched Fatu from afar as the former Headshrinker tried to turn himself into a positive role model for kids on the street. The angle was dropped as the Samoan Gangster Party never got in the ring or confronted Fatu before he was repackaged. In 1996 they worked for Extreme Championship Wrestling feuding mainly with The Gangstas in a short but intense war.\n\nAfter leaving, Samu has worked for a number of independent organizations both as a singles wrestler and alongside Lloyd who worked under names such as \"Ruopa\" and \"The Tahitian Warrior\" winning titles in WWC and ISPW.\n\nFatu and Samu\n\nKokina, Fatu and Samoan Savage\n\nSamu and Lloyd Anoa'i \n"}
{"id": "2107163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107163", "title": "Hog maw", "text": "Hog maw\n\nHog maw is the stomach of a pig. More specifically, it is the exterior muscular wall of the stomach organ (with interior, lining mucosa removed) which contains no fat if cleaned properly. It can be found in American, Chinese, Pennsylvania Dutch, Mexican, Portuguese and Italian dishes. In addition, it can be prepared in various ways including stewed, fried, baked, and broiled.\n\nHog maw (sometimes called \"pig's stomach\" or \"Susquehanna turkey\" or \"Pennsylvania Dutch goose\") is a Pennsylvania Dutch dish. In the Pennsylvania German language, it is known as \"Seimaage\" (sigh-maw-guh), originating from its German name Saumagen. It is made from a cleaned pig's stomach traditionally stuffed with cubed potatoes and loose pork sausage. Other ingredients may include cabbage, onions, and spices. It was traditionally boiled in a large pot covered in water, not unlike Scottish haggis, but it can also be baked or broiled until browned or split, then it is often drizzled with butter, sometimes browned, before serving. It is usually served hot on a platter, cut into slices, and topped with horseradish or stewed tomatoes. It can also be served cold as a sandwich. Often served in the winter, it was made on hog butchering days on the farms of Lancaster and Berks Counties and elsewhere in the Pennsylvania Dutch Country.\n\nIt remains a traditional New Year's Day side dish for many Pennsylvania German families; in fact, many families believe that it is bad luck if not even a small piece is consumed on New Year's Day, as is the case with pork and \"sauerkraut\". The stomach is purchased at one of the many traditional butchers at local farmers' markets. The original recipe was most likely brought to Pennsylvania from the Palatinate area of Germany, where it is called \"Saumagen\" and served with \"sauerkraut\", another Pennsylvania Dutch food. Indeed, Saumagen is reported to have been a favorite of former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, a native of the Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz) Region.\n\nAs a soul food dish, hog maw has often been coupled with chitterlings, which are pig intestines. In the book \"Plantation Row Slave Cabin Cooking: The Roots of Soul Food\" hog maw is used in the Hog Maw Salad recipe. \n\nHog maw is also traditionally prepared for New Year's Day for prosperity along with other traditional Southern New Year's Day dishes like collard greens and Hoppin' John.\n\nIn Chinese cuisine, hog maw is called 猪肚 (zhūdù, \"pig stomach\") often served stir fried with vegetables. It can also be braised, chilled, and sliced as part of a cold cut tray.\n\nHog maws (called \"buche\") are a specialty in taco stands all over Mexico, mostly deep fried with the rest of the pork.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, hog maws are called \"Cuajos\". \"Cuajitos\" is a popular street vendor food found around the island and is most often served with boiled green banana escabeche (not plantains) and morcilla (blood sausage).\n\n"}
{"id": "2107174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107174", "title": "Dan Shaughnessy", "text": "Dan Shaughnessy\n\nDan Shaughnessy (born July 20, 1953) is an American sports writer. He has covered the Boston Red Sox for the Boston Globe since 1981. In 2016, he was given the J.G. Taylor Spink Award by the Baseball Hall of Fame. Shaughnessy is often referred to by his nickname \"Shank,\" given by the 1980s Boston Celtics team for the often unflattering and critical nature of his articles.\n\nShaughnessy was born in Groton, Massachusetts. After graduating from the College of the Holy Cross in 1975, he began his career as a beat reporter covering the Baltimore Orioles for the \"Baltimore Evening Sun\" in 1977 and 1978. He then was the national baseball writer for \"The Washington Star\" from 1979 until the newspaper folded in 1981. He has been a sports writer for \"The Boston Globe\" since September, 1981. During that time, he has served as the beat writer for the Boston Celtics and the Boston Red Sox, as well as a sports columnist for the Globe.\n\nShaughnessy has authored or contributed to several sports-related books, including on the fierce Yankees–Red Sox rivalry. His book, \"The Curse of the Bambino\", details the travails of the Boston Red Sox and their search for a World Series championship after selling Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. He subsequently wrote \"Reversing the Curse\" after the Red Sox won the 2004 World Series.\n\nHe is a contributor to \"ESPN The Magazine\", and a regular guest on a Sunday night sports show, \"Sports Xtra\". Shaughnessy discusses sports and current events on radio shows airing on WTKK; on ESPN's \"Rome Is Burning\"; and on NESN's \"SportsPlus\" and \"Globe 10.0\". On July 9, 2008, he made his debut as a guest host on the ESPN show \"Pardon the Interruption\". He has a weekend radio show on WBZ-FM alongside Adam Jones.\n\nConsidered by some Red Sox fans (and some players) as being overly negative and critical, he earned the pejorative nickname \"Curly-Haired Boyfriend\" from former Red Sox player Carl Everett.\n\nIn an October 2005 column Shaugnnessy revealed information detailing negotiations between then-Red Sox general manager Theo Epstein and Red Sox CEO Larry Lucchino. Shaughnessy and other \"Globe\" writers were accused by writers at the \"Boston Herald\" of routinely reporting information leaked from the Red Sox front office (the Red Sox were 17.75 percent owned by The New York Times Company, the Globe's parent company).\n\nIn the final game of the 2011 season, the Red Sox had a playoff berth on the line in Baltimore. During a rain delay, Shaugnessy declared, \"I think the Rays are not going to win tonight. I think the one thing we've eliminated tonight is the Red Sox season is not going to end tonight. They live to play another day.\" At the time, the Tampa Bay Rays were trailing the New York Yankees 7–0 in the 8th inning, but won 8–7 in 12 innings. The Red Sox were leading the Baltimore Orioles 3–2 but lost 4–3 and were eliminated from the postseason.\n\nIn 2013, Shaughnessy and Cleveland Indians manager Terry Francona released \"Francona\", a biography focusing on Francona's years as manager of the Red Sox. The book immediately became a best-seller.\n\nOn December 8, 2015, Shaughnessy was named the 2016 recipient of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award, presented annually by the Baseball Writers' Association of America \"for meritorious contributions to baseball writing\". He was presented with the award during induction weekend at the National Baseball Hall of Fame in July 2016.\n\nHe is married and has two daughters and a son, Sarah, Kate and Sam. He is the uncle of tennis player Meghann Shaughnessy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107178", "title": "Electorates in Australia", "text": "Electorates in Australia\n\nElectorates in Australia are geographically defined areas represented by a single elected Member of Parliament. Known officially as divisions at the federal level and electoral districts at the state and territory level, \"electorates\" are also commonly referred to as \"seats\" or \"constituencies\". \n\n"}
{"id": "2107186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107186", "title": "William D. Coolidge", "text": "William D. Coolidge\n\nWilliam David Coolidge (; October 23, 1873 – February 3, 1975) was an American physicist and engineer, who made major contributions to X-ray machines. He was the director of the General Electric Research Laboratory and a vice-president of the corporation. He was also famous for the development of \"ductile tungsten\", which is important for the incandescent light bulb.\n\nCoolidge was born on a farm near Hudson, Massachusetts. He studied electrical engineering from 1891 until 1896 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). After a year as a laboratory assistant, he went to Germany for further study and received his doctorate from the University of Leipzig. From 1899 to 1905 he was a research assistant to Arthur A. Noyes of the Chemistry Department at MIT.\n\nCoolidge went to work as a researcher at General Electric's new research laboratory in 1905, where he conducted experiments that led to the use of tungsten as filaments in light bulbs. He developed 'ductile tungsten', which could be more easily drawn into filaments, by purifying tungsten oxide. Starting in 1911, General Electric marketed lamps using the new metal and they soon became an important source of income for GE. He applied for and received a patent (US#1,082,933) for this 'invention' in 1913. However, in 1928 a US court ruled that his 1913 patent was not valid as an invention.\n\nIn 1913 he invented the Coolidge tube, an X-ray tube with an improved cathode for use in X-ray machines that allowed for more intense visualization of deep-seated anatomy and tumors. The Coolidge tube, which also utilized a tungsten filament, was a major development in the then-nascent medical specialty of radiology (US patent filed in 1913 and granted as US Patent 1,203,495 in 1916). Its basic design is still in use. He also invented the first rotating anode X-ray tube.\n\nThe American Academy of Arts and Sciences awarded Coolidge the Rumford Prize in 1914. Coolidge was awarded the American Institute of Electrical Engineers Edison Medal in 1927 \"For his contributions to the incandescent electric lighting and the X-rays art\". He rejected this prestigious award in 1926 on the basis that his ductile tungsten patent (1913) was ruled by court as invalid. He was awarded the Howard N. Potts Medal in 1926 and the Louis E. Levy Medal in 1927. Coolidge was awarded the Faraday Medal in 1939. He was awarded the Franklin Medal in 1944. The city of Remscheid awarded him with the for his invention of the hot cathode X-ray tube in 1963. In 1975 he was elected to the National Inventors Hall of Fame, shortly before his death at age 101 in Schenectady, New York.\n\nCoolidge became director of the GE research laboratory in 1932, and a vice-president of General Electric in 1940, until his retirement in 1944. He continued to consult for GE after retirement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107187", "title": "Birrong", "text": "Birrong\n\nBirrong, a suburb of local government area City of Canterbury-Bankstown, is located 22 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the state of New South Wales, Australia, and is a part of the South-western Sydney region.\n\nBirrong shares its postcode of 2143 with neighbouring suburbs Regents Park and Potts Hill.\n\nBirrong features a large number of community facilities such as six soccer/rugby league fields, tennis courts, a large natural park reserve, a bowls club, and swimming pool. Birrong also has two high schools, Birrong Boys High School and Birrong Girls High School, and a primary school. A small group of shops is located on Auburn Road, featuring a barber, bakery, newsagent, IGA (including bottle shop and butcher), hair salon and florist.\n\nThe Aboriginal word Birrong meaning \"star\", was adopted as the suburb's name around 1927.\n\nOne of the first settlers of Birrong was Joseph Hyde Potts who was granted land in the area in 1835 and has Potts Hill named after him. Development in the area of Birrong increased with the opening of the railway in 1928. Birrong Park, an area that was subject to flooding was drained as relief work during the Great Depression (1929-1934). The post office opened in 1955.\n\nIn the 2016 census the population of Birrong is 3,103.\n\nThe median age of the Birrong population was 35 years, less than the national median of 38.\n\n51.2% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were Vietnam 16.9%, China 4.4% and Lebanon 4.0%.\n\n32.6% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Vietnamese 22.1%, Arabic 15.3%, Cantonese 5.1% and Mandarin 5.1%.\n\nThe religious make up of Birrong was Catholic 20.8%, Islam 18.1%, Buddhism 16.4% and No Religion 15.7%.\n\nBirrong Girls High School is a public girls high school that was established as a girls' comprehensive high school in 1957. There are 820 students (2006 estimate) from a wide variety of cultural backgrounds enrolled in the school. 84% of students are from non-English speaking background (NESB) which represents 46 language groups.\n\nBirrong is served by a railway station on the Bankstown Line of the Sydney Trains network. Birrong is also serviced by a bus network run by Transdev NSW.\n"}
{"id": "2107193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107193", "title": "Jaimoe", "text": "Jaimoe\n\nJai Johanny Johanson (born July 8, 1944), frequently known by the stage name Jaimoe, is an American drummer and percussionist. He is best known as one of the founding members of The Allman Brothers Band.\n\nJohanson came up in the R&B world and began drumming at an early age, often accompanied by friend Lamar Williams on bass. Johanson backed soul singers, including a membership in Otis Redding's touring band in 1966, and afterward touring with the acclaimed soul duo, Sam & Dave. After joining up with Duane Allman in February 1969, he quickly became the first recruit into Allman's new group, soon joined by bassist Berry Oakley, fellow drummer Butch Trucks, guitarist Dickey Betts and lastly Allman's younger brother, singer, organist and pianist Gregg Allman. The group, quickly named after the brothers Allman, began recording demos that April in Macon, Georgia, which became the group's home base.\n\nThe band's mixture of blues, country, jazz, and rock, spearheaded by the dual lead guitars of Betts and Allman, and the double-drums of Trucks and Jaimoe, was unique at that time, and they rapidly became known as an act that \"you had to see live\". Their first two albums, their eponymous debut (November 1969) and \"Idlewild South\" (September 1970) brought positive critical reviews but only limited commercial success. Their third album, however, recorded live at one of their favorite concert halls, Bill Graham's Fillmore East in New York City in March 1971, made them one of the biggest rock acts in America. \"At Fillmore East\" became a RIAA certified gold album in late October 1971, finally bringing the group the chart success that had eluded them. The band quickly suffered tragedy, however. Duane Allman was killed in a motorcycle accident a few days later. Shaken by the loss of Allman, the group soldiered on and released \"Eat A Peach\", which reached #4 in the \"Billboard\" charts in 1972, a hybrid studio and live album, with outtakes from the Fillmore East concerts and studio cuts both with and without their original leader.\n\nAfter touring in late 1971 and early- to mid-1972 as a five piece band, the group added keyboardist Chuck Leavell to their line-up, and began recording their fifth album. After recording only a handful of tracks, however, Berry Oakley was also killed in a motorcycle accident mere blocks from where Duane Allman had been struck. Lamar Williams, a bass guitarist who was a friend of Johansen, became a member of the group in the wake of Oakley's death. The album that resulted, 1973's \"Brothers and Sisters\", added more of a country feel to their trademark sound and gave the group their only hit single, \"Ramblin' Man\". Just prior to the release of the album, they co-headlined the largest one-day rock concert in American history, in 1973 Summer Jam at Watkins Glen, complementing the Grateful Dead, and The Band as a support act.\n\nIn 1975, the Allman Brothers Band released the tepid \"Win, Lose or Draw\", which, while a chart success, signaled an end for the band. A growing distance between Gregg Allman, who had risen to a de facto bandleader (then based in Los Angeles) and the rest of the band (still based in Macon, Georgia) exacerbated tensions. Perhaps most telling, the double drums of Jaimoe and Trucks, a signature of the group's sound, turned up missing on two of the album's seven tracks, with the drumming provided by producer Johnny Sandlin and occasional session musician, road drummer Bill Stewart (not the jazz drummer of the same name). The next year, the group disbanded in a storm of drug abuse and acrimony involving Gregg Allman's testimony at the drug trial of former roadie, Scooter Herring. Betts and Allman focused on their own careers, while Johanson joined forces with Leavell and Williams in the jazz-rock combo Sea Level. Johanson played with Sea Level on their first two albums, before rejoining the reformed Allman Brothers Band in 1979.\n\nAfter being terminated from the band in late 1980 due to increasing back problems stemming from a 1974 automobile accident, and the group's financial woes, Jaimoe lived near poverty in Macon (playing off and on with \"SouthBound\" – Coop Frazier, Mike Joseph, Edd Anderson, Jay Cranford and Stan Daniell at a small honkytonk in Forsyth, Georgia known as Willie Lee's Good Time Tavern). Johanson and bassist Lamar Williams were asked to join longtime friend Wayne Sharp and his band, The SharpShooter Band, in California. In January 1983, Lamar died, and the band went on hold. Jaimoe would eventually go back to the Allman Brothers in 1989; reunited with the group and rejuvenated by the growing jam band scene that viewed the Allman Brothers Band as one of the pioneering influences in the newly named genre, Johanson helped lead the band back into national prominence. Though guitarist Warren Haynes, bassist Allen Woody and pianist Johnny Neel (all having joined the Allmans with their second reformation in 1989) would all leave, as would Haynes' replacement, Jack Pearson, Jaimoe remained. However, he watched Dickey Betts' acrimonious departure in 2000, who was ultimately to be replaced by a returning Warren Haynes. Despite their difficulties, he continued with the band.\n\n2000 to 2014 saw renewed success for the band. Jaimoe, Butch Trucks and Gregg Allman were joined by percussionist Marc Quiñones in 1991, bassist Oteil Burbridge (1997), guitar and vocalist, Warren Haynes (1989–1997; then again starting in 2000), and slide guitarist Derek Trucks (in 1999). Every March, the band had taken up a residency at New York's Beacon Theatre for several weeks of shows, often featuring an extended percussion battle between Trucks, Jaimoe and Quiñones. This practice came to a final halt, after forty years of performances since the Cirque du Soleil was given a permanent contract year-round at the Beacon Theatre. To celebrate this final tradition, in 2009, the band dedicated that year's multiple concerts to the late Duane Allman, inviting special guests from many genres to participate with them, including Eric Clapton, Levon Helm, Trey Anastasio, and many others. The band retired in 2014.\n\nJaimoe presently leads a jazz-rock collective known as Jaimoe's Jasssz Band, which he started during breaks in Allman Brothers Band touring. The collective plays clubs in New York and his adopted home of Bloomfield, Connecticut. In 2015 he joined Les Brers, a band led by his longtime Allman Brothers drumming partner Butch Trucks.\n\nIn 2017, Jaimoe received the Lifetime Achievement Award in the Arts, from his native state of Mississippi.\n\nIn 1995, Jaimoe and the other founding members of the Allman Brothers Band were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nFollowing the 2017 deaths of Butch Trucks and Gregg Allman, Jaimoe and Dickey Betts are the last surviving original members of the Allman Brothers Band.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107195", "title": "Reconciliation Australia", "text": "Reconciliation Australia\n\nReconciliation Australia is a non-government, not-for-profit foundation established in January 2001 to promote a continuing national focus for reconciliation between Indigenous (i.e. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people) and non-Indigenous Australians. It was established by the Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation and subsequently superseded that body. In 1991, the Australian Parliament voted unanimously to establish the Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation and a formal reconciliation process. Parliament had noted that there had been no formal process of reconciliation and that it was “most desirable that there be such a reconciliation” by the year 2001, marking the centenary of Federation.\n\nReconciliation Australia is funded from corporate and government partnerships as well as tax-deductible donations from individual Australians. The organisation works with business, government and individual Australians to bring about change, identifying and promoting examples of reconciliation in action. Reconciliation Australia also independently monitors Australia's progress towards reconciliation.\n\nIn 2006 Prime Minister John Howard and Professor Mick Dodson launched the Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) program, which was to be administered by Reconciliation Australia. Through the program, organisations develop a business plan that documents the actions they will take to contribute to reconciliation in Australia. The practical steps outlined in the RAP aim to help to build strong relationships and enhanced respect between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. Community programs, Indigenous employment, and procurement from certified Indigenous businesses are examples of the kinds of actions businesses can take in their RAP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107196", "title": "Durston", "text": "Durston\n\nDurston is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the A361 road north east of Taunton and south of Bridgwater in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The parish lies on undulating ground between the lowest slopes of the Quantock Hills and the valley of the River Tone at the Curry and Hay Moors. The village has a population of 136.\n\nThe place-name derives from the Anglo-Saxon word 'deór-tún’, being a combination of the word for a wild animal, a deer (deór,) and the word for a fenced enclosure (tún). The most likely interpretation is 'deer park’.\n\nAlwig (a Saxon; also written Alwi) held DURSTON manor from King Edward the Confessor before the Norman Conquest. Durston appeared in the Domesday Book in 1086 as follows:\n\"Richard holds of Roger Arundel, DURSTON. Alwig held it TRE and it paid geld for 2 hides and 3 virgates of land. There is land for 4 ploughs. In demesne is 1 plough and 4 slaves; and 4 villans and 5 bordars and 4 cottars with 3 ploughs. There are 15 acres of meadow, and 20 acres of pasture and 20 acres of woodland. It was and is worth 40s.\".\n\nJohn of Erleigh, a Norman knight, later (after 1133) received the Hundred of North Petherton (including Durston) from William the Conqueror's son Henry I. John died in 1165. John was succeeded by his son William de Erlegh who founded Buckland Priory at Durston a priory of regular canons of St. Augustine, about 1167. Soon after their institution, these canons \"behaved in a very riotous and disorderly manner, especially in killing their steward\". Therefore, in 1180, the King removed them to other monasteries, at Taunton and elsewhere, and gave their priory to the sister Hospitallers of the order of St. John of Jerusalem. A Preceptory of the Knights Hospitaller of St. John was built nearby. The site was and is still known as Buckland.\n\nSeveral historical documents give tantalizing glimpses of the lives of these Sisters, who originally cared for sick pilgrims and crusaders in Jerusalem. For whatever reason, the royal grant stipulated that this be the only Hospitallers' house in England that could receive Sisters of that order. It was later written that ′′in all respects the sisters were looked on only as servants, and as not capable of receiving or holding anything other than from the supreme powers of the order\". In 1229 they were granted the right to a cart-load of dead wood and three cart-loads of faggots per week from the park of Newton. In 1234 the king ordered that each Sister be given a tunic and a pair of slippers every year. In 1398 the Grand Master of the Order of Knights Hospitallers urged that a preceptor be named ′′\"whose age and character should prevent any scandal arising from his association with the nuns\"′′.\nDisputes with the Knights Hospitallers at Buckland, whose Preceptor had authority over the Sisters, occurred from time to time. Around 1267 the prior of the Hospitallers in England, attending a conflict between the priory and the precept, ordered that the Sisters have their own Steward. Again, in 1338, the Preceptor of the Knights complained that the Sisters were more of a burden than a help. In 1500, however, this Preceptory was closed, while the Sisters´ Priory remained. Finally, in 1539, after the creation of the Church of England, the Sisters surrendered their house to King Henry VIII. as occurred with many monasteries and convents in that time. Around 1565 two of the former Sisters were married, one to Thomas Speed and the other to the Vicar of Lyng.\n\nAround 1200 William's daughter Mabel married Philip Arbalistarius, who was given the manor of Mansel (Maunsel House, a mile and a half NE of Durston). Philip had to give William two young pigs every Whitsun, ″at his court of Durston″.\n\nA deer park existed in 1223, a little north of the Durston manor house. These deer were brought from Blackmore forest, in Dorset. In the 14th century, buildings at North Petherton were constructed of wood from some of the park´s trees. In 1434 the park included 200 acres of wood and 60 acres of meadow. A later John of Erleigh, born in 1322,left the manor of Durston and woods to his daughter Margaret, who married Sir Walter Sandy. The property passed through several other families, including such surnames as St. Maur (or Seymour), Stawell and Portman.\n\nIn 1391 there were several craftsmen at Durston, such as a tanner, a smith, a skinner, and a barber, outside the gates of the priory. A spring north of Durston fed fishponds established in the later 12th century and supplied the priory with water. The water supply was channeled from a conduit by the 1260s. These fishponds were filled in by 1725.\n\nCogload Farm is on the site of a hamlet established by the later 13th century. Lodge Farmhouse dates from the 15th century and may once have been an ecclesiastical residence. It has been designated as a grade II* listed building. The Buckland inn was in use in the 17th and 18th centuries. In 1752 the Taunton-Glastonbury road became a turnpike. The Durston inn was opened by 1841.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe Bridgwater and Taunton Canal also ran through the village, when it opened in 1827. It is crossed by two bridges, Headworthy and Swan's Neck.\n\nThe Bristol and Exeter Railway opened the Yeovil Branch Line on 1 October 1853 from a new junction station at Durston. The branch closed on 6 July 1964, with Durston station remaining open only until 5 October 1964. It is located close to Cogload Junction, a vital railway flyover.\n\nThe parish Church of St John was rebuilt in 1853 on the site of an earlier church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107215", "title": "Županja", "text": "Županja\n\nŽupanja (, , ) is a town in eastern Slavonia, Croatia, located 254 km east of Zagreb. It is administratively part of the Vukovar-Srijem County. It is inhabited by 12,090 people (2011).\n\nŽupanja lies on the Sava river opposite Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is the site of a border-crossing bridge with the town of Orašje in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The A3 highway Zagreb-Slavonski Brod-Belgrade passes north of it, and the city is also reachable by a local railroad from Vinkovci as well as the state road D55. The 2011 census recorded 96.72% Croats in the municipality.\n\nŽupanja was ruled by Ottoman Empire between 1536 and 1687 as part of Sanjak of Syrmia. Since the Treaty of Karlowitz in 1699, until 1918, Županja (named \"ZUPANJE\" when a post-office was opened in 1861) remained in the Austrian monarchy (Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia after the compromise of 1867), in the Slavonian Military Frontier, under the administration of the \"Brooder Grenz-Infanterie-Regiment N°VII\" until 1881. In the late 19th and early 20th century, Županja was a district capital in the Kingdom Syrmia County. From 1929 to 1939, Županja was part of the Sava Banovina and from 1939 to 1941 of the Banovina of Croatia within the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107216", "title": "Fitzhead", "text": "Fitzhead\n\nFitzhead is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated approximately north west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has an estimated population of 264.\n\nThe name of the village, which was recorded as \"Fifida\" in 1178 indicates the original extent of five hides (about .\n\nThe parish of Fitzhead was part of the Kingsbury Hundred,\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Wellington Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nFitzhead Court and The Manor date from the late 16th century. The building was constructed by Major Robert Cannon (died 1685) a royalist veteran of the Civil War, and passed through his successors to the Somerville Barons. The estate was sold to Baron Ashburton in 1840. The village is also home to two defunct village pumps.\n\nThe parish Church of St James the Great dates from the 15th century with expansion and restoration in the 19th century. It has been designated as a grade II* listed building. The cross in the churchyard is from the 14th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107245", "title": "Sedbergh", "text": "Sedbergh\n\nSedbergh ( ) is a small town and civil parish in Cumbria, England. Historically in the West Riding of Yorkshire, it lies about east of Kendal, north of Lancaster and about north of Kirkby Lonsdale, just within the Yorkshire Dales National Park. It stands at the foot of the Howgill Fells on the north bank of the River Rawthey which joins the River Lune about below the town.\n\nSedbergh has a narrow main street lined with shops. From all angles, the hills rising behind the houses can be seen. Until the coming of the Ingleton Branch Line in 1861, these remote places were reachable only by walking over some steep hills. The line to Sedbergh railway station ran from 1861 to 1954.\n\nThe civil parish covers a large area, including the hamlets of Millthrop, Catholes, Marthwaite, Brigflatts, High Oaks, Howgill, Lowgill and Cautley, the southern part of the Howgill Fells and the western part of Baugh Fell.\n\nGeorge Fox, a founder of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), spoke in the churchyard of St. Andrew's Church (which Quakers of the day called a \"steeple house\") and on nearby Firbank Fell during his travels in the North of England in 1652. Briggflatts Meeting House was built in 1675. It is the namesake of Basil Bunting's long poem \"Briggflatts\" (1966). Sedbergh School is a co-educational boarding school in the town; Settlebeck School is its main state-funded secondary school.\n\nSedbergh's parish church, dedicated to St Andrew, dates from the 12th century, although restored periodically since then. There is at least one house in the village dating from the 14th century, and there are remains of a motte and bailey castle believed to date from Saxon times.\n\nSedbergh's main industries for many years were farming and the production of woollen garments. Wool was taken to mills for spinning into yarn, from which people in their homes knitted clothing such as hats and socks. The garments were sold, for instance, to the coal miners of the North-East England. This trade of long ago is remembered at Farfield Mill, just outside the town, which has an exhibition of weaving equipment and workshops for a number of artists and crafts workers.\n\nSedbergh belongs to the Westmorland and Lonsdale parliamentary constituency, of which Tim Farron is the current Liberal Democrats member. Before Brexit, it was in the North West England European Parliamentary Constituency.\n\nFor local government purposes Sedbergh is in the \"Kirkby Lonsdale ward\" of South Lakeland District Council, which covers towns and surroundings with a combined population of 6,369 at the 2011 Census . It belongs to the \"Sedbergh + Kirkby Lonsdale Division\" of Cumbria County Council.\n\nSedbergh has its own parish council.\n\nPersonal incomes now come from a range of sources: the schools are major employers. Sedbergh is also England's official book town (like Hay-on-Wye in Wales and Wigtown in Scotland). Though smaller than these, it has several independent bookshops and dealers. It is possible that the employment in small to medium manufacturing and wholesale companies matches or exceeds that of schools – a growing feature of the economy. Other major sources of income are farming, retail and tourism. The profile of Sedbergh rose considerably after it featured in a BBC documentary series, \"The Town that Wants a Twin\", airing for twelve episodes in January and February 2005. One result was for Sedbergh to twin with Zreče in north-eastern Slovenia.\n\nThe town suffered an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in 2001. As livestock farming declined, it has been promoted as a destination for walkers and ramblers. In 2015 the town was accepted as a Walkers are Welcome town.\n\nThe town golf club is located at Catholes-Abbott Holme.\n\nA monthly booklet \"Sedbergh and District Lookaround\" gives details of events and activities in the town and its organisations, along with times of buses and religious services. It is available at local shops for a suggested donation of £1. Online copies are available from its website.\n\nIngmire Hall, about two miles west of the town, consists of the remains of a 16th-century house, including a pele tower, altered and enlarged in the 19th century by the Kendal architect George Webster, and again in the 20th century. It was damaged by fire in the 1920s, but extended and partly remodelled in 1989. It is built of coursed rubble with quoins and slate roofs. Although the hall is in private grounds, there is a public footpath along the driveway.\n\nSt Gregory's Church is a redundant Anglican church on the A684 road about 1.5 miles/2 km west of Sedbergh. It is designated a Grade II listed building, recorded in the National Heritage List for England, maintained by Historic England and under the care of the Churches Conservation Trust.\n\nThe \"Cross Keys Inn\" is a 400-year-old pub now run by the National Trust.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107248", "title": "Eliyahu Hakim", "text": "Eliyahu Hakim\n\nEliyahu Hakim (; January 2, 1925–March 22, 1945) was a Lehi member, known for taking part in the 1944 assassination of Lord Moyne, the British Minister Resident in the Middle East.\n\nBorn in Beirut, Lebanon to a Lebanese-Jewish family, Hakim moved to Mandatory Palestine with his family when he was seven. He grew up in the port city of Haifa.\n\nAs a teenager, he joined Lehi, but then volunteered for the British Army during World War II. Posted to Cairo, Hakim deserted in order to continue his anti-British activities on behalf of Lehi.\n\nAs a member of Lehi, he participated in an assassination attempt against Harold MacMichael, the British High Commissioner for Palestine, in 1944. His team ambushed MacMichael's car, slightly wounding him and his driver and severely wounding his adjutant, but failing to kill anyone.\n\nOn November 6, 1944, Hakim, along with Eliyahu Bet-Zuri carried out the assassination of Lord Moyne in Cairo.\n\nMoyne arrived in his car with his army driver, Lance Corporal A. Fuller, his secretary, Dorothy Osmond, and his ADC, Major Andrew Hughes-Onslow. The ADC went to open the front door of the residence and the driver got out to open the door for Moyne. Hakim then pulled the car door open and shot Moyne three times, while Bet-Zuri shot and killed the driver. The two assassins fled on their bicycles, pursued by an Egyptian motorcycle policeman who had been alerted by Major Hughes-Onslow. The two were captured and surrounded by an angry mob until they were extracted by the police. Moyne, seriously wounded, was rushed to hospital but died of his wounds that evening.\n\nHakim and Bet-Zuri were caught immediately and put on trial before a military court. They were convicted and sentenced to death. Both were hanged in Cairo on 22 March 1945, singing Hatikvah, the Zionist anthem, on the gallows.\n\nHakim and Bet-Zuri's remains were brought to Israel in 1975 and reburied on Mount Herzl with full military honors.\n\nStreet named after Hakim are located in all Israeli main cities: French Carmel neighborhood of Haifa, Northern Tel-Aviv, Jerusalem and Be'er Sheba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107251", "title": "St. Mary's Diocesan School for Girls, Kloof", "text": "St. Mary's Diocesan School for Girls, Kloof\n\nSt. Mary's Diocesan School for Girls is a private boarding and day school for girls situated in the suburb of Kloof, near Durban, in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.\n\nThe school was founded in 1906 on Fields Hill in Kloof and was called St. Elizabeth's. It relocated to its present site in 1909 and was renamed St. Mary's in 1919 at the stipulation of a benefactor. The school has an Anglican foundation.\n\nThe school ground cover .\n\nDay scholars are accommodated throughout the school, with boarding available from the high school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107266", "title": "Halse, Somerset", "text": "Halse, Somerset\n\nHalse is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated north west of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 290.\n\nThe name of the village derives from the Old English \"heals\" meaning \"a neck of land\".\n\nThe parish of Halse was part of the Williton and Freemanners Hundred.\n\nAfter the Norman Conquest the manor was granted to Robert Arundel who subsequently gave it to the Hospitallers of St John of Jerusalem in 1152, who held it through Buckland Priory in Durston until the dissolution of the monasteries.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe village is served by a Norman church of St James the Less.\n\nAuthor and scriptwriter Jonathan Morris lived in the village from 1975 to 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107267", "title": "Patroon Island Bridge", "text": "Patroon Island Bridge\n\nThe Patroon Island Bridge is a major crossing of the Hudson River in Albany, New York. The bridge carries Interstate 90, in the east-west direction, over the Hudson River between Albany and Rensselaer Counties.\n\nIt has been in service since 1968; however, some structural repairs were made in 1992. The bridge consists of ten spans. Seven spans are considered the main spans and consist of steel trusses and concrete decks. The other three spans are considered approach spans, which are supported by plate girders. The main span over the river-shipping channel is long and wide, and the overall bridge length is . There is an estimated of clearance for shipping on the Hudson River below, which changes with the local tide. Today's replacement cost is estimated to be between $80 and $100 million. The bridge has an HS Inventory load rating of , and is inspected annually. The average daily traffic count was 70,787 in 1998 with a 4.5 percent estimated traffic growth during the life of the bridge.\n\nThe bridge's design is similar to that of the Interstate 35W bridge in Minneapolis, MN, which collapsed during rush hour on August 1, 2007. This realization by New York State transportation officials prompted full-scale inspections of the state's major highway bridges, including the Patroon Island Bridge. Subsequently, the bridge was deemed safe for the time being, but would need substantial repairs and retrofitting in order to ensure motorist safety, and to extend its useful service life if replacement was found not to be a viable option in the near future.\n\nOn May 31, 2016, the New York State Department of Transportation declared that it had completed a $148-million-dollar renovation and rebuild of the bridge.\n\nThe bridge's name comes from the former (Lower) Patroon Island that once existed adjacent to the bridge. A patroon was a proprietor of a tract of land in the 17th-century Dutch colony of New Netherland in North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107269", "title": "Treaty of Shaoxing", "text": "Treaty of Shaoxing\n\nThe Treaty of Shaoxing () was the agreement that ended the military conflicts between the Jin dynasty and the Southern Song dynasty. It also legally drew up the boundaries of the two countries and forced the Song dynasty to renounce all claims to its former territories north of the Qinling Huaihe Line, which included its former capital Kaifeng. Emperor Gaozong of Song executed Yue Fei after the treaty.\n\nThe treaty was signed in 1141, and under it the Southern Song agreed to paying tribute of 250,000 taels and 250,000 packs of silk to the Jin every year (until 1164). The treaty was formally ratified on 11 October 1142 when a Jin envoy visited the Song court. The treaty reduced the Southern Song into a quasi-tribute state of the Jin/Jurchen dynasty. \n\n"}
{"id": "2107270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107270", "title": "Service Management Facility", "text": "Service Management Facility\n\nService Management Facility (SMF) is a feature of the Solaris operating system as of version 10 and Opensolaris-descendant illumos with its illumos distributions, that creates a supported, unified model for services and service management on each Solaris or illumos system and replaces init.d scripts. SMF introduces:\n\n\nAll these capabilities are made possible by treating Services as \"first class objects\". That is, they are more than just user-executed software to the OS. They can be defined to have special states that allow finer control and permit monitoring and probing for diagnosing software failures, rather than having the administrator or dedicated \"restarter\" modules kill and restart the service as before.\n\nServices are software objects that provide a set of capabilities to other software. For example, a webserver provides HTTP service to web browsers. Other services include NFS for sharing files on a network, DHCP for dynamic IP address assignment, and Secure Shell for remote logins. Even higher level functions can be services, such as specific databases for e-commerce, finance, manufacturing control, etc. Typically, services are automatically started at boot up, long-lived, have common states (e.g. running, not running), relationship & dependencies (Sendmail service depends on Naming service, which depends on Networking services), and are critical to the dedicated function of the server.\n\nIn versions of Solaris prior to Solaris 10, and in UNIX in general, services are configured in text files, with startup files in the /etc/rc.d/ directory trees, and configuration data in files such as /etc/inittab and /etc/inetd.conf. A typical system could have dozens of configuration files, and configuration could involve various methods, including editing shell scripts. With SMF, there is one consistent interface to ease administration.\n\nThere has been no traditional definition or constraint of what a service is, making administration difficult. With SMF, each service can have a set of defined states, allowing admins to control services in a consistent way based on their state.\n\nInstances: a \"service\" is a collection of configurations. An \"instance\" is a running execution of a defined service executable. One can have many instances of a defined service, such as multiple webservers listening on different ports referencing different WWW root directories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107271", "title": "John Henry Barbee", "text": "John Henry Barbee\n\nJohn Henry Barbee (November 14, 1905 – November 3, 1964) was an American blues singer and guitarist. He was born in Henning, Tennessee. He claimed that he was born William George Tucker and that he changed his name with the commencement of his recording career, in tribute to his favorite folk song, \"The Ballad of John Henry\", but this claim is not supported by census records, in which he is registered as the son of Beecher Barbee and Cora Gilford.\n\nBarbee toured in the 1930s throughout the American South, singing and playing slide guitar. He teamed up with Big Joe Williams and, later, with Sunnyland Slim in Memphis, Tennessee. Travelling down to Mississippi, he met Sonny Boy Williamson and played with him off and on for several years. He released two sides for Vocalion Records in 1939 (\"Six Weeks Old Blues\" and \"God Knows I Can't Help It\"). The record sold well enough to cause Vocalion to call on Barbee again, but by that time he had left his last known whereabouts in Arkansas. Barbee explained that this sudden move was due to his evading the law for shooting and killing his girlfriend's lover. He later found out that he had only injured the man, but by the time this was discovered, Barbee was no longer making a career playing music.\n\nBarbee did not show up again in the music industry until the early 1960s, when a revival of interest in the blues was at its height. Willie Dixon searched for Barbee and found him working as an ice-cream server in Chicago, Illinois. In 1964, Barbee joined the American Folk Blues Festival on a European tour with other blues players, including Lightnin' Hopkins and Howlin' Wolf.\n\nBarbee returned to the United States and used the money from the tour to purchase his first automobile. Ten days after buying the car, he accidentally ran over and killed a man. He was taken to a Chicago jail and died there of a heart attack a few days later, on November 3, 1964, 11 days before his 59th birthday. He is interred in the Restvale Cemetery, in Alsip, Illinois.\n\nThe third annual White Lake Blues Festival, held at the Howmet Playhouse Theater in Whitehall, Michigan, on May 11, 2010, was organized by executive producer Steve Salter, of the nonprofit organization Killer Blues, to raise monies to honor Barbee's unmarked grave with a headstone. The event was a success, and a stone was placed in June 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107272", "title": "Highbury Preparatory School", "text": "Highbury Preparatory School\n\nHighbury Preparatory School is a private school for boys located in Hillcrest, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.\n\nHighbury was founded in 1903 by Sibella Douglas McMillan. It was named after Highbury House School in England, which was established by Sibella McMillan's father, the Rev Charles Duff, in 1865. The school is located on the outskirts of the suburb of Hillcrest, overlooking the Valley of a Thousand Hills.\n\nMany of its school leavers go on to attend top private high schools, particularly, Hilton College, Kearsney College and Michaelhouse.\n\nHighbury has a non-denominational Christian ethos.\n\nA student population of about 550 boys attend Highbury on its 11 hectare estate.\n\nS.D. McMillan\n\nE.D. McMillan\n\nJ.S.D. McMillan\n\nRobert Clarence\n\nRichard Stanley\n\nBrendan Carroll\n\nRoland Lacock\n\n\nHighbury accepts day pupils up to grade 7. It has a pupil-teacher ratio of 12:1.\n\nRichard Stanley who succeeded Mr Clarence in 1994, was followed by Brendan Carroll in January 2015. In July 2017, Roland Lacock become Highbury's 7th Head Master. \n\nHighbury has a co-educational pre-primary school called the Weavers' Nest. In 2017 Weavers' opened a Grade 0000 class.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107280", "title": "Marianne Leone Cooper", "text": "Marianne Leone Cooper\n\nMarianne Leone Cooper (born January 2, 1952) is an American film and television actress, screenwriter and essayist. Her longest-running recurring role was playing Christopher Moltisanti's mother on \"The Sopranos\".\n\nCooper was born Marianne Leone in Boston, Massachusetts, to Italian immigrants. She married actor Chris Cooper in 1983. In 1987, their son, Jesse Lanier Cooper, was born. Three months premature, Jesse developed a cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral palsy. After searching for the best schools for children with special needs, Cooper and Leone moved to Kingston, Massachusetts, where they became strong advocates for disabled children.\n\nOn January 3, 2005, Jesse Cooper died from SUDEP. A memorial fund was set up in his name, the Jesse Cooper Foundation. Leone's memoir, \"Knowing Jesse: A Mother's Story of Grief, Grace, and Everyday Bliss\", was published in September 2010 by Simon & Schuster.\n\nLeone has had roles in several films, including \"The Thin Blue Line\" (1988), \"True Love\" (1989), \"Goodfellas\" (1990), \"Household Saints\" (1993) and \"The Three Stooges\" (2012). She has also acted in a small number of television series, including \"Kate & Allie\" (1985) and \"Brotherhood\" (2007). Her longest-running recurring role was playing Christopher Moltisanti's mother in nine episodes of \"The Sopranos\" from 2002 to 2007.\n\nLeone's essays have appeared in \"The Boston Globe\". Her essay \"Knitting: Epic Fail\" appears in the anthology \"Knitting Yarns: Writers on Knitting, \"published by W. W. Norton & Company in 2013.\n\nHer screenplay, \"Hurricane Mary\", is a true life story of a mother's struggles to have her disabled twin daughters integrated into the public school system. It is being made into a movie starring Chris Cooper, William H. Macy and Meryl Streep.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107282", "title": "Stuck with Me", "text": "Stuck with Me\n\n\"Stuck with Me\" is a song by American punk rock band Green Day. It was released as the second single and third track from their fourth album, \"Insomniac\". The song is about being too weak and too much of a push-over to stand up for yourself. The song also appears on the live album \"Foot in Mouth\". It peaked at number 26 on the UK Singles Chart. Originally this song was titled \"Alright\" on demo and later \"Do Da Da\".\n\n\n\nRecorded live September 4, 1995 at Vejlby Risskov Hallen, Aarhus, Denmark\n\n\n\nThe music video was filmed in black and white. One half of the video shows Green Day performing the song (in black and white), and the other half displays some of Winston Smith's animated artwork done for the album.\n"}
{"id": "2107284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107284", "title": "Samu (wrestler)", "text": "Samu (wrestler)\n\nSamula Anoa'i (born May 29, 1963) is an American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Samu. He is best known for his appearances with the World Wrestling Federation, World Championship Wrestling, and New Japan Pro-Wrestling in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nAnoaʻi had his first professional match at age 14 under the careful supervision of his father Afa and his uncle Sika. He later ended up going pro in 1981 at age 17.\n\nIn 1983, Anoa'i began appearing in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) when Sika (part of the reigning WWF Tag Team Champions) was injured on March 12, 1983. Known simply as \"Samula\", he helped The Wild Samoans defend the tag team championship a handful of times while Sika recovered. After Sika returned, Samula remained in the WWF, backing up his father and uncle. In January 1984, he received a shot at former WWF World Heavyweight Champion Bob Backlund, but ended up losing by disqualification. During the summer of 1984, Samula turned face after the Wild Samoans left the WWF. Samula twice teamed with Hulk Hogan during WWF's tours in Japan, both times facing Japanese legends Antonio Inoki and Tatsumi Fujinami. These matches were among the last matches Samula wrestled in the WWF before leaving in January 1985.\n\nAfter the WWF Samula joined up with Gino Brito and Dino Bravo’s International Wrestling territory based in Montreal. In Montreal, he was given the name The Great Samu and was managed by Eddie \"The Brain\" Creatchman, who used the Samoan to target the top faces in the territory. He eventually feuded with the top babyface in the territory, Dino Bravo, defeating him for the International Heavyweight Championship on June 30, 1986. Samu held on to the title until November 3, 1986, when he was beaten by David Schults. When International Wrestling closed a few months later, Samu went looking for warmer weather.\n\nWhile working in Montreal, Samu hung out with his cousin Solofa Fatu, who was working in the area as the friendly babyface \"Prince Alofa\". When the Montreal territory closed up, the two cousins signed with the World Wrestling Council in Puerto Rico and became The Samoan Swat Team: Samu and Fatu. The team adopted the “Samoan savage\" gimmick that had made their fathers so well known and feared throughout the wrestling world, working barefeet and never spoke English on camera. The team became the first ever WWC Caribbean Tag-Team Champions on November 7, 1987, when they beat Invader I and Invader III. The duo held the titles for just over a month before dropping them to Mark Youngblood and Chris Youngblood before leaving the promotion.\n\nSamu and Fatu next appeared in Texas, working for Fritz Von Erich’s World Class Championship Wrestling promotion. The storyline was that Buddy Roberts brought the team in to fight his fights against the Von Erich Family and former Fabulous Freebirds partner Michael Hayes. The SST was given a big push right away; presented as an unstoppable force the team was even allowed to beat hometown heroes Kerry and Kevin Von Erich for the WCCW Tag-Team Titles on August 12, 1988. The Samoans remained undefeated in WCCW until they came up against Roberts’ former partner Michael Hayes and Hayes’ new partner, “Do It To It\" Steve Cox on September 12. The duo was not without the gold for long as they recaptured the title only four days later. Hayes and Cox beat the Samoan Swat Team for the title once again on October 15, 1988 but this time they only held the gold for two days before they lost it back to the SST. On September 12, 1988, The Samoan Swat Team became double champions as they beat \"Hollywood\" John Tatum and Jimmy Jack Funk for the WCWA Texas Tag Team Championship. The Samoan Swat Team made their Pay Per View debut at AWA Superclash III, the first (and only) PPV that the American Wrestling Association ever presented. The Samoans successfully defended their WCCW Tag-Team titles against Michael Hayes and Steve Cox. In the beginning of 1989, the Samoans left WCCW, forcing both tag-team titles to be vacated due to the sudden departure.\n\nThe Samoan Swat Team signed with World Championship Wrestling and was brought in as manager Paul E. Dangerously's replacements for the \"Original\" Midnight Express who had left the promotion. The Samoans also took over the \"Original\" Midnight Express’ feud with the Midnight Express beating the team at Clash of the Champions VI on April 2, 1989. At The 1989 Great American Bash the Samoans teamed with former rival Michael Hayes, Terry Gordy and Jimmy Garvin losing a War Games Match to The Road Warriors, the Midnight Express and Steve Williams. In the fall of 1989, Paul E. Dangerously was phased out and the Samoans were given a new manager: \"The Big Kahuna\" Oliver Humperdink. Their ranks were also bolstered by the addition of The Samoan Savage who is Fatu's brother. The Samoans started to lose more and more matches as 1989 drew to a close, but their fortunes appeared to be changing due to the injury to Sid Vicious. Because Vicious was injured The Skyscrapers had to pull out of the \"Iron Team Tournament\" at Starrcade 1989 and the Samoan Swat Team were chosen to be their replacements – Fatu and the Samoan Savage with no explanation of why the more experienced Samu was not chosen. For the remainder of the Samoan Swat Team's time in WCW Fatu and the Samoan Savage competed under the name while Samu made a few singles appearances.\n\nAfter leaving WCW in the summer of 1990 the Samoan Swat Team worked for a number of independent promotions in the US, Europe and Japan, often teaming up with family member Rodney Anoaʻi who competed as \"Kokina Maximus\". The family worked for the Universal Wrestling Association in 1991 with Fatu, Kokina and The Samoan Savage winning the UWA Trios Tag-Team titles and holding it for just under 2 months. They also made a headline appearance on the UWA's 16th anniversary show losing to Dos Caras, El Canek and Mil Máscaras.\n\nIn 1992, Samu and Fatu signed up with the World Wrestling Federation, managed by Samu's father Afa. The team changed their name to the Headshrinkers but their gimmick remained the same, Samoan wildmen. Rodney Anoaʻi also signed with the WWF but he was repackaged as \"Yokozuna\" and the family ties between him and the Samoans was not mentioned on air. The team first made their presence known when they helped Money Incorporated beat the Natural Disasters to win the WWF World Tag Team titles.. Early in their run with the WWF, the Headshrinkers feuded with the Natural Disasters and the recently formed High Energy.\nBetween 1992 and the early part of 1994, the Headshrinkers maintained a position in the middle of the tag-team division, occasionally challenging for the titles and making sporadic PPV appearances feuding with teams like The Smokin' Gunns and Men on a Mission. The Headshrinkers assisted their relative Yokozuna in a casket match against The Undertaker at the 1994 Royal Rumble. In April 1994 the Headshrinkers turned face and challenged then tag-team champions The Quebecers, with the addition of manager Lou Albano the team won the gold on April 26, 1994. At King of the Ring 1994 on June 19 the Headshrinkers successfully defended their tag-team titles against Yokozuna and Crush. Their run with the titles came to a surprising end on an untelevised card on August 28 where they lost the titles to Shawn Michaels and Diesel. The title change happened just one day before they were scheduled to defend against Irwin R. Schyster and Bam Bam Bigelow. Soon after the title change Samu left the WWF to recover from injuries and was replaced by Sione.\n\nAfter being away from the spotlight for a while Samu returned to the WWF in 1995. Samu along with his cousin Matt Anoaʻi were known as \"The Samoan Gangster Party\" with Samu being known as \"Sammy the Silk\" and Matt being \"Big Matty Smalls\". The two men did not wrestle for the WWF but watched Fatu from afar as the former Headshrinker tried to turn himself into a positive role model for kids on the street. The angle never went anywhere as the Samoan Gangster Party never got in the ring or confronted Fatu before he was repackaged and the whole angle was dropped. The tag team did wrestle a few house shows in May 1996.\n\nIn 1996 The Samoan Gangster Party worked for Extreme Championship Wrestling feuding mainly with The Gangstas in a short but intense war between the two \"Gangsta\" factions.\n\nAfter leaving ECW Samu worked for a number of independent organizations both as a singles wrestler and alongside Lloyd who worked under names such as Alofa, and \"The Tahitian Warrior\" winning titles in WWC and ISPW. Samu also became a regular in his father's World Xtreme Wrestling Promotion and has held the WXW World title five times. Samu won the New World Wrestling Undisputed Brass Knuckles Championship on October 28, 2006 and is a part-time instructor at his father's and uncle's “Wild Samoan Training Facility\" On March 31, 2007, Samu and Rosey inducted The Wild Samoans, Afa and Sika into the WWE Hall of Fame.\n\nOn November 29, 2014 Samu and his son Lance Anoaʻi teamed with former RAGE partner Quinn Magnum in a six-man tag match against Payton Graham, Stryder and Jack Pollock. Samu was also inducted into PWX's Circle Of Respect, its version of a hall of fame.\n\nAnoa'i is a member of the Samoa American Anoa'i family. He is married to Melissa Fritz. Their children include Lance Anoa'i, who is also a professional wrestler. On October 24, 2018 he announced that he had stage 4 liver cancer and was waiting for a transplant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107285", "title": "Hatch Beauchamp", "text": "Hatch Beauchamp\n\nHatch Beauchamp is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated south east of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 620.\n\nThe manor of \"Hache\" dates from Saxon times and became the \"caput\" of a feudal barony after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, when it was granted to Robert, Count of Mortain (d.1095) by his half-brother William the Conqueror. Hatch Beauchamp is described under the title of \"Terra Comitis Mortoniensis\" (\"lands of the Count/Earl of Mortain\") as follows: \"Robert holds Hache of the Earl: of meadow, of wood; arable, six carucates; in demesne, two carucates, and three servants, eleven villanes, four cottagers with three ploughs.\" This Robert who was the vassal of the Earl was Robert FitzIvo. Six years later in 1092, the manor was in the hands of Robert of Beauchamp, who may have been the same person. The Beauchamp family were loyal allies of William the Conqueror, and had been granted large estates in Somerset and Bedfordshire.\n\nHatch Beauchamp is noted around 1300 as having a market every Thursday, but this has long since vanished. The area — along with most of the South West of England, was staunchly Royalist in the English Civil War, although the local town of Taunton was a Parliamentary stronghold, and was besieged.\n\nThe village today contains an inn, and a manor house, Hatch Court, built around 1750, in the Palladian architectural style. Prior to this, a great house had existed on the same site since the Middle Ages, but had fallen into ruin by the 17th century. The inn dates from around the mid-18th century.\n\nHatch Beauchamp is the burial place of Colonel John Rouse Merriott Chard, VC, RE (21 December 1847 – 1 November 1897) a British soldier who won the Victoria Cross for his role in the defence of Rorke's Drift in 1879.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nHatch Beauchamp is in the 'Neroche' electoral ward. Although this is the most populous area, the ward itself stretches west to Corfe and south to Staple Fitzpaine. The total population of the ward at the 2011 Census was 2,164.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nHatch Court, which was built around 1755 by Thomas Prowse for John Collins, contains a small military museum commemorating the life and work of the renowned Brigadier Hamilton Gault, great-uncle of the present owner, MP for Taunton, and member of the Quebec Chamber of Commerce, as well as a decorated Boer War hero. Hamilton Gault was the founder of the British Empire's last privately raised regiment, the Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry.\nThe regiment saw action in both World Wars, and were the first Allied force to enter Amsterdam in early 1945. They were more recently in action against the Taliban in Afghanistan, as part of Operation Anaconda in 2002.\n\nIn Hatch Beauchamp the Norman Church of St John the Baptist has a crenellated 3-stage tower from about 1500. It displays crocketed pinnacles, a pierced parapet with quatrefoils and arcades in the merlons and gargoyles. The church has diagonal buttresses to support the tower whereas, in other churches within this group, angle buttresses are the norm. The buttresses, which finish in the belfry stage, support small detached shafts which rise upwards to form the outside subsidiary pinnacles of each corner cluster.\n\n\nIn the Victorian era, Hatch was connected to the national railway grid in 1866 as part of the Bristol and Exeter Railway. The village had a Chalet-style station, known as Hatch, on the Chard Branch Line which closed in 1963. In 1962, following the Beeching Report, railway services ceased to operate completely, although the railway station remains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107289", "title": "Tandem signaling", "text": "Tandem signaling\n\nTandem signaling is the two-step conversion of a digital signal into an analog signal, followed by the reverse conversion. While there is a universal standard for analog signal transmission, digital signals may employ a variety of sampling rates and encoding methods (codecs). Any differences in sampling rate or encoding between transmitter and receiver introduces errors or artifacts in the resulting signal. When speech is being transmitted, as in audio telephone calls, tandem signaling may produce unintelligible results. Tandem signaling is an important evaluation criterion in the evaluation of speech coders.\n\nMobile telephones use digital signals, while land lines terminate in analog signal systems. For historical reasons, mobile phone calls that cross network/carrier boundaries use an analog network backbone, and are converted from digital to analog signals on one network and converted back to digital signals on the receiving network.\n\nIf one phone uses a high-bitrate codec, and the other a low-bitrate, the user with the high-bitrate will be able to hear the user with the low-bitrate, but possibly not the reverse.\n\nEven if all phones used the same audio codec, packet retransmission and re-encoding are still required. When a user makes a call to a POTS phone, the audio is digitized into packets that are transmitted from the mobile device and are then decoded into 64 kbit/s PCM. This creates little extra noise, and if the mobile signal strength is sufficient, the user on the POTS line will be able to carry on a conversation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107299", "title": "Eddie Taylor", "text": "Eddie Taylor\n\nEddie Taylor (January 29, 1923 – December 25, 1985) was an American electric blues guitarist and singer.\n\nBorn Edward Taylor in Benoit, Mississippi, as a boy Taylor taught himself to play the guitar. He spent his early years playing at venues around Leland, Mississippi, where he taught his friend Jimmy Reed to play the guitar. With a guitar style deeply rooted in the Mississippi Delta tradition, Taylor moved to Chicago, Illinois, in 1949.\n\nTaylor never achieved the stardom of some of his contemporaries in the Chicago blues scene, he was nevertheless an integral part of that era. He is especially noted as a main accompanist for Jimmy Reed; he also worked for John Lee Hooker, Big Walter Horton, Sam Lay, and others. Earwig Music Company recorded him with Kansas City Red and Big John Wrencher for the album \"Original Chicago Blues\". He later teamed up with Earring George Mayweather, and they jointly recorded several tracks, including \"You'll Always Have a Home\" and \"Don't Knock at My Door\". Several of these were released as singles, of which \"Big Town Playboy\" and \"Bad Boy\", issued by Vee Jay Records, were local hits in the 1950s, but Taylor's singles generally were not commercially successful. Later, in \"semi-retirement\", Taylor was the regular lead guitarist with Peter Dames and the Chicago River Blues Band, later known as Peter Dames and the Rhythm Flames.\n\nTaylor played lead guitar on several songs (including the title track) on the album \"Be Careful How You Vote\" by Sunnyland Slim, and played live with Sunnyland Slim on some tour dates in the 1980s.\n\nTaylor's late son Eddie Taylor Jr. was a blues guitarist in Chicago, his stepson Larry Taylor is a blues drummer and vocalist, and his daughter Demetria is a blues vocalist in Chicago. Taylor's wife, Vera, was the niece of the bluesmen Eddie \"Guitar\" Burns and Jimmy Burns.\n\nTaylor died on Christmas Day in 1985 in Chicago, at the age of 62, and was interred in Restvale Cemetery in Alsip, Illinois. He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107302", "title": "Lugworm", "text": "Lugworm\n\nThe lugworm or sandworm (\"Arenicola marina\") is a large marine worm of the phylum Annelida. Its coiled castings are a familiar sight on a beach at low tide but the animal itself is rarely seen except by those who, from curiosity or to use as fishing bait, dig the worm out of the sand.\n\nIn the UK the lugworm species \"Arenicola marina\" is commonly called blow lugworm, and rarely exceeds 130mm (roughly 5 inches). There is a second species of UK lugworm \"Arenicola defodiens\" commonly called black lugworm. As well as growing larger than blow lugworm (in line with descriptions for Europe and North America lugworm below) they are generally much darker, often totally black. They can be distinguished by the different wormcasts they produce - \"Arenicola defodiens\" makes a spiral cast, while that of \"Arenicola marina\" is jumbled. \n\nWhen fully grown, the lugworm of the coasts of Europe is up to long and in diameter. Other species on the North American coast range from . The body is like that of any typical annelid: ringed or segmented. Its head end, which is blackish-red and bears no tentacles or bristles, passes into a fatter middle part which is red. This in turn passes into a thinner yellowish-red tail end. The middle part has bristles along its sides and also pairs of feathery gills. There is a well-developed system of blood vessels with red blood rich in the oxygen-carrying pigment, haemoglobin.\n\nA lugworm lives in a U-shaped burrow in sand. The U is made of an L-shaped gallery lined with mucus, from the toe of which a vertical unlined shaft runs up to the surface. This is a head shaft. At the surface the head shaft is marked by a small saucer-shaped depression. The tail shaft, from it, is marked by a highly coiled cast of sand. The lugworm lies in this burrow with its head at the base of the head shaft, swallowing sand from time to time. This makes the columns of sand drop slightly, so there is a periodic sinking of the sand in the saucer-shaped depression. When it first digs its burrow the lugworm softens the sand in its head shaft by pushing its head up into it with a piston action. After that the sand is kept loose by a current of water driven through the burrow from the hind end by the waves of contraction passing along the worm's body. It weighs . Lugworms also have hairs on the outside of their bodies that act as external gills. These can rapidly increase its uptake of oxygen. Lugworm blood has a large oxygen carrying capacity which may have medical applications.\n\nOnce it burrows into the sand a lugworm seldom leaves it. It can stay there for weeks on end, sometimes changing its position slightly in the sand. But it may leave the burrow completely and re-enter the sand, making a fresh burrow for breeding but for 2 days in early October there is a genital crisis. This is when all the lugworms liberate their ova and sperms into the water above, and there the ova are fertilized. The ova are enclosed in tongue-shaped masses of jelly about 8 inches long, 3 inches wide and 1 inch thick. Each mass is anchored at one end. The larvae hatching from the eggs feed on the jelly and eventually break out when they have grown to a dozen segments and are beginning to look like their parents. They burrow into the sand, usually higher up the beach than the adults, and gradually move down the beach as they get older.\n\nA singing lugworm figures in \"The Man Who Dreamed of Faeryland\" by William Butler Yeats:\n\nCartoonist Piers Baker created a syndicated comic strip called \"Ollie and Quentin\", with a buddy storyline about Ollie, a seagull and Quentin, a lugworm. The strip originated in the UK in 2002, with King Features Syndicate introducing it to international syndication in early 2008. Baker considers the strip \"an homage to all the poor lugworms that he used as bait while sea fishing in his youth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2107305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107305", "title": "Scientology and sexual orientation", "text": "Scientology and sexual orientation\n\nScientology and its perspectives on sexual orientation are based on the writings of L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology. His statements about homosexuality have led critics to assert that Scientology promotes homophobia, though these allegations are disputed by some Scientologists.\n\nIn 1950 Hubbard published \"\", introducing his \"science of the mind,\" Dianetics. He classified homosexuality as an illness or sexual perversion, citing contemporary psychiatric and psychological textbooks to support his view:\nHubbard further defined perversion in his 1951 book \"Science of Survival: Prediction of Human Behavior\", where he introduced the concept of the \"tone scale\", a means of classifying individuals and human behavior on a chart running from +40 (the most beneficial) to -40 (the least beneficial). Sexual perversion, a category in which he included homosexuality, was termed \"covert hostility\" and given a score of 1.1, \"the level of the pervert, the hypocrite, the turncoat, ...the subversive.\" He considered such people to be \"skulking coward[s] who yet contain enough perfidious energy to strike back, but not enough courage ever to give warning.\"\n\nHe characterized \"promiscuity, perversion, sadism, and irregular practices\" as well as \"free love, easy marriage and quick divorce\" as being undesirable activities, \"since it is non-survival not to have a well ordered system for the creation and upbringing of children, by families.\" Such \"sexual perverts\" engaged in \"irregular practices which do anything but tend toward the creation of children\" and \"efforts [which] tend not towards enjoyment but toward the pollution and derangement of sex itself so as to make it as repulsive as possible to others and so to inhibit procreation.\"\n\nHubbard's 1951 book \"Handbook for Preclears\" likewise classified homosexuality as \"about 1.1 (covert hostility) on the tone scale\", along with \"general promiscuity\". He set out what he saw as the cause of homosexuality: a mental \"aberration\", with the result that \"an individual aberrated enough about sex will do strange things to be a cause or an effect. He will substitute punishment for sex. He will pervert others. Homosexuality comes from this manifestation and from the manifestation of life continuation for others.\" The \"aberration\" was caused by a child trying to \"continue the life\" of a dominant parent of the opposite sex.\n\nHubbard's views on homosexuality were further explained in a 1972 book by Scientologist Ruth Minshull, \"How To Choose Your People\", which was published through the Church of Scientology, copyrighted to Hubbard, and given \"issue authority\" by the Scientology hierarchy. Scientology churches sold the book alongside the works of Hubbard until 1983. Minshull described the \"gentle-mannered homosexual\" as a classic example of the \"subversive\" 1.1 personality, commenting that they \"may be fearful, sympathetic, propitiative, griefy or apathetic. Occasionally they manage an ineffectual tantrum.\" Minshull claimed they were social misfits:\nHomosexuals had no redeeming \"social value,\" in Minshull's view. She cautioned that \"homosexuals should not be abused or ridiculed. But a society bent on survival must recognize any aberration as such and seek to raise people out of the low emotion that produces it.\"\n\nJon Atack notes that L. Ron Hubbard's son Quentin Hubbard was homosexual. According to Atack, L. Ron Hubbard had repeatedly announced that his son Quentin would succeed him after his death, but Quentin died of an apparent suicide in 1976.\n\nThere is some evidence that Hubbard's Dianetics movement sought to use Dianetics to \"cure\" homosexuality. In January 1951, the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation of Elizabeth, NJ published \"Dianetic Processing: A Brief Survey of Research Projects and Preliminary Results\", a booklet providing the results of psychometric tests conducted on 88 people undergoing Dianetics therapy. It presents case histories and a number of X-ray plates to support claims that Dianetics had cured \"aberrations\" including bipolar disorder, asthma, arthritis, colitis, and \"overt homosexuality,\" and that after Dianetic processing, test subjects experienced significantly increased scores on a standardized IQ test.\n\nIn Hubbard's 1951 book \"Handbook for Preclears\", he set out instructions for Dianeticists to \"cure\" homosexuality. After claiming that the cause of homosexuality was a fixation on a dominant parent of the opposite sex, he advised, \"Break this life continuum concept by running sympathy and grief for the dominant parent and then run off the desires to be an effect and their failures and the homosexual is rehabilitated.\"\n\nHubbard urged society to tackle the issue of \"sexual perversion\" (including homosexuality), calling it \"of vital importance, if one wishes to stop immorality, and the abuse of children.\" In \"Science of Survival\", he called for drastic action to be taken against sexual perverts, whom he rated as \"1.1 individuals\":\nIn later years, Hubbard sought to distance himself from efforts to regulate the sexual affairs of lay Scientologists. In a 1967 policy letter, he declared: \"It has never been any part of my plans to regulate or to attempt to regulate the private lives of individuals. Whenever this has occurred, it has not resulted in any improved condition...Therefore all former rules, regulations and policies relating to the sexual activities of Scientologists are cancelled.\" Members of the Sea Org remained under strict rules according to a 1978 order.\n\nAlthough Hubbard's views on homosexuality remain unamended in modern editions of Scientology books, gay Scientologists have argued that Hubbard and the Church have set aside any anti-homosexual views expressed in the past. In 2003, in the city of Los Angeles, the Church of Scientology sponsored a Multathlon for Human Rights and Tolerance. Keith Relkin, a gay activist and Scientologist, turned over a rainbow flag to the team captain who was running 250 miles through the metropolis. The American Church of Scientology published a press release on its website quoting gay activist Keith Relkin as saying, \"Over the years I have worked with the Church of Scientology for greater inclusion of gay people like me, and today represents a milestone in that progress.\" Paul Haggis, a Hollywood screenwriter and director, publicly left Scientology in October 2009, claiming that the San Diego branch of the Church of Scientology gave its support to California Proposition 8, which sought to ban same-sex marriage. Haggis wrote to Tommy Davis, the Church's spokesman, and requested that he denounce their support for Prop 8. However, the Church disputes this, with Davis stating, \"Church of Scientology San Diego had been put on a list of churches that supported Proposition 8 out in California. It was incorrectly included and named when it should have never been on the list to begin with.\" Davis also stated that the inclusion of the San Diego branch on the list supporting Prop. 8 was the work of a single employee, who was removed from his post and the Church's name taken off the list.\n\nA 2004 article in the \"St. Petersburg Times\" reported that the Church defines marriage as the union between a man and a woman.\n\nMelissa M. Wilcox, professor in Religious Studies at UC Riverside, notes in \"Introduction to New and Alternative Religions in America\" that while present-day detractors of Scientology accuse it of homophobia, government suspicion in the early days of Scientology apparently included accusations of homosexuality. In response to a query by her about the Church's current position, the Church of Scientology in 2005 stated:\nAn official Scientology website states, \"The second dynamic is the urge toward existence as a future generation. It has two compartments: sex; and the family unit, including the rearing of children.\" \"A culture will go by the boards if its basic building block, the family, is removed as a valid building block. So one can be fairly sure that he who destroys marriage destroys the civilization.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2107308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107308", "title": "Eliyahu Bet-Zuri", "text": "Eliyahu Bet-Zuri\n\nEliyahu Bet-Zuri ( 10 February 1922 – 22 March 1945) was a member of Lehi, who was executed in Egypt for his part in the assassination of Lord Moyne, the British Minister Resident in the Middle East.\n\nBet-Zuri was born in Tel Aviv to Esther and Moshe Bet-Zuri. He was from a Mizrahi-Jewish family that had lived in Palestine for many generations. He had five siblings. His father was the Postmaster of Tiberias, a predominantly Jewish city with a significant Arab population, and was fluent in Arabic besides Hebrew. As a child, he served as a runner for a Haganah detachment, carrying ammunition, messages, and rations between Haganah posts. Through his friend Uzzi Ornan, Bet-Zuri knew Uzzi's brother, the poet Yonatan Ratosh, and was influenced by his opinions. Bet Zuri attended the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He also joined the Irgun, but later left that movement to join the Lehi.\n\nIn 1944, Bet Zuri suggested assassinating British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and other highly placed British political personalities, according to secret files not publicly released by MI5 until April 2011.\n\nBet-Zuri pressed his commanders to be sent on a planned mission to assassinate Lord Moyne in Cairo. Although he lacked operational experience, it was judged that his dedication and determination would compensate for it. He was sent to Cairo along with Eliyahu Hakim to carry out the assassination.\n\nOn 6 November 1944, Bet Zuri and Hakim carried out their plan. While Hakim fatally shot Moyne, Bet-Zuri shot and killed his army driver, Lance Corporal A.T. Fuller. They were caught trying to escape on bicycles and put on trial before a military court. At the trial, Bet-Zuri gave a decidedly nationalist speech, inspired by the Canaanite movement in Palestine:\n\n\"We do not recognize England's right to give us Palestine or take it away from us. Let me make clear to the court: My ideas are not Zionist ideas. We don't fight to uphold the Balfour Declaration. We don't fight for the sake of the National Home. We fight for our freedom. In our country a foreign power rules.\"<br>\n\"Millions sank in the sea of blood and tears, but the British skipper did not lift them to the ship. And if a few of the survivors held on to the bow of the ship, he, the British skipper, pushed them back into the sea. And we in our homeland had no choice but to surrender or fight. We decided to fight.\nHe and Hakim were both sentenced to death. They were hanged in Cairo on 22 March 1945, singing Hatikvah, the song which would become the Israeli anthem, from the gallows.\n\nTwenty-seven years later, Yitzhak Shamir, who had as their Lehi commander despatched them on their mission, lobbied Yitzhak Rabin's Labour Government to obtain their bodies as part of an exchange of prisoners between Egypt and Israel after the Yom Kippur War. On 25 June 1975, Egypt duly gave their remains to Israel in exchange for 20-25 Arab prisoners of war held in Israel. They were interred on Mount Herzl with full military honours. The Ministry of Education supplied all Israeli schools with brochures explaining their acts and motives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107313", "title": "Kingston St Mary", "text": "Kingston St Mary\n\nKingston St Mary is a village and parish in Somerset, England, situated at the southern end of the Quantock Hills north of Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district. The village has a population of 921.\n\nThe parish includes the hamlets of Yarford which includes the grade II Cutley Farmhouse and Fulford where Fulford House was built about 1830, which has been designated by English Heritage as a grade II listed building.\n\nThe first part of the village name comes from \"the kings settlement\" having belonged to the kings of the West Saxons before being ceded to the Bishop of Winchester as part of the manor of Taunton Deane, with the church's dedication being added in the 20th century.\n\nThe parish of Kingston was part of the Taunton Deane Hundred.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of Taunton Deane, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Taunton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Taunton Deane county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nThe manor house on Lodes Lane dates from around 1560. It was originally known as Lodes and was probably built for Robert Knight whose descendants subsequently altered it.\n\nTetton House dates from 1790 and was enlarged and mainly rebuilt in 1924-6 by Harry Stuart Goodhart-Rendel for H M Herbert.\n\nThe Grange was built around 1862, by Sir George Gilbert Scott for Mr Steele Perkins, and was visited by the future prime minister Anthony Eden during his holidays. It was later converted into an old peoples home. It is unlikely that the Grange was built by Scott but according to letters from Scott's architect Richard Coad, Scott did 'trifling alterations to a small house for Mr Perkins'.\n\nKingston St Mary, has long been home to a country & folk music festival located at Yarford Farm, named Yarstock. Having run since the mid 2000s, the festival has taken on cult status in some circles. 2019 however, sees a break in the festival, as Yarford Farm will be hosting the Wedding Reception of local celebrity Katie O'Lone, who is marrying a younger man named Graeme Earle, lineage unknown.\n\nThe Church of St Mary in Kingston St Mary on the Quantock Hills dates from the 13th century but the tower is from the early 16th century and was reroofed in 1952, with further restoration 1976–8. It is a 3-stage crenellated tower, with crocketed pinnacles with bracketed pinnacles set at angles, decorative pierced merlons, and set back buttresses crowned with pinnacles. The decorative \"hunky-punks\" are perched high on the corners. There may be so named because the carvings are hunkering (squatting) and punch (short and thick). They serve no function, unlike gargoyles which carry off water. The churchyard includes tombs of the Warre family who owned nearby Hestercombe House.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107314", "title": "Life in Dreaming", "text": "Life in Dreaming\n\nLife in Dreaming is Hidden in Plain View's first full-length album, released on February 22, 2005 by Drive-Thru Records. It was originally scheduled for an August 2004 release, but was postponed until February 2005 to gain time for promotion. The album includes an Enhanced CD portion with video footage of a live performance of \"Twenty Below\" at Chain Reaction in Anaheim, California and a making-of featurette.\n\nDuring the recording session, two additional songs were recorded, which the band originally wrote in late 2001. \"Hot & Sexy\" was released on the B-side of the British vinyl single for \"Ashes Ashes\". The other track, \"To Your Grave\", remains unreleased. The Japanese edition of the album features none of these as bonus tracks, but two tracks which were originally released on the in-Japan-unavailable \"Hidden in Plain View\" EP.\n\nThe album was released on limited edition vinyl by Company Ink Records and Drive-Thru Records in March 2013.\n\n\nJapanese bonus tracks:\n"}
{"id": "2107315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107315", "title": "Anthony Frost", "text": "Anthony Frost\n\nAnthony Frost (born 1951) is a British painter noted for his abstract works consisting of brightly coloured prints and collages.\n\nFrost was born in St. Ives, Cornwall, the son of Sir Terry Frost. From 1970 to 1973 he studied at the Cardiff College of Art gaining a BA (Hons) in Fine Art. His work featured in the \"Art Now Cornwall\" exhibition at Tate St Ives in 2007.\n\nHe has been Artist-in-residence at the Cyprus College of Art, Paphos and the Montmiral School of Painting, France.\n\nFrost is a fan of The Fall and his work appears on a number of their record covers, most notably \"Extricate\".\n\nThe painter's works are included in the public art collections of the Kasser Mochary Foundation, New York and King's College, Cambridge.\n\nFrost works at a studio in Penzance and lives in the hamlet of Rosemergy. He is the brother of actor and comedian Stephen Frost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107318", "title": "Pasiphaeidae", "text": "Pasiphaeidae\n\nPasiphaeidae is a family of shrimp. It is the only family in the superfamily Pasiphaeoidea and contains seven extant genera:\n"}
{"id": "2107319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107319", "title": "Dedee Pfeiffer", "text": "Dedee Pfeiffer\n\nDorothy Diane \"Dedee\" Pfeiffer (born January 1, 1964) is an American film and television actress.\n\nPfeiffer was born on January 1, 1964, in Midway City, California, the daughter of Donna (née Taverna), a homemaker, and Richard Pfeiffer, a heating and air-conditioning contractor. She is the younger sister of actress Michelle Pfeiffer. Her parents were both originally from North Dakota.\n\nPfeiffer began her acting career at the age of 21 with a 1985 appearance on \"Simon & Simon\", an American detective television series starring Gerald McRaney and Jameson Parker. That same year, Pfeiffer made her movie debut in \"Into the Night\", a 1985 American comedy-thriller film directed by John Landis, playing a prostitute opposite Jeff Goldblum and her sister Michelle. Pfeiffer's first nude role came in a 1989 shower scene for the supernatural horror film \"The Horror Show,\" and she later went on to pose nude for \"Playboy\"'s February 2002 edition.\n\nAlong with acting on stage, Pfeiffer starred in many films and on TV. One of her best-known TV roles is on Cybill Shepherd's television series \"Cybill\", as her daughter, Rachel Blanders, from 1995–1997. She also starred in the TV series \"For Your Love\" from 1998 to 2002. She starred with Susanna Hoffs in the 1987 film \"The Allnighter\" and has made guest appearances on the TV shows \"Simon & Simon\", \"Ellen\", \"Seinfeld\", \"Friends\", \"Dream On\", \"\", and \"The Dead Zone\", among others.\n\nIn 2020, Pfeiffer will play the role of Denise Brisbane in the ABC crime drama series \"Big Sky\" which was created with her brother-in-law by David E. Kelley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107322", "title": "Julian Gardner (poker player)", "text": "Julian Gardner (poker player)\n\nJulian Gardner is a poker player from Manchester, England.\n\nGardner is a second-generation professional, following in the footsteps of his father Dave. He started going to a local casino at the age of 15. By the time he was 20 he had won 10 tournaments. By 21, he had made 25 final tables.\n\nIn 2000 he entered the World Series of Poker (WSOP) main event for the first time. He tripled up within two hours to become the early chip leader. However, he was unable to make it through that day. Gardner was unable to attend the tournament in 2001.\n\nAt the age of 24, he finished second in the main event of the 2002 World Series of Poker, becoming the youngest player ever to win $1 million in a poker tournament. Gardner also finished in the money at the main event in 2003 and 2004, making him the only player to finish in the money in 2002, 2003 and 2004. He qualified for the 2005 WSOP on the website Betfair. Although he did not make it into the money in the 2005 Main Event, he made 4 money finishes in other events, including the $5,000 No Limit Hold-Em tournament won by T. J. Cloutier and the $1,500 Pot Limit Omaha tournament won by Barry Greenstein. Gardner also cashed in the 2007 main event coming in 64th place for $130,288.\n\nGardner also made appearances on the \"Late Night Poker\" television series. He was also a member of the winning British team in the Poker Nations Cup. He is the co-author of the book \"The Secrets of Online Power Poker\".\n\nAs of 2015, his total live tournament winnings exceed $2,400,000. His 14 cashes at the WSOP account for $1,688,876 of those winnings. He finished 3rd at the final table at Poker Million VI winning his biggest prize since the 2002 WSOP, $250,000.\n\nGardner is engaged to poker player Kerry \"Pint Size\" Clarke. They both reached the semi-final of the 2005 888.com UK Poker Open, where Gardner eliminated her.\n"}
{"id": "2107324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107324", "title": "Henry Hugh Armstead", "text": "Henry Hugh Armstead\n\nHenry Hugh Armstead (London 18 June 18284 December 1905 London) was an English sculptor and illustrator, influenced by the Pre-Raphaelites.\n\nArmstead was born in Bloomsbury, central London, the son of John Armstead, a chaser and heraldic engraver. He trained first under his father, then at the Government School of Design at Somerset House and afterwards at private art schools. He also studied with Edward Hodges Baily.\n\nAt the age of eighteen he went to work for the silversmiths Hunt and Roskell, where the works he later made included the \"Kean Testimonial\", a set of nine pieces of silver presented to the actor Charles Kean, and the \"Outram Shield\" (1862), made for presentation to Lieutenant-General Sir James Outram. He both made the clay models for the objects, and chased the cast silver.\n\nIn the late 1850s Armstead was commissioned to make a statue of Aristotle in Caen stone for the Museum of Natural History in Oxford. After this he increasingly concentrated on sculpture rather than metalwork. He designed a set of friezes for the exterior of Eatington Hall, as part of its remodelling in 1858–62; they were carved by Edward Clarke, Commissions for work at the Palace of Westminster, and the Albert Memorial helped Armstead to establish his reputation. He subsequently executed a large number of public statues, funerary works and other architectural schemes.\nAt the Palace of Westminster he carved eighteen oak panels in the Queens's Robing Room illustrating the legend of King Arthur beneath a series of murals by William Dyce.\n\nArmstead worked closely with George Gilbert Scott on the Albert memorial from an early stage in the design process, making small scale models of the projected sculptural groups for Scott's architectural model. When it came to the sculpture on the actual monument, he was chosen to make half of the Frieze of Parnassus, a representation of 169 major cultural figures carved out of hard Canpanella marble. Armstead carved the poets and musicians and artists on the south side of the monument, and the painters on the east. The other two sides were executed by John Birnie Philip. Armstead took great care over the details of the subjects, asking surviving friends of Goethe, Beethoven and Mendelsohn for advice, and working from Weber's death-mask. The sculpture was carved \"in situ\", out of blocks already installed in the podium of the monument, rather than in the studio. The relief was completed, and the sculptors' temporary sheds removed, in 1872. Armstead also made some of the bronze statues symbolising the sciences on the upper levels of the memorial; the others were by Philip.\n\nWith John Birnie Philip, he worked on the external sculptural decorations of Scott's colonial office in Whitehall. Armstead also sculpted the large fountain at King's College, Cambridge (1874–79), incorporating a statue of its founder, Henry IV, and numerous effigies, such as Bishop Wilberforce at Winchester, and Lord John Thynne at Westminster Abbey.\n\nHe was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy in 1875 and a full member in 1880. \n\nArmstead was living at 44 St Paul's Road, Camden in 1865. He Lived at 57 Camden Square from 1871 to 1883. He died at his home 52 Circus Road, St John's Wood in north London on 4 December 1905.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107325", "title": "Lady Isle", "text": "Lady Isle\n\nLady Isle is a small, uninhabited island, in the Firth of Clyde, Scotland. It was once home to a chapel dedicated to Saint Mary. The island features a lighthouse and a freshwater spring.\n\nLady Isle lies some 2 miles [3.2 km] SW of Troon. The island is around 0.6 kilometres along its length and rises to a maximum height of just 6 metres. \"Half tide\", \"Scart rocks\" and \"Seal rock\" are associated with Lady Isle. The island lies in the parish of Dundonald in South Ayrshire.\n\nTimothy Pont's map of 1604 - 1608 published in 1654 by Joan Blaeu, marks Lady Isle by that name and indicates that a structure is present on the island, presumably the chapel. In c. 1636 - 1662 Robert Gordon's manuscript map marks the isle as 'Lady Yle' and shows two islands. \nJohn Adair in his 1686 \"A mape of the west of Scotland containing Clydsdail, Nithsdail, Ranfrew, Shyre of Ayre, & Galloway.\" shows Lady Isle as \"Mary Isle\" and indicates a chapel as being located on the island. In 1745 Moll used the name Lady Isle.\n\nWhen Edward I of England came to Ayr in 1299 following the burning of the Barns of Ayr, Hermingford, an old chronicler of the period, records that:\n\nIt is thought that the name \"Isle of Ayr\" refers to Lady Isle.\n\nThe \"Geographical Collections relating to Scotland\" state:\n\nLady Isle is probably first mentioned in the title of William Fullarton of that Ilk, in his Charter under the Great Seal by William III, dated 9 December 1695, which included \"the five pound land of Aldtoun containing the little isle, opposite the lands of Corsbie, called the Lady-isl\".\nThe island came into the possession of William Fullarton in 1698 and was purchased by the Marquess of Titchfield in 1805. When the Marquess was elevated to become the Duke of Portland the island was part of the Duke's Fullarton Estate.\n\nOne suggestion is that the name \"Lady\" is actually derived from the Scottish Gaelic word \"Laidh\", meaning a 'ship's course'. Lady Isle has probably always been important to navigators as is shown by the fact that in the 17th century, the Magistrates of Glasgow built two stone pillars on the Isle, and lining them up from the east gave a good anchorage from a north west gale.\n\nWilliam Taylor, a member of a pleasure party from Ayr in the 1890s was hit by lightning during a storm and was killed instantly. He left a wife and three children.\n\nIn June, 1821, someone set fire to the \"turf and pasture\", and this act permanently destroyed the island's grazing, with gales blowing much of the island's soil into the sea. It is only slowly recovering. In June 1829, the Isle was let to Mr. William Fullarton of Skeldon, who restocked the Isle with rabbits. Fullarton built a house or lodge of some sort. The building was broken into several times and eventually a family of fishermen from Troon were arrested, tried and given a relatively small fine.\n\nLady Isle was at one time connected with an ancient ecclesiastical establishment near Adamton, called Lady Kirk, and situated about four miles north of Ayr. As stated, a chapel was built, here dedicated to the Virgin Mary and endowed by John Blair in 1446 with the common land of Adamton. John Adair's map indicates a religious building as being located in the centre of the island and Pont also indicates a structure of some sort, well before any beacons were built. John Adair uses the name \"Mary Isle\" for the island, suggesting that this pre-reformation (c.1560s) 'chapel', like so many others, was dedicated to Saint Mary. It is more than likely that the beacons were built using stones from this chapel or 'cell' and no signs now remain of this ecclesiastical structure. When the bird observatory and warden's post was being built, the architect noted that there were signs of some sort of ancient ecclesiastical building on the island.\n\nThe town of Glasgow (c. 1776) set up a pair of beacons on Lady Isle to indicate the position of the anchorage, which was situated to the east or inshore, for the benefit of ships serving its merchants. This information is given on Armstrong's 1775 map. John Thomson's 1828 map marks two 'towers', one where the present 'beacon' stands and the other at the site of the present lighthouse. Herman Moll in 1745 shows no features at all on his map, but marks two islands.\n\nThe lighthouse was built on the site of one of the beacons and therefore the remaining 18th-century 'beacon' when aligned with the lighthouse continued to allow mariners to follow a safe course to a sheltered anchorage. Ships of over 220 tons, too large to enter the harbours of Saltcoats [NS24SW 44.00], Irvine [NS33NW 40.00] or Ayr [NS32SW 123.00] could find anchorage in 10 to 14 fathoms [18 to 26m] in an area east of, and covered by Lady Isle [name: NS 275 293].\n\nLady Isle is home to an interesting lighthouse. Established in 1903 the lighthouse is not the standard round tower type but rather consists of a platform built on buttresses with an exterior stairwell. The light is still used as a navigational aid (Fl(4)30s19m8M) and is managed by the Northern Lighthouse Board. An X/S Band racon radar beacon, with S Band emissions restricted to landward is also on the lighthouse. A small wooden storage hut sits beside the lighthouse, rather oddly inscribed Social Security Appeals Tribunal. A large white horizontal cylinder used to hold the gas supply for the lighthouse light which was converted to electricity during the refurbishment and solarisation in around 2004. Regarding the approach to the island, mariners have to beware the drying rock all around the island up to 2 cables to the northeast (see the map).\n\nLady Isle is owned by the Marquess of Ailsa and was for many years leased out as a bird sanctuary with a bird observatory and warden's post built and run by the Scottish Society for the Protection of Wild Birds (SSPWB). Common terns and Arctic terns used to nest here and roseate terns had been observed on many occasions. The observatory carries a sign saying that it was built \"In memory of Johnny Warren, honorary warden Lady Isle Sanctuary Troon who died 24 May 1958\".\n\nLady Isle is said to have been Britain's first seabird reserve. The Scottish Natural Heritage has designated the island as a \"Wild Bird Sanctuary\" under the Protection of Birds Act 1954 and as an \"Area of Special Protection\", together with Horse Isle off Ardrossan. Scart rock off the island is named from the Scots for a cormorant. Mr. Donald J. Cameron, was the architect for the SSPWB and he informed their Secretary that there were signs of some sort of ancient ecclesiastical building on the island.\n\nA freshwater well or spring lies in a rock cut basin in the middle of the island. This may be entirely natural or partly so, as place name and other evidence suggests that a chapel once existed here and a supply of freshwater would have been essential. Sheep were once grazed here and they would have required a good supply of freshwater, as would the rabbits which still survive (1993). Two elder bushes were growing over the well / spring during the 1993 Scottish Wildlife Trust visit.\n\nAn Ordnance Survey trig point has been placed on the island, just in front of the bird observatory, indicating the 6m height point. This Trig point is a truncated square concrete pyramid, generally known as a Hotine Pillar. On the top is a brass plate with three arms and a central depression is fixed. A benchmark is set on the side, marked with the letters \"O S B M\" (Ordnance Survey Bench Mark) and the reference number. Within the trig point are concealed mountings for a specialized theodolite, which can be temporarily mounted on the trig point for measurements to be taken.\n\nOn 24 September 2000 a small group of Trig point enthusiasts visited the island as part of a quest to visit one trig point of every height in metres in Scotland, making 749 in total.\n\nA few ships have come to grief on the island, however the crews were easily rescued. It is said that there are the remains of a great many shipwrecks round the Isle. An old story relates that one of the Spanish Armada ships was wrecked here, and sank in deep water. A local sorceress, named as Elcine de Aggart, is said to have used a ball of yarn and spells to cause the ship to wreck itself on the island and it is further recorded that the ship was that of none other than Vice-Admiral Alcarede. The galleon is said to have been carrying a gold throne on board, a gift to King Phillip of Spain. Troon men made many attempts to bring the Spanish treasures to the surface, but without success.\n\nA professional Dutch diver was supposedly hired to do the salvage job, making his headquarters on the isle, with a store ship standing by. Upon discovering the wreck and entering he found the golden throne, on which was seated, a gigantic figure who rose and came towards him. When the diver grasped the hand of the figure, instead of a hand, he found that he was grasping a cloven hoof! He escaped the scene with his life and some of his wits intact, however no one has attempted further salvage attempts. One of the Masters of a Kilwinning Lodge was presented with a wooden mallet which had been made with wood from one of the Armada ships which had been wrecked on the Ayrshire coast.\n\nApart from the large numbers of gulls, eiders nest on the island. Shags and oystercatchers are frequently seen. A population of rabbits survive with partially collapsed burrows criss-crossing the parts of the islet with have a significant depth of soil. In the Statistical Account of Scotland of 1791,\nunder the Article on the Parish of Ayr, it confirms that the Isle is inhabited by rabbits. A large number of the common snail, \"Cornu aspersum\" species were noted on the 1993 SWT visit. One odd feature of the island was the very large numbers of animal bones, mostly of mammal origin, brought here by the gulls.\n\nSeals are frequently seen on the island and the associated rocks,one of which is called Seal Rock. A Mr. William Allasson of Troon was tenant of the isle in 1811, and he was hindered by the large number of people who landed on the isle, causing damage to his flock of sheep, and stealing the rabbits. Lobsters were plentiful amongst the surrounding rocks and in the past the Duke of Portland went to considerable trouble to try and prevent 'poaching' of the lobsters as he saw it.\n\nElder bushes grow near the freshwater spring and sea pinks are very common. As previously stated, a fire in the 19th-century resulted in the loss of much of the island's soil, the wind blowing it into the sea. The island has been designated site number 8725, an 'Area of Special Protection' by Scottish Natural Heritage.\n\nSmith records sea mouse-ear (\"Cerastium diffusum\"), narrow-leaved mouse-ear (\"Cerastium triviale\"), sea-pearlwort (\"Sagina maritimum\"), corn spurrey (\"Spergula arvensis\"), greater sea-spurrey (\"Spergularia media\"), dovesfoot cranesbill (\"Geranium molle\"), common stork's-bill (\"Erodium cicutarium\"), common vetch (\"Vicia sativa\"), bramble (\"Rubus fruticosus\"), common silverweed (\"Argentina anserina\"), marsh cinquefoil (\"Potentilla palustris\"), and English stonecrop (\"Sedum anglicum\") for Lady Isle in the 1890s.\n\nIt was proposed that the Scottish Wildlife Trust might take over the isle as a reserve, however the decline of the tern colony led to this proposal being rejected. The hypothesis that the gulls were responsible for the loss of the terns is unfounded. It is more likely, though not certain, that the reduction in breeding terns across the whole of the Clyde area is due to a combination of reduced feeding grounds and limited habitats suitable for breeding due to human development. Members visited the island on 19 May 1993 to assess its value as a reserve, taking the boat from Troon harbour which regularly visits the island to maintain the lighthouse.\n\nIn the late 1950s a coastal cargo carrying Ex VIC 9 ship named 'Lady Isle' still plied its trade in Scottish waters. VIC stands for Victualling Inshore Craft and these ships were technically steam coasting lighters or \"puffers\". 98 VICs were built for the ministry of war transport between 1941 and 1945; part of the enormous Government wartime shipbuilding programme. Lady Isle was built by Thorne Dunston of Doncaster in 1942 and she was sold by the admiralty in 1949.\n\nThis club has an annual Lady Isle race in support of the RNLIs Troon branch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107336", "title": "Stour Valley Way", "text": "Stour Valley Way\n\nThe Stour Valley Way is a long-distance footpath in southern England. From Stourton, Wiltshire, the path travels southeast through Dorset to Hengistbury Head near Christchurch.\n\nThe path uses public rights of way and permitted paths to follow the course of the River Stour. About from Stourton, beyond White Cross, the path crosses briefly to the Somerset bank of the river where it intersects the east-west Monarch's Way footpath, then enters Dorset north of Bourton. The route later passes through the towns of Wimborne and Gillingham, and the villages of Silton, Milton-on-Stour, Ecclife, West Stour, Stour Provost, Fifehead Magdalen, Marnhull, Sturminster Newton, Child Okeford, Stourpaine, Bryanston, Blandford St. Mary, Charlton Marshall, Shapwick, Oakley, Canford Magna, Knighton, Dudsbury and Holdenhurst.\n\nThere are ferry crossings between Hengistbury Head and Christchurch town quay or Mudeford quay.\n\nThe path has two alternative sections which can be used to form circular walks: one to the southwest of Wimborne, and the other to the southwest of Bournemouth Airport.\n\nThe footpath is waymarked and is shown as a series of coloured diamonds on Ordnance Survey 1:25,000 and 1:50,000 maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107339", "title": "Suzuki Wagon R", "text": "Suzuki Wagon R\n\nThe is a kei car manufactured and marketed by Suzuki since 1993. The R in the name stands for Revolution and Relaxation (not Racing). The Wagon R uses a \"tall wagon\" configuration to maximize cabin space within kei car dimensional restrictions.\n\nThe Wagon R has been the best-selling kei car in Japan since 2003. In 2008, Suzuki produced its three-millionth Wagon R. Sales reached 5 million at the end of February 2010.\n\nThe first generation Wagon R is high, or taller ( internally) than the JDM Suzuki Alto sold at the same time (which was exactly the same length and width). The R used the same 660 cc F6A three-cylinder engines as did the Alto and other Suzuki kei cars. Originally with two doors on the left side and a single door on the right (driver's) side, it was introduced at the 1993 Tokyo Motor Show. In August 1996 the more common, symmetrical five-door setup became available and soon supplanted the earlier body style. For model year 1994, it won the Automotive Researchers' and Journalists' Conference Car of the Year award in Japan.\n\nThe rebadged Mazda AZ Wagon was presented in September 1994. Also using the F6A engine, this model was marketed through Mazda's Autozam network as part of an OEM deal.\n\nA bigger first generation Wagon R, the Suzuki Wagon R+, was added in early 1997 and manufactured in Japan until the end of 2000 for the European market. The car featured a wider body and the K10A naturally aspirated engine with 996 cc and four-cylinders. The same Wagon R+ was also available with a 1.2 litre K12A engine.\n\n1998 saw the introduction of the second-generation Wagon R in Japan, with the redesign of the Wagon R+ and replacing it in 1999 - this was brought to Europe in 2000, with larger engines. This is also produced in Esztergom in Hungary by Magyar Suzuki and in Gurgaon, India by Maruti Suzuki. The Opel Agila is a badge engineered version of the Suzuki Wagon R+, also introduced in summer 2000. This generation of Maruti Suzuki Wagon R in India was produced until 2010.\n\nThe third generation Wagon R was launched in Japan in September 2003 for the Wagon R's tenth Anniversary, but now only as a 660 cc K6A-engined kei car - no oversized version (like the previous Wide and + versions) was developed. The third generation was then facelifted in September 2005 and replaced three years later.\n\nThe Stingray, first seen in February 2007, is a sportier version of the third generation Suzuki Wagon R. In addition to a more aggressive front end treatment, the Stingray also received clear taillights. Alloy wheels and an aero kit were also standard. The 660 cc engine was powered by a turbocharger, further enhancing the speed and acceleration. On average, the Stingray went from to in about 15 seconds.\n\nThe fourth generation Wagon R was launched in Japan in September 2008 along with the sportier Stingray, AZ-Wagon and AZ-Wagon Custom variant (the latter two manufactured for Mazda). Significant differences for the new generation include larger rear doors, which incorporate quarter glass, eliminating the need for a D pillar arrangement. Powertrain options include naturally aspirated and turbocharged 660 cc engines with the latter developing an output of , mated to a 4-speed automatic, a 5-speed manual transmission or a CVT. As with many other Japanese market models, customers can choose between front-wheel and all-wheel-drive versions.\n\nThe fifth generation Wagon R range was launched in Japan in September 2012 with an optional mild-hybrid system marketed as \"ENE-CHARGE,\" and an energy-saving electric air conditioning system marketed as \"ECO-COOL\". With the R06A engine combined with an electric motor/generator and a lithium-ion battery, the ENE-CHARGE provides regenerative braking and power assist to the internal combustion engine and can also run certain electrical equipment, enabling mileage up to 28.8 km/l in Japan's JC08 driving cycle (67.8 mpg US, 3.5 l/100 km EU or 81.4 mpg UK).\n\nFor Mazda variants, the fifth generation Wagon R models are marketed as Mazda Flair and Stingray models are rebadged as Mazda Flair Custom Style. Both the Flair and the Flair Custom Style were launched in October 2012.\n\nThe sixth generation Wagon R range was launched in Japan on 1 February 2017. The new Wagon R was leaked on the internet in January 2017. The new model closely resembles the first, second and third generation Wagon R, but is of a more updated design. This iteration comes with an upgraded ISG (integrated starter generator) and increased capacity for the hybrid battery. Due to the improved battery and ISG Wagon R is capable of driving alone on its hybrid battery up to 10 seconds if the speed is kept under .\n\nThe Wagon R-Wide, introduced in February 1997, is a slightly larger car, exceeding the kei car specifications, with larger engines: 996cc (K10A, 48 kW/88Nm), 996cc Turbo (JDM, New Zealand and Australia only, K10A, 73 kW/118Nm) and 1.2 (K12A, 51 kW/93Nm) litre engine. The Wagon R-Wide was sold as the Wagon R+ in the European market (also introduced in the same year) with the atmospheric versions of the 1.0 K10A and the 1.2 K12A. The only other tall wagon style car sold in Europe around the time of its introduction was the Daihatsu Move. The car was made in Japan. It was not galvanised and it was prone to rust, especially in the sills, after years of use in Central and Northern Europe. The Wagon R-Wide was slightly facelifted in May 1998, and this updated Wagon R-Wide was also sold in Europe under Wagon R+. In Europe, the first generation was sold from 1997 until May 2000.\n\nBetween 1999 and 2001 it was also built in Colombia by GM Colmotores, who sold it as the Chevrolet Wagon R+. This was equipped with the naturally aspirated K10A four-cylinder engine.\n\nIn Indonesia, the facelifted first generation Japanese Wagon R-Wide is called the Suzuki Karimun and was produced locally from 1999 until 2006 and offered with a 1000 cc petrol engine, whilst in China it forms the base for Changhe Beidouxing. The Big Dipper is available with an indigenously built 1.0 based on the old F10A, or with the more modern 1.4 liter K14B engine.\n\nThe Wagon R-Wide is succeeded by the Solio, which was initially named as the Wagon R Solio in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107340", "title": "112th Street Bridge", "text": "112th Street Bridge\n\nThe 112th Street Bridge is a bridge that carries New York State Route 470 across the Hudson River in New York. It connects Van Schaick Island in the city of Cohoes with the Lansingburgh neighborhood of Troy. The original bridge was built in 1922 and demolished in 1995. The newer version was completed in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107345", "title": "Fazıl Küçük", "text": "Fazıl Küçük\n\nFazıl Küçük (; ; 14 March 1906 – 15 January 1984) was a Turkish Cypriot politician who served as the first Vice President of the Republic of Cyprus.\n\nFazıl Küçük, the son of a farmer, was born in Nicosia in 1906. After graduating from the Turkish High School in Nicosia, Küçük went on to study medicine at the Universities of Istanbul, Lausanne and Paris. Having returned to Cyprus in 1937, he started a practice, but his interest in politics soon led to him to become a voice for Turkish Cypriot rights. In 1941 Küçük founded the newspaper \"Halkın Sesi\" (The Voice of the People) and became the managing editor. Due to his campaign against the British colonial administration, his paper was not given a permit for publication until 1942, the paper is still being published to this day.\n\nIn 1943, he became one of the founders of the \"Kıbrıs Adası; Türk Azınlık Kurumu\" (Association of the Turkish Minority of the Island of Cyprus – known as KATAK). The aim of the party was to promote the social, economic and political well being of the Turkish Cypriot people. Due to disagreements with some of its members, Küçük parted with KATAK and established the \"Kıbrıs Türk Milli Birlik Partisi\" (Turkish Cypriot National Union Party). Following a 15-year struggle, Küçük helped for the transfer of the \"Evkaf\" (a Turkish religious fund) from British to Turkish Cypriot control.\n\nDuring the 1959 London and Zurich Conferences for the creation of an independent Republic of Cyprus, Küçük represented the Turkish Cypriot community and was able to secure constitutional safeguards for the people. On December 3, 1959 Küçük was elected Vice President of the new Republic. Following Greek Cypriot attempts to modify the constitution (see Cyprus dispute), Küçük continued as the Vice President of the Republic of Cyprus until 1973 when he was succeeded by Rauf Denktaş. Despite ill health, Küçük continued to support Turkish Cypriots through his \"Halkın Sesi\" newspaper.\n\nKüçük died in a Westminster hospital on January 15, 1984, less than a year after the Unilateral declaration of Independence of the self-proclaimed Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. He was the uncle of former Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus prime minister, İrsen Küçük.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107349", "title": "Heterothermy", "text": "Heterothermy\n\nHeterothermy or heterothermia (from Greek ἕτερος \"heteros\" \"other\" and θέρμη \"thermē\" \"heat\") is a physiological term for animals that vary between self-regulating their body temperature, and allowing the surrounding environment to affect it. In other words, they exhibit characteristics of both poikilothermy and homeothermy.\n\nHeterothermic animals are those that can switch between poikilothermic and homeothermic strategies. These changes in strategies typically occur on a daily basis or on an annual basis. More often than not, it is used as a way to dissociate the fluctuating metabolic rates seen in some small mammals and birds (e.g. bats and hummingbirds), from those of traditional cold blooded animals. In many bat species, body temperature and metabolic rate are elevated only during activity. When at rest, these animals reduce their metabolisms drastically, which results in their body temperature dropping to that of the surrounding environment. This makes them homeothermic when active, and poikilothermic when at rest. This phenomenon has been termed 'daily torpor' and was intensively studied in the Djungarian hamster. During the hibernation season, this animal shows strongly reduced metabolism each day during the rest phase while it reverts to endothermic metabolism during its active phase, leading to normal euthermic body temperatures (around 38 °C).\n\nLarger mammals (e.g. ground squirrels) and bats show multi-day torpor bouts during hibernation (up to several weeks) in winter. During these multi-day torpor bouts, body temperature drops to ~1 °C above ambient temperature and metabolism may drop to about 1% of the normal endothermic metabolic rate. Even in these deep hibernators, the long periods of torpor is interrupted by bouts of endothermic metabolism, called arousals (typically lasting between 4–20 hours). These metabolic arousals cause body temperature to return to euthermic levels 35-37 °C. Most of the energy spent during hibernation is spent in arousals (70-80%), but their function remains unresolved.\n\nShallow hibernation patterns without arousals have been described in large mammals (like the black bear,) or under special environmental circumstances.\n\nRegional heterothermy describes organisms that are able to maintain different temperature \"zones\" in different regions of the body. This usually occurs in the limbs, and is made possible through the use of counter-current heat exchangers, such as the rete mirabile found in tuna and certain birds. These exchangers equalize the temperature between hot arterial blood going out to the extremities and cold venous blood coming back, thus reducing heat loss. Penguins and many arctic birds use these exchangers to keep their feet at roughly the same temperature as the surrounding ice. This keeps the birds from getting stuck on an ice sheet. Other animals, like the Leatherback Sea Turtle, use the heat exchangers to gather, and retain heat generated by their muscular flippers. There are even some insects which possess this mechanism (see insect thermoregulation), the best-known example being bumblebees, which exhibit counter-current heat exchange at the point of constriction between the mesosoma (\"thorax\") and metasoma (\"abdomen\"); heat is retained in the thorax and lost from the abdomen. Using a very similar mechanism, the internal temperature of a honeybee's thorax can exceed 45 °C while in flight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107353", "title": "The Holly Cousins", "text": "The Holly Cousins\n\nThe Holly Cousins, also known as The Hollys, were a professional wrestling tag team and, later, stable in the World Wrestling Federation between 1999 and 2001. It consisted of on-screen cousins Crash Holly, Hardcore Holly and Molly Holly.\n\nHardcore, who had debuted in the World Wrestling Federation in 1994, introduced his on-screen \"cousin\" Crash Holly on August 16, 1999. After arguing over who was the toughest Holly cousin, the pair brawled all over the arena for the rest of the show. They teamed up for the first time at SummerSlam, and spent the next few weeks alternating between being rivals and partners. From September on, the cousins started teaming together full-time, during which time they took to the gimmick of claiming themselves to be well over , so they could be considered \"superheavyweights\".\n\nOn October 18, 1999, on \"Raw is War\", Crash and Hardcore won the WWF World Tag Team Championship together, defeating the Rock 'n' Sock Connection, after Mankind refused to tag into the match, and Triple H interfered. They held the title for two weeks before dropping it back to Mankind and his new partner Al Snow on the November 4 episode of \"SmackDown!\".\n\nIn early 2000, the Holly cousins began feuding over the Hardcore title. Hardcore had first won the title in early 1999, before Crash's debut; however, Crash won it on February 22, 2000, defeating Test. The pair soon started fighting each other for the title including in the \"hardcore\" Battle royal at WrestleMania 2000, where Crash started off as the champion, but Hardcore left as champion. Crash regained the title the day after WrestleMania, and soon after this, the Holly cousins had their last match as a team for over six months.\n\nDuring these months Crash concentrated on the hardcore division, winning the title 22 times (after introducing the infamous \"24/7 rule\"), and earning the nickname \"the Houdini of Hardcore\". Hardcore legitimately broke his arm in a match against Kurt Angle and was sidelined for most of this time.\n\nIn October 2000, Crash started feuding with Test and Albert. This set up the debut of another \"cousin\", Molly Holly. She debuted on November 6, 2000, on \"Raw\", attacking Trish Stratus, who was managing T&A. This led to the Holly Cousins reuniting to feud with T & A and their manager, Trish Stratus.\n\nAlthough Hardcore and Crash had opportunities to win the Tag Team championship, they were never able to capitalize. They competed mainly in both the hardcore division and the tag title division for the next few months. Molly had multiple opportunities to win the Women's title, but was booked to lose them all.\n\nIn early 2001, the Hollys began feuding with the Dudley Boyz. In May 2001, Crash and Hardcore, along with Bubba and D-Von Dudley became concerned about Molly's burgeoning relationship with Spike Dudley. This led to the Hollys-Dudleys feud intensifying, with both Spike and Molly caught in the middle. On May 28, 2001, the Dudley Boys famously put Molly through a table, with Spike lying on the table to try and protect her. As Molly and Spike's relationship progressed, the feud between the Hollys and the Dudleys worsened.\n\nThis led to the final break-up of the Holly cousins, as Molly started accompanying Spike for his matches, Crash joined the Raw brand until 2003, and Hardcore was re-injured in September 2002.\n\nCrash competed on Raw and later traded to SmackDown! until his release from WWE on June 30, 2003. He later died on November 6, 2003. Molly eventually dumped Spike, and went on to become a two-time Women's champion. On April 12, 2005, Molly left the company and retired from full-time wrestling. Hardcore was the final Holly to be released from the company, on January 16, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107354", "title": "Luke Frost", "text": "Luke Frost\n\nHis work featured in the \"Art Now Cornwall\" exhibition, at Tate St Ives, 2007, and he was Artist in Residence at Tate St Ives in 2008 following with a solo show from 24 January to 4 May 2009 .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107363", "title": "Hechuan District", "text": "Hechuan District\n\nHechuan () is a district in the northern part of Chongqing Municipality, People's Republic of China, located at the meeting point of the Jialing, Fu and Qu rivers, with a history of 1,500 years. Hechuan is away from downtown Chongqing's Yuzhong District.\n\nHechuan was formerly a county-level city but was incorporated into Chongqing as a district in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2107369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107369", "title": "Olaf Ludwig", "text": "Olaf Ludwig\n\nOlaf Ludwig (born 13 April 1960 in Gera, Bezirk Gera) is a former German racing cyclist. His career began at the SG Dynamo Gera / Sportvereinigung (SV) Dynamo. As an East German, he raced as an amateur until reunification of Germany allowed him to become professional with Panasonic team. As a sprinter, the highlight of his career was winning the points classification in the 1990 Tour de France. Other highlights include the Olympic road race in Seoul in 1988, a record 38 stage victories in the Peace Race, winning the Amstel Gold Race in 1992, and podium placings in the Paris–Roubaix. He also won the 1992 UCI Road World Cup. His sprinting rivals included Mario Cipollini, Wilfried Nelissen and Djamolidine Abdoujaparov.\n\nIn 1993 he joined Team Telekom, later T-Mobile Team. On retirement in 1996 he took up public relations for the team. He subsequently became principal team manager, but his involvement with the team finished at the end of 2006.\n\nOlaf Ludwig: \"Höllenritt auf der Himmelsleiter. Etappen meines Lebens.\" Herausgegeben von Helmut Wengel. RhinoVerlag, Arnstadt & Weimar 1997, (\"german\")\n"}
{"id": "2107371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107371", "title": "Repointing", "text": "Repointing\n\nRepointing is the process of renewing the pointing, which is the external part of mortar joints, in masonry construction. Over time, weathering and decay cause voids in the joints between masonry units, usually in bricks, allowing the undesirable entrance of water. Water entering through these voids can cause significant damage through frost weathering and from salt dissolution and deposition. Repointing is also called pointing, or pointing up, although these terms more properly refer to the finishing step in new construction.\n\nTraditionally, the first mortar was made with lime and sand, which would make lime putty. Starting in the early 20th century, however, masons started using Portland cement, a strong, fast drying cement. Masonry cement made its appearance in the 1930s, which is a combination of Portland cement and ground limestone.\n\nBefore starting any actual work, building owners examine the masonry units, mortar, and the techniques used in the original construction. They try to identify the true problem they are facing and find out what were the causes of the deterioration or cracks. If there are cracks or problems in the actual bricks or stone masonry there could be a larger problem that also needs to be addressed. If there is a larger issue, repointing may cause further damage. If a historic structure needs repointing, building owners usually hire an architectural historian or conservator to help pinpoint the issues. If the crack is smaller than 2mm and not causing any major defects, than it is better to leave it and not repoint. It is common to see cracking along old repairs because of the shrinkage of hard mortar and the seasonal flexing along the joint.\n\nExamining the structure before working will also help establish the strength and permeability of the original mortar in order to match the new. It helps to establish what the original components of the old mortar are in order to find the best match. It is essential that the mortar used for repointing have similar performance characteristics to the original mortar used in a building. Such performance characteristics include permeability, compressive strength, and coefficient of thermal expansion. The mortar must have greater vapor permeability and softer compressive strength than the original mortar. The mortar should also not be stronger (in compressive strength) than the masonry units because it will not have give. Rather than the mortar relieving the stress, the masonry units will, which will cause further damage to the masonry unit, such as cracking or spalling. This is when the face or outer section of a masonry unit breaks away from the rest of the unit. This will be more expensive and strenuous to fix. So for example, if a soft lime-based mortar was originally used, the most appropriate repointing mortar is likely to also contain a large amount of lime.\n\nAn architectural conservator can perform a mortar analysis in order to make recommendations for replacement mortar that is both physically and aesthetically compatible with the building. There are two common methods of analyzing mortar. The first is called \"wet chemical.\" This is when a sample of the mortar is crushed and mixed with a dilute acid. The mortar will be broken down, and the type of mortar and sand used will be determined by the color and the texture. Another form of \"wet chemical\" analysis is the same process but the carbon dioxide gas that is given off by the digestion will be collected and the type of mortar will be determined by its volume. The amounts of each component will also be determined. The second method to analyzing mortar is \"instrumental.\" There are several different forms of \"instrumental\" analysis; however, the most commonly used is thin-section microscopy. This is when thin slices of mortar are examined by a transmitted light microscope. This process can provide more information than \"wet-chemical\" examination. Other examples of \"instrumental analysis are scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and atomic absorption spectroscopy. Analysis is not solely based on lab work, however. There are important performances of mortar that can not be determined in a lab: original water content, rate of curing, weather conditions during original construction, method of mixing and placing the mortar, and cleanliness of sand.\n\nIt is important to also match the color of the mortar. However, in the past lime mortar tended to be mixed on site with whatever sand was locally available. Since the sand influences the color of the lime mortar, colors of pointing mortar can vary dramatically from district to district. Weathering of the new mortar will also match it to the old mortar. The tooling should also match the tooling of the historic mortar.\n\nAgain, before starting any work, the methods and materials for the repointing will be applied in a test panel. A test panel is an area on the structure out of plain sight where the owner or conservator can test the repointing methods they will use, the color of the mortar, and the skills of the mason. This will also be good to determine the types of tools that should be used, which will be discussed in the next paragraph. For a brick structure, the panel should not be any bigger than 3' x 3'. For other masonry units, the test panel can be a little larger. It is also important to pick the right season to do the repointing. Extremely high or low temperatures can cause rapid drying which can have negative effects on the mortar, masonry units, and the structure itself.\n\nAfter examination, the next step is cutting away the old mortar. The old mortar is removed to a depth equal to or slightly more than the width of the joint, or to the point where sound mortar is reached. Removal of old mortar between joints is done carefully to avoid damage to masonry units. On buildings with soft materials, such as under-fired brick, lime mortar, or terra cotta, removal by hand is often the most effective to avoid damage. Hard Portland cement mortar is usually removed with a grinder or power circular masonry blade, taking care not to damage the masonry units. Vertical joints or thin joints are done by hand or with small power chisels.\" If a power saw needs to be used, it's only used on wide and uniform horizontal joints and in the middle of the joint. A hammer and chisel are then used for the rest of the mortar, closer to the masonry units. Caulking cutters with diamond blades are an acceptable power tool to remove mortar in wide horizontal joints. They are slow, have no rotation, and vibrate so they are likely to cause less damage to the masonry units.\n\nAfter the mortar has been cut out, the joints are vacuumed or brushed clean. After vacuuming, the remaining debris is removed with a water jet from the top of the masonry area down.\n\nThe areas with the deepest recession of mortar are filled first. The mortar is placed in several layers, starting with the first layer of 1/4 inch. It is hardened to a desired strength then another 1/4 inch layer is added. The process is continued until the mortar is flush with the masonry. High-lime mortar dries rapidly, so after it reaches a particular strength it needs to be sprayed with water to avoid chalking, poor adhesion, or poor durability. The structure is misted every two hours for two days, then every four hours for two days. It is important that the mortar stays wet for at least a couple of days while it is setting. The local conditions will control how long the structure should be kept wet, however. Burlap or plastic is placed over the repointed wall or structure. This keeps the building damp and eliminates direct sunlight. The burlap and the plastic are not resting against the structure, however. The burlap or plastic are anchored to the ground to avoid this.\n\nThere are different ways to lay the mortar close to the edge of the brick. Some contractors bring the mortar to the very edge, flush with the face of the brick. Others leave it recessed back to allow water to shed off the building. There are three types of recessed mortar: bucket handle, weatherstruck, and simply recessed. The bucket handle is when the mortar is in a curve shape away from the face of the brick. Weatherstruck is when the mortar starts close to the bottom brick and recesses back as it goes up towards the upper brick. The third, recessed, is when the mortar sits back from the face of the brick. There is also tuckpointing, when there are two types of mortar used and the surface one matches the color of the masonry.\n\nIf the color of the new mortar is still not similar to the old mortar after repointing and setting, the non-repointed areas of the structure can be cleaned. This may bring the colors closer together. To do this, a low pressure water jet is used to clean the old pointing. A high powered water jet is not to be used because this could damage the masonry and mortar. Chemicals are also not used with the water because this could be harmful to the masonry or mortar. However, if chemicals are used, the structure is rinsed afterwards with fresh water and natural or nylon brushes. Another method to match the colors is to stain the new mortar. This is not recommended by professionals though, because it can be harmful. If stain is used, the application is tested in the test panel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107375", "title": "St. Andrew's College, Grahamstown", "text": "St. Andrew's College, Grahamstown\n\nSt. Andrew's College is an Anglican high school for boys located in Makhanda, Eastern Cape province of South Africa. It was founded in 1855 by the Right Reverend John Armstrong, the first Bishop of Grahamstown. It is a semi boarding school, with a number of day boys. St. Andrew's College caters to 480 pupils from around the globe. The school is also a member of the G20 Schools group and closely associated with its brother school, St. Andrew's Preparatory School, and its sister school the Diocesan School for Girls.\nIn a letter dated August, 1855, Bishop Armstrong writes: \n\nThe laying of the foundation stone took place on 15 August 1855. Prior to this there existed a grammar school, founded by Bishop Robert Gray in 1849 on the site currently occupied by the Good Shepherd School, under the management of Mr. M.C. Bendelack, who was soon succeeded by the Rev. F. Bankes. Bankes was appointed principal of the new college, retaining also the title of Head-Master of St. Andrew's College Grammar School, as his school and all funds belonging to it were merged into the new institution. The Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge gave £1000 towards the building to which they added £500 in 1857, and a like sum in 1860. A supplementary sum was subscribed by friends of the Bishop.\n\nSt Andrew’s College was incorporated by an Act of the Cape Parliament in September 1887, this Act was amended in 1932 and 1985. It has since been controlled by a council composed of communicant members of the Anglican Church, administering the school in terms of a trust deed, leaving its internal economy and discipline in the hands of the principal, who in terms of the 1887 Act was required to be a cleric. The Bishop of Grahamstown is \"ex officio\" Visitor to the college.\n\nThe school campus straddles the main road from Cradock, Eastern Cape into Grahamstown and is an open campus with buildings, sports fields and other facilities spread over a number of city blocks.\n\nThe chapel, dedicated to St. Andrew and designed by Sir Herbert Baker, is at the heart of the school.\n\nThe foundation stone of the new chapel was laid by the Rt Revd Charles Cornish, bishop of Grahamstown on St. Andrew's Day, 1905, the jubilee year of the college. But chiefly owing to lack of funds the stone remained built into a buttress at the back of Espin Cottage, and no start was made until 1913 when the building was begun on plans by Messrs. Herbert Baker & Kendall of Cape Town. A corner stone, to commemorate the building, was laid by the Hon. Sir Lewis Mitchell, C.V.O. on 8 September that year.\n\nThe design for the new chapel is in the early Gothic manner, but in order to suit the comparatively sunny climate of the Eastern Cape, there is just that suggestion of Italian treatment which prevents it from being a direct copy of an English type. The form is that of a central nave of six bays, spanned by an open timber roof with massive beams, king posts and struts, the prototypes of which form such an attractive feature in: so many old English churches. There are two narrow side aisles to serve as passages, each having .space for one row of additional seats in case of emergency. The chancel has an apsidal east end, and is to be covered by a groined roof constructed in concrete, the sanctuary windows being kept high in such a way as to cut into the semi-circular line of the vault in an effective manner. Instead of transepts, the plan provides a projecting vestry .on the north side so as to preserve the cruciform plan, while the side aisles at the west are terminated against small projecting porches.\n\nAt the west end the-baptistry is placed projecting westward of the wall and forming a semi-circular recess, which is to be covered with a grained ceiling. Springing from the projecting baptistry are buttresses which are carried up with .diminishing outline and form a picturesque bell cote to terminate the west end of the roof. As far as possible local material was used. The walls throughout were built in Grahamstown stone with a rough face, both inside and out. This stone demands a simple treatment for the dressings-so that most of the windows are plain-but those around the apse include some effective tracery.\n\nThe roof is covered with tiles made in the province on the Broseley pattern, and laid to a steep pitch. The aisles are paved with red tiles, while the floor of the chancel is paved in somewhat the same manner, and the floor under the seats is, of course be boarded in the ordinary way.\n\nThe nave is about × irrespective of the side aisles; the chancel and sanctuary × ; from the floor of nave to ridge of roof about The total accommodation is for 330, of which number about 30 may be seated in the choir. Contrary to the custom of college chapels, the seats are all arranged facing the east instead of being placed down the two sides, facing one another.\n\nThe contractors were Messrs. Carr & Co., Paarl.\n\nSix houses comprise the school:\n\n\nThe school follows the curriculum set by the Independent Examinations Board (IEB), which is the curriculum followed by most private schools in South Africa.\n\nThe school has an active pipe band. The band is an important part of the traditional life of the school, the pipe band leads the cadet corps during parades. St Andrew's College is one of the few schools in South Africa that still trains a cadet corps. The cadet corps is attached to the First City Regiment\n\nThe school has three cultural societies whose membership is by invitation:\n\n\nRugby Union is the most played sport at the school, the school has produced at least two Springbok rugby players, Ryan Kankowski and Nick Mallett. Rowing is a popular and well supported competitive sport, the school has produced at least one Olympic rower, James Thompson.\n\nThe school hymn is \"\", the office hymn for the feast of St. Andrew.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTwo Old Andreans have been awarded the Victoria Cross:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107380", "title": "E75", "text": "E75\n\nE75 or E-75 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2107386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107386", "title": "Arris", "text": "Arris\n\nIn architecture, an arris is the sharp edge formed by the intersection of two surfaces, such as the corner of a masonry unit; the edge of a timber in timber framing; the junction between two planes of plaster or any intersection of divergent architectural details. Also the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column.\n\nThe origin of the term \"arris\" is from the Latin \"arista\" meaning the beard of an ear of grain or the bone of a fish. See also arête.\n\nAn arris rail is a structural element, whose cross section is a 45 degree isosceles right angled triangle. Arris rails are usually made of wood, and are manufactured by cutting a length of square-section timber lengthwise diagonally. They are used for structures which require joining two timbers at right angles; for example, connecting wooden posts and beams. \n\nAnother common use is for the horizontal rails of timber fences, since the diagonal edges prevent water from collecting on top of the wood and thus rotting the timber. It also adds an element of security, since the fence is harder to climb.\n"}
{"id": "2107397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107397", "title": "Henry Jones (baker)", "text": "Henry Jones (baker)\n\nHenry Jones (1812 – 12 July 1891) was a baker in Bristol, England, who was responsible in 1845 for inventing self-raising flour. He established a family business called Henry Jones (Bristol) Ltd. His flour meant that hard tack could have been removed from sailors of the British Navy but the admiralty resisted for some years.\n\nJones was born in Monmouth, Wales and established a bakery in Broadmead, Bristol. He was granted a patent for self-raising flour in 1845, and by the end of 1846 its runaway success led to him being appointed purveyor of patent flour and biscuits to Queen Victoria. He was granted a patent in the USA on 1 May 1849, and in 1852 the first gold medal for the new flour was issued to a Chicago firm using the Bristol formula.\n\nIt took Jones some years to convince the British Admiralty of the benefits of using the new flour in preference to the hard biscuits to which sailors were accustomed. Jones emphasised the benefits to the sailors of having fresh bread throughout their voyages. Finally, in 1855, his flour was approved for use of participants in the Crimean War, partly at the behest of Florence Nightingale.\n\nFrom 1864, he lived at Court House, Caldicot, Monmouthshire, where he died in 1891.\n\nRecords concerning Jones' patent for self-raising flour are held at Bristol Archives (Ref. 29932) (online catalogue).\n\n"}
{"id": "2107399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107399", "title": "Republic of the Rio Grande", "text": "Republic of the Rio Grande\n\nThe Republic of the Rio Grande () was an independent nation that insurgents fighting against the Centralist Republic of Mexico\nsought to establish in northern Mexico. The Republic of the Rio Grande was just one of a series of independence movements in Mexico under the unitary government dominated by Santa Anna, including the Republic of Texas, the Republic of Zacatecas, and the Republic of Yucatán. The rebellion lasted from the 17 January to 6 November 1840.\n\nAfter a decade of strife, Mexico won its independence from the Kingdom of Spain in 1821. After a failed attempt at a monarchy, Mexico adopted a new constitution, the 1824 Constitution. This new constitution established los \"Estados Unidos Mexicanos\", or \"the United Mexican States,\" as a federal republic. During the war for independence, many rebels were driven to Coahuila and Nuevo León, where this revolutionary mentality won the hearts and minds of the people.\n\nIn 1833, General Antonio López de Santa Anna was elected to his first term as president and was, at the time of his election, in support of the federal republic. However, after some members of government angered Santa Anna's political allies, Santa Anna decided to start a centralized government. Santa Anna suspended the constitution, disbanded Congress and made himself the center of power in Mexico. States were converted into departments without political or fiscal autonomy by replacing elected governors with appointed ones and substituting state assemblies for juntas under Santa Anna's policies. Dismayed by these policies and the perception that the government was deaf to the complaints and plight of the villagers in the North, Republic leaders aimed to expel the government-appointed centralist officials and restore the Constitution of 1824. On November 3, 1838, one of the republic leaders, Antonio Canales Rosillo, issued a pronunciamiento against the government and in favor of federalism.\n\nIn January 1839, Antonio Canales summoned a convention at the office of the Justice of the Peace in Laredo where the Constitution of 1824 was unanimously approved. Canales immediately began building an army and scoured the countryside looking for recruits, among those recruits were Texan Colonels Reuben Ross and Samuel Jordan. Intending to use the property of the church and convents to pay volunteers, In 1839 and 1840 Canales was able to freely travel both sides of the Rio Grande and was successful in recruiting a small army of both Tejano and Mexican vaqueros and Caddo Indians, as well as receiving the assistance of the Texian Auxiliary Corps.\n\nOn the 3 October Canales and his army marched to the town of Mier, where they faced the Mexican army. During the battle, Colonels Reuben Ross and Samuel Jordan charged at the centralist forces and encircled them in a hacienda, where the Mexican army was forced to surrender. Three hundred and fifty centralist soldiers who were taken prisoner ultimately defected and enlisted in Canales’ army. After the battle, Canales was seen as a hero throughout Northern Mexico and many towns began to support his cause. Within a few days, recruits, supplies, and cash were being sent to him.\n\nCanales lingered in Mier for forty days before heading to Matamoros, a port town where another Centrist force was residing. In twenty-eight days, his one thousand man army reached the town only to find Mexican General Valentin Canalizo there with fifteen-hundred troops. Outmanned, Canales decided to withdraw and attack General Mariano Arista at Monterrey instead. Colonel Ross, appalled by this withdrawal, left Canales’ army, taking fifty Texans with him. At Monterrey, General Canales sent three hundred cavalry under the command of Colonel José Antonio Zapata to lure Arista out of town. While Arista left the town unguarded to engage with Zapata, General Canales’ army took a convent on the outskirts of town. However, on December 27, General Arista sent spies to Canales’ army and bribed seven hundred Mexicans to abandon their army. Upon discovering this the next morning, Canales and the remnants of his army fled the battle.\n\nOn the 17 January 1840 a meeting was held at the Oreveña Ranch near Laredo. A group of notables from the states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas advocated for a rebellion seeking secession from Mexico and formation of their own federal republic with Laredo as the capital. However, those states' own congresses and governments never took any action to support the insurgents, and requested the help of the Central government in Mexico City to aid the local state armies. Despite the lack of support from the state governments, the Republic of the Rio Grande was formed. The new Republic had an official newspaper: “Correo del Rio Bravo del Norte” and their state motto was Dios, Libertad y Convención (God, Liberty, and Convention).\n\nThe insurgents designated their own officials for the new republic. They were:\nShortly after the formation of the Republic of the Rio Grande, word arrived that General Arista was in the Rio Grande valley. Texan Samuel Jordan urged Canales to retreat to Texas to recruit more Texans but Canales refused. Consequently, Samuel Jordan and 60 of his men left General Canales’ army. While Canales and the army decided to fight, President Cardenas and the new government fled to Victoria, Texas.\n\nCanales and his army met Arista outside the town of Santa Rita de Morelos. Needing provisions, Antonio Zapata and 30 men rode into town where Arista's men soon surrounded them. Outnumbered by 1,800 men, Zapata surrendered. General Arista offered to pardon Antonio Zapata under the condition that he swore allegiance to Mexico, but he refused. On 29 March 1840, Antonio Zapata was executed and his head placed on a spike in the town of Guerrero as a reminder to his wife, children, and federalists. While Zapata was being held prisoner, General Canales engaged Arista at San Fernando, losing 250 of his four hundred men in the process. After this defeat, Antonio Canales had no other option except to flee to Texas.\n\nFrom the beginning, President Cardenas realized that the success of the Republic of the Rio Grande depended on Texan support. Texas also had conflicting interests on whether to support the new Republic or not. On one hand, the formation of the Republic of the Rio Grande would create a buffer state between Mexico and Texas, postponing any possible intentions Mexico had for the reinvasion of Texas; on the other hand, Texas needed Mexico to recognize its independence and supporting the new Republic would certainly anger them. Texas’ official stance on the issue was neutral, but president Mirabeau Lamar secretly encouraged Texans to volunteer in Canales’ army and gave Canales access to Texan arms and ammunition.\n\nIn Texas, Canales rebuilt his new army at San Patricio under Colonel Samuel Jordan. The new army consisted of 300 Mexicans, 80 Cane Indians, and 410 Texans. With the new army, Canales marched out of Texas and was able to recapture the towns of Laredo, Guerrero, Mier, and Camargo.\n\nSoon after, Canales ordered 350 men, under the command of Samuel Jordan and Canales’ brother-in-law Juan Molano, to steal horses for future operations. After Jordan and Molano sacked the city of Ciudad Victoria and installed a new state government, they marched to Saltillo where the Mexican General Montoya was residing. Unbeknownst to Jordan, Juan Molano had secretly switched sides and joined the centralist forces.\n\nOn 25 October 1840, the Mexican army under Montoya faced the army of the Republic of the Rio Grande under the command of Colonel Lopez (who had secretly switched allegiance to General Montoya as well). Colonel Lopez ordered Jordan and his men to move into a mountain gorge. Upon realizing the trap, Jordan, his men, and the remaining loyal vaqueros to the Rio Grande Republic turned around and took refuge in a hacienda. The Mexican army attacked the hacienda in full force but was unable to capture the Texans before they retreated. The Mexican army lost four hundred men attacking the hacienda while the Texans only lost five.\n\nAfter the defeat at Saltillo, General Canales secretly entered negotiations with General Arista and on November 6, 1840, Antonio Canales surrendered at Camargo. Canales soon accepted a position as an officer in Santa Anna's army. As part of conditions of surrender, no harm would come to the property or safety of former members of the republic. The Republic's debts would be assumed as well. A few days after Canales surrender, President Cardenas and other officials entered into Laredo to officially surrender.\n\nThe flag of the Republic of the Rio Grande has a red hoist with three white stars run evenly along the hoist. The three stars represent the three states that seceded: Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas. The fly is split into a white upper fly and a black lower fly.\n\nRemnants of the republic's effect can be seen in:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107400", "title": "Adda (South Asian)", "text": "Adda (South Asian)\n\nAn adda (, Sylheti: ꠀꠣꠒ꠆ꠒꠣ) is a form of intellectual exchange among members, who were originally of the same socio-economic strata, but the process has democratized in modern times. It is most popular among the youths belonging to the so-called \"middle-class intelligentsia\". Although many Kolkatans boast of the city being the birthplace of adda culture, Satyajit Ray (in his film Agantuk) traces back the origin of the tradition to regular intellectual dialogues prevalent in Ancient Greece at the time of Socrates or Plato. Adda is a prominent leisurely activity in India and Bangladesh.\n\n\"Adda\" was incorporated into the Oxford English Dictionary in 2004.\n\nThe Indian adda has shades of meaning attached to different languages:\n\n\nIn 2011, filmmakers Surjo Deb and Ranjan Palit made a documentary on the subject. The film, \"\" has been screened at several festivals around the globe and won the Golden Palm Award at the Mexico International Film Festival 2012. The film drew parallels with the French salon culture at the turn of the 20th century and used the phenomenon of adda to create a city symphony film on Calcutta, exploring various subcultures of the bustling yet laid-back metropolis.\n"}
{"id": "2107403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107403", "title": "Agitpop", "text": "Agitpop\n\nAgitpop is an art punk band from Poughkeepsie, New York. The band was formed in 1981 and began touring widely in 1983. They released four records on the Comm3, Twintone and Rough Trade labels. Its members include Mark LaFalce, John deVries and Rick Crescini. The band was part of a pioneer movement in the underground music community and were particularly known for their unusual song styles, instrumentation and lyrical content within the rock genre. The shows attracted celebrated members of the New York arts scene including the Pop Art era photographer Billy Name.\n\nThe portmanteau Agitpop is derived from agitprop and is a conjugation of ‘agitation pop’, a now well defined label that describes how popular music asserts political ideas and views. The band members were enamored with the idea and the origins of the word from the Russian Revolution and used the repetition and philosophy of it within pop culture. Agitpop as a term can be applied to the name of the band itself, but also translates well into the character of the songs themselves.\n\nAgitpop members have often described their approach to music as ‘a unique brand of fractured pop, derived from the dismantling of rock as we knew it.' At the time Agitpop was making their first records, the description worked as a default definition of the approach to making music the band was taking, where provocative amalgam with strong melodic hooks and poignant lyrics prevailed. Keeping with their intents and keeping with the needs of the times to re-define rock music, the band was consequent in their approach and forged a style unique to the times. The live shows were a natural extension of the philosophy of the band was following. Agitpop's performances were very confrontational. They alienated the audience or drew them in.\n\nIn a review from trouser press of one of the shows in the mid-1980s, Agitpop's unique stylistic approach to rock music was described with the phrase ‘Free your mind…and your ass will follow'. The review followed them continually around throughout the band's existence. Whether they are put into the music categories of the times or not, they have had a strong influence on many younger bands, inspiring them to adapt a willingness ‘in dismantling’, or emancipating rock away from standard instrumentations and song styles.\n\n\nBands that influenced Agitpop in regard to song writing style, instrumentation and delivery in performance have been noted to be Gang of Four, The Red Krayola, The Clash, Captain Beefheart, and Wire . To this list one might add The Slits, whose repetitive and fragmented melodic lines tend to remind one of the clarinet. melodica, and glockenspiel lines in many Agitpop songs.\n\nAgitpop's popularity was established mainly from college radio stations, musicians, artists, and hardcore audiophiles. Their extensive touring proved to be one of the essential ingredients in changing the idea of what popular music should be. It was pre-Nirvana times and along with their touring partners (The Smashing Pumpkins, The Minutemen, GWAR, 10,000 Maniacs, Soul Asylum, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Sonic Youth, Dead Kennedys, Mercury Rev, The Pixies etc.), the band members were happy to be a part of it.\n\nPlayed at The Voodoo Manor, Poughkeepsie, NY in 82.\nPlayed a show at Nag's Head w/ Zen Guerrilla in 89.\n\nAgitpop disbanded in 1989. They continued in various formation until just after the turn of the decade. The last official show is often stated as the reason for their disbanding. The band was scheduled to play a show at The Blue Note in Columbia, Missouri. On the previous day the bass player, Rick Crescini was diagnosed with tinnitus and was sent home for health reasons. Out of frustration with touring and due to band member conflicts he stayed there. The band honored their contract with the Blue Note by playing that night, albeit with their road manager playing electric bass. \n\nDuring the time that Agitpop was disbanded, several new band formations ensued.\n\nAgitpop regrouped in 2006 and released a new album in 2010 titled The Comm3 Sessions.\n\nThe first live performance after a pause of almost ten years took place at the famous Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich, Switzerland on Friday, July 13, 2007. The reunion show consisted of two very diverse sets. The first was appropriately titled \"A Shotgun for a TV and an Eskimo Kiss\". It consisted of complete set of Agitpop classics including \"The Co-Existence\", \"On the Hudson\", \"Eskimo Kiss\", \"Ode to Mr. Average\", \"Top of the Stairs\" and the characteristic \"Reasons of State\". In the true sense of \"dismantling rock\", there was no drum kit to be seen, only a slew of guitars, an out of tune piano, and many odd instruments. Wind chimes, squeeze toys, and kiddie xylophones made abrupt appearances. All three members of Agitpop switched between instruments with exponentially increased dexterity in endless androgynous roles of noise making, proving to the audience that no one had lost his touch and nothing its freshness.\n\n\"God Bless America, Really?\" was the title of the second set. Here Agitpop went back to the roots of the Russian Revolution: Agitprop. Basically, this was a show that consisted of an American medley of \"noises in the ether\" penned and sung by Agitpop’s drummer Mark LaFalce. The stage setting designed by bassist, and B Movie freak Rick Crescini. It depicted the twin towers with American Indians falling out of the windows in a general statement against the trend of violence in politics of yesterday and today. A monumental moment was reached when the trio sung out in unison the worst of choruses from \"The \"Fish\" Cheer / I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-To-Die Rag\" with a hell-no-we-wont-go attitude, making bare bones out of naked patriotism. Model planes hit the towers in a 9/11-style and the Indians fell out of the windows. One could say that this part of the reunion was a true Dada homage to Dadaism ala Cabaret Voltaire.\n\n\n\nOn several songs additional players were featured on the albums.\n\nhttp://www.twintone.com/agitpop.html\n\n"}
{"id": "2107419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107419", "title": "Cardboard record", "text": "Cardboard record\n\nA cardboard record was a type of cheaply made phonograph record made of plastic-coated thin paperboard. These discs were usually small, had poor audio quality compared to vinyl or acetate discs, and were often only marginally playable due to their light weight, slick surface, and tendency to warp like a taco shell. Playability could be improved by placing a coin between the lock groove and the spindle hole to add weight and stability. These records are distinct from both flexi discs, which are sturdier, and from many of the old home-recording discs since cardboard discs were mass-produced for a specific purpose.\n\nCardboard records were often used as freebies in promotional campaigns, and as such were assumed to be played once or twice and then thrown away. Two examples, both from the late 1980s, were Life Cereal's \"Rock Music Mystery\" and McDonald's' \"Menu Song\" contest, both of which were designed around audio \"clues\". Because of their disposable, limited-run nature, as well as their association with long-gone advertising campaigns, cardboard records can be quite collectible.\n\nCardboard records are also associated with phonographic recordings included with magazines of similar subject matter.\n\nCertain songs credited to the fictional 1960s–1970s band The Archies were released as cardboard records printed directly on boxes of breakfast cereal. Other artists - usually with a generally younger fan base - such as The Monkees, the Jackson 5 and Bobby Sherman also had records released on the backs of cereal boxes during this time. Also there were some printed on cereal boxes, for instance, Dream Dream Dream by the Everley Brothers. These records, if found in pristine condition, have significant value among collectors as well.\n\nIn the past, \"Mad\" Magazine inserted cardboard records of songs from its series of merchandised novelty albums in certain of their \"Mad Super Special\" reprint magazines. One of these, for example – the mid-60s release \"It's a Gas!\" – featured a rhythmic belching sound (allegedly provided by the magazine's fictional mascot, Alfred E. Neuman) with a honking saxophone break played by an uncredited King Curtis.\n"}
{"id": "2107422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107422", "title": "The Earthquake in Chile", "text": "The Earthquake in Chile\n\nThe Earthquake in Chile () is a novella written by Heinrich von Kleist (1777–1811) and published in 1807. The novella's central characters are two lovers caught up in the chaos of the 1647 Santiago earthquake in Chile.\n\nThe story begins with the lead character, Jeronimo Rugera, preparing to hang himself in prison in Santiago in 1647. Rugera had been a tutor at the house of Don Asteron, but Don Asteron dismissed him upon Asteron's discovery of an illicit relationship between his daughter and Jeronimo. Jeronimo and Josephe continued their relationship and were soon discovered by Josephe's brother. Don Asteron sends Josephe to a convent, where she and Jeronimo continue their relationship, until one day Josephe gave birth on the steps of the cathedral.\n\nThe city folk are excited by this story. Jeronimo was sent to prison and Josephe was scheduled to be executed. As the procession marched towards the execution site, Jeronimo prepares to hang himself. At this moment, a strong earthquake destroys much of the city, freeing Jeronimo from prison. Despite his fears that Josephe had already died, he begins to search for her, and is later reunited with her and their son, Philip.\n\nOn her way to her execution as the earthquake strikes, Josephe rescues her son from the convent, where she had entrusted him to an abbess. The abbess and most of the nuns are dead. Josephe had spent much of the day searching for Jeronimo and fearing him dead. They plan to travel to Concepción, Chile, where Josephe has family, and from there to Spain. \n\nThe following morning, the couple is approached by Don Fernando who asks Josephe to breast feed his son, Juan, since his wife, Donna Elvira, has been injured in the earthquake. She complies, and Don Fernando invites the reunited family to join his own. They are greeted as friends, and exchange stories and rumours of the happenings in Santiago. Jeronimo and Josephe decide to go to Concepción and write to the Viceroy of Santiago to ask permission to stay in Chile.\n\nThat afternoon, a service is to be held at the lone surviving church in Santiago and the party, aside from Donna Elvira and her father Don Pedro, decides to attend. Donna Elvira appears to fear for Josephe's and Jeronimo's safety but Don Pedro feels that Donna Elvira's fears are misplaced. They attend the service.\n\nThe sermon compares the earthquake to God's destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and speaks specifically of Josephe and Jeronimo's sin. Donna Constanza, Don Fernando's sister in law, recognizes the danger, but before the party can make their escape, someone calls out, identifying Josephe as the adulteress and accusing Don Fernando of being Jeronimo.\n\nJosephe, who is holding Don Fernando's son Juan is grabbed by the crowd. The crowd assumes Juan is Josephe's baby. Don Fernando identifies himself and attempts to rescue Josephe. A naval officer, Don Alonzo, identifies Don Fernando but hesitates when a cobbler asks about Josephe. Josephe gives Juan and Phillip, who was being held by Jeronimo, to Don Fernando and tells him to leave and save the children, but he refuses and borrows Don Alonzo's sword. The crowd allows them to leave, and just as they think it's safe to enter the courtyard, a man claims that he is Jeronimo's father and clubs Jeronimo over the head. Donna Constanza, who had been walking with Jeronimo, runs to Don Alonzo, but is mistaken for Josephe and is also clubbed to death. Seeing this, Josephe gives herself up to the crowd and is clubbed by the cobbler, Master Pedrillo. Don Fernando defends the children with his sword but eventually his son, Juan, is torn from his grasp and bashed against a pillar.\n\nThe crowd disperses and Don Fernando is left with Philip, whom he adopts as his own child with Donna Elvira. At the conclusion, Don Fernando compares Juan and Philip and considers how he had acquired them, and remarks; \"It almost seemed to him that he should be glad.\" \n\n\nHelma Sanders-Brahms wrote and directed \"Earthquake in Chile\" (1975), a telefilm of this story shot in Spain and West Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107426", "title": "Hernals", "text": "Hernals\n\nHernals (; Viennese German: Hernois) is the 17th district of Vienna, Austria (German: \"17. Bezirk, Hernals\").\nHernals is in northwest Vienna.\nIt was annexed in 1892 out of the townships of Hernals, Dornbach, and Neuwaldegg.\n\nThe district of Hernals stretches out along the canals of the Als River west of Vienna between the Wienerwald (Vienna Forest) and the Gürtel (a main street around inner Vienna). The Als is the second-longest stream (the longest is the Wien River) to flow from the Wienerwald into the Danube. The highest point, at 464 meters, is Heuberg. The original \"Vororte\" of Hernals, Dornbach, and Neuwaldegg were annexed in 1892 and form the heart of the 17th district. The houses in the central areas were built around the turn of the 19th–20th centuries during the Gründerzeit. Further out, the original farmer houses remain, often with gardens and villas added on. Farmland composes about 29.7% of the land area of the district, and transportation support buildings compose about 10.3% of the area. With about 59.6% of the area populated with greenery, Hernals is one of the greenest districts in Vienna, with 39.6% forest and 14% smaller gardens and meadows. Agriculture composes only 1.4% and plays little role today. The wineries have mostly retreated into the hills of Schafberg and belong to the Roman Catholic parish of Dornbach.\n\nThe developed area of Hernals covers 29.7% (Vienna citywide: 33.3%) of the district area. The proportion of residential area in the built-space is 90.9%, the 2nd highest in Vienna.\nAccordingly, the proportion of farm land (2.8%) and land for the cultural, religious, sporting or public sector (5.4%), in the developed area, is limited.\n\nGreenspace in Hernals covers 59.6%, by which Hernals is the 3rd greenest district. Nearly 66.5% of the greenspace falls in forests, 12.1% in meadows, and 11.4% in small gardens. The outdoor sports and recreation areas (3.7%) use only a small amount of Hernalser greenspace. The former major wine-growing region has all but disappeared on Schafberg hill.\n\nThe proportion of trafficked area in the district is 10.3%, very low. Waters cover 0.4% of the district area.\n\nArchaeological digs place the first settlements in the Hernals district in the Neolithic Era, near the Als Stream, whose waters were teaming with fish. Digs from the Roman times reveal brickyards near today's Elterleinplatz. During the Middle Ages, the villages (\"Vororte\") of Hernals and Dornbach were built along the Als, while Neuwaldegg was founded at the start of the Modern Era.\n\nThe founding of Hernals as the 17th district of Vienna came during the end of the 19th century. After the suburb cities (\"Vorstädte\") of Vienna were annexed in 1850, discussions began in the 1870s to annex more of the surrounding areas. Although the areas were against such an annexation, Emperor Franz Joseph I declared in 1888 that it would be so. The decree took effect on January 1, 1892 and united Hernals, Dornbach, and Neuwaldegg together as the 17th district. At that time, the Hernals township was the most significant of the three and was the most populous township of Lower Austria beside Vienna.\n\nIn 1890, 74,657 people and 1,803 houses composed the newly established district. District director Kretschek and the advisor of the Hernals township Sebastian Grünbeck re-established the St. Anna Chapel, the building of the Jörgerbad spa, the building of various schools, administration of the streets, and expansions of the Hernals cemetery. In 1894, the city wall was torn down and the rail lines were built. The Hernalser Market was moved to Zimmermannplatz.\n\nAfter World War I, the social democrats initiated the municipal construction of housing estates (\"Gemeindebauten\") in Hernals. In 1922, Karl Ehn built 164 new apartments in Balderichgasse. The largest \"Gemeindebau\" erected between the world wars in Hernals was completed in 1929 in Wattgasse, where 294 apartments were built. The expansion was halted due to financial pressures in the Austrian government, and the number of community apartments remained below the Vienna average at 1,467.\n\nAs a largely proletarian district, Hernals became unstable after the Schattendorf Executions, and on July 15, 1927 the police attacked 158 people in Hernalser Hauptstraße. Enraged protesters stormed the police station at \"Hernalser Hauptstraße 158\" and set fire to the police equipment on the street. Two trees that had been damaged by the fire were later cared for as \"revolutionary trees\" but finally died in the mid-30s. The unrest escalated further on June 16 when five people lost their lives. However, the Austrian Civil War in February 1934 took place outside of Hernals only. With the prohibition of the social democrats, a new district government was installed.\n\nThe end of the second World War was marked by the Soviet troops marching into Hernals on April 7, 1945. They stayed until September, when they were absolved by the American occupation forces. In addition to rebuilding the destroyed houses, the main focus was placed on building new homes. In the span from 1945 to 1955 alone, 1,050 apartments were built; 2,948 more were built in the years up to 1991.\n\nSince the 1990s, there have been five smaller changes in district boundaries. In 1990, the border with the Währing District was moved, in the area between the streets Czartoryskigasse and Herbeckstraße, which meant a small loss of territory for Hernals. In 1992, in the area of Savoyenstraße, Wilhelminenstraße and Oberwiedenstraße, Hernals gained a small undeveloped area from the Ottakring district.[5] Then in 1995, Hernals gained a residential area from the Währing District, in the area of the roads Höhenstraße, Keylwerthgasse und Salmannsdorfer Straße. In 1998, the border with Ottakring was moved north (in the area of Spinozagasse street between Steinmüllergasse and Rosenackerstraße).[7] The most recent boundary change took place in 2001, in the area of Kongresspark, which since then has remained entirely in the Ottakring District.\n\nAt the founding of the district, at the end of the 19th century, the district had 74,696 residents. Up until 1910, the population grew by over 60 percent, to 103,000. Since then, however, the population gradually declined, until the growth resumed in 2001. Only in the 1980s, there had been a slight population growth in Hernals, but the population shrank again, to a low of 47,621 in 2001. Since 2001, now as in the other counties, a strong population growth, of 10% in 5 years, has been observed.\n\nThe age of the population in the Hernals District (during 2007) matches the average for Vienna. The composition of the population is very similar to the rest of Vienna:\n\nThe population is made of the following religions:\n\nHernals was governed by the Christian Social Party during the turn of the 19th/20th centuries. The former mayor of Hernals, Elterlein, became the first district director, and Karl Ketschek followed him in the years 1905 to 1919. During the first general vote, the Social Democrats garnered 58% of the vote, with the Christian Socials (27%) and the Czechoslovakian Social Democrats following behind. These ratios remained steady until 1932, when the Czechs disappeared and the Christian socialists lost some of their power (fell to 17%). Anton Haidl, a social democrat, occupied the position as director from 1919 until 1934.\n\nIn the first vote in November 1945, the SPÖ gathered the majority of the vote (57%) and has continued to hold the director position up to today. The supremacy of the SPÖ melted during the 1990s as the FPÖ gained popularity. The SPÖ's 43% in 1991 shrank to 33.4% in 1996. The FPÖ had gathered an additional 6.27%, to give them 28.46% of the vote, just barely trailing the SPÖ. The trend reversed itself in 2001: SPÖ had 39.90% and FPÖ had 20.81%. The ÖVP were only slightly behind, at 19.54%, and the Green party had 15.31%.\n\nIn 2010 the SPÖ lost 3.8% and now has 37.3%,the ÖVP lost 4% and has 17.8%, the Greens reached won 1.9% and has now 20.3%, the FPÖ increased 6.1% points and now has 20.7% and therefore the Second Deputy (which the ÖVP held formerly). \nThe LiF (lost 0.4% and reached 1.1%),the KPÖ (stagnated at 1.4%) and the BZÖ (this time increased 0.3% points and now has 1.4%) didn't get a seat in the District Proxy of Hernals.\n\nThe coat of arms of Hernals is divided into three parts, which represent the former three constituent parts: Hernals, Dornbach, and Neuwaldegg.\n\nThe upper half represents Hernals and displays blue grapes on a red background, which represents the former vineyard way of life. The lower-left part represents the town of Dornbach and displays two crossed silver keys on a golden background. The keys symbolise the Benedictine St. Peter Monastery in Salzburg. The lower-right part represents Neuwaldegg and displays a meadow with a small house, two trees, and a road, which symbolise the former residence of the governor.\n\nThe most substantial churches worth seeing in Hernals are the Kalvarienbergkirche, the Sühnekirche, and the Marienpfarre. Other sites worth seeing are the Jörgerbad spas and the Alszauberbrunnen (Als magic wells) with statues of the brother composers Johann and Josef Schrammel. The Dornbach Pfarrkirche and the Annen Chapel are in Dornbach, and in Neuwaldegg are the Schloss Neuwaldegg (castle) and the Schwarzenbergpark (park).\n\nTheatre groups in Hernals had little success in the early years. The \"Erste Wiener Nationalarena\" was started as a summer theatre in place of the Josefstädter Theater that was closed during the revolution in 1848. This theatre, however, closed soon after. In 1966, the Dornbach Theater opened and closed only six months later. There were a few smaller theatres in the time between the world wars. Near the corner of Dornbacherstraße and Vollbadgasse, the \"Theater in Dornbach\" replaced a former Operetta stage with a peasant stage. Despite the sold-out shows, the theatre nevertheless closed only one year later due to financial problems. Today, Hernals has two important and well-known stages: the traditional Wiener Metropol presents musicals, concerts, and cabaret; and the true cabaret theatre Kulisse Cabaret.\n\nThe main museums in Hernals are the Hernals District History Museum ( \"German\"), a carriage museum, and the Rettungsmuseum (museum about rescues).\n\n\nThe only hospital in Hernals is the \"Krankenhaus Göttlicher Heiland\" (Hospital of the Divine Saviour), built by the congregation of the \"Schwestern vom göttlichen Erlöser\" (an order of Catholics called the Salvatorians) in 1935. The area also has two spas/bathhouses: the Schafbergbad and the more traditional Jörgerbad, which was built in 1914 after the style of the Vienna workshops.\n\nOnly a few of the numerous industries and trades erected during the industrialisation of the district still remain. Agriculture, manufacturing, and light industry are among the survivors. Today, there are 350 to 400 firms located in Hernals, composed of 2,221 workplaces with 18,000 workers. Two-thirds are civil-service–oriented industries, 23% in trade and industry and 8% in construction. Only about 120 people are still active in the once-prevalent agriculture (predominantly vineyards) industry. Almost half of all workplaces employ fewer than four people. The largest employer in Hernals is a chocolate factory Manner, which employs more than 500 people.\n\nThe sister district of Hernals is Fuchū. The cherry trees in Lidlpark are a gift from the sister district. Classes from the gymnasium (school) Geblergasse visit the district.\n\nWiener Sport-Club's traditional home is in the Dornbach quarter; it is one of the country's oldest athletics clubs. They play at the Sportklub Stadium.\n\nThe most notable artists of Hernals are the composers Johann and Josef Schrammel, the actors Josef Meinrad and Ewald Balser, the poet Ferdinand Sauter, the writer Frederic Morton, the church musician Josef Venantius von Wöss, the operetta composer Edmund Eysler, and actress Marianne Schönauer. Furthermore, the architect Friedrich von Schmidt, figure skater Ferdinand Sauter, the entrepreneur Josef also lived in Hernals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107448", "title": "Hilton College (South Africa)", "text": "Hilton College (South Africa)\n\nHilton College, more commonly referred to as Hilton, is a South African private boarding school for boys located near the town of Hilton in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands and is situated on a 1,762 ha (4,350 acre) estate that includes a 550 ha (1,400 acre) wildlife reserve.\n\nHilton College was founded in 1872 by Gould Arthur Lucas and Reverend William Orde Newnham as a non-denominational Christian boys school. It follows English public school tradition and is a full boarding school, which means all pupils live at the school, and is one of only two such remaining single-sex boys' schools (the other being Michaelhouse) to continue this practice in South Africa.\n\nThe grounds on which Hilton College is located were established as farm by pioneering Voortrekkers. \"Ongegund\", as it was then known, was sold to a young Englishman, Joseph Henderson, by Johanna Grobbelaar, widow of the original owner, in 1849. Later in 1857 Henderson and his wife renamed the farm \"Hilton\", after Hilton Hall in Staffordshire, England.\n\nThe first of the founders, Gould Arthur Lucas, left for South Africa in 1851 as a lieutenant of the 73rd Foot Regiment of The British army. He had been one of three surviving officers during the sinking of , in 1852. Following this he was reposted as a district adjutant in Pietermaritzburg. It was here in 1855 that he met the Rev. William Orde Newnham, who had arrived in Natal at the request of Bishop John Colenso to become master of the new Pietermaritzburg Grammar School. It was during this time that the two became close friends. In 1867, after a period in England, Newnham returned to Natal and left to establish a school in Ladysmith, with the encouragement and support of his friend Lucas.\n\nHowever the school did not prosper and Newnham found \"the summer climate there too oppressive\". In 1871, upon hearing of Newnham's troubles, Lucas offered to help establish a new school near Pietermaritzburg. He arranged to purchase part of the farm \"Hilton\" from the Hendersons on which a school could be founded. Newnham arrived at \"Hilton\" on 27 January 1872 and two days later, on 29 January 1872, Hilton College was officially opened. The first 50 pupils were housed in dormitories built near the stables and the original farm house was enlarged to serve as the main school building. Newnham continued to run the school until he returned to England at the end of 1877.\n\nIn 1878 the lease of the school was taken over by Henry Vaughan Ellis. Ellis, a Rugby old boy, sought to reform Hilton College around the English public school system. Ellis brought many of the Rugby traditions to Hilton; thus beginning an unofficial link between the two schools, perpetuated today in the Hilton crest and motto. In 1903, Ellis announced his intent to retire, but wished to ensure the survival of his school. It was suggested to him by Ernest Acutt, a founding pupil and Mayor of Durban, that the farm and school should be sold to a company formed by Old Hiltonians which became the Hilton College Ltd. The capital raised by the old boys was intended to be used to buy the school from Ellis and for the construction of new buildings.\n\nShortly after Ellis' retirement the position of headmaster was taken over by George Weeks. However he too resigned that year and another new headmaster was needed. The position was awarded to William Falcon in 1906. Under his headmastership Hilton College grew from 50 pupils to over 200. Many buildings were completed such as the William Campbell building and the school chapel. The original school buildings, which were red brick, were changed to the present Cape Dutch style. The present school uniform was introduced along with the house system (the first three houses being Newnham, Ellis and Weeks (later renamed Pearce). Falcon also lead reforms in the school's academic curriculum and, foreseeing the inevitable union of the South African colonies, replaced French with Dutch as the official second language in 1907.\n\nOn 31 March 1928 the original shareholders of Hilton College Ltd. signed a \"Solemn Covenant of Dedication\" which, in 1930, established the Hiltonian Society, a non-profit sharing association of the Old Hiltonians which take over the original shares and thus would own and control the school.\n\nHilton College and Michaelhouse have enjoyed a history of friendly rivalry. The two schools have much in common and are the only two full boarding schools remaining in South Africa. The schools are located near one another in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands.\n\nThe bond between Hilton's \"old friend and rival, Michaelhouse\" has developed since 1904 when the two schools played their first rugby match at Hilton College, which Hilton won 11-0. Both schools consider each other their main fixture in all sporting disciplines. The high point of this rivalry is the biannual Hilton-Michaelhouse Day. This event, held alternately between the two schools, sees them play one another in rugby and hockey. The culmination of the day is the main rugby match between the two schools' 1st XVs, which is the oldest continuous rugby fixture in Kwa-Zulu Natal.\n\nThe Hilton College Guard was a mounted unit established on 4 June 1872 by Rev. William Newnham and lasted until its disbanding in the mid-1980s. As the oldest cadet corps in South Africa, the Hilton College Guard enjoyed the position of \"Cadet Detachment No. 1.\" Since its establishment, members of the Hilton College Guard and Old Hiltonians have fought in the Anglo-Zulu War, the South African War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War and the South African Border War.\n\n\nThe years of study at Hilton are referred to as Forms 1 to 5. \"First Form\" is the equivalent of Grade 8 and has boys aged 14. \"Fifth Form\" is the equivalent of Grade 12, also known as matric, and has boys aged 17–19. All Hilton College leavers write the Independent Examinations Board exams. Hilton has produced over 20 Rhodes scholars for study at the University of Oxford and two Elsie Ballot scholars for study at the University of Cambridge.Hilton College students can also be found in the USA ivy league universities. Harvard University has 1 Hilton College student currently (2019) studying Computer science and Philosophy, in second year. He will be joined by a second Hilton student in August/September 2019.He plans to major in Social Sciences with a view to going to Harvard Law School. In addition, another Hilton College student began at the University of Pennsylvania in August 2018 studying Finance and Behavioral Economics at Wharton School of Business. Two students have been accepted to University of Pennsylvania and will start in August/September 2019. Currently (2019), there is one student in second year at Princeton University, one student in his third year at Brown University </ref> and recently (2018) a Hilton student graduated in public health from Cornell University.\n\nHilton College's sporting tradition stretches back to its establishment in 1872. There are three sports seasons at Hilton College and sport is compulsory at Hilton College and every form 1 is required to play a team sport in term 1. Hilton's most popular sports are Rugby, Cricket, Water Polo and Hockey. The school has seen success particularly in rugby, producing several Springbok Rugby players and also lending its colours to the Natal Rugby Union, which would later become the provincial colours of Natal and subsequently Kwa-Zulu Natal.\n\nThe school offers a wide variety of sports:\n\n\nThe house system at Hilton was created under the headmastership of William Falcon. Today there are seven houses, Churchill, Ellis, Falcon, Lucas, McKenzie, Newnham and Pearce which each occupy their own independent building. These houses serve as both a boys boarding and sporting house. Every new boy entering Hilton College is assigned a house which they stay in until Form 5. There is a rivalry between the seven houses who compete in inter-house tournaments such as swimming, athletics, rugby, general knowledge, debating and pancake eating. The matrics take responsibility for the running of the houses under the supervision a housemaster and deputy housemaster who live in adjoined apartments.\n\nHilton is a non-denominational Christian college, and Christian worship, values and principles are the foundation of Hilton College life. Pupils attend chapel service twice a week, including Sundays. About 40% of the school pupils come from Anglican backgrounds; 15% from Roman Catholic; 13% from Methodist; the other denominations are less than 10% each.\n\nHilton College has two school songs. The formal 'School Hymn' is Lift Up Your Hearts!, an English hymn written in 1881 by H. Montagu Butler. It is sung during chapel services such as Remembrance Day and Opening and Closing Services. The informal 'School Song' is Oh Boys of Hilton, which was written by Bobby Skinstad in 1993, and is sung to the tune of Flower of Scotland.\n\nHilton College has a student exchange programme with Eton College, Harrow School, Wrekin College and Framlingham College in England, Gordonstoun and Strathallan School in Scotland, Schule Schloss Salem in Germany, The Scots College, Knox Grammar School and Canberra Grammar School in Australia, and Charlotte Latin School and Woodberry Forest School in The United States of America.\n\nHilton College is situated on a estate that includes a wildlife reserve that borders the Umgeni River. \nThe school campus, which has been described as one of the most beautiful in the world, is home to all school buildings including the \"Crookes Block\" (main teaching block), the \"Hilton College Theater\", the \"William Campbell Building\" and the \"Hilton College Chapel\". Immediately beyond the campus is the school farm which includes wattle plantations and natural grazing areas and is used by boys for running and cycling.\n\nThe lower portion of the estate is the Hilton College Nature Reserve. Hilton boys have access to the reserve and make use of the grounds on Sundays for swimming, tubing, mountain biking, fishing, bird watching and exploring. In addition, academic departments make use of the reserve as part of the curriculum (e.g. Art, Biology, Geography)\n\nHilton College has produced a number of notable old boys. There have been eight Springbok Rugby players including two captains (Gary Teichmann and Bobby Skinstad) and two constitutional court judges (John Didcott and Arthur Chaskalson). \n\nHilton also educated sports journalist Robert Marawa and Italian Rugby player Sebastian Negri. Lungi Ngidi is a South African cricketer.\nPaul Maritz was previously Vice President of Microsoft and CEO of VMware\n\nThe Hiltonian Society is a non-profit organisation that owns and runs Hilton College. It was formed in 1930 by the share holders of Hilton College Ltd., which owned the school at the time. Any Hilton Old boy or past teacher is eligible to become a member of the Hiltonian Society.\n\nThe following schools are all considered Hilton feeder schools and pupils are eligible to receive closed scholarships to Hilton College.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107467", "title": "Zoarces", "text": "Zoarces\n\nZoarces is a genus of eelpouts in the family Zoarcidae. The members of this genus are ovoviviparous, giving birth to live young.\n\nSpecies include:\n"}
{"id": "2107468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107468", "title": "Ketill Flatnose", "text": "Ketill Flatnose\n\nKetill Björnsson, nicknamed Flatnose (Old Norse: \"Flatnefr\"), was a Norse King of the Isles of the 9th century.\n\nThe story of Ketill and his daughter Auðr (or Aud) was probably first recorded by the Icelander Ari Þorgilsson (1067 – 1148). Ari was born not long after the death of his great-grandmother Guðrún Ósvífrsdóttir – a prominent character in the \"Laxdæla saga\" whose husband, Thorkell Eyjolfsson, was descended from Auðr. Ari was thus a direct descendant of Ketill and so, when he wrote his story of Ketill, he was drawing in part on oral traditions amongst his own relatives.\n\nKetill was also depicted in such works as the \"Laxdæla saga\", \"Eyrbyggja saga\" and the \"Saga of Erik the Red\", while his genealogy was described in detail in the \"Landnámabók\".\n\nHowever, like many other medieval histories, all of these Old Norse works were written long after the events they described. No contemporaneous records of Ketill's life are known to exist, with the arguable exception of a single entry in the \"Annals of Ulster\".\n\nKetill Björnsson was the son of Björn Grímsson. In the \"Laxdaela saga\" he is recorded as being from Romsdal (\"Raumsdal\"), a valley in the county of Møre og Romsdal, between Nordmøre and Sunnmøre and from Sogn in the \"Landnámabók\".\nAfter Harald Fairhair had won the decisive Battle of Hafrsfjord in the late 9th century, many fled from Norway. According to the \"Orkneyinga saga\", some of these Vikings began to raid Norway in summer from the Orkney and Shetland islands north of mainland Scotland. For this reason Harald set sail to uproot the attackers. He defeated them and also took possession of the Hebrides and the Isle of Man. This story is retold in the \"Eyrbyggja saga\", but here it is Ketill rather than Harald who led the expedition, and after the initial victory the former retained the islands as \"personal domain\" rather than bringing them under Harald's rule. In the \"Laxdaela saga\" the same story is told, but here Ketill is one of the Vikings who have fled to the Isles to escape Harald's tyranny. In the \"Landnámabók\" the initial conquest is led by Harald, but as soon as he returned to Norway the raiders regrouped. At this point Harald sent Ketill to win the islands back again. Ketill did so but paid no tribute, at which point Harald took possession of what was owed from possessions of Ketill in Norway and sent away Ketill's sons. Some sources refer to Ketill as \"King of the Sudreys\" although there is little evidence that he himself claimed that title.\n\nAccording to the \"Landnámabók\", Kettil became ruler of a region already settled by Scandinavians. He left no successors there, and there is little record of Norse activity in the west of Scotland in the first four decades of the 10th century.\n\nMost of Ketill's family eventually emigrated to Iceland. Ketill's wife was Yngvild Ketilsdóttir, daughter of Ketill Wether, a hersir from Ringerike. They had a number of children, including Bjǫrn Ketilsson, who lived at Bjarnarhofn; Helgi \"Bjolan\" Ketilsson, who lived at Esjuberg on Kjalarnes; Thorunn Ketilsdatter, wife of Helgi the Lean, the first settler in Eyjafjordur bay; and Jorunn Ketilsdatter. Ketill's daughter, Aud the Deep-Minded, married Olaf the White, King of Dublin. Their son, Thorstein the Red, briefly conquered much of northern Scotland during the 870s and 880s before he was killed in battle. Aud and many members of her clan settled in the Laxdael region of Iceland.\n\nHunter (2000) states that Ketill was \"in charge of an extensive island realm and, as a result, sufficiently prestigious to contemplate the making of agreements and alliances with other princelings\". However, Woolf (2007) suggests that the story of his failing to pay tax to Harald \"looks very much like a story created in later days to legitimise Norwegian claims to sovereignty in the region\" and some scholars believe that this entire story of Harald's expedition is apocryphal and based on the later voyages of Magnus Barefoot. Although Norse military activity in Ireland in the 9th century is well documented in Irish sources, they contain no record at all of Harald Fairhair's voyage to the west.\n\nFurthermore, Harald is assumed to have annexed the Northern Isles (comprising Orkney and Shetland) in 875 or later. If Ketill's suzerainty post-dates this time, it is hard to see how Thorstein the Red, an adult grandson of his, could have been active in the 870s and 880s. It is therefore likely that Ketill's \"floruit\" in the Hebrides was at a period that pre-dates Harald's victory at Hafrsfjord.\n\nKetill Flatnose is also sometimes equated with Caittil Find, a reported leader of the \"Gallgáedil\" recorded in the \"Annals of Ulster\" as fighting in Ireland in 857. This source states simply that \"Ímar and Amlaíb inflicted a rout on Caittil the Fair and his Norse-Irish in the lands of Munster.\" (Ímar and Amlaíb are well-attested Norse leaders active in Ireland and the Isles in the 9th century.)\n\nThe Ketill/Caittil relationship was first proposed by E. W. Robertson in 1862, and then rejected by J. H. Todd in 1867. Robertson's position has since been supported by among others W. F. Skene and A. P. Smyth, while others, including A. O. Anderson and Donnchadh Ó Corráin are more skeptical.\n\nIn more recent scholarly debate, Claire Downham has endorsed Ó Corráin's view. The connection is described by Woolf (2007) as \"extremely tenuous\"., but Jennings and Kruse (2009) have supported the identification.\n\nWoolf argues that:\n\nJennings and Kruse recognise the deficiencies of the saga materials but suggest that \"they should not be summarily written off as void of any historical value\". They note that:\n\nDál Riata was a Gaelic kingdom in the Argyll and Bute region of Scotland. Jennings and Kruse argue that Ketill Bjornsson could have taken \"control of Dál Riata with its islands\". They note the correspondence between the Gaelic name \"Dál Riata\" and the fact that when Auðr, settled in the Breiðafjörður region of western Iceland it was in a region called Dalir or Dalaland (modern Dalasýsla). Furthermore, \"in the Breiðafjörður area there is an indisputably nostalgic Celtic precedent for quite a few names.\" Examples include islands called Pjattland (Pictland) and Írland (Ireland) and the nearby Patreksfjörður and Trostansfjörður named in honour of two Celtic saints.\n\nThey also quote the Irish \"Martyrology of Tallaght\", which refers to a \"[Feast of] Bláán, bishop of Kingarth in Gall-Ghàidheil\". This indicates that St Blane of Kingarth in Bute was closely connected to the Gallgáedil. The text is dated not later than the early tenth century and it seems that this part of Dál Riata was by then part of Gallgáedil-held territory. Fraser (2009) has suggested that Little Dunagoil near Kingarth could have been the Dalriadan \"Cenél Comgaill\" capital prior to the Norse incursions.\n\nThe \"Chronicum Scotorum\" refers to a battle that took place in 904 in which two grandsons of Ímar and their ally \"Catol\" were victorious against \"Aed\" who was evidently a leader in either Ireland or Pictland. It has been suggested that Catol was Ketill Flatnose (although once again the chronology is problematic), or alternatively that he was Cadell ap Rhodri, a King of Gwynedd.\n\nKetill Flatnose is portrayed by Adam Copeland in the 5th and 6th season of the historical drama television series \"Vikings\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2107471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107471", "title": "Adra, Purulia", "text": "Adra, Purulia\n\nAdra is a census town and a railway colony in the Kashipur CD block in the Raghunathpur subdivision in the Purulia district in the Indian state of West Bengal. It was originally known for its 90% of Anglo-Indian population. \n\nThe major sub-divisions of Adra are Agradoot, Subhasnagar, Beniasole, Sixty Four, Palashkola, Kantaranguni, Jhariadih, Panchudanga, Mission para, Laldanga, Daulatpur, Arabinda Pally and SER colonies (North and South).\n\nPurulia district forms the lowest step of the Chota Nagpur Plateau. The general scenario is undulating land with scattered hills. Raghunathpur subdivision occupies the northern part of the district. 83.80% of the population of the subdivision lives in rural areas. However, there are pockets of urbanization and 16.20% of the population lives in urban areas. There are 14 census towns in the subdivision. It is presented in the map given alongside. There is a coal mining area around Parbelia and two thermal power plants are there – the 500 MW Santaldih Thermal Power Station and the 1200 MW Raghunathpur Thermal Power Station. The subdivision has a rich heritage of old temples, some of them belonging to the 11th century or earlier. The Banda Deul is a monument of national importance. The comparatively more recent in historical terms, Panchkot Raj has interesting and intriguing remains in the area.\n\nAdra is the divisional headquarters of the Adra division of South Eastern Railway. The economy of the town is driven by the presence of the railways there. It is one of the three important coal loading divisions (the other two being Bilaspur and Chakradharpur) which supply coal to power plants across India.\n\nAn important railway junction, Adra railway station connects to Asansol on the Howrah-Delhi Main Line, Tatanagar on the Howrah-Nagpur-Mumbai line, Kharagpur on the Kolkata-Chennai and Kolkata-Mumbai lines, and Gomoh on the Kolkata-Delhi line. The present station building was built in 1903.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census of India, Adra had a total population of 14,956, of which 7,596 (51%) were males and 7,360 (49%) were females. There were 1,187 persons in the age range of 0–6 years. The total number of literate persons in Adra was 11,565 (83.99% of the population over 6 years).\n\nIn 2001, Adra had a population of 22,118 Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Adra has an average literacy rate of 73%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 56% of the males and 44% of females literate. 10% of the population was under 6 years of age.\n\nAccording to the \"District Census Handbook 2011, Puruliya\", Adra covered an area of 8.79 km. There is a railway station at Adra. Among the civic amenities, it had 48.7 km roads with both open and covered drains, the protected water supply involved overhead tank and service reservoir. It had 30,506 domestic electric connections and 869 road lighting points. Among the medical facilities it had 1 dispensary/ health centre, 1 family welfare centre, 1 maternity and child welfare centre, 3 medicine shops. Among the educational facilities it had were 4 primary schools, 6 secondary schools, 4 senior secondary schools, the nearest degree college at Raghunathpur 8 km away. Among the social, recreational and cultural facilities, it had 1 stadium, 1 auditorium/ community hall, 1 public library and 1 reading room. It had the branches of 5 nationalised banks and 1 co-operative bank.\n\nPlaces of tourist interest are Joychandi Pahar, which is 4 km north from the town. There is also a nature park called \"Swarn Jayanti Park\" with a natural water reservoir called \"Saheb Bandh\" and a forest called \"Monpura reserve forest\" is also situated here. Adra is known for Sacred Heart Church, which is one of the oldest churches built by the British in 1819. Sacred Heart Church is the largest church under the Jamshedpur Diocese.\n\nThere is Kendriya Vidyalaya, which is a part of the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), under the Ministry of HRD. The South Eastern Railway Boys' School, South Eastern Railway Girls' High School, South Eastern Railway Primary School, Sacred Heart School, Ashram School, Vidyasagar Vidyapith. Two colleges, Michael Madhusudan College and Raghunathpur College reside there.\n\nAdra is the state centre for training for the Bharat Scouts and Guides, and holds the Presidents' Award selection camps occasionally. It has the SERSA Stadium and Engineering Ground where annual Football and Cricket events are held.\n"}
{"id": "2107474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107474", "title": "All Saints Catholic School, Dagenham", "text": "All Saints Catholic School, Dagenham\n\nAll Saints Catholic School is a Roman Catholic secondary school located on Terling Road, Dagenham in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, England.\n\nWith around 1100 students, it is the only Catholic voluntary aided comprehensive school in Barking and Dagenham. It is also a training college, receiving the status in 2008, making it one of the first twin colleges.\n\n\"All Saints School\" was previously named \"Bishop Ward\" which between the mid 1950s (1954?) and the early 1960s was a mixed school then it became an all-boys school when the girls were moved to the \"Sacred Heart\" all-girls school they combined the two again in 1989.\n\nThe school was notable as a specialist college in technology, one of the first in the country.\n\nResults at Bishop Ward were poor with an atmosphere that Desmond 'Des' Smith described as \"depressed and violent\", Following the appointment of Smith as head teacher in 1984 results steadily improved until in 2003 it was considered \"the second most improved school in England\". The March 2003 Ofsted report summarised the situation \"The school has many very good features. Strategies adopted by the headteacher and governors have led to overall GCSE results rising faster than the national trend for some years, culminating in well above average results in 2002\". However, the inspectors also said that the school's strategy led to several subjects of the National Curriculum not being taught to all pupils in Years 10 and 11. In addition, National Curriculum music provision remained poor.\n\nImprovements continued and in the report of 6 June 2007 inspection Ofsted rated the school as Grade 1 <nowiki>\"</nowiki>\"Outstanding\" saying \"The school provides its students with an outstanding education. Standards are high and students achieve extremely well as a result of excellent teaching. The leaders and managers believe that each child is important and this maxim is at the heart of their decision making. There is a clear\nvision and a hunger for improvement building on the school's record of outstanding success.\" However, the school recognises the need to extend some aspects of its provision for the 14–19 age group including improving the guidance in the sixth form.\n\nSince January 2006, while headmaster at the school, Smith has been notorious for making the indiscreet remarks that triggered the Cash for Peerages scandal. At the end of the 2005–06 academic school year Smith retired and was replaced by the Deputy Head Teacher Kevin Wilson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107478", "title": "Zbigniew Cybulski", "text": "Zbigniew Cybulski\n\nZbigniew Hubert Cybulski (; 3 November 1927 – 8 January 1967) was a Polish actor, one of the best-known and most popular personalities of the post-World War II history of Poland.\n\nZbigniew Cybulski was born 3 November 1927 in a small village of Kniaże near Śniatyń, Poland (now a part of Sniatyn Raion, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast, Ukraine). After World War II he joined the Theatre Academy in Kraków. He graduated in 1953 and moved to Gdańsk, where he made his stage debut in Leon Schiller's Wybrzeże Theatre. Also, with his friend Bogumił Kobiela, Cybulski founded a famous student theatre, the Bim-Bom. In the early 1960s, Cybulski moved to Warsaw, where he shortly joined the Kabaret Wagabunda. He also appeared on stage at the Ateneum Theatre, one of the most modern and least conservative Warsaw-based theatres of the epoch.\n\nHowever, Cybulski is best remembered as a screen actor. He first appeared in a 1954 film \"Kariera\" as an extra. His first major role came in 1958, when he played in Kazimierz Kutz's \"Krzyż Walecznych\". The same year he also appeared as one of the main characters in Andrzej Wajda's \"Ashes and Diamonds\" and Aleksander Ford's \"The Eighth Day of the Week\" based on a short story by Marek Hłasko. From then on Cybulski was seen as one of the most notable actors of the Polish Film School and one of the \"young and wrathful\", as his generation of actors were called at the time.\n\nHis most famous films, apart from \"Ashes and Diamonds\", include Wojciech Has' \"The Saragossa Manuscript\". He also acted in numerous television plays, including some based on works by Truman Capote, Anton Chekhov and Jerzy Andrzejewski.\n\nCybulski died in an accident at a Wrocław Główny railway station on 8 January 1967, on his way from the film set. As he jumped on the speeding train (as he often did), he slipped on the steps, fell under the train, and was run over. He was buried in Katowice.\n\nCybulski remains a legend of the Polish cinema. His style of acting was revolutionary at the time, as was his image (leather clothes and big sunglasses). He was often referred to as \"the Polish James Dean\". Like Dean, he played nonconformist rebels, and like him he died young.\n\nThe Polish band 2 Plus 1 recorded a tribute album to Cybulski, called \"Aktor\" in 1977.\n\nIn 1996, readers of \"Film\" magazine awarded him the title of Best Polish Actor of All Time.\n\nIn 1969 the Zbigniew Cybulski Award (Polish: \"Nagroda im. Zbyszka Cybulskiego\") for young film actors with strong individuality was introduced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107483", "title": "Morton's theorem", "text": "Morton's theorem\n\nMorton's theorem is a poker principle articulated by Andy Morton in a Usenet poker newsgroup. It states that in multi-way pots, a player's expectation may be maximized by an opponent making a correct decision.\n\nThe most common application of Morton's theorem occurs when one player holds the best hand, but there are two or more opponents on draws. In this case, the player with the best hand might make more money in the long run when an opponent folds to a bet, even if that opponent is folding correctly and would be making a personal mistake to call the bet. This type of situation is sometimes referred to as \"implicit collusion\".\n\nMorton's theorem contrasts with the fundamental theorem of poker, which states that a player wants their opponents to make decisions which minimize their own expectation. The two theorems differ in the presence of more than one opponent: whereas the fundamental theorem always applies heads-up (one opponent), it does not always apply in multiway pots. \n\nThe scope of Morton's theorem in multi-way situations is a subject of controversy. Morton expressed the belief that his theorem is generically applicable in multi-way pots, so that the fundamental theorem rarely applies except for heads-up situations.\n\nThe following example is credited to Morton, who first posted a version of it on the Usenet newsgroup rec.gambling.poker.\n\nSuppose in limit hold'em a player named Arnold holds A♦K♣ and the flop is K♠9♥3♥, giving him top pair with best kicker. When the betting on the flop is complete, Arnold has two opponents remaining, named Brenda and Charles. Arnold is certain that Brenda has the nut flush draw (for example A♥J♥, giving her 9 outs), and he believes that Charles holds second pair with a random kicker (for example Q♣9♣, 4 outs — not the Q♥). The rest of the deck results in a win for Arnold. The turn card is an apparent blank (for example 6♦) and the pot size at this point is \"P\", expressed in big bets.\n\nWhen Arnold bets the turn, Brenda, holding the flush draw, is sure to call and is almost certainly getting the correct pot odds to do so. Once Brenda calls, Charles must decide whether to call or fold. To figure out which action he should choose, we calculate his expectation in each case. This depends on the number of cards among the remaining 42 that will give him the best hand, and the current size of the pot. (Here, as in arguments involving the fundamental theorem, we assume that each player has complete information of their opponents' cards.)\n\nCharles doesn't win or lose anything by folding. When calling, he wins the pot 4/42 of the time, and loses one big bet the remainder of the time. Setting these two expectations equal and solving for \"P\" lets us determine the pot size at which he is indifferent to calling or folding:\n\nWhen the pot is larger than this, Charles should continue; otherwise, it's in his best interest to fold.\n\nTo figure out which action on Charles' part Arnold would prefer, we calculate Arnold's expectation the same way:\n\nArnold's expectation depends in each case on the size of the pot (in other words, the pot odds Charles is getting when considering his call). Setting these two equal lets us calculate the pot size \"P\" where Arnold is indifferent whether Charles calls or folds:\n\nWhen the pot is smaller than this, Arnold profits when Charles is chasing, but when the pot is larger than this, Arnold's expectation is higher when Charles folds instead of chasing.\n\nHence, there is a range of pot sizes where both:\n\n(a) it's correct for Charles to fold, and\n(b) Arnold makes more money when Charles (correctly) folds, than when he (incorrectly) chases.\n\nThis can be seen graphically below.\n\nThe range of pot sizes marked with the X's is where Arnold wants Charles (C) to fold correctly, because he loses expectation when Charles calls incorrectly.\n\nIn essence, in the above example, when Charles calls in the \"paradoxical region\", he is paying too high a price for his weak draw, but Arnold is no longer the sole benefactor of that high price — Brenda is now taking Charles<nowiki>'</nowiki> money those times when Brenda makes her flush draw. Compared to the case where Arnold is heads up with Charles, Arnold still stands the risk of losing the whole pot, but he is no longer getting 100% of the compensation from Charles<nowiki>'</nowiki> loose calls.\n\nIt is the existence of this middle region of pot sizes, where a player wants at least some of their opponents to fold correctly, that explains the standard poker strategy of thinning the field as much as possible whenever a player thinks they hold the best hand. Even opponents with incorrect draws cost a player money when they call their bets, because part of these calls end up in the stacks of other opponents drawing against them.\n\nBecause Arnold is losing expectation from Charles<nowiki>'</nowiki> call, it follows that the \"aggregate\" of all other opponents (i.e., Brenda and Charles) must be gaining from Charles<nowiki>'</nowiki> call. In other words, if Brenda and Charles were to meet in the parking lot after the game and split their profits, they would have been colluding against Arnold. This is sometimes referred to as \"implicit collusion\". It should be contrasted with what is sometimes called \"schooling\". Schooling occurs when many opponents \"correctly\" call against a player with the best hand, whereas implicit collusion occurs when an opponent \"incorrectly\" calls against a player with the best hand.\n\nOne conclusion of Morton's theorem is that, in a loose hold'em game, the value of suited hands goes up because they are precisely the type of hand that will benefit from implicit collusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107489", "title": "Galloping Goose (railcar)", "text": "Galloping Goose (railcar)\n\nGalloping Goose is the popular name given to a series of seven railcars (officially designated as \"motors\" by the railroad), built in the 1930s by the Rio Grande Southern Railroad (RGS) and operated until the end of service on the line in the early 1950s. They were derived from full-sized automobiles.\n\nOriginally running steam locomotives on narrow gauge railways, the perpetually struggling RGS developed the first of the \"geese\" as a way to stave off bankruptcy and keep its contract to run mail into towns in the Rocky Mountains in Colorado. There was not enough passenger or cargo income to justify continuing the expensive steam train service at then-current levels, but it was believed that a downsized railway would return to profitability. The steam trains would transport heavy cargo and peak passenger loads, but motors would handle lighter loads.\n\nMotors were not only less expensive to operate, but were also significantly lighter, thus reducing impact on the rails and roadbeds. This cost saving meant that the first Goose was paid off and making a profit within three weeks of going into service. RGS built more Geese, and operated them until the company abandoned their right-of-way in 1952.\n\nThe RGS built its first motor in 1913, as a track maintenance crew vehicle. This was wrecked in 1925, but inspired the idea of using motors for scheduled service.\n\nAll of the \"geese\" were built in the railroad's shops at Ridgway, Colorado. The first was built in 1931 from the body of a Buick \"Master Six\" four-door sedan. It was more conventional in its construction than the later geese, though it had a two-axle truck in place of the front axle. Part of the rear of the car was replaced by a truck stake-bed for carrying freight and mail; this was later enclosed and partially fitted with seating. It was used for two years to carry passengers, US Mail, and light freight before being scrapped. A second \"goose\" was built in the same year from another Buick, but later versions used Pierce-Arrow bodies except for #6, which was constructed partly out of parts taken from the scrapped #1.\n\nNo. 2 and No. 6 were constructed with two trucks, with the rear truck powered on both axles. #2 had an enclosed freight compartment (like a very short boxcar), while #6 had an open bed similar to #1 (but larger). It was used only for work train service. The other four had three trucks and were articulated in the same manner as a tractor-trailer truck. In these, the second truck was powered, and the freight compartment was essentially a conventional boxcar.\n\nInitially, the \"geese\" were painted in black and dark green. In 1935 they were all painted in a silver scheme which they retain to this day, though the style of lettering and heralds changed over the years. In 1945, #3, #4, and #5 were rebuilt with Wayne bus bodies (at least the front half) replacing the old Pierce-Arrow bodies. This provided more passenger seating and comfort. A year later they also received new war surplus GMC engines.\n\nIn 1950, when the railroad finally lost its mail contract (in favor of highway mail carriers), #3, #4, #5, and #7 were converted for tourist operations, and the \"Galloping Goose\" name was officially recognized by the railroad. Large windows were cut in the sides of the freight compartments, and seating was added. A figure of a running goose and the words \"Galloping Goose\" were added to the carbody doors. This service lasted only two years, and the last work of the \"geese\" on their home line was to take up the rails.\n\nIt is unclear exactly where the name \"Galloping Goose\" comes from. It is mostly commonly suggested that it referred to the way the carbody and the freight compartment tended to rock back and forth on the line's sometimes precarious track. It is also suggested, though, that the name arose because the \"geese\" were equipped with air horns rather than the whistles of the steam locomotives. The name was used informally for years before the tourist operations, though the railroad officially referred to the units as \"motors\".\n\nA similar unit was built for the San Cristobal Railroad, and was rebuilt by RGS in 1934–35. When the San Christobal folded in 1939, this unit was returned to the RGS railroad and dismantled, with some parts going to rebuild and maintain Goose No. 2.\n\nThe Galloping Goose Regional Trail on Vancouver Island was named after a similar unit that ran on the Vancouver Island section of the Canadian National Railway from 1922 to 1931.\n\nGalloping Goose #5 (along with many local landmarks) was popularized in C. W. McCall's song, \"Gallopin' Goose\".\n\nOf the seven \"geese\", only #1, scrapped in 1933, does not survive. However, a replica was built in 2000 for the Ridgway Railroad Museum and is operational today. The other six are located as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107501", "title": "2004–05 in Belgian football", "text": "2004–05 in Belgian football\n\nThe 2004–05 season was the 102nd competitive season in Belgian football.\n\nThe Brussels derby is played once again since FC Brussels promoted.\n\nBelgium began their qualifying campaign for the Football World Cup 2006.\n\nKey\n\nFor their second season since the renewal of the club, Y.R. K.V. Mechelen gained the title this time \"in extremis\" before R. Cappellen F.C., who reaches the third division playoffs along with Torhout 1992 K.M. and F.C. Denderleeuw respectively winners of the first and second slices. The third slice went to Mechelen so it is Cappellen that replaces them in the playoffs. K.F.C. Evergem-Center and K. Lyra T.S.V. are relegated to promotion while K.S.K. Wevelgem City will fight in the Promotion playoffs.\n\nUnited Overpelt-Lommel won this year's edition with a comfortable advance and also won the last two slices. Oud-Heverlee Leuven has won the first slice so the 3rd and 4th placed teams (respectively K.S.K. Tongeren and R. Sprimont Comblain Sport) enter the playoffs. At the bottom of the table, Seraing R.U.L. and Veldwezelt will play Promotion next season while U.R. Namur will have to undergo the playoffs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107517", "title": "New Bedford Regional Airport", "text": "New Bedford Regional Airport\n\nNew Bedford Regional Airport is a municipally-owned, public use airport located three nautical miles northwest of the City of New Bedford, a city in Bristol County, Massachusetts, United States. The airport is a Part 139 Commercial Service Airport.\n\nThe airport lies within Class D airspace and has an operating FAA control tower (0600-2200). The Acushnet Cedar Swamp borders the airport to the north.\n\nNew Bedford Regional Airport was constructed between 1940 and 1942 as a commercial airport, but was soon drafted into use for the United States Army Air Forces until the end of World War II as New Bedford Army Airfield. In April 1944, the Navy took over control of the airport and used it as a training post and naval auxiliary air facility (NAAF New Bedford) to the Naval Air Station Quonset Point in Rhode Island. During its time, the field also had control of Outlying Landing Field Plymouth and Outlying Landing Field Westfield. \n\nAfter the war ended, the airport was converted back into civilian use and has been improved over the years with additional runway lighting and approach guidance systems.\n\nNortheast Airlines, a major east coast air carrier, provided scheduled airline service throughout the 1950s and 1960s until 1972 when it was acquired by and merged into Delta Air Lines which in turn then ceased serving New Bedford several years later. In 1960, Northeast was operating Douglas DC-3 aircraft into the airport with nonstop service to New York LaGuardia Airport, Boston and Martha's Vineyard. By 1969, Northeast had introduced larger Fairchild Hiller FH-227 turboprops on nonstop flights to New York LaGuardia, New York JFK Airport and Boston. Following its acquisition of Northeast, Delta continued to serve New Bedford with Fairchild Hiller FH-227 turboprops inherited from Northeast on nonstop flights to New York La Guardia and Boston during the early and mid-1970s.\n\nFollowing the cessation of service by Delta during the mid-1970s, Air New England provided regional service throughout New England and New York until it ceased all operations and went out of business. In 1975, Air New England was the only airline serving New Bedford with a total of up to fourteen nonstop flights a day into the airport from New York LaGuardia, Boston, Hyannis and Martha's Vineyard with these services being operated with Beechcraft 99 and de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter commuter turboprops as well as with larger Fairchild Hiller FH-227 turboprops and also with Douglas DC-3 aircraft. By 1979, Air New England had reduced its service into New Bedford and was operating four flights a day with DHC-6 Twin Otter turboprops on nonstop services twice a day to New York LaGuardia and Hyannis. Nor-East Commuter Airlines was also serving New Bedford in 1979 with several nonstop flights a day to Martha's Vineyard operated with Piper Navajo twin prop aircraft.\n\nFollowing Air New England, Provincetown-Boston Airlines (PBA) was the primary airline serving New Bedford until 1989, when it ceased all flights into the airport. In 1985, PBA was operating three nonstop flights a day to New York LaGuardia with Embraer EMB-110 Bandeirante commuter turboprops. At the peak of the PBA's business, 102,880 passengers passed through its facilities in New Bedford.\n\nPart 139 Certification was received in the Summer of 2017, allowing the Airport to accept larger passenger aircraft for the purpose of passenger transportation.\n\nIn December 2017, Elite Airways flew seven flights from New Bedford to Vero Beach, Florida. However, this service was suspended due to the growing pilot shortage and a limited fleet of aircraft.\n\nNew Bedford Regional Airport covers an area of 925 acres, which contains two asphalt runways: 5/23 measuring 5,400 x 150 ft (1,646 x 46 m) and 14/32 measuring 5,000 x 75 ft.\n\nThe airport had 50,000 aircraft operations in 2019. There are 97 aircraft based at this airport: 76 Single Engine, 16 Multi-Engine, 5 Jet Aircraft, 1 Helicopter, and 1 Ultralight.\n\nCape Air is the primary Air Carrier, operating scheduled passenger air service at the New Bedford Regional Airport. Destinations include Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket year-round; New York and Washington DC seasonally, through a Codeshare agreement with JetBlue and United Airlines.\n\nThe airport has a thriving general aviation community and is served by three FBOs:\n\n\nBridgewater State University is one of the only accredited, collegiate Part 141 Aviation Science programs in New England. The University offers a fleet of over 15 Aircraft, state of the art flight simulators, and an experienced faculty & staff. Students can earn Bachelor of Science Degrees, with concentrations in both Flight Training and Aviation Management.\n\nThe Airport Grille opened its doors under new management in October of 2019. The restaurant offers a range of American-style pasta, steak and seafood dishes, with a focus on lobster. The Airport Grille is located inside the Main Terminal Building.\n\nOver the past ten years, the FAA, the Massachusetts Aeronautics Commission, and the New Bedford Airport Commission proposed an expansion project to develop New Bedford Regional Airport into a regional air cargo facility. The recommended expansion plans included a proposal to extend runway 5-23 to 8,000 ft (2,438 m) from its current length of 5,400  ft (1,646 m). Air cargo carriers require at least 6,000 to 7,000 ft (1,800 to 2,100 m) of runway.\n\nHowever, despite the economic benefits that a new cargo facility could bring to the area, there is a substantial local opposition. Large cargo jets will create more noise and pollution than the smaller planes that presently utilize the airport, and the runway extension itself could affect 17 to 58 acres (69,000 to 235,000 m²) of wetlands. Safety could also be a concern, with large aircraft following a flight path directly over populated residential areas.\n\nDue to this opposition, in addition to environmental and safety concerns of the FAA that were not fully addressed by the expansion planning, the plan to extend the runway was rejected by the Airport Commission on May 4, 2005. The commission voted instead to implement various safety upgrades which included an added 503 feet of length.\n\nIn 2015, Runway 5/23 was completely rebuilt, with an addition in length of 400 feet, making the new dimensions 5,400×150 ft. The project also added much needed Runway Safety Areas, putting the runway environment in compliance with modern standards. Taxiway Alpha was also rebuilt at this time, adding Taxiway Safety Areas.\n\nIn 2018, Runway 14/32 was narrowed to 75 ft, but retained its original length of 5,000 ft, while also added conforming Runway Safety Areas. The project also saw the eradication of the Taxiway B North run-up pad, constructing Taxiway Kilo in its place. In addition, taxiways Echo and Charlie were constructed. Several improvements to taxiway Alpha were also part of this construction phase.\n\nIn 2019, the Airport was awarded several grants for new wildlife fencing, ARFF Equipment, and a supplemental grant of $5 Million to design and reconstruct Terminal Aprons. This grant included funding for substructure improvements to assist with drainage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107531", "title": "Canadian Polish Congress", "text": "Canadian Polish Congress\n\nThe Canadian-Polish Congress (, KPK, CPC) is a Canadian not-for-profit organization federally integrated on the 7th of February 1933 in Winnipeg, Manitoba which was previously known as the Federation of Polish Societies in Canada. The Canadian Polish Congress serves as the central umbrella organization for some 150 affiliated Polish-Canadian social, cultural, charitable, educational and professional organizations throughout Canada. The organisation listed on the WM Fares Wall of Tribute was founded in 1944, it is the main advocacy group for the Polish community in Canada and promotes awareness of Poland's history and cultural heritage, and the contribution of Polish Canadians to Canadian institutions, culture and society. Its subdivided area of activity spreads all over Canada and includes districts of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba,Ontario and Quebec. \n\nThe KPK was founded in 1944 as an umbrella association of 115 different organizations. From the beginning, prior to the arrival of exiled Polish combatants in 1946, the KPK was political, excluding communists from the organization and supporting the Polish government-in-exile. In the post-war period, the KPK was dominated by WWII veterans associated with the Polish Combatants Association.\n\nIn the 1950s, under the presidency of Tadeusz Brzeziński, the KPK was involved in the transfer of the Wawel Castle treasures and a number of Chopin manuscripts, under its safekeeping since World War II, to Poland.\n\nIn 1973, the left of centre Polish Alliance of Canada (PAC, founded in 1907) left the KPK in disagreement over the proponents of total independence of Poland that controlled the KPK, the close ties between the KPK and the government in exile, and accusations that the PAC was pro-communist. The disagreement between the PAC and KPK started to surface in the late 1960s, with the PAC advocating that the main focus of Polish-Canadian organizations should be assimilation and integration in Canada while promoting Polish culture, and opposing a non-Canadian political focus. In 1982, following the emergence of Solidarity, the PAC rejoined the KPK.\n\nThe KPK spearheaded the construction of the Katyn monument in Toronto in 1980, being the first such monument in the world erected in a public place.\n\nThe KPK was a vocal supporter of Poland’s Solidarity movement. In 1981 and 1982, the KPK staged widespread protests in Canadian cities in support of Solidarity and in opposition to the Soviet Union and the imposition of martial law in Poland. The KPK, in what Clements describes as \"the most contentious tone the CPC [KPK] had recorded in its history\", urged the Canadian government to take action against the Polish authorities and to accept Polish political refugees. KPK's demands were largely rejected by Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, though they did succeed in getting Trudeau to address Parliament in January 1982 in support of loosening the martial law restrictions in Poland.\n\nThe KPK spearheaded the founding of the Chair of Polish History at the University of Toronto and established the Council for the Support of Polish Studies at the University of Toronto to sustain Polish language and literature studies.\n\nIn 2014 the KPK was said to represent about 150 Polish-Canadian organizations. That year also saw an academic conference in Poland dedicated to the history and activities of the KPK. As of mid-2010s, the KPK is involved in the construction of a Memorial to the Victims of Communism – Canada, a Land of Refuge in Ottawa.\n\nThe KPK's ideology is conservative, anti-communist, and supportive of the Catholic Church.\n\nWhile Poland was under communist rule, the KPK distinguished between the government and people of Poland. Member organizations were forbidden to have contact with the Polish government, and communists or those sympathetic to communists were barred from positions in KPK member organizations. The KPK supports the Catholic Church, and statements or resolutions in support of the Church have been made at nearly every KPK convention.\n\nThe KPK is engaged in information-providing and anti-defamation activities, and was instrumental in securing two rulings by the Ontario Press Council regarding the misuse of “Polish concentration camps.”\n\nThe KPK has advocated that a central focus of the \"mass atrocities section\" in the Canadian Museum for Human Rights should be on \"the injury caused to Poles and other Eastern Europeans by Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia\". The KPK protested against \"rewriting history\" in \"Our Class\", a theatre play whose historical accuracy has been questioned by others.\n\nThe following foundations are associated with the Canadian Polish Congress:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107535", "title": "Present Indicative", "text": "Present Indicative\n\nPresent Indicative () is a 1972 Hungarian drama film directed by Péter Bacsó. The film was selected as the Hungarian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 45th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107549", "title": "Mühlbach", "text": "Mühlbach\n\nMühlbach or Muhlbach can refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107551", "title": "Independent Examinations Board", "text": "Independent Examinations Board\n\nThe Independent Examinations Board, or IEB, is a South African independent assessment agency which offers examinations for various client schools, mostly private schools. It is most prominent in setting examinations for the school-leaving National Senior Certificate, or NSC (which replaced the Senior Certificate and Further Education and Training Certificate) for its client schools. See High school: South Africa; Matriculation in South Africa.\n\nThe IEB exams are considered by many teachers, parents, students and universities, both within South Africa and abroad, as a more challenging and comprehensive assessment than the State NSC. Students with excellent IEB results have been accepted to Ivy League and Oxbridge institutions without taking further requirements such as A-levels. (SATs (or ACTs) are required for all major U.S. universities - the IEB NSC does not exempt students from this requirement.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107559", "title": "Islamic feminism", "text": "Islamic feminism\n\nA combination of Islam and feminism has been advocated as \"a feminist discourse and practice articulated within an Islamic paradigm\" by Margot Badran in 2002. Islamic feminists ground their arguments in Islam and its teachings, seek the full equality of women and men in the personal and public sphere, and can include non-Muslims in the discourse and debate. Islamic feminism is defined by Islamic scholars as being more radical than secular feminism and as being anchored within the discourse of Islam with the Quran as its central text. \nAs a \"school of thought\", it is said to refer to Moroccan sociologist \"Fatema Mernissi and scholars such as Amina Wadud and Leila Ahmed\".\n\nAdvocates refer to the observation that Muslim majority countries produced several female heads of state, prime ministers, and state secretaries such as Lala Shovkat of Azerbaijan, Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan, Mame Madior Boye of Senegal, Tansu Çiller of Turkey, Kaqusha Jashari of Kosovo, and Megawati Sukarnoputri of Indonesia. In Bangladesh, Khaleda Zia was elected the country's first female prime minister in 1991, and served as prime minister until 2009, when she was replaced by Sheikh Hasina, who maintains the prime minister's office at present making Bangladesh the country with the longest continuous female premiership.\n\nIslamic feminists interpret the religious texts in a feminist perspective. They can be viewed as a branch of interpreters who ground their arguments in Islam and its teachings, seek the full equality of women and men in the personal and public sphere, and can include non-Muslims in the discourse and debate.\n\nIslamic feminism is defined by Islamic scholars as being more radical than secular feminism, and as being anchored within the discourse of Islam with the Quran as its central text.\n\nDuring recent times, the concept of Islamic feminism has grown further with Islamic groups looking to garner support from many aspects of society. In addition, educated Muslim women are striving to articulate their role in society.\n\nAccording to Umm Yasmin of the Centre for Muslim Minorities and Islam, she states that feminism is often mistaken as a western movement, but addresses that Muslim feminists have been active since the early nineteenth century. Muslim feminists tasks aren't to reform the religion of Islam, but rather \"promote gender equality within a secular society\" . Yasmin further concludes that Muslim feminists have \"adapted\" their views \"in which Islam can be contextualized\" in order to advocate equality between men and women paralleling with their faith; for Islam doesn't condone violence against women. Since the 19th century, both men and women question the legal system regarding the Sharia Laws effect on women such as strict veiling, education, seclusion, polygyny and concubinage. In reforming these social issues, Muslims women started advocating for legal change, establishing schools for girls, and opposing to veiling and polygyny. In support of Yasmin's argument, Fatema Mernissi undermines that the ideal Muslim woman being portrayed as \"silent and obedient\" has nothing to do with the message of Islam. In her view, conservative Muslim men manipulated the religious texts of the Quran to preserve their patriarchal system In order to prevent women from sexual liberation; thus enforcing justification of strict veiling and limitation rights. \n\nIslamists are advocates of political Islam, the notion that the Quran and hadith mandate a caliphate, i.e. an Islamic government. Some Islamists advocate women's rights in the public sphere but do not challenge gender inequality in the personal, private sphere. Su'ad al-Fatih al-Badawi, a Sudanese academic and Islamist politician, has argued that feminism is incompatible with \"taqwa\" (the Islamic conception of piety), and thus Islam and feminism are mutually exclusive. Margot Badran of Georgetown University's Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding (now the Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding) argues that Islam and feminism are not mutually exclusive and that \"Islamic feminism, which derives its understanding and mandate from the Qur'an, seeks rights and justice for women, and for men, in the totality of their existence. Islamic feminism is both highly contested and firmly embraced.\"\n\nDuring the early days of Islam in the 7th century CE, changes in women's rights affected marriage, divorce and inheritance. \"The Oxford Dictionary of Islam\" argues for a general improvement of the status of women in Arab societies, including the prohibition of female infanticide, though some historians believe that infanticide was practiced both before and after Islam. While other scholars, like Leila Ahmed argue:However, the argument made by some Islamists, that Islam’s banning of infanticide established the fact that Islam improved the position of women in all respects, seems both inaccurate and simplistic.Under Islamic law, marriage was no longer viewed as a status but rather as a contract, in which the woman's lack of protest was imperative, either by active consent or silence. \"The dowry, previously regarded as a bride-price paid to the father, became a nuptial gift retained by the wife as part of her personal property\" (see also Dower).\n\nWilliam Montgomery Watt states that Muhammad, in the historical context of his time, can be seen as a figure who testified on behalf of women's rights and improved things considerably. Watt explains: \"At the time Islam began, the conditions of women were terrible – they had no right to own property, were supposed to be the property of the man, and if the man died everything went to his sons.\" Muhammad, however, by \"instituting rights of property ownership, inheritance, education and divorce, gave women certain basic safeguards.\" Haddad and Esposito state that \"Muhammad granted women rights and privileges in the sphere of family life, marriage, education, and economic endeavors, rights that help improve women's status in society.\"\n\nFeminist critics of the notion that Islam significantly bettered the status of women include Leila Ahmed, who states that Islamic records show that at least some women in pre-Islamic Arabia inherited wealth, ran businesses, chose their own husbands, and worked in respected professions. Ahmed is also sure to note that just, because pre-Islamic Arabia was matrilineal doesn't mean that women were necessarily liberated and empowered within their society. Fatima Mernissi similarly argues that customs in pre-Islamic Arabia were more permissive of female sexuality and social independence, not less.\n\nMahood A, Moel J, Hudson C, and Leathers L. conducted a study and questioned individual women about how their role as a woman in their religion and if it empowering them in any way, an interviewee states \"In Islam and its teachings are capable of giving women an equal footing in society to men, and that Islam does not relegate women to the private sphere. I really believe some Muslims have distorted our teachings and forgotten our heritage. I believe that Islam can be used as a source of empowerment for women.\"\n\nWhilst the pre-modern period lacked a formal feminist movement, nevertheless a number of important figures argued for improving women's rights and autonomy. These range from the medieval mystic and philosopher Ibn Arabi, who argued that women could achieve spiritual stations as equally high as men. In later eras, Nana Asma’u, daughter of eighteenth-century reformer Usman Dan Fodio, pushed for literacy and the education of Muslim women.\n\nWealthy noblewomen often funded Islamic religious and learning establishments, though few of those establishments admitted female students until the twentieth century. For example, Fatima al-Fihri's founding of the University of Al Karaouine in 859 CE, though the university only admitted women (the most notable of whom was Fatima al-Kabbaj) in the 1900s. This continued through to the Ayyubid dynasty in the 12th and 13th centuries: of 160 mosques and madrasahs established in Damascus, women funded 26 through the Waqf (charitable trust or trust law) system. Half of all the royal patrons for these institutions were also women.\n\nAccording to the Sunni scholar Ibn Asakir in the 12th century, there were opportunities for female education. He wrote that girls and women could study, earn \"ijazahs\" (academic degrees) and qualify as scholars (\"ulema\") and teachers. This was especially the case for learned and scholarly families, who wanted to ensure the highest possible education for both their sons and daughters. Ibn Asakir had himself studied under 80 different female teachers. Muhammad is said to have praised the women of Medina for their desire for religious knowledge: \"How splendid were the women of the \"ansar\"; shame did not prevent them from becoming learned in the faith.\"\n\nWhile it was extremely rare for women to enroll as students in formal classes, they did attend informal lectures and study sessions at mosques, madrasahs and other public places. Some men did not approve of this practice. For example, Muhammad ibn al-Hajj (d. 1336) was appalled at the behaviour of some women who informally audited lectures in his time:\n\nOn the question of women in medieval Islam, Abdul Hakim Murad (Timothy Winter) writes:\n\nthe orientalist Ignaz Goldziher showed that perhaps fifteen percent of medieval hadith scholars were women, teaching in the mosques and universally admired for their integrity. Colleges such as the Saqlatuniya Madrasa in Cairo were funded and staffed entirely by women.\nIn the 15th century, Al-Sakhawi devotes an entire volume of his 12-volume biographical dictionary \"Daw al-lami\" to female scholars, giving information on 1,075 of them.\n\nWhen the Taliban assumed power in 1995, women's education was outlawed, and forced to go underground. Once the Taliban was overthrown, there is an opportunity for women's education to resurface once again, but it is difficult due to remaining stigmas and male power in the system. In August 2012, official Iranian sources released the news that women would be restricted from joining undergraduate courses in 77 technical, science, and engineering programs in 36 different Iranian universities.\n\nThe labor force in the Caliphate came from diverse ethnic and religious backgrounds, while both men and women were involved in diverse occupations and economic activities. Women were employed in a wide range of commercial activities and diverse occupations in the primary sector (as farmers for example), secondary sector (as construction workers, dyers, spinners, etc.) and tertiary sector (as investors, doctors, nurses, presidents of guilds, brokers, peddlers, lenders, scholars, etc.). Muslim women also held a monopoly over certain branches of the textile industry, the largest and most specialized and market-oriented industry at the time, in occupations such as spinning, dyeing, and embroidery.\n\nIn the 12th century, the famous Islamic philosopher and \"qadi\" (judge) Ibn Rushd, known to the West as \"Averroes\", claimed that women were equal to men in all respects and possessed equal capacities to shine in peace and in war, citing examples of female warriors among the Arabs, Greeks and Africans to support his case. In early Muslim history, examples of notable women who fought during the Muslim conquests and Fitna (civil wars) as soldiers or generals included Nusaybah Bint k'ab Al Maziniyyah, Aisha, Kahula and Wafeira.\n\nWomen under Islamic law have the ability to inherit and bestow inheritance; independently manage their financial affairs; and contract marriages and divorce. Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University, notes:\n\nIn contrast to the Western world, where divorce was relatively uncommon until modern times, divorce in the Muslim world (\"talaq\") was a more common occurrence. In the Mamluk Sultanate and early Ottoman Empire, the rate of divorce was higher than it is today in the modern Middle East, at least according to one study. In 15th-century Egypt, Al-Sakhawi recorded the marital history of 500 women, the largest sample]] on marriage in the Middle Ages, and found that at least a third of all women in the Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt and Syria married more than once, with many marrying three or more times.\n\nThe modern movement of Islamic feminism began in the nineteenth century. The Iranian poet Táhirih was the first modern woman to undertake Qur'anic exegesis. Born and raised in a traditional Muslim family, she became a prominent member of the Bábí Faith, during which time she openly denounced polygyny, the wearing of the veil, and other restraints put upon women. One of her most notable quotes is her final utterance prior to her execution in August 1852, \"You can kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the emancipation of women.\"\n\nEgyptian jurist Qasim Amin, the author of the 1899 pioneering book \"Women's Liberation\" (\"Tahrir al-Mar'a\"), is often described as the father of the Egyptian feminist movement. In his work, Amin criticized some of the practices prevalent in his society at the time, such as polygyny, the veil, and \"purdah\", i.e. sex segregation in Islam. He condemned them as un-Islamic and contradictory to the true spirit of Islam. His work had an enormous influence on women's political movements throughout the Islamic and Arab world, and is read and cited today.\n\nDespite Qasim Amin's effects on modern-day Islamic feminist movements, present-day scholar Leila Ahmed considers his works both androcentric and colonialist. Muhammad 'Abdu, an Egyptian nationalist and proponent of Islamic modernism, could easily have written the chapters of his work that show honest considerations of the negative effects of the veil on women. Amin even posed many male-centered misconceptions about women, such as their inability to experience love, that women needlessly (when they had very good reason to) talk about their husbands outside their presence, and that Muslim marriage is based on ignorance and sensuality, of which women were the chief source.\n\nLess known, however, are the women who preceded Amin in their feminist critique of their societies. The women's press in Egypt started voicing such concerns since its very first issues in 1892. Egyptian, Turkish, Iranian, Syrian and Lebanese women and men had been reading European feminist magazines even a decade earlier, and discussed their relevance to the Middle East in the general press.\n\nAisha Abd al-Rahman, writing under her pen name \"Bint al-Shati\" (\"Daughter of the Riverbank\"), was the second modern woman to undertake Quranic exegesis, and though she did not consider herself to be a feminist, her works reflect feminist themes. She began producing her popular books in 1959, the same year that Naguib Mahfouz published his allegorical and feminist version of the life of Muhammad. She wrote biographies of early women in Islam, including the mother, wives and daughters of the Prophet Muhammad, as well as literary criticism. Fatema Mernissi has argued that much of the suppression of women's rights in Islamic societies is the result of political motivation and its consequent manipulative interpretation of hadith, which runs counter to the egalitarian Islamic community of men and women envisioned by Muhammad.\n\nSome strains of modern Islamic feminism have opted to expunge hadith from their ideology altogether in favor of a movement focusing only on Qur'anic principles. Riffat Hassan has advocated one such movement, articulating a theology wherein what are deemed to be universal rights for humanity outlined in the Qur'an are prioritized over contextual laws and regulations. She has additionally claimed that the Qur'an, taken alone as scripture, does not present females either as a creation preceded by the male or as the instigator of the \"Fall of Man\". This theological movement has been met with criticism from other Muslim feminists such as Kecia Ali, who has criticized its selective nature for ignoring elements within the Muslim tradition that could prove helpful in establishing more egalitarian norms in Islamic society.\n\nThe Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan (RAWA) is a women's organization based in Quetta, Pakistan, that promotes women's rights and secular democracy. The organization aims to involve women of Afghanistan in both political and social activities aimed at acquiring their human rights and continuing the struggle against the government of Afghanistan based on democratic and secular - not fundamentalist - principles, in which women can participate fully.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1977 by a group of intellectuals led by Meena (she did not use a last name). They founded the organization to promote equality and education for women; it continues to \"give voice to the deprived and silenced women of Afghanistan\". Before 1978, RAWA focused mainly on women's rights and democracy, but after the coup of 1978, directed by Moscow, and the 1979 Soviet Occupation of Afghanistan, \"Rawa became directly involved in the war of resistance, advocating democracy and secularism from the outset\". In 1979 RAWA campaigned against the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, and organized meetings in schools to mobilize support against it, and in 1981, launched a bilingual feminist magazine, \"Payam-e-Zan\" (Women's Message). RAWA also founded Watan Schools to aid refugee children and their mothers, offering both hospitalization and the teaching of practical skills. \n\nMeena was assassinated in Quetta on February 4, 1987 by Afghan agents of the Soviet KGB, who were colluding with fundamentalist Mujahideen leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.\n\nIn 2015 a group of Muslim activists, politicians, and writers issued a Declaration of Reform which, among other things, supports women's rights and states in part, \"We support equal rights for women, including equal rights to inheritance, witness, work, mobility, personal law, education, and employment. Men and women have equal rights in mosques, boards, leadership and all spheres of society. We reject sexism and misogyny.\" The Declaration also announced the founding of the Muslim Reform Movement organization to work against the beliefs of Middle Eastern terror groups. In 2015 Asra Nomani and others placed the Declaration on the door of the Islamic Center of Washington. \n\nFeminism in the Middle East is over a century old, and having been impacted directly by the war on terror in Afghanistan, continues to grow and fight for women's rights and equality in all conversations of power and everyday life. There is currently an ongoing debate about the actual status of women in Islam, with both conservatives and Islamic feminists using the Quran, the hadith, and prominent women in Muslim history as evidence for the discussion on women's rights, with feminists arguing that early Islam represented more egalitarian ideals, while conservatives argue that gender asymmetries are \"divinely ordained\".\n\nSister-hood is an international platform for the voices of women of Muslim heritage founded in 2007 by Norwegian film-maker and human rights activist Deeyah Khan through her media and arts production company Fuuse.\n\nSister-hood was relaunched in 2016 as a global online magazine and live events platform promoting the voices of women of Muslim heritage. Within six month of its relaunch as an online magazine, sister-hood won Espoke Living Best Website at the 2016 Asian Media Awards for highlighting female equality as well as creating awareness of issues affecting Muslim women. Sister-hood magazine ambassadors include Farida Shaheed from Pakistan, Egyptian Mona Eltahawy, Palestinian Rula Jebreal, Leyla Hussein of Somali heritage and Algerian Marieme Helie Lucas.\n\nSisters in Islam (SIS) is a Malaysian civil society organisation committed to promoting the rights of women within the frameworks of Isla] and universal human rights. SIS work focuses on challenging laws and policies made in the name of Islam that discriminate against women. As such it tackles issues covered under Malaysia's Islamic family and syariah laws, such as polygamy, child marriage, moral policing, Islamic legal theory and jurisprudence, the hijab and modesty, violence against women and hudud. Their mission is to promote the principles of gender equality, justice, freedom, and dignity of Islam and empower women to be advocates for change. They seek to promote a framework of women's rights in Islam which take into consideration women's experiences and realities; they want to eliminate the injustice and discrimination that women may face by changing mindsets that may hold women to be inferior to men; and they want to increase the public knowledge and reform laws and policies within the framework of justice and equality in Islam. Prominent members are Zainah Anwar and co-founder Amina Wadud.\n\nGroups like Sisters in Islam and RAWA, have done substantial work in uniting members of Islam for the uplifting of women. Major members of this movement have argued for increased recognition in theological approaches as seen when Ziba Mir-Hosseini says:‘Secular feminism has fulfilled its historical role but it has nothing more to give us’ […] I will simply repeat here that rejection was not my intent, but rather, then as now, I call for a reconciliation and transcendence of the distinction. We are all heading in the same direction, but we also need to recognise and value the diversity in our approaches and create spaces where different feminisms and voices can work together towards the same goal. Many Islamic feminists argue that their inequality doesn't come from the Koran, but how people have interpreted the messages of the Koran. More specific efforts include those of the group Muslim Women's Quest for Equality when they petitioned the Supreme Court of India against the practices of \"talaq-e-bidat\" (triple talaq), \"nikah halala\" and polygyny under the Muslim personal laws illegal and unconstitutional in September 2016. \n\nIn 2009, twelve women from the Arab world formed the global movement Musawah, whose name means \"equality\" in Arabic. Musawah advocates for feminist interpretations of Islamic texts and calls on nations to abide by international human rights standards such as those promulgated in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. Musawah's approach is modeled after that of Sisters in Islam. Secular feminists have criticized Musawah, arguing that Islam is shaky ground on which to build a feminist movement, given that interpretation of Islamic sources is subjective.\n\nOne of such controversial interpretations involve passages in the Quran that discuss the idea of a man's religious obligation to support women. Some scholars, such as anthropologist Carolyn Fluehr-Lobban in her work on Arab-Muslim women activists' engagement in secular religious movements, argue that this assertion of a religious obligation \"has traditionally been used as a rationale for the social practice of male authority.\" In some countries the legislative and administrative application of male authority is used to justify denying women access to the public sphere through the \"denial of permission to travel or work outside the home, or even drive a car.\" On Sept. 26, 2017 Saudi Arabia announced it would end its longstanding policy banning women from driving in June 2018. Various female activists had protested the ban, among them Saudi women's rights activists Manal al-Sharif, by posting videos of them driving on social media platforms.\n\nIslamic feminists have objected to the MPL legislation in many of these countries, arguing that these pieces of legislation discriminate against women. Some Islamic feminists have taken the attitude that a reformed MPL which is based on the Quran and sunnah, which includes substantial input from Muslim women, and which does not discriminate against women is possible. Such Islamic feminists have been working on developing women-friendly forms of MPL. (See, for example, the Canadian Council of Muslim Women for argument based on the Qur'an and not on what they call medieval male consensus.) Other Islamic feminists, particularly some in Muslim minority contexts which are democratic states, argue that MPL should not be reformed but should be rejected and that Muslim women should seek redress, instead, from the civil laws of those states. \n\nAnother issue that concerns Muslim women is the dress code expected of them. Islam requires both men and women to dress modestly; this concept is known as \"hijab\" and covers a wide interpretation of behavior and garments. There is mixed opinion among Muslim feminists concerning externally imposed control. Sufi groups such as Al-Ahbash do not make it mandatory for women to wear traditional Islamic clothing, even allowing jeans.\n\nA number of Islamic feminists, including Fadela Amara and , support bans on the \"hijab\" for various reasons. Amara explained her support for France's ban of the garment in public buildings: \"The veil is the visible symbol of the subjugation of women, and therefore has no place in the mixed, secular spaces of France's public school system.\" When some feminists began defending the headscarf on the grounds of \"tradition\", Amara was said: \"It's not tradition, it's archaic! French feminists are totally contradictory. When Algerian women fought against wearing the headscarf in Algeria, French feminists supported them. But when it's some young girl in a French suburb school, they don't. They define liberty and equality according to what colour your skin is. It's nothing more than neocolonialism.\" Mhenni also expressed support for Tunisia's ban on the veil: \"If today we accept the headscarf, tomorrow we'll accept that women's rights to work and vote and receive an education be banned and they'll be seen as just a tool for reproduction and housework.\"\n\nSihem Habchi, director of Ni Putes Ni Soumises, expressed support for France's ban on the burqa in public places, stating that the ban was a matter of 'democratic principle' and protecting French women from the 'obscurantist, fascist, right-wing movement' that she claims the burqa represents.\n\nAlternatively, there is also strong support in favor of the veil. Both men and women now view the veil as a symbol of Islamic freedom. As a growing number of individuals have accepted and incorporated the hijab into their cultural dress, women are beginning to reclaim the meaning behind the veil. The veil itself acts as a different experience lived by each woman who wears it. “It is no longer a bandanna version of the all-encompassing Afghan burqa, signaling a woman's brainwashed submissiveness or at the very least her lack of choice”. Many scholars agree that there is no scripture that requires women to wear the hijab but many still do as an act of religious piety.\n\nA growing number of women have begun to incorporate the hijab into their cultural dress, whether they live in predominantly Muslim countries or not. The veil itself acts as a different experience lived by each woman who wears it, rather than a homogenizing item of clothing. Over the past ten years, the hijab has become more prominent in countries of the world where wearing the hijab itself is not required of women by state law. The willingness to wear the veil outside of required states acts as a radical statement in some instances, in a way reclaiming the symbol and meaning of the veil. Where the veil once stereotypically represented the oppression of women, it now acts as a power statement of pride in religion, femininity, and sexual identity. Feminist philosophers such as Luce Irigaray also note that the veil can take on the role of empowerment regarding a woman's sexual difference from man.\n\nThe Qur'an does state that both men and women should be dressed modestly (33:59-60, 24:30-31; in translation by Ali, 1988, 1126–27). However it does not use the words veil, hijab, burka, chador, or abaya. It uses the words \"jilbab\" meaning cloak and \"khumur\" meaning shawl. These do not cover the face, hands, or feet. Furthermore, until the third through the ninth century women prayed in the mosques unveiled. The whole body covering with the burka, chador, and other items of clothing is a tradition and cultural manifest from a conservative reading of the Qur'an by Mullahs; men. It is not what the Qur'an itself states.\n\nRachel Woodlock points out that the wearing of hijab is contextualised by culture. In addition, modern Muslim feminists believe that ultimately the importance lies in a woman's freedom of choice---her choice to wear the veil or not to, and not have her right to do so threatened. Muslim women should be able to define dress codes for themselves and what they deem to be morally right.\n\nIn her book \"Muslim Fashion: Contemporary Style Cultures\", London College of Fashion Cultural Studies professor Reina Lewis states that the evolution of mainstream hijab fashion serves as an outlet for Muslim women to demonstrate creativity and individuality in their development of a personal style that adheres to the code of dressing modestly (see Modest fashion). This gives Muslim women, particularly those of younger generations, the personal decision to wear the hijab is an opportunity to express their contemporary ideas on Muslim femininity.\n\nNot only is clothing modesty widely symbolic in Muslim communities and Islamic religious beliefs, but the method of head covering has many connections between religions as well. Reina Lewis discusses this connection of religious practices in her book, “\"Modest Fashion: Styling Bodies, Mediating Faith,\"” where she brings up the political divide between Jews and Muslims. Muslim headwear designer, Wegdan Hamza, was intrigued to find out the large appeal of her website to Orthodox Jewish Women. Hamza was born and raised in Egypt, and had been wearing a Hijab for her entire life. Hamza speaks out about how she was delighted that her designs had become of interest in interfaith modesty, since she sees head covering as \"a link between all the Holy religions\", which can further help to \"reduce anger between mankind\". The \"\"tichel\"\" is compared to the muslim \"hijab\" in Judaism, which is Yiddish for headscarf. According to the \"Encyclopedia of Judaism\", written by Sara E. Karesh, and Mitchell M. Hurvitz, the tichel is discussed in the Jewish laws of modesty as a required article of clothing worn by married women. There are many variations of the headscarf in Judaism, such as \"\"mitpachat\"\" in Hebrew, or \"\"shmateh\"\", all meaning the same thing. While they are called many different things in both Judaism and Islamic religions, they have many of the same rules, and coincide on many ideological levels.\n\nA survey by the Council on American Islamic Relations showed that two out of three mosques in 2000 required women to pray in a separate area, up from one out of two in 1994. Islamic feminists have begun to protest this, advocating for women to be allowed to pray beside men without a partition, as they do in Mecca. In 2003, Asra Nomani challenged the rules at her mosque in Morgantown, West Virginia, that required women to enter through a back door and pray in a secluded balcony. She argued that Muhammad didn't put women behind partitions, and that barriers preventing women from praying equally with men are just sexist man-made rules. The men at her mosque put her on trial to be banished.\n\nIn 2004, some American mosques had constitutions prohibiting women from voting in board elections. In 2005, following public agitation on the issue, Muslim organizations that included the CAIR and the Islamic Society of North America issued a report on making mosques \"women-friendly\", to assert women's rights in mosques, and to include women's right to pray in the main hall without a partition.\n\nIn 2010, American Muslim Fatima Thompson and a few others organized and participated in a \"pray-in\" at the Islamic Center of Washington in D.C. Police were summoned and threatened to arrest the women when they refused to leave the main prayer hall. The women continued their protest against being corralled in what they referred to as the \"penalty box\" (a prayer space reserved for only women). Thompson called the penalty box \"an overheated, dark back room.\" A second protest also staged by the same group on the eve of International Women's Day in 2010 resulted in calls to the police and threats of arrest again. However, the women were not arrested on either occasion. In May 2010, five women prayed with men at the Dar al-Hijrah mosque, one of the Washington region's largest Islamic centers. After the prayers, a member of the mosque called Fairfax police who asked the women to leave. However, later in 2010, it was decided that D.C. police would no longer intervene in such protests.\n\nIn 2015 a group of Muslim activists, politicians, and writers issued a Declaration of Reform which states in part, \"Men and women have equal rights in mosques, boards, leadership and all spheres of society. We reject sexism and misogyny.\" That same year Asra Nomani and others placed the Declaration on the door of the Islamic Center of Washington.\n\nAccording to currently existing traditional schools of Islam, a woman cannot lead a mixed gender congregation in salat (prayer). Some schools make exceptions for Tarawih (optional Ramadan prayers) or for a congregation consisting only of close relatives. Certain medieval scholars—including Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari (838–923), Abu Thawr (764–854), Isma'il Ibn Yahya al-Muzani (791–878), and Ibn Arabi (1165–1240) considered the practice permissible at least for optional (\"nafl\") prayers; however, their views are not accepted by any major surviving group. Islamic feminists have begun to protest this.\n\nOn March 18, 2005, Amina Wadud led a mixed-gender congregational Friday prayer in New York City. It sparked a controversy within the Muslim community because the imam was a woman, Wadud, who also delivered the khutbah. Moreover, the congregation she addressed was not separated by gender. This event that departed from the established ritual practice became an embodied performance of gender justice in the eyes of its organizers and participants. The event was widely publicized in the global media and caused an equally global debate among Muslims. However, many Muslims, including women, remain in disagreement with the idea of a women as imam. Muzammil Siddiqi, chairman of the Fiqh Council of North America, argued that prayer leadership should remain restricted to men He based his argument on the longstanding practice and thus community consensus and emphasized the danger of women distracting men during prayers.\n\nThe events that occurred in regards to equality in the mosque and women leading prayers, show the enmity Muslim feminists may receive when voicing opposition toward sexism and establishing efforts to combat it. Those who criticize Muslim feminists state that those who question the faith's views on gender segregation, or who attempt to make changes, are overstepping their boundaries and are acting offensively. On the other hand, people have stated that Islam does not advocate gender segregation. Britain's influential Sunni imam, Ahtsham Ali, has stated, \"gender segregation has no basis in Islamic law\" nor is it justified in the Quran.\n\nMuzammil Siddiqi states that women are not supposed to lead prayer because “It is not permissible to introduce any new style or liturgy in Salat.” In other words, there must be no deviation from the tradition of men teaching.\n\nMargot Badran explains that Islamic feminism “derives its understanding and mandate from the Qur’an, seeks rights and justice for women, and for men, in the totality of their existence.” She explains in her writings that the radicalization that Islamists (political Islam) have corrupted Islam with the image of patriarchy and oppression to women. This image is what the rest of the world sees and understands Islam to be. Asma Barlas shares Badran's views, discussing the difference between secular feminists and Islamic feminism and in countries where Muslims make up 98% of the population, it is not possible to avoid engaging “its basic beliefs.”\n\nFatima Seedat agrees with both Barlas and Badran about the importance of feminism in the Islamic world. However, she debates the term “Islamic Feminism” is unnecessary since feminism is a “social practice, not merely of personal identity.” Seedat believes the convergence of both Islamic and feminism creates more conflict and opens more doors for “Islamists” to interpret or misinterpret the Qur'an to suit their political needs. She believes it is important to speak about and illustrate how feminism has existed in the lines of the Qur'an. By separating the two and giving their own space, it will be more inclusive to everyone (men, women, Muslims and non-Muslims). In the same article, “Feminism, and Islamic Feminism: Between Inadequacy and Inevitability,” Seedat explains that the existence of such a term separates Muslims and isolates them from the rest of the world and the universal feminist movement. She states in her essay the importance of sharing with the rest of the world what Islam has to offer feminism, and to show the true image of Islam by not referring to themselves as Islamic feminists.\n\nZakir Naik shares examples from the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad, emphasizing \"the negativity of disobeying the mother more than the father,\" to show how just Islam is to women, and not oppressive as many people around the world think of Islam. He uses the example of separate sports teams rather than unisex. Women do not even play tennis unless each opposing couple is one male and one female. Tennis matches do not consist of two women against two men.\n\nMoroccan writer and sociologist, Fatema Mernissi is widely recognized as the founder of modern Islamic Feminism. Her famous feminist piece \"Beyond the Veil\" exploits the oppressive status of women in Islam, sexual ideology and gender identity through the perspective of Moroccan society and culture. \"Beyond the Veil\" argues against the discourse on women's sexuality by breaking their silence with providing a voice against the dominance of male patriarchy. \n\nKhawla bint al-Azwar, was a female Muslim warrior/soldier during the life of the prophet Mohammad. Her brother, Dhiraar al-Azwar, trained her to fight and she fought with him in many battles. It is said that it was not known that she was a female when in battle because all soldiers were dressed in loose clothing and wrapped themselves in cloth to protect themselves from the sand and dust. After proving herself as a soldier by showing her talent and skill in combat, she revealed herself to the men she fought next to. Since then, Khawla was essential to have in every battle that followed.\n\nIn \"Sahih Muslim\", which is one of the books which include the teachings and traditions of the Prophet Muhammad, Abu Huraira (one of the Companions) reported that a person came to the Prophet and asked: “Who among the people is most deserving of a fine treatment from my hand? He said: Your mother. He again said: Then who (is the next one)? He said: Again it is your mother (who deserves the best treatment from you). He said: Then who (is the next one)? He (the Holy Prophet) said: Again, it is your mother. He (again) said: Then who? Thereupon he said: Then it is your father.” This is one example that many scholars use to show the inclusion of women and their rights in the Quran/Islam.\n\nFrom the Quran: Surah 4:19\nO ye who believe! Ye are forbidden to inherit women against their will. Nor should ye treat them with harshness, that ye may Take away part of the dower ye have given them,-except where they have been guilty of open lewdness; on the contrary live with them on a footing of kindness and equity. If ye take a dislike to them it may be that ye dislike a thing, and God brings about through it a great deal of good. In this scripture it is explained by Sahih Muslim that this speaks to men to take care of their wives, and those who do not will suffer the consequences. Naik explains that this is not to give men a higher status than women, but to give them the role of caretaker because they are created physically stronger than women. He stresses on the different roles they are given as men and women because of how God created them. Men are providers and women are the caregivers at home, given more patience, resilience, and the ability to forgive more than men.\n\nAllah states in the Quran that : Surely, men who submit themselves to God and women who submit themselves to Him, and believing men, and believing women, and obedient men and obedient women and truthful men and truthful women, and men steadfast in their faith and steadfast women\". This demonstrates that Muslim men and women are spiritually regarded as equals and woman can attain the same of devotion to God as men. Allah created men and women to equally follow the same commandments and entitled the same rights, but only distinguished them base on their martial status. Even still both men and women are expected to fulfill the same duties; worship, prayer, fasting, almsgiving and pilgrimage to Mecca. The Quran goes again to explain that  : fear your Lord who created you from a single soul and of its kind created its mate, and from them twain spread many men and women. Single soul signifies that both sexes are unified together as one soul, belonging to the same species and having the same propensities.\n\nFew International conferences on Islamic Feminism could take place, once such International Congress on Islamic Feminism was held in Barcelona Spain in 2008. Musawah ('equality'; in Arabic: ) is a global movement for equality and justice in the Muslim family, led by feminists since 2009, \"seeking to reclaim Islam and the Koran for themselves\".\n\nMusawah movement operates on the principle that patriarchy within Muslim countries is a result of the way male interpreters have read Islamic texts. and that feminists can progressively interpretate the Quran to achieve goal of international human rights standards. A first female Muslim clerics congress was held in Indonesia in 2017. The Muslim women clerics congress issued a fatwa to lift the minimum age for girls to marry to 18. Malaysian feminist Zainah Anwar informed the women clerics congress that women do have equal right to define Islam and that women need to fight against male domination in Quranic interpretations. During the congress, Nur Rofiah, a professor in Quranic studies stated that, Islam asks every human being has to elevate the status of humankind, and polygamy does not, and that polygamy is not the teaching of Islam\n\n"}
{"id": "2107563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107563", "title": "Duke Nukem II", "text": "Duke Nukem II\n\nDuke Nukem II: Escape From Alien Abductors! is a platform game developed by Apogee Software and released December 3, 1993. The game consists of four episodes (of eight levels each), the first available as shareware. It is the follow-up to 1991's \"Duke Nukem\", and followed by \"Duke Nukem 3D\" in 1996. Todd Replogle was the primary designer of all three games.\n\nIn 1998, the evil Rigelatins plan to enslave Earth, and they kidnap Duke Nukem, to use his brain to plot the attack for their forces. Duke breaks free to save the world again.\n\nThe player's goal is to proceed through the levels collecting items, destroying enemies to the level exit and at the final level, defeat the super alien boss. In one level of each episode Duke needs to destroy radar dishes to progress.\n\nDuke Nukem can pick up weapons along the way. There are four types of weapons: His regular default gun, the flamethrower (which can shoot through walls and launch him in the air), the laser (which can shoot through anything) and the rocket launcher. Duke can also get a rapid fire powerup. Health items can be collected to heal damage Duke receives or to boost score points at full health. Keycards need to be collected to access past the force fields and keys must be obtained to get past locked doors. A cloaking device makes Duke temporarily invincible and disables the super force fields.\n\nMovement through the levels mainly consists of jumping onto platforms, climbing ladders, operating elevators, using teleporters, hovering over blowing fans and climbing hand-over-hand across pipes or girders. At the end of every level (with the exception of the last level in each episode), the player can receive up to seven 100,000 point bonuses, earned by making certain achievements in the level, such as destroying all cameras.\n\nThe game uses VGA and EGA graphics and draws two backgrounds (\"dual-parallax scrolling\"). The game took almost two years to create.\n\nThe Game Boy Color version of \"Duke Nukem II\" was titled \"Duke Nukem\". It was released on September 10, 1999 in North America. Several of the backgrounds closely resemble those of the earlier DOS version of the game. However, the Rigelatins have been replaced with the Zorgonites, the arsenal of weapons and items have been modified and the levels, graphics, music, vehicles, enemies and bosses are brand new. Furthermore, Duke has the ability to hang onto the edge of platforms in the Game Boy Color game. The game features 21 levels of play and eight save game slots.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107564", "title": "Roskilde Cathedral", "text": "Roskilde Cathedral\n\nRoskilde Cathedral (), in the city of Roskilde on the island of Zealand (\"Sjælland\") in eastern Denmark, is a cathedral of the Lutheran Church of Denmark.\n\nThe cathedral is the most important church in Denmark, the official royal burial church of the Danish monarchs and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. This is due to two criteria: the architecture of the cathedral shows 800 years of European architectural styles, and it is one of the earliest examples in Scandinavia of a Gothic cathedral to be built in brick, it encouraged the spread of the Brick Gothic style throughout Northern Europe. Constructed during the 12th and 13th centuries, the cathedral incorporates both Gothic and Romanesque architectural features in its design. The cathedral has been the main burial site for Danish monarchs since the 15th century. As such, it has been significantly extended and altered over the centuries to accommodate a considerable number of burial chapels and the many added chapels shows different architectural styles.\n\nThe cathedral is a major tourist attraction, bringing in over 165,000 visitors annually. Since 1995, it has been listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site due to its unique architecture. A working church, it also hosts concerts throughout the year.\n\nRoskilde was named the new capital of Denmark by King Harald Bluetooth around the year 960. The king had previously resided in Jelling, where he built a church and raised the Jelling stones, but after uniting the Danes and Norwegians, a move was necessary to enable the monarch to stay close to the centre of power in the new kingdom. According to written sources, when moving to Roskilde, Bluetooth built a royal farm and next to it, a small stave church, dedicated to the Holy Trinity. Little is known of the Trinity Church, let alone its architecture, but despite its brief history at least two events are known to have taken place. In Adam of Bremen's Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum, there is an account of how the king's son, Sweyn Forkbeard, raised a rebellion against him, forcing him to flee to Jomsborg. When Bluetooth died in 985/986, the army that had been raised against him brought his body to Roskilde and buried him in the church he had built. At Christmas in 1026, Ulf the Earl was murdered by one of Cnut the Great's housecarls. Though the sources differ, this happened either inside the church (Chronicon Roskildense) or at the royal farm (Saxo Grammaticus's Gesta Danorum). Ulf had been married to Cnut the Great's sister Estrid, who was outraged by the murder and demanded a weregild.\n\nThere is some doubt as to when Roskilde became the seat of the Bishop of Roskilde. When Sweyn Forkbeard conquered England in 1013, he began sending English bishops to Denmark, a process which was continued by his successor Cnut the Great. This caused some conflict with the Archbishop of Hamburg, who regarded Scandinavia as belonging to the Archdiocese of Bremen. The earliest known bishop of Roskilde was Gerbrand, who had been a cleric with Cnut the Great, and who was intercepted by the Archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen's men when he sailed to Denmark in 1022. Only after swearing allegiance to the archbishop was he allowed to continue his journey. The archbishop may have had good reason to be suspicious, as documents of the time suggest that Cnut the Great may have planned to create an archdiocese in Roskilde, with Gerbrand as archbishop.\n\nFunded by the weregild Estrid Svendsdatter had received, the old Trinity Church was torn down and construction of a simple stone cathedral began around 1026. This may have formed the base of the later travertine cathedral, but it is difficult to tell, as two cathedrals have subsequently been built on the same site. However, an archaeological excavation in 1968 showed that the bases of both buildings were at the same height, which would not make sense if two separate buildings had been constructed in a 50-year span.\n\nIt is, however, certain that a travertine cathedral was built at the location. Construction had been started by Bishop Wilhelm between 1060–1073 and was completed by his successor Svend Nordmand around 1080. The new cathedral was built using travertine, a stone found in abundance around Roskilde Fjord. It was constructed as a basilica in Romanesque style with half-rounded interior arches to support the flat interior ceiling, with two towers flanking the west front entrance. To the north, a three-sided stone monastery was constructed for monks and others associated with the cathedral. Svend Nordmand's successor, Arnold, added a wall around the building, which was to act as a guarantee of safety for anyone who sought sanctuary there. However, Arnold was also considered the bishop who lost the Archdiocese of Scandinavia to Lund Cathedral, as a result of his lack of drive and motivation.\n\nWith the new cathedral completed, there was a desire to obtain a relic for it. Two canons (clerics of the cathedral) were dispatched to Rome to find something suitable. Legend holds that while they were resting after their arrival, St Lucius, who had been pope from 253–255, appeared before them and told them that he had been chosen to be the patron saint of Roskilde until the end of time. The next day, the two canons were taken to Santa Cecilia in Trastevere to choose amongst the many relics there. They saw a skull shining brightly, the skull of St Lucius. On their return, while the canons were sailing through the Great Belt, their ship came under attack by a powerful demon which had long lurked in Danish waters. The crew drew straws and the lot fell on the canon carrying the skull of St Lucius. He offered a prayer to the saint, washed the skull three times, threw the water in the ocean, and jumped overboard. To everyone's surprise, the canon was able to walk on the water. The demon disappeared screaming into the depths, never to be seen again.\n\nIt is not known for certain which year the relic arrived in Roskilde, only the date, August 25, as it was on that date that the relic's arrival was always celebrated. The first written mention of the relic dates to Ælnoth, a monk in Odense, who described it in a work on the life of Canute the Holy in 1122. Another item of the period, a seal carved from a walrus tusk, depicting St Lucius between the twin towers of the cathedral, has been dated to the early 12th century. The relic may have been acquired to help win Roskilde the archdiocese, which was given to Lund in 1103/1104.\n\nIt has been accepted, that soon after he became Bishop of Roskilde in 1157, Absalon began to expand the travertine cathedral. In 1160, the art of firing bricks was brought to Denmark from Italy by monks, and the new material was employed. Researchers decided to build a new cathedral around the existing one, allowing services to continue during construction. It has long been believed that bishop Absalon began construction, and when Absalon was forced to surrender his position as Bishop of Roskilde in 1191, only the two floors of the apse, the choir towers and part of the transept had been completed. Absalon's successor, Peder Sunesen, embracing the new French Gothic style, later made significant changes to the plans, tearing down the choir towers and reducing the width of the transept. But new research points to Peder Sunesen as the main initiator and hence instead of rebuilding it, it was constructed in the transition period between Romanesque and Gothic show elements from both styles in the cathedral.\n\nThe choir was completed and inaugurated in 1225, allowing services to begin there, and the old travertine cathedral was torn down. Work on the nave continued for the next 55 years, limited by funds, lack of kilns to fire the bricks, and the winters. With the exception of the two towers on the west facade, the cathedral was completed by 1280, and work on the interior proceeded, slowed by a fire in 1282 which also destroyed several of the canons' houses in the area. Several chapels were also added to the cathedral, and in 1405, work on the towers was completed.\n\nWhen Margrethe I died in 1412, she was buried in her family's chapel at Sorø Klosterkirke. But the following year bishop Peder Jensen Lodehat, who had been the queen's chancellor and religious advisor, brought her body to Roskilde Cathedral. The monks in Sorø were outraged, above all because the loss of the queen's earthly remains would mean a significant loss in income from requiems — at that time monks and clergy would typically have been paid to say requiem masses for a dead person, and for a queen such masses would likely have been said on a regular basis in perpetuity, each one incurring a fee — as well as a loss of prestige. Though often blamed on the bishop, it is quite possible that the move was orchestrated by the queen's adoptive son, Eric of Pomerania. This is reinforced by the inscription on the sarcophagus, which describes how it was given by the new king, Eric VII, in 1423.\n\nIn his \"Chronica novella\", German chronicler describes the vast, three-day-long burial ceremony involving King Eric VII, several noblemen, the Archbishop of Lund, and all of the Danish bishops. There is an account of how the procession granted substantial gifts to each of the 50 altars in the cathedral. On the first day, the royal couple would give each altar a golden ornament, a golden antependium and a silver chalice; the noblemen would each bestow a florin on the altars; and the knights, squires, and anyone else who wished to bestow gifts, would provide each altar with silver coins from Lübeck. On the second and third days, the royal couple would bestow two nobles on each altar, the noblemen would bestow a florin on them, and the rest of the procession would bestow silver coins as they wished. What was left of silver coins were then put in a bowl, to be cast among the poor in Roskilde.\n\nOn 14 May 1443, a fire swept through Roskilde, destroying most of the city and all but three of the clergy's houses. The fire was so intense that the glass windows cracked, and the lead roofing melted. The cathedral was badly damaged and it was not until 1463 that the bishop, Oluf Mortensen, could rededicate it. To help with its reconstruction, the bishops of Denmark each signed a letter granting 40 days of indulgence to whoever would contribute to its cost. The reconstruction could also have been helped by the decision of Christian I to build a chapel at the cathedral. The Chapel of the Magi was built during the 1460s, and together with the sarcophagus of Margrethe I and the remains from the previous churches, it marks the earliest royal burials.\n\nThe Reformation arrived in 1536, marking a sharp negative turn for Roskilde Cathedral. Not only was the Bishop of Roskilde, Joachim Rønnow, jailed in Copenhagen Castle, the diocese was moved to Copenhagen and Peder Palladius, became the new Superintendent of Zealand and later bishop. Hans Tausen, who had sought to encourage wide adoption of the Reformation, was sent to Roskilde in 1538 to help convert the clergymen who were opposed to the new ideas. At a Reformation meeting in 1540, it was decided that all of the bishop's property was now to belong to the king, both symbolically and in reality the head of the Church of Denmark. The cathedral had already been forced to hand over some of its property during the Count's Feud, but following the decision and with an impending war against the Swedes, the confiscation of church property was stepped up. Among the cathedral's most prized possessions was a wooden statue of St Lucius, covered in gold and gems. The chapter fought hard to try and retain its property, at one point asking for a receipt for some of the confiscated goods, to which the king's men replied that the king did not need to hand out a receipt for something that already belonged to him.\n\nAfter the Reformation, the cathedral was opened up to the ordinary congregation, necessitating the purchase of new furniture, especially pews. As in other former Catholic cathedrals, the choir, which had been separated from the nave by a large wall, was left intact with the altar placed against the wall.\n\nWhile the cathedral suffered financial hardship, having been forced to give away all its property (which at the time included one in every four farms on Zealand and 30 large estates), it was endowed with a variety of gifts from Christian IV: The altarpiece (between 1555 and 1623), a royal box ca 1600, the pulpit in 1610, his own burial chapel in 1614, the construction of the iconic twin spires in 1633 and finally a grand Renaissance sandstone entrance portal in 1635.\n\nOn 26 February 1658, the Treaty of Roskilde was signed in the cathedral. In the loot the Swedes took from the cathedral, was the golden dress of Margrethe I, which had hung in a closet near her sarcophagus. The dress was taken by the Swedish queen consort Hedwig Eleonora and is now located at Uppsala Cathedral. In 1690, Christian V ordered the old Catholic choir cleared, so he could create a crypt beneath it for the children he had had with his mistress Sophie Amalie. This also allowed for the altar to be moved to its present position.\n\nIn 1774, work on the third royal burial chapel, Frederick V's chapel, began with the removal of the pre-existing Chapel of Our Lady. Money soon ran out, and it was not until 1825 that the work was completed. In the meantime, in 1806, the cathedral sold its inventory from its Catholic days at a notorious auction. Among the items sold was a grand crucifix which went to a local coppersmith. While he was sawing the crucifix into firewood, the head of Jesus split open and a small, golden patriarchal cross fell out. Upon closer inspection, it was revealed that the cross was hollow and that a splinter from Christ's cross was hidden inside. Rumour of the find quickly reached the Royal Art Collection, later the National Museum of Denmark, which immediately purchased it.\n\nIn 1871, the entrance portal was replaced with one that matched the rest of the cathedral, while the old portal was donated to Holmen Church. However, when the new portal arrived, the churchwarden was horrified to see it was a poor copy of the old style. But he had no choice but to erect it.\n\nWork on the fourth royal burial chapel began in 1915, and prior to its completion in 1924, Roskilde was once again made a diocese. On 27 August 1968, as restoration work on the Margrethe spire was nearing completion, the spire burned, threatening to collapse into the choir. During firefighting operations, members of the civil defense and church staff covered the canons' chairs, the altar, and the sarcophagi in the retrochoir with damp fire blankets, hoping to prevent damage to the invaluable items. The Defence Minister of Denmark ordered a complete ban on jet operations in the area, pending investigations into whether the vaults were in danger of collapsing. It was later discovered, that despite a total ban on any heat sources in the area where the restoration was taking place, the craftsmen had been smoking and using blowtorches in the loft. The latest addition to the cathedral was in 1985, when the New Burial Ground, also known as Frederick IX's Burial Ground, was inaugurated.\n\nIn 2018, the future resting places and monument for the current queen of Denmark Queen Margrethe II was placed in the chapel of St. Brigitte. The design is made by Danish sculptor Bjørn Nørgaard. A model is at display in the cathedral alongside an exhibition on the tradition of royal burials.\n\nWhen King Christopher III died childless in 1448, his widow Dorothea of Brandenburg remarried the newly chosen king, Christian I. Within a few years, he became king of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, and Dorothea had given birth to the future king John, thus establishing the House of Oldenburg. Against this background of events, the Christian I decided to build a grand chapel at the cathedral. The instrument of foundation was signed on April 28, 1459, which not only ordered the construction of the chapel, but also granted large tracts of land to the church. In the spring of 1462, the king applied to Pope Pius II for indulgence for having constructed the chapel, which was finally granted upon his visit to Pope Sixtus IV in Rome in 1474.\n\nBuilt in Gothic style, in line with the rest of the cathedral, the chapel consists of two floors, the lower floor intended as a burial chapel for Christian I and the upper floor as Great Hall for the members of the king's newly created Fellowship of the Mother of God, the precursor to the modern day Order of the Elephant. The two floors rest on a central granite pillar, the so-called King's Pillar, where numerous kings have had their height measured over the years. Amongst the kings measured, Peter the Great, measured in 1716, stands tallest, while Chulalongkorn of Siam, measured in 1907, is the smallest. The height mark for Christian I is believed to be a technical error, as the king may have been tall, but not the giant the marker would suggest.\nThe burials of Christian I and Queen Dorothea are marked with a pair of simple stones, as the chapel itself was to be considered their sepulchral monument, while the sepulchral monuments of Christian III and Frederick II dominate the lower floor. Christian III's alabaster, Rouge Belge and Noir Belge monument was created 1574–75 by Antwerpian sculptor Cornelis Floris. When the sculptor died in October 1575, the monument was more or less complete, lacking only its weapons and inscriptions, which were to be added by the herald Jan Baptist Guidetty. In fact, they were never added, and when the Spanish sacked Antwerp in November 1576, the monument was held until the widow of Cornelis Floris paid a ransom. The widow then sent word to the Danish court, requesting that the monument be retrieved and her contribution covered, which was not done until 1578. When the monument arrived in Elsinore, two local stonemasons set to work completing the monument, and in the summer of 1580 it was finally placed in the chapel.\n\nFrederick II's monument, crafted from the same materials, was built 1594–1598 by the Flemish sculptor Gert van Egen, who was a pupil of Cornelis Floris and was a resident of Elsinore. Both monuments are empty however, as the coffins have been buried below the floor of the chapel. King John was also supposed to have been buried in the chapel, but in his later years, he and his wife enjoyed living in Næsbyhoved Castle near Odense so much, that he expressed a preference to be buried in the town's Franciscan cathedral. However, the bishop and canons in Roskilde claimed that the King had determined that he was to be buried in Roskilde. The king's widow, Christina of Saxony, sent a letter to Pope Leo X asking for assistance, and in his reply, the pope stated that a man's last wish must always be followed, and the king was therefore buried in Odense.\n\nThe chapel's vaults and walls are richly decorated with frescos, dating from the 1460s when the chapel was created by Christian I and his wife. Once whitewashed over, they were rediscovered in 1826. The arms of the king and queen decorate the chapel's east wall.\n\nThe upper floor is currently used as a museum, displaying various artifacts such as old coloured stain glass windows and giving a thorough walk through of the history of the cathedral.\n\nConstruction of the chapel was ordered by Christian IV himself in 1613, after the death of his Queen Anne Cathrine the year before, and upon realising that space inside the cathedral was running out. Built in Dutch Renaissance style, work on exterior of the chapel was begun in 1614 by Lorenz van Steenwinckel and completed in 1641 by his brother, Hans van Steenwinckel the Younger. The exterior was constructed in red brick with a corbie stepped gable facing north. On each of the gable steps, a sandstone figure is placed, representing each of the Christian virtues. Next to the gable's windows, four putti are placed, each holding up one of the symbols of death: a skull, a scythe, a torch pointing downwards, and an hourglass. Central At the centre of the gable, the king's escutcheon is found.\n\nThe wrought-iron lattice separating the chapel from the nave was forged by Caspar Fincke in 1619, and contains an amusing quip by its creator:\n\n(\"Rough translation: Caspar Fincke I am named, for this work I am famed\").\n\nUpon the death of Christian IV in 1648 the interior had not been completed, and the king's coffin was placed in the crypt below instead. The king had commissioned his own monument, depicting him and his queen kneeling before a crucifix, but since it had been completed before his death, the monument had been temporarily placed in storage in the king's arsenal. When the arsenal burned in 1647, all that remained of the monument was the grand sandstone crucifix and a head carved from alabaster. The crucifix was subsequently placed in Holmen Church, while the head was given to the National Museum of Denmark.\nThe king's successors were each unable to provide a fitting resting place for the king, and it was not until 1840 and Christian VIII that work was finally begun. He had hoped to see the project finished by 1848, the 200th anniversary of Christian IV's death, but it was not until 1870 that the work was completed.\n\nWork on the interior began in 1840, when Christian VIII ordered a statue of Christian IV from famed sculptor Bertel Thorvaldsen. This was to be part of a planned monument for Christian IV, which was to be designed by architect G.F. Hetcsh, but it still had to be decided who was to was going to create the decorations. In 1845 a commission tasked Heinrich Eddelien with the job, but work progressed slowly, perhaps due to Christian VIII's close concern with the matter and criticism of the proposed works. When Christian VIII died in 1848, the project lost its major motivational force, as the new king, Frederick VII, was not sufficiently interested in seeing project finished. When Eddelien died in 1852, only the work on the starry vaulted ceiling and the allegory motives beneath it had been completed, and work ground to a complete halt.\n\nIn 1856, Georg Hilker added a frieze below the ceiling vault, which was to act as a separator between the ceiling and wall decorations. When Wilhelm Marstrand and Heinrich Hansen were finally appointed in 1860, it was the finance minister, C.E. Fenger, who was responsible. The original commission was outraged that the minister had acted behind their backs, but times had changed since the commission had been formed, and with the National Liberal Party in power, there was an increased focus on the national attitude. The National Liberal minister felt that seeing the completion of Christian IV's chapel, which he regarded as a national relic, would strengthen the national sentiment in the developing conflict with Prussia.\n\nMarstrand and Hansen submitted their decoration proposals in 1861, having decided that Marstrand would paint the paintings while Hansen would paint the framings. That year the pair travelled to France to study oil painting on plaster. Marstrand then spent the summers of 1864–1866 in Roskilde, painting one wall per year. When Marstrand had finished his work, the five coffins in the chapel were placed in their current positions.\n\nConsisting of two chapels in neoclassical style, the construction spanned 51 years (1774–1825) and required the removal of a previous existing chapel, the Chapel of Our Lady.\n\nConstruction of the chapel was started by C. F. Harsdorff in 1774, possibly using early sketches made during his travels to Rome 1762–1764, but due to a lack of funding the work was suspended in 1779. It was resumed by his apprentice C. F. Hansen in 1820 and completed in 1825. The chapel consists of a vestibule with two adjoining rooms on the north and south sides, usually referred to as Christian VI's chapel, and a domed cruciform-shaped hall, Frederick V's chapel. While the interior of the building had classical, whitewashed walls, the exterior retained the red brick characteristic of the rest of the cathedral.\n\nWhen the chapel was inaugurated in September 1825, coffins that had been temporarily stored in Christian IV's chapel were moved to the new chapel, and as members of the royal family died, more were added. This led to the chapel, which had been designed for five marble sarcophagi, holding upwards of 17 coffins in 1912. However, the addition of Christian IX's chapel, the removal of some coffins to the crypts, and a rearrangement of the coffins, led to the present situation where only 12 coffins and sarcophagi are present. It has however led to confusion, as some of the coffins have not been arranged in the pairs which correspond to the relationships that existed during their lifetimes.\n\nThe chapel shows a gradual trend in moving from grand marble sarcophagi to more simple, velvet-covered coffins, and in the case of Frederick VII, a wooden coffin.\n\nWhen the Constitution of Denmark was revised in 1915, the Folketing decided to honour the Royal Family, granting King Christian X's wish, by constructing a new chapel at the cathedral, dedicated to the House of Glücksburg which had held the throne since Christian IX became king in 1863. The chapel was designed by then cathedral architect, Andreas Clemmensen.\n\nConstruction of the chapel, overseen by a master builder Schledermann, began in 1919 and was completed in 1924, built in a Byzantine Revival style, with a Roman inspiration. Built as an extension of the northwestern weaponporch, which then ceased to exist as an independent building, the chapel is cruciform with grey walls and a domed roof. Upon its completion, there was a heavy debate in the Danish newspapers, with some believing that the chapel was completely removed from the prevailing style of the cathedral.\n\nIn the northern arm stands the double sarcophagus of Christian IX and his Queen Louise. Designed by Hack Kampmann, the sarcophagus was originally to have stood in the eastern arm of Frederick V's chapel. Surrounding the sarcophagus are three statues of female figures, designed by Edvard Eriksen. The statues are named \"Grief\", \"Memory\", and \"Love\" and were cut from white marble from Carrara in Italy. The statue of \"Grief\" bears a notable resemblance to the statue of the Little Mermaid in Copenhagen, which is not without reason. Edvard Eriksen had created the statue of the Little Mermaid in 1911, two years before he created the statues in the chapel, and his wife Eline Eriksen was model for both. In the western arm stands the double sarcophagus of Frederick VIII and his Queen Louise, designed by Utzon-Frank. The eastern arm houses the simple marble coffins of Christian X and his Queen Alexandrine. The coffins were designed by Kaare and Naur Klint, made from Norwegian marble, and have a stylized Dannebrog covering the lid and sides.\n\nFollowing the death of Maria Feodorovna in 1928, and following a short ceremony in the Alexander Nevsky Church in Copenhagen and a Russian Orthodox ceremony in Roskilde, the coffin of the dowager empress was placed in the chapel close to the tomb of her parents and brother and sister-in-law. In 1957, the coffin was placed in the crypt under the chapel, until September 2006, when it was returned to Russia. It had been the wish of the dowager empress to be buried when possible next to her husband Alexander III in the Peter and Paul Cathedral. This was possible after extensive negotiations between Queen Margrethe II and President Putin.\n\nFollowing Frederick IX's death in 1972, his coffin was placed in the chapel, draped with his Royal Standard, guarded by three silver lions from the Danish Crown Regalia, and flanked by a pair of candelabra in the shape of anchors. After the king's coffin was buried in 1985, only the candelabra remain in the chapel.\n\nThese two chapels, on the north side of the cathedral, are the only remnants of the many medieval chapels that were attached to the original cathedral. St Andrew's chapel was constructed in 1396, and St Bridget's in 1485.\n\nSt Andrew's chapel was completely redecorated in 2010 by artist Peter Brandes, who provided a new altarpiece as well as a latticework separating the chapel from the nave. It is the intention of the parochial church council that in future the chapel will provide a more intimate setting for some of the church functions in the cathedral, such as weddings or baptisms. The chapel has its own small organ for these services.\n\nSince the Reformation, St Bridget's chapel has mainly been used to store various items of church inventory from Catholic times, no longer needed in the Lutheran era. These include the three-seated celebrant's chair, the cantor's chair, and the canons' letter box. The chapel also has the oldest gravestone in the cathedral, dating back to ca. 1250. Queen Margrethe II has chosen St Birgitte's Chapel as the future burial site for herself with a sarcophagus created by artist Bjørn Nørgaard. The sarchophagus is finished and installed, but is covered until the death of the regent.\n\nOpened on September 23, 1985, it was the first burial site outside of the cathedral itself. The reason for the construction was twofold: it had been Frederick IX's wish to be buried outside the cathedral, in view of Roskilde Fjord (the king was a keen sailor and closely connected to the navy), and in any case there was no space left in the chapel of Christian IX. It was only on the king's death in January 1972 that a debate was opened on how his wish could be granted. A meeting was held in May of the same year, involving the municipality, the parochial church council, the National Museum of Denmark, and a foundation for building and landscaping culture. In 1974 a discussion paper was presented, which spelled out how the area would be preserved and the new burial site established. There was some opposition from members of the parochial council, who insisted that the tradition of burying monarchs inside the cathedral be upheld. The zoning plan for the area was finished in 1982 and work on the burial site could begin.\n\nThe burial site was designed by architect Vilhelm Wohlert in cooperation with Inger and Johannes Exner, and consists of a simple, uncovered brick octagon with a bronze gate designed by Sven Havsteen-Mikkelsen. The gravestone was cut from Greenlandic granite by sculptor Erik Heide, though the grave was not sealed permanently until the burial of Queen Ingrid in 2000. At the wish of Queen Ingrid, the grounds of the burial site are covered in wild vines and plants from throughout the kingdom.\n\n\n\nEstrid Svendsdatter (d. between 1057 & 1073) was widely believed to have been buried in the northeastern pier, but a DNA test in 2003 dispelled the myth as the remains belonged to a woman much too young to be Estrid Svendsdatter. The new theory is that the sign on the pier refers to Margareta Hasbjörnsdatter, who was also known as Estrid and who married Harald III Hen, the son of Sweyn Estridsen. In the southwestern pillar lie the remains of two bishops, Asser and William.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSince 1987, the cathedral has been home to one of Denmark's leading boys' choirs, the Roskilde Cathedral Boys' Choir. The choir is a key resource in parish youth work. All choristers go to normal school but meet 2-3 times a week to rehearse. Every second year the choir travels abroad to different destinations, such as New Zealand, Scandinavia, England, Greenland, France, and Canada.\n\nIn 1554 a new organ built by Herman Raphaelis was donated to the cathedral for services. It was updated/enlarged in 1611, 1654, the 1690s (?), 1833, 1926 and the 1950s. During the 1980s tonal and technical problems became apparent. A thorough investigation—and the presence in the instrument of a considerable quantity of 16- and 17th-century pipework—led to the decision to re-create a classical Danish organ of the 17th century. This work was carried out by Marcussen & Søn and completed in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107571", "title": "Staverton, Gloucestershire", "text": "Staverton, Gloucestershire\n\nStaverton is a village between the city of Gloucester and the town of Cheltenham in Gloucestershire, England, in the borough of Tewkesbury. The population taken at the 2011 census was 572.\n\nIt is the location of Gloucestershire Airport, which was previously called Staverton Airport and RAF Staverton. It is the home of the Dowty Rotol and Messier-Dowty aircraft components factories. The airport is the largest general aviation airfield in South West England.\n"}
{"id": "2107572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107572", "title": "Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa", "text": "Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa\n\nThe Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa (ISASA) is the largest and oldest association of independent schools in Southern Africa.\n\nISASA traces its origins back to the Conference of Headmasters and Headmistresses formed in 1929, and more recently to the Independent Schools Council, which was dissolved to create ISASA in 1999.\n\nISASA today is a not for profit company (NPC), which represents more than 730 independent schools in South Africa, Botswana, Swaziland, Namibia, Angola, Mozambique and Lesotho. Over 161,000 learners attend ISASA-affiliated schools.\n\nSince the collapse of the apartheid state and the advent of democracy in South Africa, dramatic changes have occurred in the independent (private) school sector. In 1990, there were approximately 550 registered independent schools in the country. The dominant public perception of independent schools at that time was “white, affluent and exclusive”.\n\nIn 2014 there are at least 1584 independent schools in South Africa. The sector educates more than 500,000 learners, of which 73% are black (58% are Black African). Traditional, high-fee independent schools are now a minority in the sector, with only an estimated 15% of schools charging fees of more than R50 000 per annum.\n\nDespite an increase in the number of for-profit independent schools, and in particular for-profit \"chain schools\", the sector remains largely not-for-profit. Most independent schools are also small schools, with 350 learners per school or less. This is partly because so many of them are newly established. The sector serves a wide range of different religions, philosophies and educational approaches across the full socio-economic spectrum.\n\nLebogang Montjane is the current Executive Director of ISASA. Other key personnel include John Lobban (Director: Membership and Operations) and Sandile Ndaba (Director: Policy and Government Relations).\n\n"}
{"id": "2107573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107573", "title": "Eric Christmas", "text": "Eric Christmas\n\nEric Cuthbert Christmas (19 March 1916 – 22 July 2000) was a British stage and screen actor, with over 40 films and numerous television roles to his credit. He is probably best known to American audiiences for his role as Mr. Carter, the principal of Angel Beach High School, in the 1982 comedy films \"Porky's\", the 1983 sequel \"\", and the 1985 sequel \"Porky's Revenge!\". He was also known for his sporadic role as Reverend Diddymoe in the NBC sitcom, \"Amen\".\n\nChristmas was born in London, England, and later emigrated to Canada. His role as a priest in the 1971 film \"Harold and Maude\" includes a memorable monologue to an off-camera Harold, in which he discusses, with increasing nausea and disgust, how the thought of Harold's sexual affair with a much older woman \"makes [him] want...to vomit.\" His also had film roles in \"Monte Walsh\" (1970), \"The Andromeda Strain\" (1971), \"Johnny Got His Gun\" (1971), \"The Last Tycoon\" (1976), \"An Enemy of the People\" (1978), \"Attack of the Killer Tomatoes\" (1978), \"The Changeling\" (1980), \"Middle Age Crazy\" (1980), \"The Philadelphia Experiment\" (1984), and \"All of Me\" (1984). He also appeared in the episode, \"When I'm 64\", in the TV series\" \"ALF\" as Bernie, one of the residents of a retirement home, \"Bugsy\" (1991), \"Almost Dead\" (1994), \"Air Bud\" (1997), and his final feature film \"Mouse Hunt\" (1997).\n\nChristmas also made guest appearances on many television shows, including \"Columbo\" (as a sardonic Jeweler in \"A Friend in Deed\"), \"Adventures in Rainbow Country\", \"Due South\", \"ER\", \"Night Court\", \"Wiseguy\" (as Harry \"The Hunch\" Shanstra), \"Seinfeld\" (as Jeffery Harharwood in \"The Gum\"—Episode 120, first airing on 14 December 1995), \"Cheers\", \"Home Improvement\" (as Sir Larry the Magician), \"Coach\" (as Brian Currie), \"The Golden Palace\", \"The X-Files\", \"Booker\", \"Matlock\", \"Walker Texas Ranger\", \"Roseanne\", \"L.A. Law\" (as Buzz Carr), \"Major Dad\", and \"Ally McBeal\". From 1995-96 he played Father Francis on \"Days of Our Lives\", a key role in the infamous possession of Marlena Evans. He went to San Diego to teach and to revive the La Jolla Playhouse, for which he directed \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" in temporary space at La Jolla High School, with equity actor Larry Seaman in the lead role, and also starring Robert Zimmerman (BHP-San Francisco Faculty) as the reporter and James Pearson as Banjo (Harpo Marx role). Christmas also acted in and directed productions of San Diego, California's Old Globe Theatre's Shakespeare Festivals for many years.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, Christmas was a drama professor at the University of California, San Diego, and made theatrical presentations at local high schools, including La Jolla Country Day School.\n\nHe died on 22 July 2000, from natural causes at the age of 84. He was interred at the Santa Barbara Cemetery at Santa Barbara, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107585", "title": "Geoff Petrie", "text": "Geoff Petrie\n\nGeoffrey Michael Petrie (born April 17, 1948) is an American retired basketball player. A native of Pennsylvania, he played professional basketball in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for the Portland Trail Blazers where he won NBA Rookie of the Year in 1971. After retirement as a player he entered management, and was the President of Basketball Operations for the Sacramento Kings in the NBA until June 2013.\n\nGeoff Petrie was born in Darby, Pennsylvania, on April 17, 1948. He attended Springfield High School, in Springfield, Pennsylvania, and played collegiate ball at Princeton University.\n\nIn Petrie's sophomore season at Princeton, the team was co-champion of the Ivy League with a 20-6 (12-3 Ivy) record. Despite the fact that Princeton had three of the five first-team All-Ivy team members, including Petrie plus second-team member John Hummer, they lost the one-game league playoff to the Jim McMillian-led 1968 Columbia Lions men's basketball team. That year the team rose to as high as 8th in the AP Poll. The following season, Petrie led the Ivy League in scoring (23.9 points/game in conference games), and the team accumulated a 19-7 (14-0) record, including an appearance in the 1969 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. They lost to St. John's in the tournament, but Petrie was again on the first-team All-Ivy squad. As a senior, Petrie was second-team All-Ivy, but the Tigers placed third in the conference to the undefeated (in Ivy League games) Corky Calhoun-led Penn Quakers men's basketball team and McMillian's Lions. Although Princeton did not appear in the 1970 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, they hosted Penn's game. All three of his varsity years were spent under head coach Pete Carril. Petrie was co-captain of the 1969–70 team with classmate Hummer. Petrie was All-East both as a junior and a senior.\n\nPetrie scored 1321 points in college, third in school history at the end of his career in 1970 and still seventh after the 2009–10 season. His 541 in 1968–69 was fourth to each of Bill Bradley's single-season totals until Brian Taylor moved him down to sixth where he still stands. He continued to rank fourth in school history with an 18.3 points/game average through the 2009–10 season. His 1969–70 single season average of 22.3 is sixth behind only Bradley and Taylor and his 20.8 average the prior year stands eighth. His 530 career field goal stands fourth on the school list behind Bradley Kit Mueller and Craig Robinson. 216 field goals in 1968–69 ranks fifth behind Bradley and Taylor, while his 189 the following year ranks eighth. 17 made against Fordham, January 26, 1970 trails only Bradley's three best nights.\n\nAt 6'4\" he could play either guard or forward positions and was a long range shooter. He played in two All-Star games and in 1971, the Trail Blazers' first year in existence, was named co-Rookie of the Year with the Boston Celtics' Dave Cowens after averaging 24.8 points per game. Until Damon Stoudamire's 54 point performance in 2005, Petrie held the Trail Blazers' individual scoring record for one game at 51 — a feat he accomplished twice. His jersey number, 45, was retired by the Trail Blazers. Following the 1975–76 NBA season he was traded to the Atlanta Hawks in a transaction that landed Portland Maurice Lucas. Petrie did not play any games for the Hawks after suffering a career-ending knee injury.\n\nPetrie is credited as the first NBA player to switch from Converse brand athletic shoe, which were popular in the 1970s, to Nike brand.\n\nPetrie worked in the private sector for several years after leaving the NBA, and in 1985 began working for the Trail Blazers. He worked as a commentator for Blazer radio broadcasts and several other positions before being hired as senior vice president for operations. He left Portland in 1994 and was hired by the Sacramento Kings as president of basketball operations. As an executive he won the NBA Executive of the Year Award twice with the Kings, first in 1999 and again in 2001.\n\nOn December 29, 2009, Petrie received a three-year extension as team president through the 2012–13 season. On June 17, 2013, Petrie was replaced as team president of the Kings by Pete D'Alessandro.\n"}
{"id": "2107595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107595", "title": "Debbie Brill", "text": "Debbie Brill\n\nDebbie Arden Brill, (born March 10, 1953) is a Canadian high jump athlete who at the age of 16 became the first North American woman to clear 6 feet. Her unique reverse jumping style—which is now almost exclusively the technique of elite high jumpers—was called the Brill Bend and was developed by her when she was a child, around the same time as Dick Fosbury was developing the similar Fosbury Flop in the USA. Brill won gold in the high jump at the 1970 Commonwealth Games, and at the Pan American Games in 1971. She finished 8th in the 1972 Summer Olympics, then quit the sport in the wake of the Munich massacre, returning three years later. She won gold at the IAAF World Cup in 1979, and at the 1982 Commonwealth Games. She has held the Canadian high jump record since 1969, and set the current record of 1.99 meters in 1982, a few months after giving birth to her first child.\n\nBrill was born in Mission, British Columbia, one of five children of a Canadian father and an American mother. She developed her unique style of jumping as a preteen on the family farm when her father made a landing pit containing foam rubber. Fifty years later she described it as \"a natural extension of what my body was telling me to do. It was physical intuition; it wasn't anything taught.\" The technique, which involved jumping over the bar with her face to the sky and landing on her back, was dubbed the \"Brill bend\". Her clubmates thought it was unique until they learned that an older American athlete, Dick Fosbury, was becoming known for using the same technique.\n\nBrill started competing provincially in British Columbia in 1966, at age 13. The following year, she competed at the Canadian national level. Her first international competition was in 1968, at age 15. In 1970, at age 16, she became the first woman in the western hemisphere to jump .\n\nBrill has held the Canadian National High Jump record since 1969, establishing her first Canadian High Jump record when she was 16. She set her final Canadian outdoor record in September 1984 with . Her indoor record of was set in 1982. As of 2017, Brill's Canadian records still stand. She won the Gold medal at the first Pacific Conference Games in 1969. She would again win the Pacific Conference Games title in 1977.\n\nBrill won the 1970 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, and was presented with the gold medal by Queen Elizabeth. She won the 1971 Pan Am Games. Brill came in eighth at the 1972 Olympics in Munich. She campaigned to have the Games stopped after the Munich massacre, and retired after the Games, becoming disillusioned with the Olympic experience. She returned to competition in 1975 and placed 4th at the Pan Am Games. At the 1976 Montreal Olympics she was eliminated after failing three times at the opening height, and was criticized for laughing in a subsequent interview, although she wrote afterwards that she was disappointed by her failure. She placed 3rd at the first World Cup in 1977, and won a silver medal at home in Edmonton, at the 1978 Commonwealth Games. In 1979 Brill won a gold medal in the athletics World Cup held in Montreal, Canada. She was the world's number one high jumper for 1979.\n\nHaving been ranked number one in the world by Track and Field News in 1979, Brill was one of the favourites going into the 1980 Olympics which Canada boycotted because of the U.S.S.R.'s military involvement in Afghanistan. In January 1982, Brill established a World Indoor High Jump record of 1.99 meters in Edmonton, Alberta, 5 months after giving birth to her first son, Neil. She has a daughter, Katelin, and a son, Jacob. She is married to a physician, Dr. Douglas Coleman. She was again Commonwealth Champion in 1982 at the games in Brisbane.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1985, in the annual Track and Field News merit rankings, Brill was ranked in the world's top ten for the high jump twelve times (the exceptions being 1973, 74, 76 and 81; with 76 being the only active year of the four). She was ranked in the top 5 six times. The only female high jumpers with more top ten rankings are Inha Babakova and Stefka Kostadinova, both with thirteen.\n\nIn 1983, Brill was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in recognition for being \"Canada's premier woman high-jumper\". In 2012, she was awarded the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal.\n\nIn 1999, at the age of 46, Brill broke the world masters record (age 45+) when she cleared 1.76 metres in Gateshead. In 2004, she broke the age 50+ masters record by clearing 1.60 m in Langley. As of 2016, Brill's world age group records still stand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107601", "title": "John Van Seters", "text": "John Van Seters\n\nJohn Van Seters (born May 2, 1935 in Hamilton, Ontario) is a Canadian scholar of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) and the Ancient Near East. Currently University Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the University of North Carolina, he was formerly James A. Gray Professor of Biblical Literature at UNC. He took his PhD at Yale University in Near Eastern Studies (1965) and a ThD h.c. from the University of Lausanne (1999). His honours and awards include a Guggenheim Fellowship, an NEH fellowship, an ACLS Fellowship, and research fellowships at Oxford, Cambridge, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, and National Research Foundation of South Africa. His many publications include \"\" (1966); \"Abraham in History and Tradition\" (1975); \"In Search of History\" (1983, for which he won the James H. Breasted Prize and the American Academy of Religion book award); \"The Edited Bible\" (2006); and \"The Biblical Saga of King David\" (2009).\n\nVan Seters did his undergraduate degree in Near Eastern Studies at the University of Toronto (honors B.A., 1958) and his graduate studies in Near Eastern Studies at Yale University (M.A., 1959; Ph.D,1965). He also received a theology degree from Princeton Theological Seminary (B.D., 1962).\n\nVan Seters’s first academic appointment was at Waterloo Lutheran University (now Wilfrid Laurier University), Waterloo, ON, Canada, as assistant professor in the Department of Near Eastern Studies (1965–67). He then accepted a position at Andover Newton Theological School (Newton, MA) as associate professor of Old Testament, 1967-70. From there he returned to his alma mater in the Department of Near Eastern Studies at the University of Toronto, 1970-77. In 1977 he accepted the position as James A. Gray Professor of Biblical Literature in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (1977–2000). He retired in 2000 as Distinguished University Professor of Humanities (emeritus) and returned to Canada where he resides in Waterloo, Ontario.\n\nVan Seters’s doctoral dissertation was on the problem of the Hyksos (Yale, 1965), and published as \"\" (1966). It challenged the consensus view about these foreign rulers of Egypt in the mid-second millennium BCE on a number of points. On the matter of their origins, they were not Hurrians from northern Syria and Anatolia, they did not invade Egypt with chariots and horses and their capital city of Avaris was not to be located in the vicinity of Tanis. Instead, these foreigners came from southern Palestine, migrating into the eastern Delta during a period of political decentralization in the Second Intermediate period and eventually established the capital of their kingdom, Avaris, at Tell ed-Dab‘a. All of this was later confirmed by archaeological excavations at Tell ed-Dab‘a and at Tell el-Maskhuta in the Wadi Tumilat, one of the overland routes of entry into Egypt from Asia.\n\nVan Seters' \"\"Abraham in History and Tradition\"\" (1975) argues that no convincing evidence exists to support the historical existence of Abraham and the other Biblical Patriarchs or the historical reliability of their origins in Mesopotamia and their exploits and travels as depicted in the book of book of Genesis. This book attempts to undermine both the Biblical archaeology school of William F. Albright, who had argued over the previous fifty years that the archaeological record confirmed the essential truth of the history contained in Genesis, and the \"tradition history\" school of Albrecht Alt and Martin Noth, which argued that Genesis contained a core of valid social pre-history of the Israelites passed down through oral tradition prior to the composition of the written book itself.\n\nIn the second part of the book, Van Seters went on to put forward his own theory on the origins of the Pentateuch (the first five books of the bible: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy), arguing, with Martin Noth, that Deuteronomy was the original beginning of a history that extended from Deuteronomy to the end of 2 Kings. However, against Noth and others, he held that the so-called Yahwist, the oldest literary source in Genesis, Exodus and Numbers, was written in the 6th century BCE as a prologue to the older Deuteronomistic History, and that the so-called Priestly Writer of the Pentateuch was a later supplement to this history. This approach represented a revival of the \"supplementary hypothesis\" of a previous era of Pentateuchal studies. This literary hypothesis was expanded and defended in several of Van Seters’ later works. Along with similar revisionist works by Hans Heinrich Schmid of Zurich and Rolf Rendtorff of Heidelberg, published in 1976 and 1977, this led to a major reevaluation in Pentateuchal criticism.\n\nVan Seters next undertook a major comparative study of ancient historiography, \"In Search of History: Historiography in the Ancient World and the Origins of Biblical History\" (1983), which was recognized by the awards of James H. Breasted Prize of the American Historical Association, (1985), and the American Academy of Religion Book Award in Historical Studies (1986). The book made a comparative study of early Greek historiography down to the time of Herodotus, and various genres of Mesopotamian, Hittite, Egyptian and Levantine historiography as background for understanding the rise of historiography in ancient Israel. Special attention was given to a critical literary analysis of the so-called Deuteronomistic history from Joshua to 2 Kings.\n\nVan Seters combined his strong interest in historiography with his revisionist work in Pentateuchal criticism in a detailed study of the Yahwist as an \"antiquarian\" historian writing about Israel’s origins under the influence of Babylonian civilization while in exile in Babylonia during the 6th century BCE. This study is reflected in \"Prologue to History: The Yahwist as Historian in Genesis\" (1992) and \"The Life of Moses: The Yahwist as Historian in Exodus-Numbers\" (1994).\n\nMost student handbooks on Pentateuchal studies are committed to a particular methodological approach or school of thought and largely ignore alternative theories of the Bible’s compositional history. Van Seters’ introduction, \"The Pentateuch: A Social-Science Commentary\" (1999) attempts to summarize the complex state of Pentateuchal research at the end of the 20th century and to locate his own method of Pentateuchal criticism, which is socio-historical and literary, within this scholarly context.\n\nA dating of the Yahwistic source in the Pentateuch as later than Deuteronomy also has serious implications for the history of law in the Pentateuch, because it means dating the so-called Covenant Code of Exodus 21-23 later than Deuteronomy instead of earlier and suggests a major revision in the development of Hebrew law. Van Seters attempts just such a reevaluation of legal history among the biblical codes in \"A Law Book for the Diaspora: Revision in the Study of the Covenant Code\"(2003).\n\nOne of the foundational concepts in the literary criticism of the Hebrew Bible in general and the Pentateuch in particular is the notion that the various literary components, whether small or large, were put together by redactors or editors rather than authors in the modern sense. Furthermore, this editorial process is thought to have continued until the whole biblical corpus reached a definitive \"canonical\" form in the early Roman period. Van Seters, in \"The Edited Bible: The Curious History of the \"Editor\" in Biblical Criticism\" (2006), in his most radical work to date, seeks to completely demolish any such notion of ancient editors, which was introduced into classical and biblical studies in the late 18th century. The study traces the long history of the use of \"redactors\" in higher and lower criticism in both classical and biblical scholarship, and he concludes that scholarly editors responsible for the reproduction of classical and biblical texts only arose in the 16th century. Such editors are completely anachronistic when applied to ancient literature.\n\nSome regard part of the David story as the pinnacle of ancient Israelite historiography and a product of the Solomonic \"enlightenment.\" As such it is considered indispensable for understanding the history of the Davidic-Solomonic period. Van Seters, in \"The Biblical Saga of King David\" (2009), has attempted to show that the David story does not reflect the conditions of a rather small settlement in Jerusalem in the 10th century, as revealed by many years of archaeological excavation.\n\n\nBiographic profile in Marquis, Who's Who in America and Who’s Who in the World.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107602", "title": "Information wants to be free", "text": "Information wants to be free\n\n\"Information wants to be free\" is an expression that means all people should be able to access information freely. It is often used by technology activists to criticize laws that limit transparency and general access to information. People who criticize intellectual property law say the system of such government granted monopolies conflicts with the development of a public domain of information. The expression is often credited to Stewart Brand, who was recorded saying it at a hackers conference in 1984.\n\nThe iconic phrase is attributed to Stewart Brand, who, in the late 1960s, founded the Whole Earth Catalog and argued that technology could be liberating rather than oppressing. The earliest recorded occurrence of the expression was at the first Hackers Conference in 1984. Brand told Steve Wozniak:\n\nBrand's conference remarks are transcribed in the \"Whole Earth Review\" (May 1985, p. 49) and a later form appears in his \"The Media Lab: Inventing the Future at MIT\":\n\nAccording to historian Adrian Johns, the slogan expresses a view that had already been articulated in the mid-20th century by Norbert Wiener, Michael Polanyi and Arnold Plant, who advocated for the free communication of scientific knowledge, and specifically criticized the patent system.\n\nThe various forms of the original statement are ambiguous: the slogan can be used to argue the benefits of propertied information, of liberated, free, and open information, or of both. It can be taken amorally as an expression of a fact of information-science: once information has passed to a new location outside of the source's control there is no way of ensuring it is not propagated further, and therefore will naturally tend towards a state where that information is widely distributed. Much of its force is due to the anthropomorphic metaphor that imputes desire to information. In 1990 Richard Stallman restated the concept normatively, without the anthropomorphization:\n\nStallman's reformulation incorporates a political stance into Brand's value-neutral observation of social trends.\n\nBrand's attribution of will to an abstract human construct (information) has been adopted within a branch of the cyberpunk movement, whose members espouse a particular political viewpoint (anarchism). The construction of the statement takes its meaning beyond the simple judgmental observation, \"Information \"should\" be free\" by acknowledging that the internal force or entelechy of information and knowledge makes it essentially incompatible with notions of proprietary software, copyrights, patents, subscription services, etc. They believe that information is dynamic, ever-growing and evolving and cannot be contained within (any) ideological structure.\n\nAccording to this philosophy, hackers, crackers, and phreakers are liberators of information which is being held hostage by agents demanding money for its release. Other participants in this network include cypherpunks who educate people to use public-key cryptography to protect the privacy of their messages from corporate or governmental snooping and programmers who write free software and open source code. Still others create Free-Nets allowing users to gain access to computer resources for which they would otherwise need an account. They might also break copyright law by swapping music, movies, or other copyrighted materials over the Internet.\n\nChelsea Manning is alleged to have said \"Information should be free\" to Adrian Lamo when explaining a rationale for US government documents to be released to WikiLeaks. The narrative goes on with Manning wondering if she is a \"'hacker', 'cracker', 'hacktivist', 'leaker' or what\".\n\nIn the \"Fall Revolution\" series of science-fiction books, author Ken Macleod riffs and puns on the expression by writing about entities composed of information actually \"wanting\", as in desiring, freedom and the machinations of several human characters with differing political and ideological agendas, to facilitate or disrupt these entities' quest for freedom.\n\nIn the cyberpunk world of post-singularity transhuman culture described by Charles Stross in his books like \"Accelerando\" and \"Singularity Sky\", the wish of information to be free is a law of nature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107620", "title": "Fund of funds", "text": "Fund of funds\n\nA \"fund of funds\" (FOF) is an investment strategy of holding a portfolio of other investment funds rather than investing directly in stocks, bonds or other securities. This type of investing is often referred to as multi-manager investment. A fund of funds may be \"fettered\", meaning that it invests only in funds managed by the same investment company, or \"unfettered\", meaning that it can invest in external funds run by other managers.\n\nThere are different types of FOF, each investing in a different type of collective investment scheme (typically one type per FOF), for example a mutual fund FOF, a hedge fund FOF, a private equity FOF, or an investment trust FOF. The original Fund of Funds was created by Bernie Cornfeld in 1962. It went bankrupt after being looted by Robert Vesco.\n\nInvesting in a collective investment scheme may increase diversity compared with a small investor holding a smaller range of securities directly. Investing in a fund of funds may achieve greater diversification. According to modern portfolio theory, the benefit of diversification can be the reduction of volatility while maintaining average returns. However, this is countered by the increased fees paid both at FOF level and at the level of the underlying investment fund.\n\nManagement fees for FOFs are typically higher than those on traditional investment funds because they include the management fees charged by the underlying funds.\n\nIn its article on Funds of Funds, Investopedia notes that, “Historically, a fund of funds showed an expense figure that didn't always include the fees of the underlying funds. As of January 2007, the SEC began requiring that these fees be disclosed in a line called ‘Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses’ (AFFE).”\n\nAfter allocation of the levels of fees payable and taxation, returns on FOF investments will generally be lower than what single-manager funds can yield. However, some FOFs waive the second level of fees (the FOF fee) so that investors only pay the expenses of the underlying mutual funds. \n\nPension funds, endowments and other institutions often invest in funds of hedge funds for part or all of their \"alternative asset\" programs, i.e., investments other than traditional stock and bond holdings.\n\nThe due diligence and safety of investing in FOFs has come under question as a result of the Bernie Madoff scandal, where many FOFs put substantial investments into the scheme. It became clear that a motivation for this was the lack of fees by Madoff, which gave the illusion that the FOF was performing well. The due diligence of the FOFs apparently did not include asking why Madoff was not making this charge for his services. 2008 and 2009 saw FOFs take a battering from investors and the media on all fronts from the hollow promises made by over-eager marketers to the strength (or lack) of their due diligence processes to those carefully explained and eminently justifiable extra layers of fees, all reaching their zenith with the Bernie Madoff fiasco.\n\nThese strategic and structural issues have caused fund-of-funds to become less and less popular. Nonetheless, fund-for-funds remain important in particular asset classes, including venture capital and for particular investors in order for them to be able to diversify their too low or too high level of assets under management appropriately.\n\nThe FOF structure may be useful for asset-allocation funds, that is, an \"exchange-traded fund (ETF) of ETFs\" or \"mutual fund of mutual funds\". For example, iShares has asset-allocation ETFs, which own other iShares ETFs. Similarly, Vanguard has asset-allocation mutual funds, which own other Vanguard mutual funds. The \"parent\" funds may own the same \"child\" funds, with different proportions to allow for \"aggressive\" to \"conservative\" allocation. This structure simplifies management by separating allocation from security selection.\n\nA target-date fund is similar to an asset-allocation fund, except that the allocation is designed to change over time. The same structure is useful here. iShares has target-date ETFs that own other iShares ETFs; Vanguard has target-date mutual funds that own other Vanguard mutual funds. In both cases, the same funds are used as the asset-allocation funds. Since a provider may have many target dates, this can greatly reduce duplication of work.\n\nAccording to Preqin (formerly known as Private Equity Intelligence), in 2006, funds investing in other private equity funds (i.e., FOFs, including secondary funds) amounted to 14% of all committed capital in the private equity market. The following ranking of private equity FOF investment managers is based on information published by Private Equity Intelligence:\n\"Source: Preqin (formerly known as Private Equity Intelligence)\"\n\nAccording to 2011 Preqin Global Private Equity Report, largest firms by total FOF capital raised in the last ten years ($bn) are:\n\"Source: Preqin\"\n\nA fund of hedge funds is a fund of funds that invests in a portfolio of different hedge funds to provide broad exposure to the hedge fund industry and to diversify the risks associated with a single investment fund. Funds of hedge funds select hedge fund managers and construct portfolios based upon those selections. The fund of hedge funds is responsible for hiring and firing the managers in the fund. Some funds of hedge funds might have only one hedge fund in them, which lets ordinary investors into a highly acclaimed fund, or many hedge funds.\n\nFunds of hedge funds generally charge a fee for their services, always in addition to the hedge fund's management and performance fees, which can be 1.5% and 15-30%, respectively. Fees can reduce an investor's profits and potentially reduce the total return below what could be achieved through a less expensive mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF).\n\nA fund of venture capital funds is a fund of funds that invests in a portfolio of different venture capital funds for access to private capital markets. Clients are usually university endowments and pension funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107638", "title": "Marion Bachrach", "text": "Marion Bachrach\n\nMarion Bachrach (1898–1957) was the sister of John Abt and also a member of the Ware group, a group of government employees in the New Deal administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt who were also members of the secret apparatus of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA) in the 1930s. \n\nBachrach was the personal secretary and congressional office manager to Representative John Bernard of the Minnesota Farmer-Labor Party in 1937-1938. Bachrach also was a correspondent for the newspaper \"PM\". \n\nMembership and meeting of the Ware group were highly secretive, and many members eventually infiltrated into higher levels of the United States government during World War II. After Alger Hiss was cut out from closer contact with the Ware group, Hiss remained a close associate of Marion Bachrach.\n\nOn November 20, 1942 Soviet foreign intelligence (Dimitrov to Fitin, RTsKhIDNI 495-74-484) requested a background report on Bachrach from the Comintern and received a positive report.\n\nOn December 14, 1948, Bachrach testified in Washington, DC, before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC); the next day in New York City, a federal grand jury indicted Alger Hiss on two counts of perjury in relation to the same line of evidence that HUAC was investigating.\n\nIn 1951, Bachrach was arrested but got out on bail. (Her attorney was Harold I. Cammer, whose law partners included Nathan Witt and formerly included Lee Pressman, also both members of the Ware Group). Cammer had represented Abt, Witt, and Pressman during the Hiss Case.)\n\nShe married Howard Bachrach, who worked at the Agricultural Adjustment Administration. \n\nBachrach wrote several tracts sold to Communist consumers. Some original publications appear to be quite profitable among collectors and sellers. Among them are \"Amnesty! Proposal of an amnesty program to release the members of the Communist Party imprisoned under the provisions of the Smith Act\", \"This Obvious Violence\", \"You Are on Trial\" and \"The Federal Grand Jury is Stacked Against You\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107657", "title": "Super NES Emulator SE", "text": "Super NES Emulator SE\n\nThe Super NES Emulator SE was a Nintendo-sponsored game development system for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It was designed by Intelligent Systems, and sold only to licensed Nintendo development houses.\n\nThe device is in the form of a large, rectangular metal box, approximately 18 inches high, and 12 inches wide, and 13 inches deep. The box is painted grey, and bears the marking \"Emulator SE\" on the front in grey. \n\nThe device has two controller ports at the bottom that are standard Super NES controller ports. The rear of the device featured two 50-pin SCSI interface designed to connect to a PC running MS-DOS. One of these ports came with a terminator. The rear of the device also has a port labeled \"Multi-Out\", which is identical to the Multi-out port on a normal Super NES control deck.\n\nBelow that, it has an 8 position DIP switch. Because there is no known copy of the documentation of this machine, the function of the switches is unknown, although it is possible the switch is used to set the SCSI ID of the device.\n\nThe units bear five-digit serial numbers.\n\nThe device is rated to consume 40 watts of power at 120 V, and bears a 1991 copyright date. It has an IEC 60320 C14 connector.\n\nThe units came in at least two and possibly more configurations with a song-compositing subsystem and a sprite-design subsystem as an option. \n\nOne configuration option adds a port labeled \"MIDI\" that contains a standard MIDI jack (though it's not known if the port is actually MIDI compliant), and a single RCA-Style connector in red. Investigation of the internal circuitry of the device suggests that this RCA jack is used to record sounds into the device for use in music composition.\n\nAnother configuration option adds a port called \"Analog RGB\", and presents a female DB-9 port. Internal circuitry again suggests that the port is an EGA port, though is probably closer in design to the ports used in Commodore 128 computer.\n\nInside the unit, there is a backplane board mounted to the bottom of the case, that provides six interface slots that have the same number of pins and bus design as NuBus connectors. The most complicated unit known to date has four of these slots occupied. This same board also provides the unit with an expansion connector on the bottom of the case, identical to that of the SNES. \n\nThe inside the most complex unit consists of a main logic board, which has all the components of a Super NES on it, including the SNES 65816 CPU, PPUs, and Work Ram. This board also has the SCSI controller and an NEC V20 processor, and additionally a 32k EPROM chip. \n\nExamining the ROM chip at the Reset vector shows a JMP instruction outside the memory mapped location of the chip.\n\nAll known Emulator SE's also have a position on this board where a Standard SNES-RF Encoding Unit could be mounted, to provide an external RF port (identical to that of the Super NES) just above the \"Multi-Out\" port, however no known specimens have this port installed.\n\nThis board also includes a connector for a standard Super NES APU module, which is connected by wires to the next board up, which is the board which contains the MIDI and RCA connector. This audio board has many RAM chips, totaling 2 MB in size. The audio board also has many analog-to-digital converters. This board also has a 32k EPROM chip, but it is soldered to the board and could not be safely removed for investigation.\n\nAbove that board is the board that presents the RGB port. It connects only to the NuBus-style connector and has another significant amount of RAM on it.\n\nAbove that board is the cartridge board, which contains ram totaling 32 Mb worth or ram (4 MB), which was the maximum size cartridge the Super NES could support without the use of special addressing chips. These RAM chips were all socketed. The board has a separate set of 8 chips that seem to be a storage area with a battery backup, perhaps similar to the battery backed up data on a Super NES cartridge. \n\nThis board also had three empty chip slots, and one nearby populated with a Nintendo DSP1 chip.\n\nAnother Emulator SE shows this board with only 16 Mb of memory installed, and no DSP1 chip. \n\nAll of the boards bear the designation \"Intelligent Systems ICE\". The acronym probably means \"In-Circuit Emulator.\"\n\nThe device was designed to be used with several software applications designed for MSDOS that allowed you to program games for the Super NES, compile them, and then upload them to the Emulator SE and run the game. The PC could then monitor the status of the game, and be used for debugging. \n\nNo copy of the software to drive the Emulator SE is publicly available. \n\nWithout the software, powering the unit on illuminates the front light in red, and the unit outputs a black NTSC video signal, and an audio signal.\n\nIt is unknown how many of these units were produced. At least five units are in the hands of collectors, and the existence of an additional five is confirmed.\n\nSquare Soft had at least two of these units, and they were used in the development of the game \"Secret of Evermore\". These two units from Square Soft are in the hands of a collector. \n\n"}
{"id": "2107679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107679", "title": "Salamander (disambiguation)", "text": "Salamander (disambiguation)\n\nA salamander is an amphibian.\n\nSalamander may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107684", "title": "Software Arts", "text": "Software Arts\n\nSoftware Arts was a software company founded by Dan Bricklin and Bob Frankston in 1979 to develop VisiCalc, which was published by a separate company, Personal Software Inc., later named VisiCorp.\n\nSoftware Arts also developed TK!Solver, a numeric equation solving system originally developed by Milos Konopasek, and \"Spotlight\",\"a desktop organizer for the I.B.M. Personal Computer.\"\n\nBy early 1984 \"InfoWorld\" estimated that Software Arts was the world's 13th-largest microcomputer-software company, with $12 million in 1983 sales. It was bought by Lotus in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107687", "title": "Kolven", "text": "Kolven\n\nKolven (verb; or noun: kolf) is a game originating from the Netherlands. It is played by four people; where players hit the ball over a certain distance and the first people to reach their opponents' starting point win. The games can last multiple days. \n\nKolf is played on an indoor course that measures 17.5 metres long and 5 metres wide. The course is marked with looping scoring lines and features an ornate wooden post at each end. In modern days a Kolf court is made from a type of plastic which is precisely leveled. \n\nThere are three players in a match and each has his own ball. The balls are quite large and are made either of rubber or sajet (wool covered with leather). The rubber balls are the most popular, although they have to be at least 80–100 years old before they are fully mature. The older the rubber gets, the less spring it has; this in turn encourages a better roll which is what is desired in Kolf. \n\nThe Kolf club, known as a kliek, has a very strong wooden shaft and a heavy metal head. Sajet balls and rubber balls require the use of different size clubs; the head on rubber ball club is larger than that used for the sajetball club. This is because the rubber ball is slightly larger and heavier than the sajet ball.\n\nThe aim of the game is to hit the ball across the court three times from one end to the other, each time hitting the post at the opposite end. So a player starts at the starting end and aims to hit the post at the scoring end. He or she then reverses play to hit the ball from the scoring end post back to starting end post and finally one more shot across the court from the starting post to the scoring post. The idea is to use just three strokes; one for each length of the court. The posts are set at an angle of 85% towards each other, so that the balls don’t jump when they hit the posts.\n\nIn playing the game, the player often makes use of rebounds on the walls of the court, similar to billiards. The closer the ball finishes to the end wall, the higher the player's score. In a tournament, players play a total of 15 games, each game consisting of 3 shots. Usually 5 games are played in succession, the winner being the player with the highest total of points.\n\nEvery player is placed in one of five classes according to their skill. Lower classes are sometimes given the advantage of extra points, so they can compete on an even basis with a player from a higher class. Clubs play against each other, and there is also a national championship every year. Since 1966, women play as well.\n\nThe method of hitting the ball is different for each player. Players generally crouch low and adopt a wide stance, with the hands quite far apart on the kliek. During the stroke, the head of the kliek never leaves the ground. It is of the utmost importance that the player keeps his body extremely still. No special clothing is worn, and players wear normal street shoes.\n\nKolf is often played with the accompaniment of jenever or a cigar. There are currently 31 clubs and only 14 courses, compared with the hundreds which existed before. Of the courses still in use, all but one are in the tiny villages of the part of the North Holland province. In the old days, they were invariably attached to cafés or social centres. Less than 1,000 people out of the Netherlands' population of 16 million, about 350 men and 250 women, play Kolf.\n\nThe ancestry of kolf reaches beyond reliable written records, though it is believed by many to be tied to the development of golf. Documents as far back as the year 1200 mention four popular games involving both club and ball: chole in Belgium and France, jeu de mail in France, and beugelen and the klosbaan in the Netherlands. \n\n\nIn the interchange of fashion and trade, all these games tended to spill across to neighboring regions. The Netherlands developed its own version of jeu de mail, which it called maliespel, about the same time as the English court set up a mail course on the wide avenue now known as Pall Mail (i.e. pallemaille).\n\nBut it was a combination of jeu de mail and chole which seems to have appealed most to the sporting instincts of the Dutch. They called the new game colf, and within a few years they had become a nation of passionate players. The game was played in the streets, in public squares, or anywhere there was sufficient space. Sometimes the players set up a pole which they could use as a target, other times they simply picked a handy local landmark. The winner was the one who reached the chosen point in the minimum number of strokes.\n\nThe cost of all this sporting activity, mainly in broken windows, was not welcomed by the authorities. Indeed, the best indication of the sport's widespread popularity is the number of official ordinances which were made against it. In Amsterdam, for instance, colf players were banned from the long and narrow street known as the Nes, under penalty of having their cloth confiscated. In 1456 they were banned from playing around and inside the church at Naarden. In many other cities and towns they were relegated to playing outside municipal limits. In winter, at least, the problem was less severe - when the canals and lakes froze over, many Dutch colf players took to the ice, finding an ideal playing surface and all the space they needed. The game was often featured in frozen river scenes in paintings.\nAt some time during the Middle Ages, the colf craze seems to have travelled across the North Sea to the Netherlands' neighbouring trading partner, Scotland. While the Scots rightly claim to have invented the modern game of golf, the origins of the game that was to become golf were brought to Scotland by Scots merchants who had traded in the Low Countries. The game was brought to St Andrews from Hanseatic ports where colf was commonly played at the time. The Dutch sport was adapted to local conditions, whereby it came to be played on what were termed 'links' in the Scots language. Links is a descriptive term for coastal sandy grasslands. The term has since become almost synonymous with the modern golf course, thanks to the Scots.\n\nOddly, while Scotland was developing its own interpretation of colf as a spacious outdoor game which would eventually morph into the modern game of golf, the Dutch were doing exactly the opposite with colf. Instead of playing in the open, more and more were adapting the game to a form that could be played on the old maliespel courses, which mostly adjoined taverns and inns. Increasingly, these courses were roofed over, until finally the new game was entirely played indoors. Thus was born the unique Dutch game of kolf.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 18th century, the game caught on quickly. Records show that by 1769 there were about 200 courses in Amsterdam alone, of which more than 30 were covered; in 1792 there were 350 courses in the whole of the Netherlands, almost half of them covered.\n\nInitially, players used the same sticks as they had for colf, with bails made of tightly-wound wool, covered with leather. But as kolf developed, a larger ball came into use, more suitable for the new form of the game, and the sticks became correspondingly heavier.\n\nA major technical breakthrough came in 1830, when balls made of gutta-percha, an early form of rubber, were introduced. These balls were larger still, the gutta-percha softer and less resilient than the rubber of today. They were used in addition to the wool-and-leather balls, rather than replacing them.\n\nNo one is certain why kolf swiftly began to fade in popularity towards the end of the last century. There was competition from newer sports such as soccer and cycling, of course, but a more likely reason seems to be that the cafe owners who operated most of the courses found that they were no longer economical. One by one, the courses fell into disuse, and the space was used otherwise. Now many old cafés' dance floors or billiard tables hide what once was a kolf course. \n\nOf the 14 courses still in use, all but one are in the tiny villages of the Northern part of North Holland. The one course found outside North Holland is in Utrecht, in the St. Eloyen Gasthuis (St. Eloy's Hospice). This beautiful course is the oldest in the Netherlands, and although it has been restored more than once, its history dates back to 1730. The Gasthuis (or old hospice) is a building owned by the city’s ancient guild of metalsmiths.\n\nAn obstacle encountered with a sport as old as kolf is obtaining the proper equipment: there are a few craftsmen who still make the special metal-headed klieks used to play, but almost none who manufacture balls of the right material or quality needed for the sport. Fortunately, the manufacture of the surviving equipment is excellent, and the life of both the sticks and balls is long. Most modern players use equipment which has been passed from father to son or friend to friend, or is borrowed from a club. Some players make their own wool-cored balls, or restore old ones which have already given many years' service. Most of the leather balls in use are at least 80 years old, which makes them true sporting antiques; the trouble is that modern rubber balls bounce too much for the kolf course, making for a less traditional experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107694", "title": "Mark Kirkland", "text": "Mark Kirkland\n\nMark Kirkland (born November 5, 1956) is an American animation director. He has directed 84 episodes of \"The Simpsons\" since 1990, more than any other director.\n\nAt the age of 13, Kirkland began making super 8 films and working for his father, noted photographer and filmmaker Douglas Kirkland, creating “making of” films for major production companies. This exposure to Hollywood sparked Kirkland's desire to seek a career in the entertainment industry. Kirkland developed an interest in drawing at an early age. At the age of 17, he began studying in the Experimental Animation Program at the California Institute of the Arts for four years, earning a BFA degree. There, he was mentored by people such as Jules Engel (serving as his teaching assistant), A. Kendall O'Connor, Ollie Johnston and Moe Gollub. In 1976, he won the Student Academy Award for animation along with fellow student, Richard Jefferies, for their graphically animated film made to the song \"Fame\" by David Bowie. After finishing up his degree, he applied to Disney, but he was not accepted and instead began working for Hanna-Barbera. He began working on \"The Simpsons\" from season two onwards and has directed 82 episodes, more than any other director. In season 18, he became the show's supervising director.\n\nKirkland has won three Primetime Emmy Awards, two Environmental Media Awards and a Pioneer in Television Animation Award from the Burbank International Film Festival for his work on \"The Simpsons\".\n\nAn active member of the Television Academy of Arts and Sciences, Kirkland served as the Animation Peer Group Governor from 2012–2013.\n\nAs an independent filmmaker, Kirkland has written, directed, and produced award-winning short films which have been shown at film festivals around the world and screened at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. During a 5-year period, Kirkland participated in 25 festivals screening his films: \"A Letter from Home,\" \"The Moving Picture Co. 1914,\" \"The Audition,\" and \"Bud's Odyssey.\" Kirkland is an accomplished still photographer whose images have been published in the US and \"People\" magazines. He created photo essays on the behind-the-scenes making of \"The Simpsons\", and \"A Visit with Ollie\" about legendary Disney animator Ollie Johnston.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107702", "title": "North Hollywood station", "text": "North Hollywood station\n\nNorth Hollywood is a combined subway station and bus rapid transit (BRT) station in the Los Angeles Metro Rail and Metro Busway systems. It is the northwestern terminus of the B Line subway and eastern terminus of the G Line BRT route. It is located at the intersection of Lankershim Boulevard and Chandler Boulevard in the North Hollywood district in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles.\n\nB Line service hours are approximately from 4:30 AM until 1:00 AM daily.\n\nMetro Liner G Line BRT (bus rapid transitway) runs 24 hours a day.\n\nMetro constructed a second entrance on the west side of Lankershim Boulevard, which allows riders to connect between the G Line (surface bus rapid transit) and the B Line (underground heavy rail) via an underground passageway. This underground connection was completed in August 2016.\nNorth Hollywood Metro station is located on Lankershim Boulevard, which forms the western border of the station and parking lot; it is bordered on its South side by Chandler Boulevard. It is one block south of Burbank Boulevard (but is not bordered by Burbank) and is one block west of Vineland Avenue (but is not bordered by Vineland). The station is located in the neighborhood of the same name in the eastern San Fernando Valley section of Los Angeles.\n\nSince the opening of the station in 2000, transit-oriented developments have begun to be constructed in the area around the station including thousands of apartments and office buildings. NoHo Tower (a 15-story apartment building) is across the street from the station and NoHo Commons, a multi-use complex which includes several floors of apartments above a level of retail. In September 2007, transportation officials approved NoHo Art Wave. That project did not start due to the recession, but in 2016 a public-private partnership with the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority was proposed on the surrounding the station.\n\nThe Southern Pacific Railway built the Lankershim Depot in 1896 on land that is adjacent to the current G Line platforms. It later served as a stop on the Pacific Electric system after its North Hollywood Line opened in 1911. In 2014, the station was restored for a cost of $3.6 million, and is currently occupied by a coffee shop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107708", "title": "Donald Brittain", "text": "Donald Brittain\n\nDonald Brittain, (June 10, 1928 – July 21, 1989) was a film director and producer with the National Film Board of Canada.\n\n\"Fields of Sacrifice\" (1964) is considered Brittain's first major film as director.\nHis other notable directorial credits include the 1964 feature documentary \"Bethune\", 1965 documentaries \"Ladies and Gentlemen... Mr. Leonard Cohen\" and \"Memorandum\" and the Genie Award-winning 1979 documentary \"\". He also directed the first-ever IMAX film, \"Tiger Child\" for Expo '70, and \"Earthwatch\", a 70mm film for Expo 86.\n\nHe wrote the 1975 Oscar-nominated short documentary \"Whistling Smith\". He co-directed the 1976 feature documentary \"\" which garnered 6 Canadian Film Awards and an Academy Award nomination.\n\nBrittain also directed the three-part CBC-coproduced series \"The Champions\", chronicling the lives and battles of Canadian political titans René Lévesque and Pierre Elliott Trudeau. His most ambitious project was \"The King Chronicle\", a three-part 1987-88 television series about the remarkable career of Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King.\n\nHe won the Gemini Award for best screenplay and direction for the 1985 drama \"\".\n\nAs NFB producer, Brittain's credits included Arthur Lipsett's \"A Trip Down Memory Lane.\"\n\nOften a narrator of his own documentaries, Brittain also lent his voice to the animated mockumentary \"What on Earth!\"\n\nIn 1989, Brittain was the recipient of a Margaret Collier Award. In 1990, he was posthumously appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada in recognition of \"his masterful visual records of our social and cultural past.\n\nThe Donald Brittain Award for the best political or social documentary presented by the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television at the Gemini Awards and more recently, the Canadian Screen Awards, are named in his honour.\n\nBrittain is interred in Ottawa, Ontario's Beechwood Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107712", "title": "Caseworker (social work)", "text": "Caseworker (social work)\n\nIn social work, a caseworker is a social worker who is employed by a government agency, nonprofit organization, or another group to take on the cases of individuals and provide them with advocacy, information and solutions. Also, in political arenas, caseworkers are employed as a type of legislative staffer by legislators to provide service to their constituents such as dealing with individual or family concerns and obtaining social services through licensed professionals. British MPs and members of the United States Congress often provide constituent services through caseworkers for better use of their allotted funds.\n\nThe history of social casework is closely tied to the advent of social work as a general professional discipline. In the late nineteenth century, the formation of the Charity Organization Society, and the Settlement movement represented the beginning of efforts towards alleviating industrial poverty. While social casework was a primary method of intervention, it was not until Mary Richmond published \"Social Diagnosis\" in 1917 that a formal definition for social casework began to formulate. In \"Social Diagnosis\", Richmond advocated for working \"with\" clients, rather than on them, and for gaining \"sympathetic understanding of the old world backgrounds from which the client came\" in lieu of making generalizations or assumptions. The term social diagnosis came to refer to \"a systematic way for helping professionals to gather information and study client problems\" based on each client's unique background, problems, and individualized needs.\n\nSocial casework is the method employed by social workers to help individuals find solutions to problems of social adjustment that are difficult for individuals to navigate on their own.\n\nSocial casework is a primary approach and method of social work, concerned with the adjustment and development of the individual and, in some instances, couples, towards more satisfying human relations. In social casework, the relationship between a caseworker and their client is one of support, focused on \"enabling an individual in solving a problem through self-efforts.\" The social casework relationship is a dynamic interaction of attitudes and emotions between the social caseworker and the client with the purpose of satisfying the clients psychosocial needs to achieve a better intrapersonal (interactions and transactions) adjustment by the client within the respective environment. Psychosocial assessment is a key tool used in casework; it is the initial assessment of a client's current, relevant past, and possible future modes of adaptation to both stressful situations and normal living situations. Problem solving is the intent behind every social casework process; the caseworker doesn't solve the problem for the client, but helps the person in the situation to be equipped in solving or facing the problem adequately within the individual's weaknesses and strengths to the end of overall development.\n\nThe social casework profession is focused on one primary goal: \"to enhance human well-being and help meet the basic human needs of all people, with particular attention to the needs and empowerment of people who are vulnerable, oppressed, and living in poverty.\" Values maintained in casework are:\n\n\nThe stages are:\n\nSocial work case management is a process of linking clients to services that enhance their functional capacity, from assessment to comprehensive intervention for equitable client care. According to NASW (1984) \"Case management is a mechanism for ensuring a comprehensive program that will meet an individual's need for care by coordinating and linking components of a service delivery system.\" It is a collaborative process of assessment, planning, facilitation, and advocacy for options and services to meet an individual's health needs through communication and provision of available resources to promote qualitative cost effective outcomes. Here, health needs are within the social model of health which includes addressing the social and environmental determinants of health-the psycho-social, recreational, cultural and language needs in tandem with physical/biological and medical factors. These needs are defined by a problem's context, formulation, and definition.\n\nCase management has alternatively been known as \"service coordination\" or \"care coordination\" since the late 1980s. Care coordination is defined by NASW as \"a client-centered, assessment based, interdisciplinary approach to integrating health care and psychosocial support services in which a care coordinator develops and implements a comprehensive care plan that addresses the client's needs, strengths, and goals.\" There are two types of case management one is based on objective aims of the service organization and the other is dependent on the individual or group who benefits the service. Case management differs from one setting to another depending upon the policies, tolerance and objectives however efficiency in services is a common element. One such element that affects efficiency is caseloads. Department of Children and Families, United States recommends no more than 12–15 open/active cases and 8–10 new referrals per month when it comes to caseload and efficient management of workload. This post-2008 allocation of caseload management showed 90% efficiency in services and quality of practice by Center for the Study of Social Policy (CSSP), 2009. A general work load hours that takes for Case management is 3.30 hrs in which 1.45 hrs takes for case intake; Traditional individual – family assessment takes 3.45 hrs – 12.45 hrs as per Minnesota Workload Analytics for evidence based stabilizing and strengthening the workforce. To increase handling caseloads over-hiring and expanding employee benefits is a practice used by social services. Though Arizona's Department of Economic Security surveys show increasing caseloads alone above 35 cases per caseworker a month attracted repeated maltreatment reports and the ideal clients per case manager ratio suggested is 10:1. To reduce the caseload they focused on expanding prevention services which showed a positive effect. Larger the caseload lesser the direct care will be and the services will be more of brokerage and crisis management. Case management is a part of direct social work practice, it involves development and implementation of the case plan and administration of case management systems for effective service delivery. This makes the case manager involve in resource development, service management, lean leadership, cost control, resource distribution, and use of authority. Due to the resource control aspect a Case manager's activity is also known as service management.\n\nThe generic phases of case management are similar to the casework process:\n\nIn case management practice there are different models used:\n\nCaseworkers are employed by a large number of organizations in Britain, especially in the voluntary and public sectors. In the United States, most government agencies that provide social services to children in poor or troubled families have a staff of caseworkers, each of whom is assigned a proportion of the cases under review at any given time. In Australia, caseworkers may be assigned to work in child protection, drug and alcohol services or community health organizations. As of 2004, there were approximately 876,000 child welfare caseworkers in the United States. Seventy-two percent are women, and the mean salary for all caseworkers was $64,590.\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2107718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107718", "title": "Spendthrift", "text": "Spendthrift\n\nA spendthrift (also profligate or prodigal) is someone who spends money prodigiously and who is extravagant and recklessly wasteful, often to a point where the spending climbs well beyond his or her means. \"Spendthrift\" derives from an obsolete sense of the word \"thrift\" to mean prosperity rather than frugality, so a \"spendthrift\" is one who has spent their prosperity.\n\nHistorical figures who have been characterized as spendthrifts include George IV of Great Britain, King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and Marie Antoinette the Queen of France.\n\nThe term is often used by the press as an adjective applied to governments who are thought to be wasting public money.\n\nThe opposite would be a frugal person, who uses money wisely, or more negatively a miser, who lives very cheaply and hoards wealth for its own sake.\n\nWhile the pair of words may seem to imply the opposite of its meaning (as if you are thrifty in your spending), it follows the tradition of the earlier word \"scattergood\", the first part being an undoing of the second.\n\nWilliam Hogarth's \"A Rake's Progress\" (1732–33) displays in a series of paintings the spiralling fortunes of a wealthy but spendthrift son and heir who loses his money, and who as a consequence is imprisoned in the Fleet Prison and ultimately Bedlam.\n\n\nThe modern legal remedy for spendthrifts is usually bankruptcy. However, during the 19th and 20th centuries, a few jurisdictions, such as the U.S. states of Oregon and Massachusetts, experimented with laws under which the family of such a person could have him or her legally declared a \"spendthrift\" by a court of law. In turn, such persons were considered to lack the legal capacity to enter into binding contracts. Even though such laws made life harder for creditors (who now had the burden of ensuring that any prospective debtor had not been judicially declared a spendthrift), they were thought to be justified by the public policy of keeping a spendthrift's family from ending up in the poorhouse or on welfare. Such laws have since been abolished in favor of bankruptcy, which is more favorable to creditors.\n\nReceivership is another equitable remedy for a spendthrift, by which a state-court-appointed trustee or attorney manages and sells the property of the debtor in default on debts.\n\nIn conservatorship, a fiduciary handles both the personal affairs and paying the debts of an incapacitated person. Infamously, Theodore Roosevelt was conservator for his brother Elliott Roosevelt I.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107721", "title": "Swecoin", "text": "Swecoin\n\nSwecoin was a thermal printer manufacturing company based in Sollentuna, Sweden. They also had a US-based sales division, Swecoin US Inc, based in Rhode Island. Today the previous Swecoin business is an integrated part of the Zebra Technologies Corporation.\n\nSwecoin's printer designs utilize a patented looping presenter mechanism in which a paper loop is formed inside the printer before the printout is presented to the user of the printer to prevent the user from removing the printout before it has completed.\n\nThe company Swecoin AB was founded in 1983, as a successor to the mechanical cash-register company Sweda. Originally the focus was to sell spare parts and similar for these machines.\n\nThe company then branched into importing and distributing Point of Sales printers from manufacturers such as Data Techno.\n\nIn the very early 1990s the company started developing its own products, kiosk and ticket printers.\nShortly after this a US distribution company, Swecoin US Inc, was founded in Rhode Island.\n\nThe company grew organically and through acquisitions during the 1990s.\nAcquisitions included the component distribution company Promakon, the injection moulding company Nya Ovansjö Plast och Verktyg and the Pay and Display Parking machine manufacturer AB Cale Industi.\n\nIn 1997 the Swecoin Group was acquired by Metric Gruppen, owned by Rune Andersson.\n\nIn late 1999, some of the original owners bought back the core Swecoin printer business from Metric.\nThe business grew significantly from this point with several new product lines being introduced, for example the TTP 2000 series.\n\nIn October 2006 Swecoin was acquired by the Zebra Technologies Corporation, and by the end of 2009 it was fully integrated into Zebra Technologies.\n\nDuring its entire history Swecoin has been on the leading edge of kiosk and ticket printer development.\nThe looping presenter and pull detector for forced paper ejection are key examples of this as well as launching a USB kiosk printer as early as 1998.\nOther examples include network connectable ticket printers with magnetic encoding capabilities.\n\nIn 2008, the product line consisted of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107735", "title": "Peter Holt", "text": "Peter Holt\n\nPeter M. Holt (born July 26, 1948 in Peoria, Illinois) is an American businessman. He is the former CEO of HoltCat, the largest Caterpillar dealership in the United States and former chairman, CEO, and owner of Spurs Sports & Entertainment, which owns the NBA's San Antonio Spurs, the USL's San Antonio FC, the AHL's San Antonio Rampage, and the NBA Development League's Austin Spurs.\n\nHolt is the great-grandson of Benjamin Holt, who developed the first practical track-type tractor in 1904. His family's history in San Antonio, Texas began in 1933, when his great uncle, William K. Holt, moved to San Antonio to start a Caterpillar dealership. As he had no heirs, Bill invited B.D. Holt (Peter's father) to get involved in the business. In 1961, B.D. Holt moved to Corpus Christi, Texas and started his own Caterpillar dealership.\n\nHolt, a Peoria, Illinois native, lived in San Antonio as a child before moving to Corpus Christi. After graduating high school in Corpus Christi, Holt went into the United States Army, serving two years, including a one-year tour of duty as an infantryman in Vietnam. He ended his military duty as a Sergeant with a Silver Star, three Bronze Stars, and a Purple Heart.\n\nUpon leaving the army, Holt went to California, working for an investment banking house and became involved in a bar and restaurant business. Holt rejoined his father in 1983 to work in Corpus Christi at his Caterpillar dealership. Holt diversified the dealership's markets, growing it to its size today. In September 1987, Holt and his father purchased Holt Machinery Co. in San Antonio, reuniting the original Caterpillar dealership that his great uncle started in 1933. Holt would later expand the company's Texas presence by purchasing Darr Equipment Company of Dallas, a Caterpillar dealer in the DFW Metroplex.\n\nIn 1993, Holt decided to invest in the San Antonio Spurs, wanting to help keep the team in San Antonio. He and his wife Julianna became the team's principal owners.\n\nHolt and the Spurs organization later purchased other franchises – the Austin Toros of the NBA Development League, the San Antonio Rampage of the American Hockey League, and the renamed San Antonio Silver Stars of the WNBA. With each purchase, the team colors were changed to silver and black, the motif used by the Spurs.\n\nTo keep the team in San Antonio, Holt led a successful effort to build a new arena, the AT&T Center, through a ballot measure that would provide public funding for its construction. The new home to the Spurs and the San Antonio Livestock Exposition broke ground in August 2000 and opened for the 2002 season. During his tenure as owner, the Spurs won five championships in 1999, 2003, 2005, 2007, and 2014.\n\nHolt retired in 2016, and his wife, Julianna, succeeded him.\n\nHolt served as Chairman of the United Way of San Antonio and Bexar County. He is a member of the World presidents’ Organization, and is a trustee of the Palmer Drug Abuse Program. He also served as chairman of the board of St. Mary's Hall, a private school in San Antonio.\n\nA frequent contributor to the Republican Party, Holt has contributed over $500,000 to the campaigns of Governor Rick Perry, who appointed Holt as a commissioner of the Texas Department of Parks and Wildlife. A strong supporter of international trade, Holt is a board member of Free Trade Alliance-San Antonio, as well as the San Antonio Economic Development Foundation and Chase Bank-San Antonio. According to documents obtained by the San Antonio Express-News, Julianna Hawn Holt filed for divorce December 22, 2017 in Bexar County District Court.\n\nHolt was inducted to the Texas Business Hall of Fame in 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107748", "title": "Péter Frankl", "text": "Péter Frankl\n\nPéter Frankl (born 26 March 1953 in Kaposvár, Somogy County, Hungary) is a mathematician, street performer, columnist and educator, active in Japan. Frankl studied Mathematics at Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest and submitted his PhD thesis while still an undergraduate. He holds PhD degree from University Paris Diderot as well. He has lived in Japan since 1988, where he is a well-known personality and often appears in the media. He keeps travelling around Japan performing (juggling and giving public lectures on various topics). Frankl won a gold medal at the International Mathematical Olympiad in 1971. He has seven joint papers with Paul Erdős, and eleven joint papers with Ronald Graham. His research is in combinatorics, especially in extremal combinatorics. He is the author of the union-closed sets conjecture.\n\nBoth of his parents were survivors of concentration camps and taught him \"The only things you own are in your heart and brain\". So he became a mathematician. Frankl often lectures about racial discrimination.\n\nHe could multiply two digit numbers when he was four years old. Frankl speaks 12 languages (Hungarian, English, Russian, Swedish, French, Spanish, Polish, German, Japanese, Chinese, Thai, Korean) and lectured mathematics in many countries in these languages. He has travelled to more than 100 countries.\n\nFrankl learnt juggling from Ronald Graham. He and Rödl solved a $1000 problem of Paul Erdős. Zsolt Baranyai helped Frankl to get a scholarship in France, where he became a CNRS research fellow.\n\nFor 1984 to 1990, Frankl and Akiyama worked hard organizing a Japanese mathematical Olympic team, and as a consequence the Japanese team is now a regular participant of the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nSince 1998, he is an external member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nHe authored more than thirty books in Japanese, and with Babai they wrote the manuscript of a book on \"Linear Algebra Methods in Combinatorics\".\n\nFor any finite union-closed family of finite sets, other than the family consisting only of the empty set, there exists an element that belongs to at least half of the sets in the family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107750", "title": "Harpalus", "text": "Harpalus\n\nHarpalus (Greek: Ἅρπαλος) son of Machatas was an aristocrat of Macedon and boyhood friend of Alexander the Great in the 4th century BC. Being lame in a leg, and therefore exempt from military service, Harpalus did not follow Alexander in his advance within the Persian Empire but received nonetheless a post in Asia Minor. Alexander reportedly contacted him with a demand of reading material for his spare time. Harpalus sent his King theatrical plays by\nAeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, the history of Philistus and odes by Philoxenus and Telestes.\n\nHarpalus was also a charming rogue who absconded three times with large amounts of money. The first time he was forgiven and reinstated, only to abuse his trust again. In 324 BC Harpalus sought refuge in Athens. He was imprisoned by the Athenians after a proposal of Demosthenes and Phocion, despite Hypereides' opposition, who wanted an immediate--and sure to fail-- uprising against Alexander. The Ecclesia, based on a proposal from Demosthenes, decided on the guarding of Harpalus' money, which was entrusted to a committee led by Demosthenes himself. When the committee counted the money they found 350 talents, although Harpalus had declared that he had 700 talents. \n\nAmong the accused, Demosthenes was the first to be brought to trial before an unusually numerous jury of 1,500. He was found guilty, and fined 50 talents. Unable to pay this huge amount, Demosthenes escaped and only returned to Athens nine months later, after the death of Alexander. Upon his return, he \"received from his countrymen an enthusiastic welcome, such as had never been accorded to any returning exile since the days of Alkibiades.\" Such a reception, the circumstances of the case, Athenian need to placate Alexander, the urgency to account for the missing funds, Demosthenes' patriotism and wish to set Greece free from Macedonian rule, all lend support to George Grote's view that Demosthenes was innocent, that the charges against him were politically-motivated, and that he \"was neither paid nor bought by Harpalus.\"\n\nWhen Harpalus escaped and fled to Crete, the orator faced a new wave of public uproar. The Areopagus conducted an inquiry and its findings led to Demosthenes being charged with mishandling 20 talents. At Demosthenes' trial in the Heliaia, Hypereides, who was the main prosecutor, noted that Demosthenes had admitted taking the money, but said that he had used it on the people's behalf and had borrowed it free of interest. The prosecutor rejected this argument and accused Demosthenes of being bribed by Alexander. Demosthenes was fined 50 talents and imprisoned, but after a few days he escaped thanks to the carelessness or connivance of some citizens and travelled around Calauria, Aegina and Troezen. It remains still unclear whether the accusations against him were just or not. In any case, the Athenians soon repealed the sentence and sent a ship to Aegina to carry Demosthenes back to the port of Piraeus.\n\nAccording to Pausanias, \"shortly after Harpalus ran away from Athens and crossed with a squadron to Crete, he was put to death by the servants who were attending him (in 323 BC), though some assert that he was assassinated by Pausanias, a Macedonian\". The geographer also narrates the following story: \"The steward of his money fled to Rhodes, and was arrested by a Macedonian, Philoxenus, who also had demanded Harpalus from the Athenians. Having this slave in his power, he proceeded to examine him, until he learned everything about such as had allowed themselves to accept a bribe from Harpalus. On obtaining this information he sent a dispatch to Athens, in which he gave a list of such as had taken a bribe from Harpalus, both their names and the sums each had received. Demosthenes, however, he never mentioned at all, although Alexander held him in bitter hatred, and he himself had a private quarrel with him.\"\n\nHarpalus is featured in the historical novel \"Fire From Heaven\" by Mary Renault. In it, he is entrusted by his teacher Aristotle with the task of observing and recording the lives of wild animals. Renault speculates that this would explain some of the fantastic accounts in Aristotle's zoological writings as Harpalian hoaxes.\n"}
{"id": "2107760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107760", "title": "Zapopan", "text": "Zapopan\n\nZapopan () is a city and municipality located in the Mexican state of Jalisco. Part of the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area, the population of Zapopan city proper makes it the second largest city in the state, very close behind the population of Guadalajara proper. It is best known as being the home of the Virgin of Zapopan, an image of the Virgin Mary which was made in the 16th century. This image has been credited with a number of miracles and has been recognized by popes and even visited by Pope John Paul II. The municipality is also the home of the Centro Cultural Universitario, which contains one of the most important concert venues in Latin America and is the home of the new stadium for the C.D. Guadalajara.\n\nThe name Zapopan means \"among the sapote trees\". It derives from the Nahuatl word \"tzapotl\" \"sapote\" with the addition of the locative suffix \"-pan\". It also has the nickname of “Villa Exmaicera” (ex-corn village), as it used to be a major producer of corn. Its seal was designed by José Trinidad Laris in 1941 for the 400th anniversary of the city's founding.\n\nFrom 1160 to 1325 many Zapotec, Nahua and Maya families migrated into this area from the south, with many settling in the Profundo Arroyo area. These first settlers eventually mixed among themselves and with newcomers such as Aztecs and eventually were known as Tecos. Many small shrines called “cues” were built here, mostly to worship the sun, although the primary deity was a god-child called Teopiltzintli or the corn god.\n\nBy the time the Spanish arrived, Tzapopan was a fairly large settlement, but it was in decline due to wars with various surrounding nomadic tribes. It was subject to the dominion of Atemajac, also called Tlatoanazgo, which itself was subject to the Hueytlatoanazgo of Tonalá.\n\nIn 1530, this area was subdued by Nuño de Guzmán, but the establishment of a Spanish settlement of Zapopan did not happen until 1541 due to the Mixtón War. In that year Francisco de Bobadilla, encomendero of Tlatltenango moved 130 Indians from his lands to repopulate Zapopan. Accompanying them was an image of Our Lady of the Conception, which had traveled to areas like Zacatecas as part of evangelization efforts. This statue would eventually take on the name of Our Lady of Zapopan. The sanctuary for this image was begun in 1689.\n\nIn 1824, Zapopan was named at the seat of one of the 26 department of the newly created state of Jalisco. When the departments were reorganized in 1837, it retained its status as seat. In 1873, General Ramon Corona fought against rebel forces led by Manuel Lozada “El Tigre de Alica” at Rancho de la Mojonera.\n\nIn 1979, Pope John Paul II visited the Basilica of Our Lady of Zapopan.\n\nIn 1991, the town gained city status in a ceremony that took place on 8 December, the 450th anniversary of the city's foundation.\n\nThe flag of Zapopan is derived from a Nahuatl pictogram represented by the fruit tree of sapotes with a flag on its side.\nThe name Zapopan comes from the Nahuatl word \"tzapopan\", \"place of sapotes\".\nZapopan is the second most populous municipality in Jalisco and is the seventh most populous municipality in Mexico.\nDuring the solemn session held on December 8, 1991, in which the 450th anniversary of the repopulation of the Villa Zapopan was celebrated, it was awarded the title of city.\nThe tourist attractions offered by Zapopan are diverse; from important religious points nationwide to world-class shopping malls. It also has different alternatives for ecological tourism such as El Diente, Bosque de La Primavera, among others.\nWithin this municipality are located the best hotels in the Metropolitan Area, the largest show centers in Jalisco and museums that host exhibitions of local and international significance.\nOne of the most important religious celebrations at the national level, the pilgrimage of the Virgin of Zapopan. takes place in the same municipal seat. On October 12 thousands of Catholic faithful come to witness the return of \"La Generala\" to its compound, the Basilica of Zapopan.\nThe typical food is the same as in the other municipalities that make up the Metropolitan Area but it is worth highlighting the elaboration of\ncymbals based on the corn, which is the tender corn cob. Zapopan is also known as the \"Villa Exmaicera\" due to the large amount of expanse planted of this agricultural product.\n\nThe existence of a pre-Hispanic town called \"Tzapopan\" located in the current municipal seat is much disputed by various historians, since the locality was never mentioned in documents of the time, unlike other localities of the present day municipality and municipalities adjacent to it, such as: Ixcatán, Tesistán, San Esteban, Copala, Tónala, San Sebastián de Analco, Santa Ana Atista, Juanacatlán, Tala, San Gaspar, etc. This calls into question the existence of \"Tzapopan\".\n\nHowever, for some experts; Zapopan's history began during the years 1160 to 1325, when manyZapotecs, Nahuas and Mayans, arrived in the present territory of Zapopan near the present Deep Creek, these groups came from the south in search of a settlement. The inhabitants, over the years, were mixed with other tribes, such as the Aztecs heading to the Valley of Mexico; however, it was the [tecuexes] who dominated the terrain over time. Tzapopan was founded by the Aztecs and tecuexes, from the beginning it was a very religious city that had worshippers and shrines to the sun god, but mainly the worship of this city was towards the god Teopiltzintli. The diet of the inhabitants was based on maize, beans and fruits, and they were dedicated to hunting and fishing.\n\nTzapopan was a city with a large population; Despite this, the constant wars with other nomadic tribes caused a decay of the city until it was turned into a very minor settlement, subjected to the lordship of Atemejac that depended on the Hueytlatonazgo of Tonalá, making it a people insignificant and of little importance to the arrival of the Spaniards.\n\nThe conquest of the village of \"Tzapopan\" began around 1530, when Nuño de Guzmán conquered the Kingdom of Tonalá (to which \"Tzapopan belonged\"), although possibly by then the village was insignificant or even depopulated. Finally with the victory by the conquerors in the Miztón War in 1541 the region is conquered, and licensed by the then viceroy, Francisco de Bobadilla, encomendero of Tlaltenango, who drew from his entruste the Necessary Indians to repoppoblar Tzapopan, in order to have close people of his who would serve him and help the foundation of Guadalajara, the task of repopulation and refoundation was left to Friar Antonio de Segovia who, together with Friar Angel of Valencia, delivered on 8 December 1541 as patron l in the image of the Tzapopan Conception. This image accompanied Father Segovia for ten years on his coming and going with the eagerness to Christianize Zacatecas and other places. It was to this image, according to some historians, who is credited with the successful repopulation and subsequent calm on the part of the Indians. The construction of the current basilica was initiated in 1690 by Juan de Santiago de León Garabito.\n\nIn the historiography about the origin of Zapopan appears a legendary and perhaps fictional character named Nicholas of Bobadilla, Lord Encomendero that some sources point out as he that, with Indians from the region of Xalostotitlán, arrived in Zapopan around 1541 or 1543, according to the source to be consulted. However, contrary to what would be expected of a documentalist legal culture such as Spanish, there is no reliable evidence that some character with that name has benefited from some Indian mercy; if it actually existed, the testimonies of his time in these lands were simply lost in the sea of the bureaucracy of Seville, Cadiz or Madrid.\n\nOn the other hand, in order for there to be a repopulation, there must have been an abandonment of that population first; but, as settled in the different chronicles, the peoples of the eastern side of the San Juan de Dios River did not insubordinate themselves, moreover, it is mentioned for example, that Indians of Atemajac participated in the site of the endeavors in the Mixtón, under the viceroy of Mendoza, that is, none of the towns mentioned by Mata Torres, was razed during the War, so they were not repopulated, in any case they were assigned to an encomendero, according to the forms of dominance indicated by the Spanish crown.\n\nThe key to the foundation of Zapopan is linked to the image of the Virgin. The Spaniards, since the time of the conquest of Tenochtitlán, had ordered the images of their gods replaced by images of the Virgin in the worshippers of the indigenous people; as was the case in all the worshippers of the center of the country, of Michoacán and during the conquest of the north and northwest. Although legend recalls the Virgin of Zapopan as \"peacemaker in the wars against the indigenous people, Zapopan, indigenous people, was the headquarters of its most celebrated shrine in the whole of the West\"\n\nFriar Antonio de Segovia does not give the image to the Indians of Zapopan, it deposits it there because this is the place of worship that all the lords of these lands had in common, following the custom of spiritual conquest. If the delivery had been linked to valuations relating to the population, the image would have remained in another population of the region.\n\nIn conclusion, Zapopan was before the conquest a center of worship, continued to be so after that, as a center of veneration of a Christian image and it was subsequently that a population emerged, with Indians owned by Francisco de Bobadilla, encomendero of the region of Tlaltenango, not of Xalostotitlán, around 1570.\n\nThis Francisco de Bobadilla is a descendant of Pedro de Bobadilla, who belonged to the hosts of Nuño de Guzmán during the conquest; Peter Gerard has conducted the most comprehensive study on the institution of the encomienda in the seventeenth century in Mexico and identifies a Pedro de Bobadilla as encomendero of the Tlaltenango region based in Tepechitlán around 1608.\n\nAfter the brief and failed imperial attempt with which the newly independent viceroyalty of New Spain had attempted to organize, on 21 June 1823 the territory of the former Province of Guadalajara was proclaimed as the Free State of Jalisco, the first of those who would make up the Federal Republic. The nascent state of Jalisco changed the scheme of Parties with which the territory of its jurisdiction - which had been used since the Bourbon reforms - was divided into the models of Departments, which in turn were subject to another larger unit: the Canton. Each Canton had a headline with a political chief who depended, in turn, on the Governor of the State. It concentrated political, military and fiscal decision-making.\nIn the first model of territorial organization of the State of Jalisco, of March 27, 1824, named as the Political Division Plan of the Territory of the State of Jalisco, Zapopan is a State Department and the town of Zapopan was proclaimed head of Apartment and named Villa. On November 18 of the same year, once the Political Constitution of the Free and Sovereign State of Jalisco was promulgated, Zapopan was ratified as a Department and attached to the first Canton of the State, with the head office in Guadalajara.\nThe Villa de Zapopan was located (and located) to the northwest of the city of Guadalajara, communicated with it by two paths: the first of them ran to the south-east of Zapopan, crossed the colomo stream and entered the west part of Guadalajara; the second exited to the east of Zapopan, passing through Zoquipan and Atemajac and then entering through the northern part of Guadalajara through the neighborhood of Mezquitán.\n\nIn 1857, with the liberal republicans in power, Jalisco is a state and Zapopan a Department attached to the first Canton of Jalisco and the main populations besides Zapopan were: Tesistan, which is located 10 km north-west of the head; Santa Ana Tepetitlán, located 15 km south of the headwaters; Atemajac 5 km east of the Villa; San Cristobal, 40 km northwest. Other locations were [San Juan de Ocotán], 5 km to the southwest; Jocotán, 5 km south; Nextipac, 12 km to the west; Zoquipan, 2 km to the east; Sale of the Shipyard, 17 km southwest; and San Esteban and Huaxtla located 10 km northeast above the Oblate Canyon.\n\nOn April 6, 1837 he changed the model of territorial organization and Zapopan became a Guadalajara District Party. In 1846 another reorganization converted Zapopan back into an apartment of the first Canton of Jalisco whose head was Guadalajara. The model, with some minimal variations, is maintained until 1914 when the category of Municipality becomes the basis of the territorial division of the Republic. On April 6, 1917, the Political Constitution of the State of Jalisco recognized Zapopan as a Free Municipality.\n\nThe category of municipal head land remained unchanged until December 7, 1994 when, by decree 14358 the Congress of the State of Jalisco, changed the category of Villa that had since the beginning of the nineteenth century to that of Ciudad.\n\nThe Virgin of Zapopan is an image of Our Lady of the Conception which was made in Michoacán by native artisans in the early 16th century. The statue is 34 cm tall and made with corn stalks (\"caña de maiz\"), except for her hands which are made of wood. It was donated for evangelization efforts by Antonio de Segova, and carried to Zapopan by Miguel de Bolonia, who had the image tied to his body. Legend credits it with bringing an end to the Mixtón War in the 16th century as well as relief from epidemics that plagued Guadalajara in the 17th century, a “miracle” that was affirmed by the bishop of the area. It was named the “General” (La Generela) of the Army of the Three Guarantees in 1821, with the military title ratified in 1852 and 1894 by elements of the federal and state governments. It is still called by this alternate name. In 1919, it was crowned Queen of Jalisco by the Pope Benedict XV.\n\nConstruction of the Basilica of Zapopan began in 1689. and finished in 1892. It has been modified and expanded since then. In front of the structure is a large atrium. The atrium contains bronze statues of Antonio de Segovia, who donated the image of the Virgin in the 16th century and one of Pope John Paul II, with a child dressed as a charro, who represents Jalisco. The facade is Plateresque and the entrances have Ionic columns and coats of arms. The main altar is made of marble from Carrara and Cyprus with the image of the Virgin of Zapopan in a glass case at the top. Another important sculpture is that of the Holy Family, which has been in the church since 1832. It was sculpted by Victoriano Acuña.\n\nIn 1940 Pope Pius XII made the church a basilica.\n\nPart of the basilica building is dedicated to the Huichol Museum. The museum is dedicated to the art and culture of the Huichol people as well as some displays from the Tepehuán and Cora peoples. Another section of the basilica houses the Museum of the Virgin of Zapopan, where offerings left for the image can be seen, as well as items that have been used for its worship over the centuries.\n\nAnnually, a large procession in this image's honor takes place on the 12th of October, Columbus Day (called “Día de la Raza” (Day of the Race) in Spanish) . This tradition started in 1734, when this image was named the patron of Guadalajara and the protector against epidemics, storms and other calamities. Starting at 6 am, the image is carried on the streets from the Guadalajara Cathedral to the Basilica of Zapopan. The streets, including the wide avenue of Manuel Avila Camacho in Zapopan proper, are packed with dancers, vendors selling traditional food and crafts and spectators. The image stops periodically to receive homage from the many traditional dance groups and mariachi bands along the way. Traditional dances include “Los Tastoanes,” “La Danza del Águila Real,” “la de La Conquista” and “Los Huehuenches.” Once returned to its home at the Basilica, celebrations continue and end with fireworks at night.\n\nOn Paseo Teopiltzintli, which was the main thoroughfare into the city, is the Arco de Ingreso a Zapopan (Entrance Arch), built by the Spanish founders of the city. It is made of quarried stone and is twenty meters high. The arch area is decorated with sculptures and the arch itself is topped with large jars and an eagle. The Paseo Teopiltzintli leads to the Plaza de las Americas, after passing the Plaza Civica.\n\nThe Plaza de las Américas—Juan Pablo II Square is located in on the eastern side of the Basilica of Zapopan. It is paved with pink quarried stone, and contains a stone kiosk and four large fountains. There are two large sculptures in bronze depicting the god and goddess of corn, done by Juan Méndez. A statue of John Paul II is located here also.\n\nThe main walking corridor of the city is Andador 20 de Noviembre, which is lined with galleries, bars, and restaurants. On Saturdays, artists and antique dealers display their wares for sale on the walkway.\nThe Municipal Palace was constructed in 1942 as a school. It became the seat of the municipal government in 1968, and has been remodeled several times since. The facade is decorated with reliefs. The building's staircase contains a mural called “La Revolución Universal” (The Universal Revolution) done by Guadalajara artist Guillermo Chavez Vega in 1970. This mural depicts scenes from the French, Industrial, English, Mexican and Socialist Revolutions. It also contains images of indigenous art. The Plaza Civica or Civic Plaza is in front of the municipal palace, with a flagpole and a bronze sculpture of the Mexican themed eagle devouring a serpent.\n\nThe Municipal Cultural Center, built in 1979, holds exhibitions of fine art as well as theatrical and dance events. Next to it is the Plaza del Arte (Art Plaza) which is decorated with arches and columns of quarried stone and three permanent sculptures. The main mural of the building is entitled “La Historia de la Villa y la Revolución Mexicana” (The story of the village and the Mexican Revolution) painted in 1980 by Ricardo Peña. It also contains twenty three other murals done by art students over the years.\nThe new Estadio Akron football stadium of the Guadalajara's club C.D. Guadalajara is next to the Bosque de la Primavera, in the northwestern Guadalajara Metropolitan area, just off the Anillo Periferico ring road and Avenida Vallarta in Zapopan. The stadium covers and has seating for over 45,000 people.\n\nThe Neoclassical style Temple of San Pedro Apóstol was finished at the end of the 19th century. The atrium has a balustrade, and contains two large crosses with reliefs carved on them. The facade of the church is made of quarried stone with buttresses that flank the portal and side walls. Inside is a sculpture of Saint Peter, done by J. Cruz de la Mora in 1931, who was a native of Zapopan. The church also contains a painting from the 17th century done by Juan Correa called “The Baptism of Jesus.”\n\nThe Centro Cultural Universitario is an ongoing project among the University of Guadalajara, the Municipality of Zapopan, the state of Jalisco, and the federal government to create a major cultural venue in western Mexico. The main structure is the \"Auditorio Telmex\", an important concert venue in Latin America. There is also the \"Foro Alterno\" (Alternate Forum) which seats 15,000 people. The project was begun in 2001, and other institutions located here include the Juan José Arreola State Library of Jalisco, the \"Conjunto de Artes Escenicas\" (Scenic Arts Complex), and the Environmental Science Museum.\nOther cultural venues in the city are the:\nGalerías Theater, inaugurated in 1991 and the site of modern musicals, concerts, cultural festivals, and conventions.\nMuseo de Arte de Zapopan (Zapopan Art Museum) presents permanent and temporary exhibitions as well as workshops. It is located in front of the Plaza Civica.\nMuseo de Cacería Albarrán (Albarrán Hunting Museum) has a Sudanese style facade. In this museum are three halls which exhibit 270 hunting trophies from many parts of the world, some of which are the full animals but most are heads. The building is of modern design and the collection belonged to Benito Albarrán, a renowned game hunter.\nIn addition, this municipality has Community Centers and Power Centers as:\n\nThe Zapopum Festival started out as the municipal fair of Zapopan in 2005. However, since then, it has morphed into a major cultural event for the city. It aims to be “a cultural reference point, whose purpose is to spread culture and bring it to the public who is accustomed to other types of shows.” The 2009 event featured acrobats and circus acts from countries such as Spain, England, Germany and Italy. Some of these were “Alicia en los cielos” y the Spanish group Puja!, “Cupidos” and “Esferas” by Australian group Strange Fruit and performances by French mime Jerôme Murat. There are also workshops, themed pavilions and shows by popular Mexican artists such as Marco Antonio Muñiz, Gloria Trevi and Ricardo Montaner. The event has attracted as many as 800,000 people in past years.\n\nAs municipal seat, the city of Zapopan is the local government for approximately 750 other communities, called localities, which together form a territory of 893.15km2. Almost 90% of the municipality's population lives in the city proper. Zapopan is the second most populous municipality in the state of Jalisco and ranks seventh in Mexico. Aside from the seat, the most important localities are Nuevo México, San Francisco Tesistán, Valle Real, La Venta del Astillero, La Magdalena (San José Ejidal), Nextipac, Ciudad Bugambilias, Base Aérea Militar de la XV Zona, San Esteban (San Miguel Tateposco) . This municipality is bordered by the municipalities of Tequila, San Cristóbal de la Barranca, Tlajomulco de Zuñiga, Tlaquepaque, Guadalajara, Ixtlahuacán del Río, Tala, Arenal and Amatitlán.\n\nMost of the municipality is flat with another quarter having rolling hills. Altitude varies from 1,500 to 2,000 meters above sea level. The main elevations are in the Sierra de la Primavera and include Nejahuete, Tajo and El Chapulin. Superficial water flows mostly in arroyos east to the Grande or Santiago River. In the center of the municipality there are three dams called the Copalita, the Santa Lucia and the San Jose. Winters here are mild and usually are noticeable only in the higher elevations. Average year-round temperature is 22C with highs of 36C and lows of 11C. Rain principally falls from June to October. Vegetation in the municipality varies from pines and holm oaks in the Sierra de la Primavera and species such as jonote (Heliocarpus appendiculatus), strawberry trees and nopals in the lower elevations. While wildlife has nearly disappeared from this area, the Bosque el Nixticuil on the northern edge of the urban sprawl has been designated as a protected natural area and still is home to many mammals, reptiles, amphibians, birds and insects.\n\nAbout three-quarters of the municipality's land is used for agriculture and livestock. About fifteen percent is forested and the remaining is dedicated to the city of Zapopan. The principle crops are corn, sorghum, squash, tomatoes, chickpeas, avocados, mangos and plums. Some livestock such as cattle, pigs and domestic fowl are raised. Agriculture employs less than three percent of the population. About a third of the population is employed in industry and manufacturing. Major companies that have facilities here include Kodak, Motorola and Coca-Cola. The rest of the population is involved in commerce and services.\n\nTourism is mostly focused on the Basilica of Zapopan and other local churches; however, outside the city there are a number of natural attractions such as Ixcatán Geysers and the La Cola de Caballo waterfall. At the Santa Lucia dam one can fish and go out on rowboats. Cola de Caballo is a 150 meter tall waterfall which is part of the Blanco Arroyo. The Geysers of Ixcatan are geothermic zone with a number of geysers which jump out with a temperature of 45C up to five meters high. At Cerro del Diente are large rocks where mountain climbing, rock climbing and rappelling are practiced.The Barranca del Río Santiago, also known as the Barranca del Oblatos is a canyon which 3.5 km wide, 700 meters deep and 200 km long. The Bosque de la Primavera (Primavera Forest) covers 30,500 hectares over the Sierra de la Primavera. The forest area has both fresh water and thermal springs and varied plant and wildlife. There are a number of signaled hiking trails with signs pointing out interesting points and plants. Another forest in the municipality is the Bosque El Centinela, which is an area that was reforested in the late 1970s and has mountain biking paths and campgrounds. A number of water parks such as Rio Caliente and La Primavera have been established.\n\nThe municipality has three main archeological sites. Ixtépete contains a Teotihuacan style pyramid which is twenty meters long, sixteen meters wide and 1.83 meters high. Construction phases of this pyramid date back from the 5th century to the 10th century. El Grillo is located in the Tabachines housing subdivision in the north of the Valley of Atemajac. This site has a series of fourteen tombs arranged along an arroyo which is now dry. La Coronilla is located in an area called La Experiencia. In and around the city of Zapopan, there have been finding of ancient tombs. One example is when about a dozen pre-Hispanic objects were found during a hydraulic work excavation at Ciudad Granja, in Zapopan, Jalisco. A pot, a vase and anthropomorphic figures are among the items discovered. These objects are of the Shaft Tombs Tradition which developed between 100 BCE and 500 CE in western Mexico. Further excavations are planned to search for a shaft tomb. The initial discovery was made by construction workers in May 2009 while doing maintenance work.\n\nThe La Mojonera Ranch is the site of the confrontation between government forces under General Ramón Corona and rebels led by Manuel Lozada “El Tigre de Alicia” on 28 January 1873. The event is called the Battle of La Mojonera.\n\nIn 1950 the total population of the municipality of Zapopan amounted to 27,115 inhabitants, practically the same population that in 2000 was only counted in the colony Santa Margarita. In ten years the population of the municipality increased 100% and by the year 1960 reached 54,562 inhabitants. The population grew 300% in the 1960s and reached a total of 163,185 inhabitants in 1970. The population increase during the 1970s was 238.5%, which amounted to 389,081 inhabitants in 1980. In 1990, Zapopan had 712,008 inhabitants and by 2000 the population exceeded one million inhabitants.\n\nMost of its surface area is made up of flat areas (58%), it is followed in proportion to semi-flat areas (26%) and rugged areas (16%), with heights ranging from 1,500 to 2,000 meters above sea level. The main elevations are located in the Sierra de La Primavera, highlight the Nejahuete table with 2,110 meters, the hill of the Tagus or Pelón, with 2,050 meters and El Chapulín, with 2,020 meters.\n\nIts hydrological resources are distributed in different surface and underground currents. Temporary surface currents drain from the Atemajac Valley to the east of the municipality, directly increasing the channel of the Rio Grande or Santiago. The most important permanent surface currents are: the Santiago River and the San Antonio, Grande, La Higuerita, Blanco, Atemajac and Las Tortugas streams. In the central part of the municipality are the dams of Copalita and Santa Lucia, and the board of San José, in addition to several storages and wells.\n\nIts vegetation is basically composed of pine and oak in the Sierra de La Primavera, in addition to the species cretón, jonote, madroño, ozote, mtama, savila and nopal in the northern and eastern part in the ravine.\nThe current wildlife list includes 106 species of animals such as the white-tailed deer, cougar, lynx, coyote, grey fox, badger, hare, raccoon among others and have been identified about 137 species of birds both migratory and resident and we can observe falcons, eagles, herons, tordos, quails, roadrunners, woodpeckers and many more.\n\nThe territory consists of land of the tertiary and quaternary periods. The municipality has a territorial area of 89,315 hectares, of which 43,269 are used for agricultural purposes, 23,730 in livestock activity, 11,400 are for forest use, 3,910 are urban land and 7,006 hectares have another use. As far as the property is concerned, an area of 49,031 hectares is private and another is 32,938 ejidal; 7,346 hectares are communal property. Zapopan, according to the type and land use, has obtained for several years the first national place in yield per hectare.\n\nAs in the rest of the municipalities in Mexico, Zapopan is governed by a municipal president who holds executive power for three consecutive years; this position is held, from 2015 to 2018, by Pablo Lemus of the [Citizen Movement Party]. Legislative power rests with the [cabildo], occupied by persons elected by the municipal president when he seizes power.\n\nThe municipality is divided into three Federal Electoral Districts of Mexico, for the purpose of electing city representatives in federal legislative power. These districts are the IV, VI and X of the state of Jalisco.\n\nZapopan's [City Hall] is responsible for providing the public services of localities within the municipality: drinking water, drainage, street lighting, public safety, traffic regulation, maintenance of parks, gardens and cemeteries and urban planning. They participate in [public education], rescue and emergency services, environmental protection and the maintenance of parks and historical monuments. They also have the power to collect property taxes and other payments, although it can get more funds from the [Jalisco State Government of Jalisco] and Mexico's Federal Government Policy.\n\nAbout three-quarters of the municipality's land is used for agriculture and livestock. About 15 percent of the land is covered with forests, and the rest are part of the urban area. The main crops are maize, sorgo, pumpkin, tomato, snap, avocado, mango (fruit)-mango, and plum. cows, pigs and poultry are raised. Agriculture employs less than 3% of the population. About one-third of the population is employed in industry and manufacturing. Major facilities include: Sabritas, Intel, Bimbo Group] Bimbo, Flextronics, Motorola, Jaguar Cars' Jaguar and Coca-Cola. The rest of the population is involved in trade and services.\n\nZapopan is home to many shopping malls, private hospitals and high purchasing residential areas. Zapopan is the richest municipality in the country, and one of the richest sub-jurisdictions in America\n\nUniversidad Panamericana, campus Guadalajara www.up.edu.mx;\n\nUniversidad Autonoma de Guadalajara\n\nInstituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM) has its second biggest campus in the city.\n\nSchools include:\n\nThe \"Colegio Japones de Guadalajara A.C.\" (グアダラハラ補習授業校 \"Guadarahara Hoshū Jugyō Kō\"), a part-time Japanese school, is at Secundaria y Preparatoria Femenil Colinas de San Javier in Zapopan. It provides lessons during afternoons.\n\nThe Zapopan Coat of Arms is the emblem that represents the municipality, which is used by the municipal government of Zapopan as a seal in all its official documents, also the shield has great historical value for the municipality because it represents a tree of Zapote from which the town took its name.\n\nThe Coat of Arms presents the shape of the semicircular or semicircular Spanish Coat of Arms, and is fitted by a blue edge. It contains, in a sinople (green) background and a gold field, a tree that is also made of sinople and fruity with seven cherimoyas or gold zapotes; to its reclining trunk a spear pole with a flag of gules and behind, a dog in a silver contoured jump; instead of a simple gules cross, accompanied by a semicircular silver badge with the nickname of sinople: HOC SIGNUM VINCIT (This Sign Shall Win).\n\nSince Zapopan is part of the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area, and due to the great cultural movement that the city of Guadalajara currently lives, the municipality has a great wealth in terms of culture, because it has a large list of events and cultural expressions, all this supported by many public and private institutions that operate in and around the municipality, especially the government and the University of Guadalajara.\n\nIn the municipality a wide variety of festivities with various themes are carried out, such as Zapopum! And the October Parties, in addition to many festivals held in the municipality of Guadalajara that without place of doubt greatly influence the life of the zapopanos. Zapopan has several historical cultural riches, distributed throughout its territory, including the municipal seat that houses several colonial buildings of a religious and civil nature, whose architectural styles represent the ethnic diversity of the municipality,\n\nAs part of the conurbation of the city of Guadalajara, Zapopan is a municipality with a very wide cultural infrastructure in terms of museums. One of the main museums of the municipality is the Zapopan Art Museum (MAZ), museum and cultural center, which seeks to disseminate the best expressions of artistic activities and exhibitions in its various manifestations. It has three exhibition halls and a multidisciplinary forum that will host contemporary proposals for plastic, music, dance, theater and audiovisual media.\n\nThe Trompo Mágico is an interactive museum dedicated especially to children, presenting various topics related to art, science, civics, among others, as well as activities. The Garden of Art is an exhibition and sale of outdoor art, which takes place every Sunday at the Glorieta Chapalita.\nThe Mexican Air Force Air College has a historic gallery of the Mexican Air Force, Mexican expeditionary air force hall and aircraft model room.\nThe Benito Albarrán Hunting Museum is a house in the Sudan style, and has kept an extraordinary taxidermy collection for 31 years, of animals hunted by Don Benito Albarrán, on three different continents of America, Euroasia and Africa; 270 hunting pieces of one hundred and ten different species presented in dioramas of great realism and atmosphere.\nThe Huichol Wixárica Museum of Art offers visitors a permanent display of handicrafts by this ethnic group. Sale and display of shirts, briefs, backpacks, skirts, blouses, necklaces, earrings, rings, bracelets and small bags of chaquira. In addition to masks carved in wood and photographs with everyday scenes of the rural life of this ethnic group.\nThe Museum of the Virgin of Zapopan presents an impressive collection of mantles of silver and gold threads, offerings made to the Virgin as a token of gratitude for some miracle, ancient paintings, niches in which the image was transported and a collection of various items used in past centuries for decoration.\nThe box museum in Zapopan Palace of Culture and Communication\n\nThe municipality has large paintings, among which \"The Baptism of Jesus\" carried out in the 17th century by Juan Correa, the mural of \"The History of the Villa and the Mexican Revolution\" painted in 1980 by Ricardo Peña is in the Municipal Center of Culture, where there are also 23 other murals made by painting students. In the municipal palace you can admire a mural made in 1970 by Guillermo Chavez Vega, a Tapatio painter, where scenes from the French, Industrial, English, Mexican and Socialist revolutions are captured.\n\nLike the rest of Mexico, there are multiple processed foods based on corn such as pozole, tamales and atole. Also, and as in the municipality of Guadalajara, some typical dishes such as drowned cakes and skis, cooked corn kernels that are served in a glass stand out and are accompanied, according to taste, ingredients such as lemon, salt, chili powder, cream and cheese, among others.\nAmong the traditional sweets are those prepared with coconut as alfajor and cocadas, and a variety of sweets prepared with milk.\n\nZapopan has three important archeological zones: Ixtépete, an archaeological zone that has a pyramidal structure of Teotihuacan influence built from the 5th to the 10th century, 20 meters long, 16 meters wide and a height of around 1.83 meters; El Grillo, which is located north of the Atemajac Valley next to a stream that is currently dry, consisting of fourteen shooting tombs; and the area of La Coronilla, located in the area known as The Experience.\n\nThe sports that are practiced in the municipality of Zapopan are very varied thanks to the important infrastructure existing in the urban area of the same. The Municipal Sports Council (COMUDE) of Zapopan is the public institution responsible for promoting physical activity, sport and social recreation, as well as trying to promote the use of sports units in the municipality. The sports infrastructure of the municipality is very large, has about 54 sports units distributed in the different locations of the municipality, in these units are carried out the practice of sports and recreational activities, also serve as schools of initiation to sport.\n\nThe municipality has been and will host various sporting events of national and international size. Also in October 2011, the municipality of Zapopan was home to some of the competitions of the [Pan American Games of 2011] held in Guadalajara.\n\nFor these competitions the track of the Estadio Panamericano (Guadalajara)' Estadio Panamericano were approved by the International Association of Athletics Federations(IAAF) in 2011, with the idea that it was used by both athletes and the baseball team of the Charros de Jalisco, but in 2015. THE head of CODE Jalisco, Andre Marx Miranda reported that during that year it would only be used by the baseball team. Although it should be expected that after this year it will be reconsidered as originally approved.\n\nThe city has the Three of March Stadium,which is home to the club Tecos Football Club] Tecos, Group XI team of the [Third Division of Mexico] Third Division]]. Also the Club Deportivo Guadalajara\" Chivas de Guadalajara, have the Estadio Chivas which was inaugurated in July 2010 and has witnessed important events such as: the final of Pan American Football: Mexico vs Argentina and Clausura of the Pan American Games Guadalajara 2011, Final of the Copa Libertadores Chivas de Guadalajara vs International Porto Alegre one-way game. and several concerts.\n\nThe Vía RecreActiva in the Municipality of Zapopan, is a social program in which road spaces are enabled for mass use for recreational and recreational purposes by people of all ages. It operates on Sundays from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. During said schedule, the circulation of motor vehicles is restricted along established routes, allowing only pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles to pass through.\n\nThere are currently three routes in Zapopan:\n\n\nIt has the most attractive places like \"the corn fair\" that year after year that attracts tourists who have everything, Another type of attraction is the temple of San Francisco Tesistán.\nSan Francisco Tesistán\n\n"}
{"id": "2107766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107766", "title": "Little Deuce Coupe (song)", "text": "Little Deuce Coupe (song)\n\n\"Little Deuce Coupe\" is a song written by Brian Wilson and Roger Christian. The song first appeared as the B-side to The Beach Boys' 1963 single \"Surfer Girl\". The car referred to is the 1932 Ford Model 18 (\"deuce\" being for the year). \"Little Deuce Coupe\" became The Beach Boys' highest charting B-side, peaking on September 28, 1963, at No. 15 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nThe music was written by Brian Wilson with the lyric by local radio station DJ Roger Christian. Its main melody is a twelve-bar blues. The song typified the Beach Boys' car songs which along with surfing, glamorized the teenage 1960s Californian lifestyle later called the California Myth. It was released on the \"Surfer Girl\" album and then again as the title track of the album \"Little Deuce Coupe\". A Christmas-themed spin-off, \"Little Saint Nick\", was released by the group as a single later in the year.\n\nThe car referred to is the Ford Model 18; the 1932 coupe model was referred to as a \"deuce coupe\".\n\nBrian Wilson commented on the song in the liner notes of the 1990 CD re-release of the original \"Surfer Girl\" album: \"We loved doing 'Little Deuce Coupe'. It was a good 'shuffle' rhythm, which was not like most of the rhythms of the records on the radio in those days. It had a bouncy feel to it. Like most of our records, it had a competitive lyric. This record was my favorite Beach Boys car song.\" According to author Jon Stebbins in his book \"The Lost Beach Boy\", while the group was on tour in July 1963 Mike Love hit on the idea to use short instrumental segments of the song in the Beach Boys' live set as a way to introduce the bandmembers to the audience, starting with Dennis Wilson on drums, then adding David Marks (and later Al Jardine) on rhythm guitar, Carl Wilson on lead guitar, and finally Brian on the bass, before launching the song from the top.\n\n\"Little Deuce Coupe\" became The Beach Boys' highest charting b-side, making it to No. 15 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for the week of September 28, 1963. It spent 11 weeks on the chart. It was the first of the Beach Boys' b-sides to receive a million spins on US radio.\n\nThe song was recorded at Western Studios on June 12, 1963, at the same recording session as \"Surfer Girl\". The two songs were the first songs recorded for The Beach Boys' third album, \"Surfer Girl\". This was the first Beach Boys recording session where Brian Wilson served as the official producer, and also one of the last sessions before Al Jardine rejoined the band.\n\n\n\nThe Beach Boys have released five live versions of \"Little Deuce Coupe\", on \"Beach Boys Concert\", \"\", \"Songs from Here & Back\", as part of a medley on \"Endless Harmony Soundtrack\" and as part of a medley on \"Live – The 50th Anniversary Tour\". Al Jardine included this song on his solo album \"Live in Las Vegas\".\n\nThe song has been a regular during Beach Boys sets often as part of the car medley. Brian Wilson has performed the song live several times including on his 2013 tour with Al Jardine and David Marks in which Jardine took the lead vocal.\n\nFrank Zappa was quoted in his autobiography \"The Real Frank Zappa Book\", \"One of the most exciting things that ever happened in the world of 'white-person music' was when the Beach Boys used the progression V-ii on \"Little Deuce Coupe.\" An important step forward by going backward.\"\n\nIn the 2005 film, \"War of the Worlds\" directed by Steven Spielberg, Ray Ferrier (played by Tom Cruise) sings part of the song to his daughter (Dakota Fanning) as a lullaby when she is too afraid to sleep.\n"}
{"id": "2107768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107768", "title": "1989–90 NHL season", "text": "1989–90 NHL season\n\nThe 1989–90 NHL season was the 73rd season of the National Hockey League. The Stanley Cup winners were the Edmonton Oilers, who won the best of seven series 4–1 against the Boston Bruins. The championship was the Oilers' fifth Stanley Cup in the past seven years.\n\nThis season marked the first time that all three New York City area NHL teams, including the New Jersey Devils made the playoffs in the same season, a feat which has since been repeated twice more: in the and the seasons.\n\nUntil 2017, this was last time the Detroit Red Wings missed the Stanley Cup playoffs.\n\nSam St. Laurent of the Red Wings became the last goalie to wear a full fiberglass mask during an NHL game.\n\n\"Note: W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, GF= Goals For, GA = Goals Against, Pts = Points, PIM = Penalties in minutes\"\n\nThe Edmonton Oilers defeated the Boston Bruins in the Final series, four games to one. For the Oilers, it was their fifth Cup win in seven years, and their only one without Wayne Gretzky (in fact, they defeated Gretzky's Kings in the second round). In game one, Petr Klima scored at 15:13 of the third overtime period to give the Oilers a 3–2 win. , this game remains the longest in Stanley Cup Finals history (Longest NHL overtime games), edging both Brett Hull's cup-winner in 1999 and Igor Larionov's game-winner in 2002 by less than 30 seconds. In game five at the Boston Garden on May 24, the Oilers won 4–1. Craig Simpson scored the game-winning goal.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points, PIM = Penalties in minutes, PPG = Powerplay Goals, SHG = Shorthanded Goals, GWG = Game Winning Goals\"\n\nSources: NHL, Quanthockey.com.\n\n\"GP = Games played; Min = Minutes played; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; SO = Shutouts; GAA = Goals against average; Sv% = Save percentage\"\n\nSource: Quanthockey.com.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis season would be the last the Toronto Maple Leafs would play under the 29 year ownership of Harold Ballard as a result of his death in April 1990 and the subsequent sale of the franchise.\n\nThe following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 1989–90 (listed with their first team, asterisk(*) marks debut in playoffs):\n\nThe following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 1989–90 (listed with their last team):\n\nTrading deadline: March 6, 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107780", "title": "Walderslade", "text": "Walderslade\n\nWalderslade is a large suburb in Kent to the south of Chatham split between the unitary authority of Medway and the boroughs of Maidstone and Tonbridge & Malling in South East England. It was, until 1998, fully part of Kent and is still ceremonially associated via the Lieutenancies Act. It encompasses almost all the ME5 postcode district (except parts of Luton).\n\nWalderslade was formerly a small rural village nestled in the valleys of the North Downs, however development accelerated with the expansion of towns in Medway after the First World War. The urban area developed quickly after the Second World War leading to the current make-up of several large estates surrounding the original village, which is the local centre of commerce.\n\nWalderslade comprises several named areas, notably the Davis Estate (near Rochester Airport), Wayfield, Weeds Wood, Walderslade Woods, Princes Avenue and Lordswood.\n\nAn important Bronze Age hoard was found in Walderslade in 1965 during house construction. Comprising two gold penannular bracelets, it is now in the collections of the British Museum. The name Walderslade comes from the Saxon language, and means \"wood in a valley\".\n\nWalderslade Valley or Bottom – is one of several dry chalk valleys in the area, that were created during past ice ages as a result of melting ice when England was still joined with the continent. During warmer post glacial periods, elephants and hippopotami roamed the valleys.\n\nWalderslade valley was originally wooded, hence its name (German'Walder'). Although over time the woodland became restricted primarily to the higher ground (Lord Wood, Dargets Wood and Hall or Hail Wood) – where substantial woodland remained until the area became subject to new housing development. This started in the early 1900s and expanded considerably from the 1950s onwards. It is possible that the Romans (who were present in nearby Luton) were the first to start the clearance of woodland in the valley. The southern (Boxley) end of the valley – still retains some woodland. Google Earth Historical Imagery option shows the extent of local woodland as it existed in the 1940s and 1960s.\n\nThere were originally four farms in the Walderslade and surrounding areas, including Walderslade Farm and Settington Farm – which both existed within Walderslade Valley. Also Gibraltar Farm and Shawstead Farm (the last two still exist in a nearby valley). Shawstead Farm (and probably others in the area) were associated with the clearance of local woodland to help supply Chatham Dockyard with oak for the building of wooden sailing ships. Chatham dockyard constructed ships such as HMS Victory, launched at Chatham in 1765. Most of the larger and more valuable oak trees would have existed in the richer soil of the Valley bottoms and slopes (Walderslade, Shawstead etc.) where the farms were typically located. The ruins of Upper Shawstead Farm are now within the boundary of Capstone Farm Country Park.\nMost of this farmland belonged to Shawstead Manor.\nSettington Farm was located close to where Morrisons Supermarket now stands in Walderslade Valley and existed up until the 1950s. Walderslade farm existed close to where Walderslade village exists today and extended along the Valley to Settington Farm.\n\nMost of Walderslade is within Medway, a unitary authority within the ceremonial county boundaries of Kent. Parts of Walderslade are, however, in different parishes and thus in different local government districts.\n\n\nWalderslade is separated from the rest of the Medway towns by a green belt incorporating Rochester Airport, Horsted Farm and the Coney Bank to the north. There is a small link via Luton, which is connected to Wayfield and Princes Avenue estates. To the east is Capstone country park, a valley preserved from development (although formerly a large landfill). This clearly separates Gillingham and Hempstead from Walderslade. To the south the M2 motorway completes the encirclement of Walderslade.\n\nThe centre of Walderslade village comprises St William's Church, a health centre including doctors' surgeries, a Co-op supermarket, a public house (The Sherwood Oak), a number of estate agents and takeaway outlets (currently Indian, kebab, two Chinese and a fish and chip shop), as well as an Indian restaurant, newsagent, off-licence, chemist, one florist, café, dry cleaners, hairdressers', barber's shop, petrol station (containing a small supermarket), a public library and a nursery called Buttercups located above the florist. There is ample free public car parking offered by the Co-op supermarket and also in front of most the shops with other parking behind the shops making access convenient for people with children or people with physical disabilities. The church is also used as St William's Pre-School during the school terms.\n\nOn the outskirts are the Alexandra Hospital (Spire – no A&E) – see Walderslade Woods, the Bridgewood Hotel, the Walderslade Working Men's Club.\n\nAlso, opposite the Poacher's Pocket (formerly called the Hook and Hatchet) public house is a playing field (formerly known as Hook Meadow) which used to be part of the Walderslade prisoner of war camp during the Second World War.\n\nPrinces Park is lower down the valley to the north. It has a community hall, pub, newsagents,Indian Takeaway and a supermarket (currently Morrisons, formerly Safeway), petrol station and 2 primary schools (Maundene and Kingfisher). The original farm house can still be seen by the observant on Princes Avenue itself closer to the centre of Walderslade village, on the corner of Dargets Road. The closer Settingdon Farm (pre 1950s) was sited almost exactly where Morrisons supermarket now stands.\n\nThe Davis Estate has a community hall, a parade of shops including a post office, newsagents; several takeaways, the Tiger Moth pub and a garage. Neighbouring is the Horsted retail park where several large retailers are located and a hotel (Holiday Inn), close by is a large Asda superstore and a further hotel, the Bridgewood Manor.\n\nWalderslade Woods is a recent development, begun before the 1970s, to the south of the village near the M2 motorway. It is hemmed in by a road, also confusingly named \"Walderslade Woods\" (the A2045), the only part of the incomplete Medway Towns southern relief road. (The northern relief road is a complete dual carriageway.) There are a few corner shops and one school (Tunbury Primary School), but plans have existed for more shops and at least one further primary and secondary school. There is a private hospital, the Spire Alexandra. The area is at the intersection of Medway unitary borough, Maidstone borough and Tonbridge and Malling borough – thus there are two community halls.\n\nWalderslade Woodlands are made up of three valleys, and five plateaux, which are all to the north of Walderslade Woods (road).\nThe three valleys are Tunbury (most western), Cossington and Round Wood (most eastern), and these are all classified as ancient woodlands. The five plateaux were made when the M2 and Walderslade Woods (road) were constructed, and so are significantly different from the rest of the woodlands, and also different from each other. The whole area is now protected by having Village Green Status, and so cannot be developed by Kent County Council - the landowners. The Walderslade Woodlands Group (WWG) is voluntary group who manage and maintain the woodlands.\n\nWeedswood, to the north and north west of Walderslade village, has a parade of shops, the Poacher's Pocket pub and a kebab shop famed locally for being housed in what once was a public toilet. Greenacre and Walderslade Girls secondary schools are in the area, along with Oaklands Primary School. There are two churches, Emmanuel (Congregational Federation) and St Philip & St James (Church of England), and a community hall and public library which back on to Hook Meadow, a public playing field.\n\nWayfield is an estate based around two through roads—Wayfield Road and Churchill Avenue—with several smaller roads linking them. The estate is to the north of Weedswood above and alongside the Princes Avenue area. It has several small shops, a woodyard, golf driving range with a pitch and putt golf course, a Fitness First gym and a playing field. The estate also borders two areas of woodland; the Snodhurst wood and the Coney Banks . Currently a Charlton Athletic F.C. community project is being held there.\n\nLordswood is a large development, also to the east. It has direct access to Chatham via North Dane Way (B2156), which hems in Walderslade to the east. It has two separate shopping parades: one, centred on the Kestrel, also has a library, hairdressers, a recently refurbished health centre and a Tesco, the second is off Lordswood Lane, and includes a hairdresser, chip shop, bookmakers and general store. There is also a leisure centre off North Dane Way, with a park and playing field.\n\nThe wood of 'Lords Wood' originally (pre 1900) extended for approximately one mile by three quarters, located on high ground above the Walderslade valley with Lidsing at its south-south/east corner. Along with other local woodland, it was originally associated with a much larger wood called Great Cowbeck Woods. Before the area was cleared for housing, Lords Wood included dense woodland associated with difficult terrain, probably similar to other extensive wood land in the area at that time including the nearby Malling and Weeds Woods.\n\nRunning through the edge of the original woodland, Lords Wood Lane originally followed the brow of the hill above Walderslade Valley (and still does in places). Archaeological finds and other evidence in the area suggest that Lords Wood Lane may originate from at least the Bronze Age period and is probably the oldest lane in Walderslade. Lordswood still retains a small number of large mature trees saved from the clearance of woodland for housing and other purposes.\n\nPrimary schools in Walderslade include Kingfisher Community Primary School, Maundene School, Oaklands Infant School, Oaklands Junior School, Tunbury Primary School and Walderslade Primary School. Secondary schools serving the area include Walderslade Girls' School and Greenacre Academy (boys).\n\nAccess to Walderslade is off the M2 motorway at junction 3 and not far from junction 6 of the M20 motorway. This gives access to the Channel Tunnel and cross channel ferries as well as road and rail links to London, the M25 motorway, Dartford bridge/tunnel, Blackwall tunnel and the rest of Britain.\n\nBus services focus on the primary bus station of Medway, near to the Pentagon shopping centre in Chatham. Other routes provide links with the neighbouring town of Maidstone. There are also bus links to the Bluewater shopping centre between Dartford and Gravesend.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107799", "title": "Potti Sreeramulu", "text": "Potti Sreeramulu\n\nPotti Sreeramulu (IAST: \"Poṭṭi Śreerāmulu\"; 16 March 1901 – 15 December 1952), was an Indian revolutionary. \n\nSreeramulu is revered as \"Amarajeevi\" (\"Immortal Being\") in the Andhra region for his self-sacrifice for the Andhra cause. He became famous for undertaking a hunger strike in support of the formation of an Indian state for the Telugu-speaking population of Madras Presidency; he lost his life in the process. His death sparked public rioting and Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru declared the intent by the newly liberated nation to form Andhra State three days following the death of Sreeramulu.\n\nSreeramulu was born to Guravayya and Mahalakshmamma in 1901 at Padamatapalli in a district that once was itself a region within Nellore district. Later, their family was shifted to Madras as famine conditions prevailed in this region. They later lived in Nellore, Andhra Pradesh. He completed his high school in Madras and joined the Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute in Bombay to study sanitary engineering. After his college education, Sreeramulu joined the Great Indian Peninsular Railway, Bombay. In 1928, Sreeramulu lost both his wife and his new born child. Two years later, he resigned from his job and joined Gandhi's Sabarmati Ashram to serve the struggle for Indian Independence.\n\nSreeramulu took part in the Indian Independence Movement and was imprisoned for participating in the 1930 Salt Satyagraha. Between 1941 and 1942, he participated in the individual satyagraha and the Quit India movement and was imprisoned on three occasions. He was involved in the village reconstruction programmes at Rajkot in Gujarat and Komaravolu in Krishna district, Andhra Pradesh. He joined the Gandhi ashram established by Yerneni Subrahmanyam in Komaravolu. Commenting on Sreeramulu's dedication and fasting ability, Mahatma Gandhi once said, \"If only I have eleven more followers like Sreeramulu I will win freedom from British rule in a year.\"\n\nBetween 1943 and 1944, he worked for the widespread adoption of \"charkha\" textile-spinning in Nellore district. He was known for taking food provided by all households, regardless of caste or creed. He undertook three fasts, during 1946-1948, in support of Dalit (an oppressed Hindu caste then referred to by Gandhi and his supporters by the contentious, though well-intentioned, term \"Harijan\") rights to enter holy places, such as the temples of Nellore. He fasted in support of Dalit entry rights to the Venu Gopala Swamy Temple in Moolapeta, Nellore, rights which were eventually secured. He again fasted to receive favourable orders, passed by the Madras government, to further uplift the Dalit community.\n\nAs a result, the government instructed District Collectors to attend to measures of Dalit upliftment for at least one day per week. During the last stages of his life, Sreeramulu stayed in Nellore and worked for Dalit upliftment, walking the city with slogan placards calling for Dalit upliftment, barefoot and with no umbrella against the sun. Some locals thought him insane, and he was chastised by the upper-castes and his own Komati community for his solidarity with the Dalit cause.\n\nIn an effort to protect the interests of the Telugu people in Madras Presidency, and to preserve the culture of Andhra people, he attempted to force the government to listen to public demands for the separation of the Andhra region from the Madras Presidency, based on linguistic lines and with Madras as its capital. He went on a lengthy fast, stopping when Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru promised to support creation of Andhra State. Despite this concession, little progress was made on the issue, largely due to the Telugu people's insistence on retention of Madras as their future capital. The JVP (Jawahar, Vallabhbhai, Pattabhi) committee, headed by Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel and Pattabhi Sitaramayya, would not accept that proposal.\n\nWith the Andhra State still not granted, Sreeramulu resumed his hunger strike, at the Madras house of Maharshi Bulusu Sambamurti on 19 October 1952, despite the entreaties of supporters who stated that retention of Madras was a futile cause. Despite the Andhra Congress committee's disavowal of the fast, this action captured the public attention.\n\nDespite strikes and demonstrations by the Andhra people, the government made no clear statement regarding the formation of the new state, and Sreeramulu died during the night of 15 December 1952. Only one person before him in modern Indian history, Jatin Das, actually fasted to death; all the others either gave up or were arrested and force fed or hospitalised.\n\nIn his death procession, people shouted slogans praising his sacrifice, with thousands more joining as the procession reached Mount Road, Madras. The procession broke into a riot and accompanying destruction of public property. As the news spread, disorder broke out in Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Bhimavaram, Tadepalligudem, Rajahmundry, Eluru, Guntur, Tenali, Ongole, Kanigiri and Nellore. Seven people were killed in police firing in Anakapalle and Vijayawada. The popular agitation continued for three to four days disrupting normal life in Madras and Andhra regions. On 29 December 1952, Prime Minister Nehru announced that a separate Andhra state would be formed.\n\nOn 1 October 1953, the Telugu speaking Andhra State was established with its capital in Kurnool. Later, the Telugu-speaking districts of Hyderabad State, called Telangana {Telugu + Angana (entrance)} was merged with Andhra State to form Andhra Pradesh. Hyderabad became the capital city which was formed on 1 November 1956.\n\nThe house where Potti Sreeramulu died is 126 Royapettah High Road, Mylapore, Chennai; it has been preserved as a monument of importance by the state government of Andhra State.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107804", "title": "1996 MLS Inaugural Allocations", "text": "1996 MLS Inaugural Allocations\n\nThe Major League Soccer Inaugural Allocations were signed by the league beginning with Tab Ramos on January 5, 1995, and distributed to the ten initial teams prior to the beginning of the first MLS season. Each team was allocated four marquee players prior to the 1996 MLS Inaugural Player Draft.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107806", "title": "Crash Tag Team Racing", "text": "Crash Tag Team Racing\n\nCrash Tag Team Racing is a racing video game developed by Vancouver-based Radical Entertainment and published by Vivendi Universal Games for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and the PlayStation Portable. The game was released in North America on October 19, 2005 and in Europe on November 4, 2005. The PlayStation 2 version was re-released in the three-disc \"Crash Bandicoot Action Pack\" compilation (alongside \"Crash Nitro Kart\" and \"Crash Twinsanity\") in the United States on June 12, 2007 and in Europe on July 20, 2007. A Nintendo DS version was planned, but was cancelled.\n\n\"Crash Tag Team Racing\" is the third racing game in the \"Crash Bandicoot\" video game series, following \"Crash Nitro Kart\", which was an indirect sequel to \"Crash Team Racing\". The game's story centers on the exploits of the protagonist, Crash Bandicoot, who must win the ownership of a dilapidated theme park by finding its missing Power Gems before his nemesis, Doctor Neo Cortex, can.\n\nContent from the game was remastered as a part of \"Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled\", released on June 21, 2019.\n\nThe player takes control of Crash Bandicoot, who must retrieve the Black Power Gem of Ebenezer Von Clutch, along with the missing Power Gems in each of the five themed areas of the park. The player will compete in races and minigames to earn Wumpa Coins, the park's currency, and Power Crystals, find the Power Gem needed to open up the five areas of the park, and ultimately unveil the mystery of the Power Gem thief's identity.\n\nAs the player explores the park, platforming gates can be entered to unlock new platforming, Extra Wumpa Coins and Power Crystals can be earned by playing platforming, all of which involve platforming Characters with an icon over their heads can be talked to, to unlock cars, weapon upgrades, clothing, or to play minigames. The player can smash crates and collect Wumpa Coins in order to buy rewards such as new clothing; drinking Wumpa Whip gives the player a temporary coin multiplier that earns extra money from Wumpa Coins and crates. Collecting Power Crystals is required to unlock the Power Gem at the end of a themed area, which unlocks an additional area of the theme park. Mini-cartoons, called \"Die-O-Ramas\", can also be unlocked; these cutscenes display Crash being grievously injured or \"killed\" off in various, and largely humorous ways. Unlocking all 34 Die-O-Ramas unlocks another costume for Crash. The Die-O-Ramas can be viewed at any time under the Extras section in the main menu.\n\nThe main hook of \"Crash Tag Team Racing\" is the \"clashing\" feature found during the racing sections of the game. The player can \"clash\" with another vehicle by pressing a certain button depending on the gaming platform. The player's vehicle will merge with a nearby opponent's vehicle, and the player will then take control of a powerful turret weapon to shoot at other vehicles. The turret can not only be used to shoot at enemy cars, but also to take out incoming attacks.\n\nSix returning characters from previous \"Crash\" titles star in \"Crash Tag Team Racing\", along with five original characters. The player character and protagonist of the game, Crash Bandicoot, is an evolved bandicoot who must win each of the races in Von Clutch's MotorWorld and win the deed to the park before his foes can. Crash is allied by his sister Coco and friend Crunch. The main antagonist of the series, Doctor Neo Cortex, is a mad scientist who attempts to win the deed to the park and use it for his own evil purposes. Cortex is allied by his right-hand man Doctor N. Gin and his niece Nina.\n\nThe game introduces two new playable characters: Ebenezer Von Clutch, a deranged German cyborg, is the owner of MotorWorld, and must retrieve his Black Power Gem before he automatically turns off. Aiding him and the Bandicoots is Texan racecar driver Pasadena O'Possum. Additional non-player characters include the mysterious Willie Wumpa Cheeks, the park's excessively jolly mascot and source of Wumpa Whip; and Chick Gizzard Lips and Stew, two chicken race commentators who provide comic relief and serve as Crash's tutors during the game. Roaming around the park are numerous Park Drones, a group of miserable employees who will take a certain amount of money to give Crash what he needs, and various pedestrians, who seem just as disgruntled with the park as the Park Drones.\n\nChick Gizzard Lips and Stew announce the farewell race of Von Clutch's MotorWorld, Ebenezer Von Clutch's auto-racing theme park, due to the theft of the Power Gems powering the park. The Black Power Gem powering Von Clutch's cyborg body is also missing, leaving him only hours left to live. By coincidence, Crash, Coco and Crunch Bandicoot crash into the park while escaping their foes Dr. Neo Cortex, his niece Nina, and Dr. N. Gin. Von Clutch recruits all six to search for the missing Power Gems, offering ownership of the park to whoever finds them, with Cortex plotting to use the park as a new base of operations. The group also meet Pasadena O'Possum, a professional racer hired by Von Clutch to find the Power Gems, and Willie Wumpa Cheeks, the park mascot and producer of its popular beverage \"Wumpa Whip\".\n\nCrash finds and returns all the missing Power Gems, officially winning ownership of the park. Cortex, Coco and Pasadena suspect the true thief has been attempting to sabotage their efforts, noting a trail of Wumpa Whip at the scene of every Power Gem theft. Crash is initially suspected due to his heavy consumption of the drink, but an irritated Willie reveals himself to be the culprit. With the Black Power Gem in his possession, Willie flees to Astro Land and prepares to escape into outer space through Astro Land's largest rocket. The heroes give chase, while Von Clutch finally runs out of power and shuts down. In Astro Land, Willie prepares to launch the rocket, but Crash pulls a nearby lever that aborts the launch. Before they can interrogate Willie about the Black Power Gem's location, Cortex and his team appear in their own ship and shoot Willie, liquefying him. Cortex prepares to kill the Bandicoots, but Crash tosses a chicken into the ship's main rotor, causing it to malfunction, and Cortex swears vengeance as he retreats.\n\nThe Bandicoots are presented the deed to the park, but Coco decides it should be returned to Von Clutch, though due to the loss of the Black Power Gem, Pasadena confirms Von Clutch will remain deactivated. Crash accidentally finds the Black Power gem in the Wumpa Whip from Willie's remains while attempting to drink it. He revives Von Clutch, who gives the Bandicoots free lifetime passes to the park in gratitude. Crash pats Von Clutch on the back, inadvertently ejecting the Black Power Gem and deactivating Von Clutch again. Fearing he has accidentally killed Von Clutch, Crash hops in one of the cars and drives away.\n\nŽeljko Duvnjak served as the conceptual artist for \"Crash Tag Team Racing\". The story, all new characters and game script/dialogue were created by animation producer and director Jordan Reichek of Perky Pickle Studios. He was assisted by Chris Mitchell of Radical Games. Reichek based the story on a twisted hybrid story of Walt Disney's Disneyland theme park and a \"Scooby-Doo\"-type mystery. Reichek was brought into the game production as writer and creative consultant by Vivendi Universal after his successful involvement with the previous \"Crash Bandicoot\" title, \"Crash Twinsanity\", where he offered similar creative direction. The full-motion videos were created by Red Eye Studios, who had previously animated the cutscenes for \"Crash Nitro Kart\" and \"Twinsanity\". The environments of the game were built by Sarah Meagher and Vincent Chin, while the vehicles were built by Kevin Fink.\n\nThe game's soundtrack was composed by Marc Baril and Spiralmouth (the latter reprising their music role from \"Crash Twinsanity\"), with Michael Neilson providing additional music; Gabriel Mann of Spiralmouth doubled as the soundtrack's producer. A fifteen-track soundtrack was released on March 6, 2007, and is available in the iTunes Music Store. The sound design of the game was provided by Cory Hawthorne. The game's voice actors were cast and directed by Chris Borders at Technicolor Interactive Services. Lex Lang and Debi Derryberry reprised their respective roles as Dr. Cortex and Coco, while the roles of Crash, Crunch, N. Gin and Nina were inherited by Jess Harnell, Chris Williams, Nolan North and Amy Gross. The new characters Von Clutch, Pasadena and Willie were respectively voiced by Danny Mann, Shanelle Workman and Roger L. Jackson.\n\n\"Crash Tag Team Racing\" received mixed reviews upon release. Alex Navarro of GameSpot concluded that \"the racing isn't exactly the star of the show, but \"Crash Tag Team Racing\"s supplemental elements pull the whole thing together into a unique and most enjoyable experience\"; on the subject of the PSP version, Navarro added that the handheld version's loading times were \"painful\". \"Nintendo Power\" decided that \"the game's not too much to look at, and most of the track designs are pretty uninspired\". Ellie Gibson of Eurogamer was critical of \"Crash Tag Team Racing\"s difficulty, citing that \"it's very easy to win races, even on the Hard difficulty setting, the platforming sections offer no real challenge and the fun to be had from blowing up opponents when you've clashed your kart wears thin after a while.\" Greg Ford and Kathleen Sanders of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" both dismissed the game as being for younger players and criticized the repetitive cycle of clearing the worlds and tracks, although Ford acknowledged that the disparate gameplay elements were inoffensively competent. Karl Castaneda of \"Nintendo World Report\" condemned the bland races, lack of variety in weapons and vehicles, and the presence of fetch-quests in a racing game, though he considered the stunt mode to be entertaining.\n\nCritics positively summarized the game's graphics as cartoonish, colorful and well-animated, albeit less than impressive. Charles Onyett of IGN noted the high degree of detail and extra moving parts in the game's level design, but he criticized the lower graphical quality of the Die-O-Rama cutscenes compared to the regular gameplay. Navarro appraised the explosive car destruction as \"one of the great joys of the game\", although he noted some frame-rate drop in the Gamecube version. Gibson was surprised by the amount of detail in the environments, though noticed that some areas were dimly lit. Castaneda considered the presentation to be passable, elaborating that \"The frame-rate is a tad buggy at times, but never during races, so it isn’t much of a bother. The character models fit the cast well enough, but it still doesn’t look that much better than the 32-bit version of the last game.\"\n\nOnyett deemed the audio to be forgettable, and found some of the character voices, particularly that of Pasadena O'Possum, to be annoying. Navarro summed up the audio as \"the usual batch of goofy sound effects and quirky music\", though he commended the comedic quality of the voice acting in spite of its occasional obnoxiousness, and singled out the henchmen and \"woefully underutilized\" chicken commentators as \"great fun\". Gibson praised the sound effects as \"great\" and the music as \"excellent\". Castaneda, while dismissing the music as mostly forgettable, was impressed by the voice acting, and claimed that the \"clever writing and dynamite delivery will definitely make you laugh out loud a couple times.\"\n"}
{"id": "2107810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107810", "title": "Riton (musician)", "text": "Riton (musician)\n\nHenry Smithson (born 13 September 1978), best known by his stage name Riton ( ), is an English electronic music DJ and producer.\n\nSmithson was born in Newcastle upon Tyne. The name \"Riton\" is French slang for \"Henry\".\n\nHe graduated from the University of Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\nAfter finishing university, Smithson started the Switch Recordings label, upon which he released his first two 12\" singles. He began DJing at Newcastle's \"Shindig\" nightclub. There, he was discovered by Mark Rae and signed to Grand Central Records independent record label. Like Rae, he then worked in Manchester's Fat City Records label/distribution/retail outlet.\n\nHis first release on Grand Central, the song \"Communicated\", featured on the compilation album \"Central Heating 2\" (2000) and was followed by his mostly instrumental debut album, \"Beats du Jour\" (2001).\n\nRiton's second album, \"Homies And Homos\" (2004) was a much more vocal affair, and featured amongst others, Lee Jones of Howdi and Luca Santucci. It includes a cover version of The Cure's song \"Killing an Arab\".\n\nIn 2005, Riton and Ben Fat Trucker formed the Gucci Sound System. The pair have a monthly residency at the 333 Club in London and have their own nightclub named Druzzi's Baltimore Rave Club at Nightmoves on Shoreditch High Street in East London. Guests have included Headman, Erol Alkan, 2 Many DJs, The Rapture, Richard X, Mylo and FC Kahuna.\n\nSince the demise of Grand Central Records in 2006, Riton has released 12\" singles on several European labels, including Linxfarren in the UK.\n\nIn late 2006, it was announced in the Belgian magazine \"HUMO\" that David and Stephen Dewaele from Soulwax had formed a krautrock band with Riton called Die Verboten. An album was expected late 2007, but to date there has been no further information on the project.\nInstead, Riton released an album under the pseudonym Eine Kleine Nacht Musik on the label Modular Records in July 2008.\n\nIn 2010, he launched a project called \"Carte Blanche\"with DJ Mehdi.\n\nRiton was to release new music in November 2011 ('Dark Place' and 'A.C.P) and was also working on music for his album, collaborating with artists and producers such as Surkin and AlunaGeorge due for release in summer 2012.\n\nAt the start of 2016, Riton hit chart success with the track \"Rinse & Repeat\"; the track featured vocals from Kah-Lo. The track was released via Riton's own \"Riton Time\" record label.\n\nHe released a collaborative album, \"Foreign Ororo\" with Kah-Lo, on 5 October 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107832", "title": "Witten (disambiguation)", "text": "Witten (disambiguation)\n\nWitten is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany\n\nWitten may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107837", "title": "Barytone", "text": "Barytone\n\nIn Ancient Greek grammar, a barytone is a word without any accent on the last syllable. Words with an acute or circumflex on the second-to-last or third-from-last syllable are barytones, as well as words with no accent on any syllable:\n\n\nLike the word baritone, it comes from Ancient Greek \"barýtonos\", from \"barýs\" \"heavy\", \"low\" and \"tónos\" \"pitch\", \"sound\".\n\n\nHerbert Weir Smyth. \"Greek Grammar\". paragraph 158.\n"}
{"id": "2107838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107838", "title": "Torneko: The Last Hope", "text": "Torneko: The Last Hope\n\nWorld of Dragon Warrior: Torneko: The Last Hope is a role-playing video game for the PlayStation.\nThe game was co-developed by Chunsoft and Matrix Software and published by Enix in both Japan and North America in 1999 and 2000 respectively.\n\n\"Torneko: The Last Hope\" is a spin-off title of the \"Dragon Quest\" franchise and the second \"Mystery Dungeon\" game to star the \"Dragon Quest IV\" character Torneko. It is also the second game in the \"Mystery Dungeon\" series to be released in North America, after \"Chocobo's Dungeon 2\". Like in \"\", Torneko (or Taloon, as he was known in \"\") explores dungeons in search of items, while fighting hordes of monsters.\n\nIn Japan, the game was ported to the Game Boy Advance in 2001, renamed Dragon Quest Characters: Torneko no Daibouken 2 Advance.\n\nThe game is done with two dimensional graphics and an overhead perspective of the games activities. The main gameplay involves Torneko exploring mazelike dungeons in search of items. When players first start conquering dungeons, Torneko continuously returns to level one strength and loses all his items until he rebuilds his storehouse. Temporary saves are sometimes allowed mid-dungeon, but these are erased as soon as players resume play. Combat against monsters is turn-based, with player and enemies alternating movements and actions. Tornkeo can attack with close range weapons like swords, long range like bow and arrow, or magic spells summoned with a wand or scroll. Torneko also has a hunger meter which causes him to lose health if he does not eat bread. During his exploration, Torneko can discover treasure and magic items.\n\nTorneko returns to his village after the events of \"Dragon Warrior 4\" and is forced to help cure his village of a cure that has been placed upon it.\n\nAccording to Doug Dinsdale, one of the games editors, Last Hope was only localized in the United States because of the passion of the translation team and their agreement to work for much less than normal. On April 18, 2000, Enix announced its first three games to be made for the original PlayStation, of which \"Torneko: The Last Hope\" was one. The game features 130 hand drawn monsters.\n\nThe musical score for \"Torneko: The Last Hope\" was composed by \"Dragon Quest\" series composer, Koichi Sugiyama. The original game soundtrack from the PlayStation version was released by SPE Visual Works on January 21, 2000, in Japan on a single 21-track disc.\n\n\"Torneko: The Last Hope\" was a financial and critical success in Japan. The PlayStation version of the game sold over 578,000 copies in Japan the year of its release. The Game Boy Advance version of the game had sold over 181,000 units in Japan by 2007. \"Famitsu\" gave the game a score of 37 out of 40 for the PS version, and all four nines for a total of 36 out of 40 for the GBA version. Additionally, the game was voted by the publication as number 31 in its top 100 PlayStation games of all time. The game was also nominated for “Game of the Year” by CESA.\n\nThe PlayStation version of \"Torneko: The Last Hope\" did not sell well in North America and received \"average\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. RPGFan called the game \"frustratingly difficult,\" but said that its \"addictive gameplay elements and top-notch soundtrack\" make it a marvelous game. \"GameSpot\" said that a lot of role-playing game players would be turned off by its lack of story and randomly generated dungeons, but those who are looking for some lighter fare of role-playing game may like it. Other critics scored the game much lower, however. \"Game Informer\" called it \"an outdated, ugly piece of crap whose silly antics will charm no one. There are so many better RPGs out there.\" Eric Bratcher reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it one star out of five, and stated that \"A primitive, turn-based dungeon crawler that takes so many cheap shots it could tick off a Buddhist monk.\" \"RPGamer\" rated the game 7 out of 10, and called the game simple but fun, and was mostly for those who already like rogue like games with randomized dungeons. They did, however, find the game to have amusing dialogue and the music for each dungeon matches it “remarkably well”.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107847", "title": "Richard West, 7th Baron De La Warr", "text": "Richard West, 7th Baron De La Warr\n\nRichard West, 7th Baron De La Warr and 4th Baron West (28 October 1430 – 10 March 1476) was the son of Reginald West, 6th Baron De La Warr, by his first wife, Margaret Thorley, daughter of Robert Thorley, esquire, of Tybeste, Cornwall, and his first wife, Anne de la Pole, widow of Sir Gerard de Lisle, and daughter of Michael de la Pole, 1st Earl of Suffolk.\n\nHe fought on the Lancastrian side in the Wars of the Roses, receiving an annuity of £40 for his services on 19 December 1459.\n\nOn 1 July 1463 he had licence to travel abroad for three years with a retinue of 12 servants. He obtained a general pardon on 15 October 1471.\n\nHe married, before 10 June 1451, Katherine Hungerford (d. 12 May 1493), daughter of Robert Hungerford, 2nd Baron Hungerford, of Heytesbury, Wiltshire, and Margaret Botreaux, daughter of William de Botreaux, 3rd Baron Botreaux, of Boscastle, Cornwall, by whom he had six sons and three daughters:\n\n\nAfter West's death his widow married, before 1 November 1476, as her second husband Geni -, Nicholas Leventhorpe (died c.1505), esquire, of Bramham, West Yorkshire, King's Yeoman and Receiver of Pontefract, son of Geoffrey Leventhorpe.\n\n\nPeerage.com\n"}
{"id": "2107848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107848", "title": "Fort Abraham Lincoln", "text": "Fort Abraham Lincoln\n\nFort Abraham Lincoln State Park is a North Dakota state park located south of Mandan, North Dakota, United States. The park is home to the replica Mandan On-A-Slant Indian Village and reconstructed military buildings including the Custer House.\n\nThe Mandan Indian tribe established a village at the confluence of the Missouri and Heart rivers in about 1575. They built earth lodges and thrived in their community by hunting bison and growing a number of crops. Two hundred years later, an outbreak of smallpox significantly decreased the Mandan population and the survivors resettled to the north. In June 1872, at the same location where the Mandan tribe had established their village, a military post named Fort McKeen was built by two companies of the 6th U.S. Infantry under Lt. Col. Daniel Huston, Jr., (1824-1884) opposite Bismarck, Dakota Territory.\nThe three-company infantry post's name was changed to Fort Abraham Lincoln on November 19, 1872, and expanded to the south to include a cavalry post accommodating six companies. Among the 78 permanent wooden structures at Fort Lincoln were a post office, telegraph office, barracks for nine companies, seven officer's quarters, six cavalry stables, a guardhouse, granary, quartermaster storehouse, bakery, hospital, laundress quarters, and log scouts' quarters. Water was supplied to the fort by being hauled from Missouri River in wagons, while wood was supplied by contract.\n\nBy 1873, the 7th Cavalry moved into the fort to ensure the expansion of the Northern Pacific Railway. The first post commander of the expanded fort was Lieutenant Colonel George A. Custer, who held the position until his death in 1876.\n\nIn 1876, the Army departed from here as part of the Great Sioux War of 1876-77, resulting in Custer's defeat at the Battle of the Little Bighorn, where they were to push the non-treaty Indians back to their particular reservations. Custer along with about half of his troops did not return to Fort Lincoln. The Fort was abandoned in 1891 after the completion of the railroad to Montana in 1883. A year after the fort was abandoned; local residents disassembled the fort for its nails and wood. In 1895, a new Fort Lincoln was built across the river near Bismarck. In 1907, President Theodore Roosevelt signed the deed to the original fort's land over to the state as Fort Abraham Lincoln State Park.\n\nIn 1934, the Civilian Conservation Corps built a visitor center, shelters, and roads. They also reconstructed military blockhouses and placed cornerstones to mark where fort buildings once stood, as well as replicating Mandan earthen lodges. Additional reproductions have since been built on the site, creating a replica Mandan village, called \"On-a-Slant Village.\" A reproduction of Custer's house was built in the park in 1989, in time for the state of North Dakota's centennial celebration.\n\nOn-A-Slant Mandan Village (Mandan: Miti-ba-wa-esh) was established in the late 16th century and was inhabited until c. 1781. During those years the Mandan tribe had between seven and nine villages (all located along the Missouri River), with an estimated total population of 10,000 to 15,000. On-a-Slant was the furthest south of all these villages and consisted of approximately 86 earth lodges. Its population was about 1,000–1,500. It was located near the point where the Heart River and the Missouri River come together and was named so by the Mandan because the village was built on ground that slopes towards the river valley. It was fortified with a ditch and palisade, to protect its wealth of food and trade goods. \n\nThe women of the Mandan tribe were responsible for building the earth lodges, which were held up by a frame of cottonwood logs and covered with layers of willow branches, grass, and earth. These thick walls insulated the lodge effectively in both summer and winter. The top center of the earth lodge contained a hole to let out smoke from the fire pit and to let in sunlight. The earth lodges were placed close together with all entrances facing towards the village plaza in the center. Each lodge housed about ten to fifteen members of the immediate and extended family. The Mandan tribe lived on farming and hunting. The village became a center of trading because the Mandan were known for their ability to make pottery and prepare animal skins. In 1781, a smallpox epidemic ravaged the Mandan tribe, killing off a majority of the villagers. The remaining tribe members moved north to join the Hidatsa tribe along the Knife River.\nLieutenant Colonel George Armstrong Custer and his wife, Libbie, lived on Fort Abraham Lincoln from 1873 until Custer died at the Battle of the Little Big Horn in the summer of 1876. Approximately 500 troops were also stationed there. Custer's first home at the fort was built in the summer of 1873, but it burned down in February 1874. Today the house and seven other major fort buildings, including a barracks, the fort's makeshift theater, a stable building, and several blockhouses, have been rebuilt.\n\nFive Nations Art Gallery is part of the Fort Abraham Lincoln Foundation, which is a non-profit organization that is dedicated to maintaining and promoting the heritage and historic perspectives of Fort Lincoln and other historic sites in North Dakota. Five Nations Arts is a local art store specializing in regional Native American art, showcasing the five Indian nations of the Northern Plains. They offer paintings, jewelry, sculptures, dream catchers and beadwork created by 200 local artists. Painted buffalo skins and local sewn quilts are offered. Music from national and local musicians is also available along with locally produced soaps made from buffalo tallow and natural local herbs, such as cedar, rose, sage, and sweet grass.\n\nFive Nations Arts is established in the former Northern Pacific Railway station, on Main Street in Mandan. \"Five Nations\" refers to the five federally recognized tribes in North Dakota: the Anishinaabe (a.k.a. Chippewa and Métis of Turtle Mountain) Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara Nation (a.k.a. the Three Affiliated Tribes), and the Lakota (Spirit Lake, Standing Rock and Lake Traverse Indian Reservations), or the five reservations in North Dakota: Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Three Affiliated Tribes), Spirit Lake Indian Reservation (Lakota), Standing Rock Indian Reservation (Lakota), Lake Traverse Indian Reservation (Lakota), and Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation (Anishinaabe and Métis).\n\nFort Lincoln Park offers living history tours of the Custer House every half-hour. The tour is roughly thirty minutes long and takes you back to the year 1875 when Custer and his wife were living at Fort Abraham Lincoln. The guides are dressed either as laundresses or soldiers from 1875. Interpretive tours of On-A-Slant Village and the earth lodges, in which the guides give a basic introduction to Mandan culture, are also offered every half-hour and are also about thirty minutes long. Along with the tours, there is an historical museum comprising On-A-Slant Village, Fort Abraham Lincoln, and Fort Lincoln State Park culture and history. A giftshop and coffeeshop have been built in the re-constructed commissary storehouse. During the summers, melodramas, including ones originally performed at Fort Lincoln in the 1870s, are performed by the guides in the re-built granary. The park also has 95 campsites, two sleeping cabins, and picnic shelters. Horseback tours, hiking, fishing, and playgrounds are also available.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107850", "title": "Irish name", "text": "Irish name\n\nA formal Irish-language personal name consists of a given name and a surname. Surnames in Irish are generally patronymic in etymology, although they are no longer literal patronyms, as most Icelandic names are. The form of a surname varies according to whether its bearer is male or female and in the case of a married woman, whether she chooses to adopt her husband's surname.\n\nAn alternative traditional naming convention consists of the first name followed by a double patronym, usually with the father and grandfather's names. This convention is not used for official purposes but is generalized in \"Gaeltachtaí\", or Irish-speaking areas, and also survives in some rural non-Gaeltacht areas. Sometimes the name of the mother or grandmother may be used instead of that of the father or grandfather.\n\nA first name may be modified by an adjective to distinguish its bearer from other people with the same name. Mór (\"big\") and Óg (\"young\") are used to distinguish father and son, like English \"senior\" and \"junior\", but are placed between the given name and the surname: \"Seán Óg Ó Súilleabháin\" corresponds to \"John O'Sullivan Jr.\" (although anglicised versions of the name often drop the \"O'\" from the name).\n\nThe word \"Beag\"/\"Beg\", meaning \"little\", can be used in place of \"Óg\". This did not necessarily indicate that the younger person was small in stature, merely younger than his father. Sometimes \"beag\" would be used to imply a baby was small at birth, possibly premature.\n\nAdjectives denoting hair colour may also be used, especially informally: \"Pádraig Rua\" (\"red-haired Patrick\"), \"Máire Bhán\" (\"fair-haired Mary\").\n\nA male's surname generally takes the form Ó/Ua (meaning \"descendant\") or Mac (\"son\") followed by the genitive case of a name, as in \"Ó Dónaill\" (\"descendant of Dónall\") or \"Mac Lochlainn\" (\"son of Lochlann\").\n\nA son has the same surname as his father. A female's surname replaces \"Ó\" with Ní (reduced from \"Iníon Uí\" – \"daughter of descendant of\") and \"Mac\" with Nic (reduced from \"Iníon Mhic\" – \"daughter of the son of\"); in both cases the following name undergoes lenition. However, if the second part of the surname begins with the letter \"C\" or \"G\", it is not lenited after \"Nic\". Thus the daughter of a man named Ó Dónaill has the surname \"Ní Dhónaill\"; the daughter of a man named Mac Lochlainn has the surname \"Nic Lochlainn\". When anglicised, the name can remain O' or Mac, regardless of gender.\n\nIf a woman marries, she may choose to take her husband's surname. In this case, \"Ó\" is replaced by Bean Uí (\"wife of descendant of\") and \"Mac\" is replaced by Bean Mhic (\"wife of the son of\"). In both cases \"bean\" may be omitted, in which case the woman uses simply Uí or Mhic. Again, the second part of the surname is lenited (unless it begins with \"C\" or \"G\", in which case it is only lenited after \"Uí\"). Thus a woman marrying a man named Ó Dónaill may choose to be use \"Bean Uí Dhónaill\" (Mrs. O'Donnell in English) or \"Uí Dhónaill\" as her surname; a woman marrying a man named Mac Lochlainn may choose to be use \"Bean Mhic Lochlainn\" (Mrs. McLaughlin in English) or \"Mhic Lochlainn\" as her surname.\n\nIf the second part of the surname begins with a vowel, the form \"Ó\" attaches an \"h\" to it, as in \"Ó hUiginn\" (O'Higgins) or \"Ó hAodha\" (Hughes). The other forms effect no change: \"Ní Uiginn\", \"(Bean) Uí Uiginn\"; \"Mac Aodha\", \"Nic Aodha\", \"Mhic Aodha\", and so forth.\n\n\"Mag\" is often used instead of \"Mac\" before a vowel or (sometimes) the silent \"fh\". The single female form of \"Mag\" is \"Nig\". \"Ua\" is an alternative form of \"Ó\".\n\nSome names of Norman origin have the prefix \"Fitz\", from Latin language \"filius\" \"son\", such as Fitzwilliam, Fitzgerald, and so forth. Other Norman surnames may have the prefix \"de\", such as de Búrca, de Paor, or de Róiste.\n\nMany Irish surnames are concentrated in particular parts of the country and there are areas where a single surname may account for a large proportion of the population. Examples include O'Reilly in County Cavan, Ryan in County Tipperary and East County Limerick, or O'Sullivan in the Beara peninsula of West Cork; or areas, such as Glenullin in the Sperrins, where there are several dominant surnames (in that instance O'Kane, Mullan, McNicholl and some others). In such cases, the surname may also acquire an additive in popular usage to differentiate one group bearing the same surname from another. This sometimes originates as a simple patronym – that is, a James whose father was Harry might be referred to as Harry's James – but may be passed to later generations, so that James' son Pat might be Harry's Pat. This can also occur if a person becomes well known by a nickname: his children may take his nickname as an additive. For example, if Seán O'Brien was often referred to as \"Badger\", his son Patrick might be referred to orally as Pat Badger and written as Patrick O'Brien (B).\n\nIn Tipperary, additives are particularly common among those bearing the Ryan surname. Examples include Ryan Lacken, Ryan Luke and Ryan Doc. A man christened Thomas Ryan might be known as Tommy Doc and his family might be referred as the Docs. While the additive is not part of a person's official name, it may be used in a postal address, on an election register or in newspaper reports. In this case, Tommy Doc might be written as Thomas Ryan (D).\n\nIn Gaeltacht (Irish-speaking) areas, it remains customary to use a name composed of the first name, followed by the father's name in the genitive case, followed by the name of the paternal grandfather, also in the genitive. Thus Seán Ó Cathasaigh (Seán O'Casey), son of Pól, son of Séamus, would be known to his neighbours as Seán Phóil Shéamuis. Occasionally, if the mother or grandmother was a well-known person locally, her name may be used instead of that of the father or grandfather. If the mother's name is used, then that of the maternal grandfather (or potentially grandmother) follows it, for example, Máire Sally Eoghain.\n\nThese names are not used for official purposes. Often a nickname or English version of a name is used in their composition where the person would use a standard Irish form in formal circumstances. For example, the prominent sean-nós singer Seán Mac Donnchada is perhaps better known as Johnny Mhairtín Learaí.\n\nThis naming system also survives to a certain extent in rural areas outside the existing Gaeltacht. The system can be particularly useful for distinguishing individuals who live in the same locale and who share a common surname but are not closely related. For example, two individuals named John McEldowney might be known as \"John Patsy Den\" and \"John Mary Philip\" respectively. Even the Irish forms sometimes survive in parts of the Sperrins, so that among the principal families of Glenullin some branches are known by father/grandfather forms such as Pháidí Shéamais or Bhrian Dhónaill.\n\nSome Irish people use English (or anglicised) forms of their names in English-language contexts and Irish forms in Irish-language contexts. The Irish names of some famous people include:\n\nOther people are better known by their Irish name than by their English name:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107854", "title": "Erica Blasberg", "text": "Erica Blasberg\n\nErica Paige Blasberg (July 14, 1984 – May 9, 2010) was an American professional golfer who played on the LPGA Tour.\n\nBlasberg was born in Orange, California, and raised in Corona, California. She attended Corona High School where she played on the boys' golf team. She was Jewish.\n\nAs an amateur, Blasberg was the medalist at the 2000 U.S. Girls' Junior and lost in the quarterfinals. In 2003, she reached the quarterfinals of the U.S. Women's Amateur. She attended the University of Arizona and was the country's number 1 ranked college player as a freshman, compiling six victories before leaving in her sophomore year to turn pro. She was an All-America golfer in 2003 and 2004, NCAA Freshman of the Year in 2003, Pac-10 Player of the Year in 2003, and won the Golfists Cup, awarded for the NCAA women's lowest stroke average, in 2003. In 2004, she was on the winning United States Curtis Cup team.\n\nBlasberg turned professional in June 2004 and played on the Futures Tour that season. She won the Laconia Savings Bank Golf Classic and en route to her first professional win broke the Tour's 18 hole scoring record, shooting a 62. She earned non-exempt status for the LPGA Tour at the 2004 LPGA Final Qualifying Tournament.\n\nBlasberg started on the LPGA Tour in 2005, making the cut in most of her early events but not contending for top positions. She was disqualified from the Chick-fil-A Charity Championship in May 2005 when she left the scoring tent without signing her card. Blasberg later told reporters that the rule infraction was poorly handled by the officials and that she should not have received a penalty. The next week she made a hole in one and won a Mercury SUV. At mid-season she fired her caddie, because she \"needed a change.\" She ended 2005 109th on the money list. She was chosen to play in the 2005 Lexus Cup, where she won two matches and halved another, including a 98-yard hole out on the 18th to win a match. In 2006, despite a late season rally she once again finished just outside the top one hundred on the money list, but a successful tournament at Qualifying School in the fall of 2006 won her exempt status for 2007 — the first and only time in her career she had exempt status on the LPGA Tour.\n\nIn 2007, she finished 104th on the money list. She chose not to return to Qualifying School, leaving her once again as a non-exempt player for 2008. In 2008 her results were only marginally better than in 2007. She played 23 tournaments and, while she did earn the only top-10 finish of her career, she again finished near the bottom of the LPGA money list.\n\nShe returned again to Qualifying School in 2009 in an attempt to improve her status on Tour for the 2010 season but withdrew after shooting rounds of 72 and 78 in the final stage of the Tournament. She entered 2010 with limited playing opportunities and played just one tournament, the Tres Marias Championship in Morelia, Mexico where she finished tied for 44th after Monday qualifying for the event. During the tournament week, Blasberg participated in a \"Back to College\" event at which she joined fellow players Mina Harigae and Mariajo Uribe in visiting student-athletes at the Universidad Latina De America in Morelia to answer questions on golf and education.\n\nBlasberg was considered one of the LPGA's more photogenic players and in February 2006 Puma signed her to endorse and wear their clothing. She has been compared to Natalie Gulbis, an LPGA golfer who did a swimsuit calendar.\n\nBlasberg was found dead with a plastic bag secured over her head at her Henderson, Nevada home on the afternoon of May 9, 2010, according to local police. Officers had been dispatched in response to a 911 call by Dr. Thomas Hess, Blasberg's doctor, around 3:00 p.m. (PT). In an interview with the Riverside County \"Press-Enterprise\" on May 10, Blasberg's father, Mel Blasberg, was quoted saying, \"At first glance it looks like she might have taken her own life, but at second glance, something is very, very strange about it. We're waiting for the police to make an investigation.\" Missy Pederson, who was supposed to be Blasberg's caddy at a May 10 qualifying round for the Bell Micro LPGA Classic in Mobile, Alabama, told \"The New York Times\" that Blasberg had sent her a text in the early morning hours of May 9. In the message, Blasberg told Pederson she was not going to play in the tournament. A worried Pederson sent a text back to Blasberg, asking if she was all right, but Blasberg never replied. However, Blasberg's agent revealed that Blasberg's bags were packed at the time of her death.\n\nOn May 13, 2010, police in Henderson, Nevada executed a search warrant for the home and office of Dr. Hess in the ongoing investigation into Blasberg's death; he had been with her the night that she died. The search warrant listed an anti-anxiety medication, Xanax, plastic garbage bags, and a sample of Hess' handwriting. An inventory of the materials seized in the search of Dr. Hess' house included two computers, a cell phone, two video cameras and a GPS unit. A computer and white trash bags were seized from Hess' office. CBS also reported that a white trash bag, similar to the one seized from Dr. Hess' office or home, was found near Blasberg's body. Blasberg's father appeared on \"The Early Show\" on June 2, 2010 and denied that his daughter had been clinically depressed, in financial troubles or unhappy with her recent performances.\n\nOn August 24, 2010, the Clark County Coroner's office ruled Blasberg's death a suicide. Asphyxia was cited as the primary cause, with multiple prescription drugs named as an additional \"significant factor.\" The drugs in Blasberg's system included butalbital, temazepam, alprazolam (Xanax), codeine, hydrocodone, and tramadol, according to the coroner. Nevada law does not permit the release of details on the amounts of medication.\n\nHenderson police said foul play was not suspected, but issued an arrest warrant for Dr. Hess, who discovered the body, on obstruction of justice charges. In November 2010, Dr. Hess admitted to removing a suicide note and the prescription medication he had given her, from the scene, hiding them in his car \"to spare the family embarrassment.\" According to CBS News, he called in the suicide but the police found Blasberg alone at the scene, and he temporarily stopped cooperating with the police. He pleaded guilty to misdemeanor obstruction, and was sentenced to one year’s probation and 40 hours of community service. The handwritten suicide note revealed that Blasberg had attempted suicide many times in the months leading up to her death, and she admitted to being lonely and feeling tormented by the lack of success in her golf career.\n\nOn May 13, 2014, a jury of four men and four women in Clark County District Court in Las Vegas, Nevada, cleared Dr. Hess in a wrongful death and medical malpractice lawsuit stemming from the May 2010 suicide of Blasberg. According to news reports, jurors who heard five days of civil trial testimony deliberated less than an hour before finding Hess had no liability in the death of Blasberg who, according to testimony, harbored deep feelings of unhappiness. In her hand written suicide note, Blasberg blames no one, expresses deep personal unhappiness and describes a mixture of drugs kicking in before ending with the words, \"love and kisses, eternity, Erica.\" \"I'm sad and don't want to be doing this right now,\" the 25-year-old wrote in the letter that was read to the jury. \"Sorry for all the people I've hurt doing this, but please understand how miserable and sad I am, and that I feel no way of escaping it.\" Evidence revealed that she had made repeated suicide attempts in the months leading up.\n\nBlasberg's parents accuse Hess (46 at the time of the trial), who was married at the time, of pursuing a romantic relationship with their 25-year-old daughter – and of putting that interest ahead of her medical needs.\n\nBlasberg is interred at Pacific View Memorial Park, Corona del Mar, California.\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\nMoney list ranking as of May 2, 2010, at the end of her last tournament.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2107860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107860", "title": "Leonard Boyle", "text": "Leonard Boyle\n\nLeonard Eugene Boyle, OP, (13 November 1923 – 25 October 1999), was an Irish and Canadian scholar in medieval studies and palaeography and was the first Irish and North American Prefect of the Vatican Library in Rome from 1984 to 1997.\n\nHe was born in Ballintra, County Donegal, in Ulster, Ireland. Boyle spent some years in Tralee, County Kerry, following the death in 1940 of his older brother John. The latter was a member of the police (Garda Síochána) and drowned while on holiday in Ballybunion, County Kerry, in July 1940 and acted as Boyle's father following the death of his mother in 1933. Leonard was educated in Irish and entered the Dominican Order in 1943. He was ordained a priest in 1949 having received his doctorate in Oxford. He frequently visited Tralee, where a number of his family still reside, and he was involved in many projects in the town. His immense knowledge and expertise in historical and archaeological issues was freely given in order to enhance the town. Of particular concern was his hope that the site of the original Dominican Priory at the centre of the town be conserved for future archaeological excavation. After moving to Toronto, he taught at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, and at the Centre for Medieval Studies at the University of Toronto from 1961 to 1984. He also served as Professor of Latin Palaeography and History of Medieval Theology at the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome from 1956 to 1961.\n\nIn 1984 he was appointed Prefect of the Vatican Library by Pope John Paul II. This appointment took Boyle by surprise but would appear to have been a recognition of his immense scholarship, expertise in antiquity and renowned interest in learning as a whole. In an effort to modernise the Vatican Library, Father Boyle set about the digitisation of the library's many thousands of manuscripts that dated from hundreds of years BC, which would lead to their greater availability to scholars around the world. Boyle also extended the opening hours of the library and employed women for the first time as part of the library's staff. In 1987, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 1997, he was ousted as Prefect after his dealings with some American fund-raising associates resulted in lawsuits involving the Vatican.\n\nKnown for his wit and independence of mind and spirit, Boyle was once asked of his interest in being a Cardinal given the fact that all of his predecessors went on to be Cardinals. His reply was in the negative saying 'nothing but the papacy' would do him.\n\nFather Boyle was buried in his beloved Basilica di San Clemente, in 2000, a year after his death, following official desire to give him the honour of interment in the vaults of San Clemente — one of Rome's holiest and most historical shrines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107879", "title": "Voorburg", "text": "Voorburg\n\nVoorburg is a town and former municipality in the west part of the province of South Holland, Netherlands. Together with Leidschendam and Stompwijk, it makes up the municipality Leidschendam-Voorburg. It has a population of about 39,000 people. It is considered to be the oldest city in The Netherlands and celebrated its 2000th year of existence in 1988.\n\nIn 2002, the cities of Leidschendam and Voorburg were merged under the new municipality named \"Leidschendam-Voorburg\". Situated adjacent to the city of The Hague, it is often regarded as one of its suburbs.\n\nVoorburg, the most densely populated of the three towns in the municipality, has its roots in the 2nd century, when a local civilian settlement gained city rights from the Romans, becoming known as \"Forum Hadriani\". It was along the Fossa Corbulonis, a canal connecting the Rhine and the Meuse that had been dug in 47 AD by the Roman general Corbulo. This waterway is now known as the Rijn-Schie canal (more commonly referred to as the \"Vliet\") and is still a dominant landmark of the present day borough.\n\nFamous inhabitants of Voorburg include the 17th century author and poet Constantijn Huygens, who spent many years building his small country house \"Hofwijck\" with adjacent geometrically shaped gardens alongside the \"Vliet\". His son, the famous astronomer and mathematician Christiaan Huygens, spent several years in his father's country house in Voorburg. The house, located next to the main railway station, now functions as a museum.\n\nPhilosopher Baruch Spinoza lived in Voorburg from 1663 to 1670. In Voorburg, Spinoza continued work on the \"Ethics\" and corresponded with scientists, philosophers, and theologians throughout Europe. He also wrote and published his \"Theological Political Treatise\" in 1670, in defense of secular and constitutional government, and in support of Johan de Witt, the Grand Pensionary of the Netherlands, against the Stadtholder, the Prince of Orange.\n\nUntil 2009 Voorburg hosted the major branch of the country's statistics institute, the CBS (Central Agency for Statistics), which provides most of the statistical data used by the government. That year the CBS relocated a few kilometers eastward to Leidschenveen, one of the new developments around the city of The Hague\n\nUntil June 2006 the town had three railway stations: Voorburg, Voorburg 't Loo and Leidschendam-Voorburg station. The latter two are now part of the Randstad Rail network. Voorburg used to be an Intercity station, because there was an eternal agreement with the railways that every passing train should stop there. It lost that status, as the new railway station is elevated and therefore no longer on the soil of Voorburg.\n\nVoorburg Cricket Club (VCC) Sportpark Westvliet cricket ground was approved by the ICC as the Netherlands' latest ODI venue. It joins the VRA ground in Amstelveen and the Hazelaarweg ground in Rotterdam in gaining ODI status. Bangladesh played one Twenty20 International match each against Scotland and Netherlands there in July 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107880", "title": "Rock tripe", "text": "Rock tripe\n\nRock tripe is the common name for various lichens of the genus \"Umbilicaria\" that grow on rocks. They can be found throughout northern parts of North America such as New England and the Rocky Mountains. They are edible when properly prepared and have been used as a famine food in extreme cases when other food sources were unavailable, as by early American northern explorers.\n\n\"Umbilicaria esculenta\" is commonly used as a food in Asian cuisine and a restorative medicine in traditional Chinese medicine. It is called \"shi'er\" (石耳 \"rock ear\") in Chinese cuisine, \"iwatake\" (岩茸 \"rock mushroom\") in Japanese cuisine, and \"seogi\" (석이버섯) in Korean cuisine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107887", "title": "Koniocellular cell", "text": "Koniocellular cell\n\nA koniocellular cell (konio: Greek, \"dust\" or \"poison\", also known as K cell) is a neuron with a small cell body that is located in the koniocellular layer of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) in primates, including humans.\n\nKoniocellular layers are located ventral to each parvocellular and magnocellular layer of the LGN. Even if the quantity of neurons is approximately equal to the number of magnocellular cells the koniocellular layers are much thinner due to their size. In comparison to the parvocellular and magnocellular system, fewer studies have been conducted to investigate the koniocellular system. Koniocellular cells are a heterogeneous population differing in many aspects, such as response properties and connectivity.\n\nK cells are neurochemically and anatomically distinct from M and P cells. There are three proteins by which K cells can be clearly distinguished: \n\nK cells differ in their size from M and P cells, they are much smaller. Unlike M and P cells, K cells are structurally similar to other thalamocortical neurons. This suggests that K cells act like other thalamocortical cells.\n\nSince K cells are a heterogeneous group of cells, it is likely that they contain subclasses which fulfill different functions. Some cells respond to colour, some to achromatic gratings and still others are unresponsive to any types of gratings. Experimental results suggest that K cells could contribute to aspects of spatial and temporal vision, but it is unclear exactly how. Some hypotheses are: \n\nVentral to each of the magnocellular and parvocellular layers lie the koniocellular layers which differ in thickness. In macaques there are two magnocellular and four parvocellular layers and accordingly six konicellular layers. K1, the layer ventral to M1, is the largest. K2, K3 and K4 are thinner but nonetheless substantial bands of neurons. The two most dorsal layers K5 and K6 are mostly monolayers. Similar in physiology and connectivity to W cells in cat LGN, K cells form three pairs of layers in macaques.\n\nK cells are not restricted to the koniocellular layers. They are also found in small groups, in pairs or as single cells within M and P layers. Larger subpopulations form bridges spanning the distance between two adjacent K layers.\n\nEach koniocellular layer is innervated by the same retina part as the M or P layer dorsal to the respective K layer. Thus, the LGN contains six koniocellular layers. K1, K4 and K6 receive contralateral retinal inputs, and K3 and K5 receive ipsilateral retinal input. K2 receives input from both retinae but the input from the two eyes is relayed in separate tiers. The more dorsal tier is innervated by the ipsilateral retina and the more ventral is innervated by the contralateral retina. K cells receive input from a heterogeneous group of wide-field cells, including small bistratified cells, sparse cells and possibly also large bistratified cells and broad thorny cells. Those bistratified cells are ganglion cells that send short-wavelength signals to the LGN. Retinogeniculate axons terminating in the middle K layers display center-only blue-ON/yellow-OFF receptive fields. Sparse cells are presumed to transmit blue-OFF signals. Both, small bistratified cells and sparse cells project to K cells. Therefore, K cells are believed to relay short-wavelength visual information.\n\nCorticogeniculate axons appear to be quantitatively dominant within the LGN. The same holds for K cells but unlike M and P cells they also receive input from the extrastriate cortex. Axons arising from the superficial grey layer of the superior colliculus terminate in every K layer with the most ventral layers receiving the strongest input. Thus, it is assumed that the K layers are functionally related to the superior colliculus, e.g. reflexive control of eye movements. As a conclusion, retinal inputs compete with a quantitatively dominant corticothalamic innervation and a rich innervation from brainstem nuclei.\n\nK cells terminate in the superficial blobs and layer I of V1. The dorsal-most K layers (K5 and K6) have many axons terminating in layer I of V1, whereas K1 – K4 rather send their axons to the blobs. However, this division is not clear-cut. For example, it has been found that axons from neurons in the ventral-most pair (K1 and K2) innervate layer I of V1, too. The innervation of blobs follows the pattern known from the retinogeniculate terminations: \nIn macaques, about 30 K cells send their axons to one blob. Anatomically distinct subpopulations of K cells innervate different types of blobs, such as blue/yellow blobs or red/green blobs. Neurons in these blobs display blue/yellow antagonism or red/green antagonism.\n\nMoreover, K cells innervate extrastriate areas. These K cells are rather large, sending their axons to V2 and inferotemporal cortex (IT). Immunostaining revealed only a few, sparse and broadly distributed large K cells, apart from the K cells innervating the foveal representation of V2 which are more densely packed and found along the caudal and medial margin of the LGN. Throughout each K layer there are neurons that innervate the extrastriate cortex and that are likely to sustain some visual behaviors in the absence of V1. The fact that K cells directly project to hMT supports this hypothesis (see below \"theory of blindsight\").\n\nIt is assumed that K cells generate and migrate contemporaneously with neighboring M and P cells (Hendry, p. 134). Neurons in the most ventral part of the LGN develop before neurons in more dorsal layers. Neurons of layer K1 develop close to the time of final mitosis for neurons in layer M1 and neurons of K6 develop slightly before neurons of layer P6. While M and P layers in LGN and their axonal terminations in V1 degenerate after a loss of patterned visual input, K cells are not affected.\n\nBlindsight is the phenomenon where patients with injury in the primary visual cortex (V1) show persistence in motion detection without visual awareness. The brain area responsive to motion in the human brain is called V5 or hMT. Many approaches have been examined to reveal the underlying mechanisms of blindsight. In the past it has been shown that superior colliculus ablation has an effect on V1-independent vision, which in turn advocates the role of the superior colliculus for blindsight. In case of V1 lesions, additional LGN inactivation leads to a strong reduction of neural activity in the extrastriate areas, such as MT. \nResearch has shown that there exists a direct pathway from the LGN to MT consisting mostly of koniocellular cells. In fact, 63% of the neurons directly projecting to MT are koniocellular cells. The input MT receives directly from the LGN makes up about 10% of the V1 neuron population projecting to MT. These results suggest that the koniocellular layers play a key role in V1-independent vision. Since the koniocellular layers receive input from the superior colliculus, the previously obtained results can be complemented by the role of the koniocellular layers.\n\nThis direct connection from the LGN, more precisely the koniocellular layers, to MT could account for the phenomenon of blindsight as well as for rapid detection of moving objects in healthy subjects. \n\n"}
{"id": "2107905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107905", "title": "Leidschendam", "text": "Leidschendam\n\nLeidschendam () is a town and former municipality in the province of South Holland of the Netherlands. Along with Voorburg and Stompwijk, it is part of the municipality Leidschendam-Voorburg.\n\nThe town's name has been in use for centuries and refers to the lock in the Vliet, near the historic city of Leiden. The settlement on the Northern side of the lock was known as 'Veur', until the formation of the municipality of Leidschendam in 1938. This recent date belies the long history of human habitation in this area, which predates the Roman occupation two thousand years ago.\n\nImportant driver for the development of the area was the Vliet canal, ferrying people and goods through Holland in the Middle Ages, and even in Roman times. As elsewhere in Holland, windmills were constructed to power local industry, such as a wheat grinding mill in 1594 and wood processing mills in 1643 and 1739 ('de Salamander' and 'de Hoop'). Veur became an independent municipality in the time of the short-lived Batavian Republic.\n\nThe Southern side of the Vliet was settled at a later date due to presence of extensive swamps. These were drained around 1200 by the Dutch counts, enabling the settlements of Stompwijk and Wilsveen to be established. Subsequently, the peat industry flourished, and about twenty windmills were constructed for water management. In 1811, Stompwijk and Veur were combined to form Leidschendam, but this was reversed only six years later, although one mayor continued to serve both villages.\n\nStarting in the closing years of the 19th century, the area started to change rapidly due to combined forces of the agricultural crisis, improved transportation in the area, and regional effects of the first and second World Wars. A growing number of government and industrial activities (the Dutch political capital of The Hague is nearby) and the associated housing demand transformed Veur from a rural into a suburban community. This led to a municipal reorganization and the formation of Leidschendam, in 1938.\nBoth Leidschendam and Voorburg are now part of the agglomeration of the city of The Hague and are often regarded as its suburbs. Stompwijk is still a rural village, located a few miles Northeast of Leidschendam. All three were combined into the municipality of Leidschendam-Voorburg in 2002 (population: 73.832 in 2004, area: 35,6 km²) as an answer to a series of small annexations from surrounding municipalities made by The Hague. Hans van der Sluijs has been mayor of Leidschendam-Voorburg since 2007.\n\nIn terms of percentage of population, the main economic activities are real estate and commercial services, retail and hotel/restaurants, medical care, transportation and communication, and government. In 2002, the unemployment rate was 13.1%.\n\nA large, semi-covered, shopping area, Leidsenhage, exists near the border with Voorburg. Leidsenhage contains a large number of retailers, including large chains such as Albert Heijn, Vroom & Dreesmann, and C&A, as well as medium and smaller-sized shops and restaurants. Drawing large numbers of people, the area is a focal point of road and rail traffic in the area. Leidschendam also hosts the headquarters of Fugro, a multinational company providing geotechnical and surveying services.\nLeidschendam hosted the main office of the country's secret service, the AIVD, which is an integral part of the Dutch Ministry of the Interior, before the office moved to Zoetermeer in 2007. The building now hosts the UN Special Tribunal for Lebanon to try those suspected of assassinating former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. Voorburg hosted CBS \"Centraal Bureau voor de Statistieken\" Statistics Netherlands, the Dutch census office until mid 2008 when it moved to a new office in The Hague – Leidschenveen.\n\nAs of 31 December 2001, about 40% of the population has a college degree or better, ranking ninth out of the fifty largest cities in The Netherlands. About 25% has a low education level (presumably high school at most), also ranking ninth.\n\nFor Leidschendam-Voorburg combined, having a total population of 73,148 (Leischendam alone: 31,289), 21% is below the age of 20, while 15% is above age 70. There are 34,894 men (47.7%) and 38,254 women (52.3%). There are 31,892 (43.6%) unmarried people, 30,764 (42.1%) married, 5,075 widowed (6.9%), and 5,416 (7.4%) divorced. There are 21,044 (28.8%) people in households with a partner having no children, 18,957 (25.9%) children living at home, 17,092 (23.4%) people in households with a partner having one or more children, 12,156 (16.6%) living without partner and without children, 2,174 (3.0%) living without partner and with one or more children, 814 (1.1%) in institutional settings, and 1,848 (2.5%) which do not fall in any of these categories.\n\nThere are 14,540 living units in Leidschendam, of 34,290 total in Leidschendam-Voorburg. Of these, 18,120 are owned units, 10,260 are subsidized rental units and 5,250 are private rental units. There are 9,230 units built prior to 1940, 9,470 between 1940–1970, and 14,930 since 1970. The make-up of the units is close to 1/3 of either less than three rooms, four rooms, or five or more rooms.\n\nLeidschendam-Voorburg counts 34 general practitioners, 26 dentists, 10 pharmacies, and 2 hospitals.\n\nAs of 1 October 2003, Leidschendam-Voorburg has 23 primary schools enrolling 6,110 students; 5,112 students were enrolled in high school. There is one special needs school with 152 students. There are 50 locations for child care. There are no institutions for higher education within Leidschendam or Voorburg. However, at about 10 miles distance there are both the Delft University of Technology and Leiden University, and a number of applied science and art universities in The Hague (granting bachelor's degrees only), all easily accessible.\n\nIn 2003, Leidschendam-Voorburg was ranked first among the fifty largest municipalities in The Netherlands in terms of efficiency of transportation (public and private), taking into account geographical location, infrastructural resources, and population density.\n\nLeidschendam is served by highways A4 and A12, which connect to all other areas of the country and international destinations. A number of nearby train stations connect directly to The Hague, Rotterdam and Leiden, with easy access to the rest of the country. Two tram lines connect to local destinations: No. 2 to Kraayenstein in The Hague, and No. 6 to De Uithof in The Hague. There is local and regional bus service. Overall, connectivity is best to downtown The Hague, especially since the beginning of the 21st century when the Noordelijke Randweg was completed, a regional road linking the A4 motorway to parts of The Hague, passing through Leidschendam.\n\nLong-distance travel is convenient from Schiphol airport, within one hour's travel either by car or train.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107907", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Climate Applications and Research", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Climate Applications and Research\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Climate Applications and Research (CICAR) was a major collaborative relationship between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and Columbia University.\n\nThe CICAR research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2107933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107933", "title": "Livermore, Pennsylvania", "text": "Livermore, Pennsylvania\n\nLivermore, Pennsylvania is an abandoned town that was located on the Conemaugh River between Blairsville and Saltsburg in Derry Township, Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania. The town was abandoned and partially razed in the early 1950s following authorization by the Flood Control Act of 1936 and Flood Control Act of 1938 for construction of the Conemaugh Dam and Lake to prevent flooding of Pittsburgh. Much of the former town site now lies under the reservoir and floodplains.\n\nThe town was established along the Conemaugh River within Derry Township in 1827 by John Livermore, naming the town after himself. The Pennsylvania legislature had established the Board of Canal Commissioners for the Commonwealth in 1825, and authorized a public canal and railroad project across the state, the Pennsylvania Canal system. The Main Line Canal's Western Division, which stretched 103 miles from Johnstown to Pittsburgh, was constructed past Livermore along the Conemaugh.\n\nThe West Penn Railroad extended past Livermore alongside the canal in 1854, and a station was built in 1864, providing connections to Blairsville and Saltsburg. Grading from Blairsville to the Allegheny River was completed in 1857, and the same year, the state sold the canal to the Pennsylvania Railroad. Another grade was built in 1882 to bypass a hill. These tracks were used for 25 years until 1907, when a new straight line bypassed the canal curves. A new station was also built.\n\nWith the growth of the canal, the town increased slightly. On February 13, 1865, the town was incorporated as a borough within the township, by the county courts. The Livermore Presbyterian Church was organized in 1851, though the congregation seldom met for lack of supplies, and ministers frequently shared time between Livermore and the congregation in nearby Salem. The first church structure was a frame that the Baptists and Presbyterians shared. A more solid brick structure was built in 1862. In 1906, the town had several stores and three churches with Presbyterian, Methodist, and United Brethren congregations. It had one school that served thirty-two students.\n\nThe Johnstown Flood of 1889 rendered the Juniata Branch of the Pennsylvania Canal useless, stranding the Western Division from commerce in the east; canal towns, such as Livermore, began a steady decline.\n\nBetween March 16 and 21, 1936, the tributaries of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers including the Conemaugh flooded as a result of heavy rainfall and melting snow and ice. The area had been experiencing extremely cold temperatures, and in many places the ground was frozen solid to a depth of four feet: water could not soak into the ground. Residents of Livermore and other low-lying towns Cokeville and Bairdstown were evacuated by rowboats in the evening of March 17, many gathering at higher ground in Blairsville. \"The Great St. Patrick’s Day Flood\" submerged the town under 18 feet of water, sweeping away the bridge spanning the Conemaugh and fourteen buildings, while others were ruined or severely damaged. Floodwaters destroyed eight homes, four properties, three barns, two garages, and the stocks of both general stores. The flood caused one fatality in Livermore. As a whole, the flood claimed about 80 lives and caused the region over $500 million in damages.\nFollowing the flood, the Flood Control Acts of 1936 and 1938 authorized various flood control projects by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, including the Conemaugh River Dam and Lake at nearby Tunnelton. The project would provide protection for the lower Conemaugh Valley, the Kiskiminetas Valley, the lower Allegheny Valley and the upper Ohio River. The dam would restrict the river's flow, creating a floodplain that would submerge Livermore. The project required the town to be demolished and the 57 remaining residents were relocated. Since completion in 1952, the Conemaugh River Dam has prevented over $2 billion in damage. $375 million in damage was prevented when the remnants of Hurricane Ivan struck the area in 2004.\n\nThe 1850 United States Census was the first to publish populations for civil divisions below counties. Livermore recorded an all-white population of 153 in 1850, and 165 in 1860. The 1870 Census recorded that Livermore, Pennsylvania had 209 native-born residents, and 2 foreigners, with 208 whites and 3 blacks, for a total population of 211. The 1880 Census recorded a significant decline in the population to 164, attributed to the decline of the Pennsylvania Canal. However, the population increased again to 211 in 1890, but again saw decline to 175 in 1900. Following the severe flood in 1936, the population declined to 113 in 1940, and 57 in 1950 before the town was condemned and abandoned.\n\nSeveral urban legends surround the former town. One claims that the town was wiped out in a flood. While the site is now underwater, the buildings of the small town were condemned and torn down before the dam was built and the area was flooded in 1952. Another belief is that George A. Romero’s cult horror film \"Night of the Living Dead\" was filmed at the Livermore Cemetery. The cemetery scenes were filmed in Evans City, Pennsylvania, more than 60 miles from Livermore. The site is nonetheless considered haunted, and the stories primarily center around the moving of graves that occurred when the town's cemetery was required to be moved to higher ground. The cemetery was not relocated, however, and has always been in its present location. Due to repeated vandalism, access to the cemetery is now restricted.\n"}
{"id": "2107936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107936", "title": "George Carpenter (Salvation Army)", "text": "George Carpenter (Salvation Army)\n\nGeorge Lyndon Carpenter (20 June 1872 – 9 April 1948) was the 5th General of The Salvation Army (1939-1946).\n\nHe trained in Raymond Terrace, Australia, and became an officer of the Army in 1892. For the first 18 years of his officership, he worked in property, training and literary work in Australia.\n\nHe and Ensign Minnie Rowell were married in 1899. She wrote such books as \"Commissioner Lawley\", \"Notable Officers of The Salvation Army\" and \"Women of the Flag\", among others.\n\nIn 1911, George was called up to International Headquarters. He became the literary secretary of The Salvation Army under General Bramwell Booth. He served in this role until 1927. From 1927 to 1933, he was called back for further service in Australia, to take over the ranks as Chief Secretary of Australia Eastern Territory. In 1933, he became South America East Territorial Commander. In 1937, he became Territorial Commander of Canada, and served at that post until he was elected General by the High Council in 1939.\n\nHis term in office as the General of The Salvation Army was during some trying times. World War II was going on in Europe, but he was a strong leader. He retired as General 26 June 1946.\n\nHis books include \"Keep the Trumpets Sounding\" and \"Banners and Adventures\".\n\nGeneral George Carpenter died at the age of 75.\n\nhttp://www.salvationarmy.org.au/about-us/history-and-heritage/generals/general-albert-orsborn.html?s=1001\nhttp://www.salvationarmy.org.au/action/NOTEMPLATE?s=0,pURL=general-george-carpenter,\n"}
{"id": "2107946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107946", "title": "G.703", "text": "G.703\n\nG.703 is a 2016 ITU-T standard for transmitting voice or data over digital carriers such as T1 and E1. G.703 provides specifications for pulse code modulation (PCM).\n\nG.703 also specifies E0 (64kbit/s). For information about E0 audio see G.711.\n\nG.703 is either transported over 75 ohm co-axial cable terminated in BNC or Type 43 connectors or 120 ohm twisted pair cables terminated in RJ48C jacks. The choice is carrier- and region-dependent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107951", "title": "Linqing", "text": "Linqing\n\nLinqing () is a county-level city under the administration of the prefecture-level city of Liaocheng in western Shandong Province, China.\n\nIt is located north-northwest of Liaocheng. The city is situated at the confluence of the Wei River and the Grand Canal. It is from Beijing on the Jingjiu railway line to Hong Kong. Elevation within Linqing County ranges from above sea level. The area of the county is .\nThe annual average temperature is , the highest recorded temperature , and the lowest recorded temperature . Annual mean precipitation is . There are 205 frost-free days per year on average and the average annual sunshine is 2661 hours.\n\nLinqing has played an important role in the history of China. In Ming and Qing times it was a great center for the distribution of textiles, grain and bricks and is also famous as the place where the tiles of the Great Wall and the Forbidden City were produced. Today the city's flourishing economy is based on a number of light industrial enterprises.\n\nAside from the Grand Canal, sights include a distinctive promontory, a stupa (), a Ming-Dynasty Hui mosques (Linqing Northern Mosque, , Linqing Eastern Mosque, ), and ruins of the old customs house (), Linqing City Museum (in a historical building ensemble known as the ). In particular, the Sheli Pagoda near the Grand Canal is a well-known local landmark.\n\nThe city proper has about residents (January 2000), whereas Linqing as a whole had inhabitants in 1999.\n\nOnce visited by the missionary and sinologist Matteo Ricci, Linqing has been the seat of a Latin Catholic Mission sui juris of Linqing / Lintsing since it was split off from the Apostolic Vicariate of Tsinanfu on 24 June 1927.\nIt was promoted to Apostolic prefecture of Linqing / Lintsing / Lintsingen(sis) (Latin) (pre-diocesan jurisdiction, not entitled to a titular bishop) on 5 April 1931.\nIt remains exempt, i.e. directly dependent on the Holy See and its missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples. The see has been vacant, without Apostolic administrator, since the third incumbent's death in 1981.\n\n(all Latin Rite) \nnone available\n\n(Chinese secular priests)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107953", "title": "July 2 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 2 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 1 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 3\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 15 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 2nd, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 19.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2107971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107971", "title": "Kii Channel", "text": "Kii Channel\n\nThe , also called the Kii Strait, is a strait separating the Japanese island of Shikoku from the Kii Peninsula on the main island of Honshū. This strait connects the Inland Sea with the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe name of the strait derives from Kii Province, a former province on the Kii Peninsula.\n\nThe strait is surrounded by Tokushima Prefecture on Shikoku, Wakayama Prefecture on Honshū, and the southern coast of Awaji Island in Hyōgo Prefecture. It is connected to Osaka Bay via the Kitan Strait and to Harima Nada (the eastern part of the Inland Sea) by the Naruto Strait.\n\nWestern maps from the 19th century also refer to this waterway as the Linschoten Strait.\n"}
{"id": "2107972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107972", "title": "Miami Project to Cure Paralysis", "text": "Miami Project to Cure Paralysis\n\nThe Miami Project to Cure Paralysis is a spinal cord injury research center and a designated Center of Excellence at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. It was co-founded in 1985 by Barth A. Green, M.D. and Pro Football Hall of Fame linebacker Nick Buoniconti after Buoniconti's son, Marc, sustained a spinal cord injury during a college football game. Today, The Miami Project’s international team is housed in the Lois Pope LIFE Center and includes more than 250 scientists, researchers and clinicians.\n\nIn July 2012, The Miami Project was granted approval by the FDA to proceed with a Schwann cell implantation clinical trial. In November 2012, doctors from the University of Miami implanted the first patient with his own Schwann cells, initiating phase 1 of the trial, a test of the safety and efficacy of the technique.\n\nThe Buoniconti family established The Buoniconti Fund to Cure Paralysis in 1992, a non-profit organization devoted to assisting The Miami Project.\n\nThe Center is located in the Schoninger research quadrangle at the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center. It was named in honor of Lois Pope, who donated $10 million toward its construction, and of her charity Leaders in Furthering Education (LIFE). The building opened on October 26, 2000. Pope's gift also funds 20 LIFE Fellows for neurological research. The six-story building cost $28 million and was designed by MGE Architects. The block of NW 11th Avenue in front of the building has been named Buoniconti Drive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2107973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107973", "title": "Ranelagh Gardens", "text": "Ranelagh Gardens\n\nRanelagh Gardens (; alternative spellings include Ranelegh and Ranleigh, the latter reflecting the English pronunciation) were public pleasure gardens located in Chelsea, then just outside London, England in the 18th century.\n\nThe Ranelagh Gardens were so called because they occupied the site of Ranelagh House, built in 1688–89 by The 1st Earl of Ranelagh, an Anglo-Irish peer who was the Treasurer of Chelsea Hospital (1685–1702), immediately adjoining the Hospital; according to Bowack's \"Antiquities of Middlesex\" (1705), it was \"Designed and built by himself\". Its actual builder and owner was one Solomon Rieti, an Italian Jewish immigrant. Rieti's niece, Rebecca Rieti, was the grandmother of Benjamin Disraeli. Ranelagh House was demolished in 1805 (Colvin 1995, p 561). \n\nIn 1741, the house and grounds were purchased by a syndicate led by the proprietor of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, and Sir Thomas Robinson MP, and the Gardens opened to the public the following year. Ranelegh was considered more fashionable than its older rival Vauxhall Gardens; the entrance charge was two shillings and sixpence, compared to a shilling at Vauxhall. Horace Walpole wrote soon after the gardens opened, \"It has totally beat Vauxhall... You can't set your foot without treading on a Prince, or Duke of Cumberland.\" Ranelagh Gardens introduced the masquerade, formerly a private, aristocratic entertainment, to a wider, middle-class English public, where it was open to commentary by essayists and writers of moral fiction.\nThe centrepiece of Ranelagh was a rococo rotunda, which figured prominently in views of Ranelagh Gardens taken from the river. It had a diameter of 120 feet (37 metres) and was designed by William Jones, a surveyor to the East India Company. The central support housed a chimney and fireplaces for use in winter. From its opening, the Rotunda at Ranelagh Gardens was an important venue for musical concerts. In 1765, the nine-year-old Mozart performed in this showpiece. Canaletto painted the gardens, and painted the interior of the Rotunda twice, for different patrons. The rotunda was closed in 1803 and demolished two years later. The organ was moved to All Saints Church, Evesham. \n\nThere was also a Chinese pavilion, which was added in 1750, an ornamental lake and several walks. Ranelagh was a popular venue for romantic assignations. Edward Gibbon wrote that it was, \"the most convenient place for courtships of every kind — the best market we have in England.\"\nSuch was the renown of the Gardens and the vogue for music in the open air that a New York Ranelagh Gardens was opened in New York, in the former Rutgers house, as a rival to the New York Vauxhall Gardens; its proprietor John Kenzie posted an advertisement for it during the occupation of the city in the American Revolution, in hopes of attracting the British soldiers, as well as \"the Respectable Public\". and a Jardin Ranelagh was created in Paris' fashionable 16th arrondissement in 1870.\n\nRanelagh Gardens were redesigned by John Gibson in the 19th century. It is now a green pleasure ground with shaded walks, part of the grounds of Chelsea Hospital and the site of the annual Chelsea Flower Show.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107987", "title": "Phoebe Cary", "text": "Phoebe Cary\n\nPhoebe Cary (September 4, 1824–July 31, 1871) was an American poetess, and the younger sister of poetess Alice Cary (1820–1871). The sisters co-published poems in 1849, and then each went on to publish volumes of their own. After their deaths in 1871, joint anthologies of the sisters' unpublished poems were also compiled.\n\nCary was born on September 4, 1824, in Mount Healthy, Ohio near Cincinnati, and she and her sister Alice were raised on the Clovernook farm in what is now North College Hill, Ohio. While she and her sister were raised in a Universalist household and held political and religious views that were liberal and reformist, they often attended Methodist, Presbyterian, and Congregationalist services and were friendly with ministers of all these denominations and others.\n\nWhile they occasionally attended school, the sisters were often needed to work at home and so were largely self-educated. The sisters' mother died in 1835 and two years afterwards their father married again. Their stepmother was wholly unsympathetic regarding their literary aspirations. For their part, while they were ready and willing to aid to the full extent of their strength in household labor; the sisters persisted in a determination to study and write when the day's work was done. Sometimes they were refused the use of candles to the extent of their wishes and the device of a saucer of lard with a bit of rag for a wick was their only light after the rest of the family had retired.\n\nMore outgoing than her sister, Cary was a champion of women's rights and for a short time edited \"Revolution\", a newspaper published by Susan B. Anthony. In 1848, their poetry was published in the anthology \"Female Poets of America\" edited by Rufus Wilmot Griswold and with his help, \"Poems of Alice and Phoebe Cary\" was published in 1849. Poet John Greenleaf Whittier had been invited to provide a preface; but refused. He believed their poetry did not need his endorsement and also noted a general dislike for prefaces as a method to \"pass off by aid of a known name, what otherwise would not pass current\".\nThe sisters' anthology garnered much acclaim, and in 1850 they moved to New York City. There, they often hosted evening receptions on Sundays, some of which were attended by well-known figures such as P. T. Barnum, John Greenleaf Whittier and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. While in New York, Phoebe published two volumes of exclusively her own poetry: \"Poems and Parodies\" and \"Poems of Faith, Hope and Love\". Additionally, her lyrics appeared in many church hymnals, on Sunday School cards and in household scrapbooks. One of her enduring hymns, \"Nearer Home\" (first line \"One sweetly solemn thought\"), was often sung at funerals, including Alice's and her own. In hymnals it has long been matched to the tune OZREM, composed in 1850 by Isaac B. Woodbury. Canadian composer Robert Ambrose, nonetheless, in 1876 fashioned a longer, more choral tune, specifically for Cary's lyrics. The Cary–Ambrose score became one of the most popular and widely selling pieces of sheet music in the 19th century.\n\nIn the joint housekeeping in New York, Phoebe took, from choice (Alice being for many years an invalid), the larger share of the household duties, and hence found less leisure for literary labor. She wrote very little prose, and her poetry was so different in style, so much more buoyant in tone and independent in manner, that the verses of one sister were rarely ascribed to the other.\n\nAlice died in 1871 from tuberculosis; Phoebe died five months later of hepatitis on July 31, 1871, in Newport, Rhode Island. Both were buried in Green-Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, New York.\n\n\nAs editor and compiler:\n\nNote: In early volumes, \"Cary\" was spelled \"Carey\" in and on Phoebe and Alice Cary's books, and later editions and volumes changed the spelling to \"Cary\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2107991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107991", "title": "East Liberty (Pittsburgh)", "text": "East Liberty (Pittsburgh)\n\nEast Liberty is a neighborhood in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania's East End. It is bordered by Highland Park, Morningside, Stanton Heights, Garfield, Friendship, Shadyside and Larimer, and is represented on Pittsburgh City Council by Councilwoman Deborah Gross and Rev. Ricky Burgess. One of the most notable features in the East Liberty skyline is the East Liberty Presbyterian Church, which is an area landmark.\n\nAround the time of the American Revolution, East Liberty was a free grazing area in Allegheny County located a few miles east of the young, growing town called Pittsburgh. (In older English usage, a \"liberty\" was a plot of common land on the outskirts of a town.)\n\nTwo farming patriarchs owned much of the nearby land, and their descendants' names grace streets in and around East Liberty today. John Conrad Winebiddle owned land west of present-day East Liberty, in what are now Bloomfield, Garfield, and Friendship, and his daughter Barbara inherited a portion close to what is now East Liberty. Alexander Negley owned a farm called \"Fertile Bottom\" north of present-day East Liberty along the southern bank of the Allegheny River. Negley's land included some of present-day East Liberty and much of nearby Highland Park, Morningside, Larimer, and Stanton Heights.\n\nAlexander Negley's son Jacob married Barbara Winebiddle, built a manor house, and developed a village that he called East Liberty after the old grazing commons. In 1816, Negley saw to it that the Pittsburgh-Greensburg turnpike was built through East Liberty, which made the area a trading center and ensured its future growth.\n\nEast Liberty truly began to develop as a commercial area in 1843, when Jacob's daughter Sarah Jane Negley married the ambitious lawyer Thomas Mellon. Mellon had first visited the area of modern-day East Liberty in 1823, when as a 10-year-old he saw the Negley mansion for the first time and decided he wanted something like it. He achieved this goal and much more: after first becoming a prosperous lawyer, he made his true fortune by marrying Sarah Jane Negley, selling or renting the land near East Liberty that she inherited, and using the proceeds to finance Pittsburgh's nascent industries. Like Jacob Negley before him, Thomas Mellon worked to make East Liberty a transportation hub: Mellon convinced some of Pittsburgh's first trolley lines to pass through East Liberty.\n\nEast Liberty developed more or less independently of Pittsburgh until the Pennsylvania Railroad opened the East Liberty station in the 1850s. This passenger depot served to connect East Liberty to the city; twenty-six trains transported people to and from downtown on a daily basis. The rail connection was of crucial importance for the area's future development, because Pittsburgh was just about to enter its industrial boom period that would last between the end of the Civil War and World War I. As the city's population swelled to fuel the burgeoning iron and steel industry, East Liberty grew too. The neighborhood's population increased from under 1,000 in 1850 to over 46,000 by 1910. East Liberty acted as a first-ring residential suburb for elite families looking to escape the industrial smoke and soot of the city. By the turn of the century, it was one of the richest suburbs in America, containing many of the wealthy industrialists’ mansions. However, East Liberty was not exclusively an elite, Anglo-American neighborhood. The East Liberty Station brought floods of European immigrants and African American migrants from the South, who were drawn by Pittsburgh's manufacturing and industrial jobs. The neighborhood became home to an impressive number of churches for various religions and ethnicities by the late nineteenth century. There were separate places of worship for German and Italian Protestants, Irish, Italian and German Catholics, as well as a Presbyterian church for Anglo-Americans and an AME church for African Americans. East Liberty's diverse mix of Italian, Anglo-American, German, African-American, Jewish, Polish, Greek, and Irish residents stayed intact until after World War II.\n\nOn June 30, 1868, the City of Pittsburgh annexed Collins and Liberty townships, which together included East Liberty. Thanks to its favorable location and Mellon's guiding hand, East Liberty became a thriving commercial center in the following years. East Liberty's merchants served many of Pittsburgh's industrial millionaires, who settled in nearby Shadyside and Point Breeze. Professionals in Highland Park and Friendship and laborers in Bloomfield and Garfield also shopped in East Liberty. There were four movie theaters. Actor-singer Dick Powell got his start singing at the Enright Theater. By 1950, the area was a bustling and fully urban marketplace, anchored by Sears-Roebuck store on Highland Avenue and (Albert J )Mansmann's Department Store on Penn Avenue. It had become the largest, in terms of sales dollars, non-center-city business district in the country.\n\nEast Liberty's decline was precipitated by a series of government policies relating to the underwriting of mortgages for homes commonly referred to as redlining. The residential areas immediately surrounding East Liberty's main business district consisted primarily of tightly packed wood frame homes built in the mid-to-late 1800's.. In 1937, The George F Cram Company undertook the creation of federally sponsored surveys and maps which ultimately became the 'redlined' maps used by banks for underwriting. The Cram Maps listed this housing stock as \"obsolete,\" noted the \"infiltration of Jews... and Negroes\", and the large number of people on relief (the New Deal version of Welfare) as justification for redlining the area. The result of this redlining was two-fold; first, it made accessing conventional forms of credit for home renovations difficult; and second, it fostered segregation of low income minorities in a neighborhood that was clearly racially diverse in 1937.\n\nBecause homes require routine maintenance and occasional updates to remain both structurally sound and viable in the real estate market, the absence of credit would have been devastating. Without capital to fund repairs and renovations, homes in poor repair would have only gotten worse over time. Indeed, when Urban Renewal's blight remediation via demolition was undertaken in the 1960s, the areas redlined in 1937 were those designated as blighted, and razed.\n\nThe residential neighborhoods north of the redlined areas were not immune to the impact of redlining. The larger brick four-square homes built in the first 20 years of the 20th Century were interspersed with the estates of Pittsburgh's wealthy. However, the George F Cram surveys noted \"...negro encroachment threatening, calling it an obsolete, \"...mediocre section of East Liberty.\", and designated it as a higher risk for lenders. Though this area of the neighborhood declined in tandem with the greater East Liberty neighborhood, it was spared the greater destruction of Urban Renewal.\n\nTwo decisions in the 1960s exacerbated the trends begun with redlining. The first was an attempt to halt a slow trickle of businesses from the City to the suburbs. In the early 1960s, a few of East Liberty's larger merchants saw that some residents of Pittsburgh's East End were moving to the suburbs, and that suburban shopping malls were consequently growing and expanding. These merchants feared that suburban development would harm East Liberty's status as a market center, and asked the City of Pittsburgh's Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) to take action.\n\nThe URA proposed creating an outdoor pedestrian mall on Penn Avenue, to be surrounded by car-friendly roads on which large stores, surrounded by parking lots, could serve shoppers just as the new suburban stores were doing. This plan required the demolition of roughly half of the 254 ac (103 ha) that comprised East Liberty. As noted previously, the area targeted for demolition roughly aligned with those parts of the neighborhood redlined in 1937. After some contentious debate, the plan was approved, and the URA stopped traffic on the busiest part of Penn Avenue (the old Greensburg-Pittsburgh turnpike of Jacob Negley's day) and routed it onto a series of new, one-way thoroughfares (called Penn Circle) that formed a ring around the central business district. Many small shops were destroyed—a million square feet of retail space in all.\n\nWhile the URA was remaking the street plan of East Liberty, the City of Pittsburgh's housing authority made a second set of changes to the neighborhood. Housing authority planners noted that the nearby African-American neighborhood of Homewood was overcrowded, largely as a result of the URA's earlier demolition of the lower Hill District to create the Civic Arena, which had forced many of the Hill's African-Americans out and into the North Side and Homewood. The housing authority's solution was to build three large housing complexes, each close to 20 stories tall, in East Liberty along the new Penn Circle roads.\n\nThese two measures ultimately failed to preserve East Liberty as a market center, and arguably hastened the old neighborhood's demise. By routing cars away from Penn Avenue, the URA's new street plan seemed to send a message that the neighborhood's commercial center was not worth visiting. The housing authority's massive housing complexes quickly developed a reputation as centers for crime, and this reputation likely did as much as the confusing street plan to drive commerce away from East Liberty.\n\nUrban Renewal had devastating consequences for the neighborhood. There were some 575 businesses in East Liberty in 1959 but only 292 in 1970 and just 98 in 1979. The businesses that remained tended not to serve the majority of nearby Pittsburghers, but only the captive audience that remained in what was now an urban ghetto.\n\nSteep population decline followed Urban Renewal. East Liberty became a segregated neighborhood with high poverty rates, low rates of homeownership, and a legacy of disinvestment that continued well after the Community Reinvestment Act eliminated redlining. In the past 20 years, the population fell from 7,973 in 1990, to 6,871 in 2000, and 5,698 in 2016. The reason for this is both the A recent study of demographic changes in East Liberty suggests that abandonment due to poor property condition drove the bulk of population change in East Liberty; even in the past 10 years. Evidence of previous widespread abandonment exists both in the form of vacant lots which once held homes and in the presence of new homes and apartments built on previously vacant lots.\n\nIn the three decades following 1980, East Liberty has slowly regained its status as a market destination for shoppers and now is regarded by some as the hottest area of Pittsburgh.\n\nIn 1979, Mellon Bank, Pittsburgh National Bank, local property owners and other businesses created a nonprofit community development corporation, East Liberty Development, Inc. (ELDI). and hired an executive director, David Feehan. During the 1980s, a number of important developments occurred, spearheaded by ELDI, which acquired and renovated a vacant hotel (now 100 Sheridan Square); purchased the block that included the Regent Theater and Penn Highland Building; and worked with developers to bring the first market rate condo to the community and a new shopping center called East Liberty Station on Penn Avenue, east of Penn Circle. During the 1980s, the collection of small shops on Penn Circle South expanded, more than 200 businesses located in East Liberty, and more than $80 million was invested in real estate development. In the fifteen years following its founding, ELDI focused on rehabilitating some of the East Liberty's historic commercial spaces. These included the Regent Theater (now called the Kelly-Strayhorn Theater) and Motor Square Garden.\n\nELDI's rehabilitation projects were time-consuming, and they did not make the neighborhood the destination for shoppers that it had formerly been. For example, ELDI and the Massaro Corporation recreated the Motor Square Garden building as an indoor mall in 1988, but consumers did not respond. The American Automobile Association bought the building in bankruptcy court in 1991 and now uses it as office space.\n\nIn addition to its moderately successful property rehabilitation efforts during the 1980s, ELDI was able to remove the failed pedestrian mall on Penn Avenue and return that thoroughfare to its traditional use as a two-way street. These successes set the stage for a large and somewhat controversial series of developments in the late 1990s and 2000s.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2006, ELDI and the City of Pittsburgh worked to attract new “big box” retailers to East Liberty and to remove the 20-story housing projects that surrounded the neighborhood. First, ELDI and the City used tax increment financing to lure two national retailers to the neighborhood: Home Depot and Whole Foods. Both of these stores thrived, and their success convinced small local merchants and other national retailers to invest in the neighborhood. Second, after a complex and time-consuming set of transactions, two of the three housing projects that visually barricaded the neighborhood were demolished in 2005, and the third was demolished in May 2009.\nBecause these efforts involved resettling the largely African-American population of East Liberty's housing projects and attracting several high-end retailers, ELDI and the City have been criticized for acting as agents of Gentrification. Some of these concerns have been assuaged by new mixed-income residential developments which have begun to replace the demolished housing projects, as the new developments provide arguably nicer and safer accommodations for some of the projects’ former residents.\n\nBy 2009, East Liberty more closely resembled the busy commercial neighborhood of 1959 than the struggling ghetto of 1979. Merchants continue to invest in the neighborhood, and outside observers consider it to be fully rehabilitated.\n\nIn 2010, \"The New York Times\" published an article about the revival of East Liberty, and cited the presence of a Google office as a sign of the neighborhood's success.\n\nIn 2011, the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" published an article entitled \"The trend toward shared working areas arrives\" which describes the creation of The Beauty Shoppe, East Liberty's first Coworking space. The space is owned by East Liberty Development Inc and currently houses several start ups and small businesses. The first business tenant was Thinktiv, Inc., a venture accelerator. Thinktiv was part of The Beauty Shoppe redevelopment effort alongside East Liberty Development Inc. and Edile, a real estate development firm.\n\nIn 2012, VIA Pittsburgh—the collective that hosts an internationally acclaimed audio/visual festival each October—acquired its first venue, 6119 (sixty-one nineteen), in East Liberty, courtesy of the ELDI. East Liberty also houses a wide array of Pittsburgh's unique restaurants and bars including: Muddy Waters, BRGR, Plum, Spoon, Ava, Kelly's, Paris 66, and Twisted Frenchman, in addition to other eateries and local favorites. Two hotels have opened recently, the Hotel Indigo and the Ace Hotel in the former YMCA. The first second-story Target store has opened at Penn and Centre. Whole Foods may be doubling their current space in a new building to be erected. The Highland Building hi-rise, vacant for 20 years, has been converted into luxurious apartments, as has the adjacent Wallace Building, through Walnut Capital, a local real estate company that also owns part of Bakery Square.\n\nIn April 2014, the streets making up Penn Circle were renamed, removing a highly visible reminder of the failed urban renewal plans of the 1960s. Several historic street names were restored, and Centre Avenue was extended beyond its original (pre-1968) terminus at Penn Avenue to East Liberty Boulevard, affording visitors to the neighborhood a less confusing path toward the business district.\n\nIn June 2014, USA Today named East Liberty one of the ten best up and coming neighborhoods around the USA.\n\nEast Liberty is served by the East Liberty station, also called the East Liberty Transit Center, on the Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway. This station was redeveloped in 2015. The publicly funded project aimed at transit-oriented development, placing residents and retail in close proximity to mass transit in order to encourage urban density and discourage automobile use. The transit center increases accessibility to the Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway that runs along the ravine where the Pennsylvania Railroad once ran. The busway connects Downtown with East End neighborhoods and eastern suburbs of Allegheny County. This $150 million project covers a total of 6 acres and added 3000 square feet of mixed-use commercial space.\n\nThis project has been a catalyst for heated debates in the past three years about the lack of affordable housing in East Liberty. The project's tax abatement program, which is meant to encourage development in the East Liberty transit district, has resulted in public funds being granted to private developers for high-end development, including hundreds of luxury apartments.\nIn 2009, the Remnant Choir from East Liberty's Mt. Ararat Baptist Church won second place, and $20,000 in prize money, in a national contest that was sponsored by Verizon Wireless, and was designed to find the \"Best Church Choir in America.\"\n\nLegendary actor and dancer Gene Kelly was born in East Liberty in 1912.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107994", "title": "German submarine U-5", "text": "German submarine U-5\n\nU-5 may refer to one of the following German submarines:\n\n\nU-5 or U-V may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2107995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107995", "title": "Hilda Tablet", "text": "Hilda Tablet\n\nHilda Tablet is a fictitious \"twelve-tone composeress\" created by Henry Reed in a series of radio comedy plays for the British Broadcasting Corporation's Third Programme. Hilda is the inventor of \"musique concrète renforcée\" (literally, \"reinforced concrete music\"), and the composer of the all-female opera \"Emily Butter\" set in a department store.\n\nShe first appeared in the play \"A Very Great Man Indeed\" where the central character and narrator is the scholar, Herbert Reeve, played by Hugh Burden. Reeve plans to write a biography of the novelist Richard Shewin, and interviews various friends and relatives of the deceased author.\n\nReed became intrigued by the character of Hilda and subsequently wrote a sequel \"The Private Life of Hilda Tablet\" in which Reeve is bullied into undertaking the biography in \"not more than twelve volumes\" of Hilda. Five further episodes followed. Hilda Tablet was played by Mary O'Farrell.\n\nThe principal models for Hilda were Dame Ethel Smyth (from whom Hilda took her lesbianism and rural heartiness together with the endlessness of her proposed memoirs), and Elisabeth Lutyens, with whom Reed was acquainted, from whom Hilda took her interest in the macabre and obsession with architecture.\n\n\n\nAnd included (among others): Denis Quilley, Leonard Sachs, Michael Flanders, Norman Shelley and Rose Hill.\n\nHilda's music, and the pop-songs of Owen Shewin, were created for the series by Donald Swann.\n\nAll seven plays were produced by Douglas Cleverdon.\n\n\"Hilda Tablet and Others\", BBC Books, London, 1971contains the scripts of \"A Very Great Man Indeed\", \"The Private Life of Hilda Tablet\", \"A Hedge Backwards\", and \"The Primal Scene, As It Were...\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108007", "title": "Chemical Society of Peru", "text": "Chemical Society of Peru\n\nChemical Society of Peru is a non-profit scientific institution devoted to chemistry. It was founded in 1933 and groups to all the professionals related to natural sciences in which chemistry plays an important role, such as chemists, chemical engineers, chemical pharmacists, biologists, biochemists and physicians.\n\nIn the last sixty years the institution has diversified in many areas of research including Bromatology, Nutrition, Biochemistry, Phytochemistry and Physical chemistry. It also has developed several new programs to improve chemistry learning in public schools and universities; it has organized events to promote investigation and development of chemistry; such as the \"\"5th South American Congress of Chemistry\"\" and served as host of \"\"13th Latin American Congress of Chemistry\"\".\nThe Chemical society is directed by a Board of Trustees (chosen biennially) and whose members, are encouraged to spread and significantly develop scientific research, the majority has PhD or doctorate degree and many of its members have lectured in the prestigious chemistry department at National University of San Marcos.\n\nThis institution is supervised by the \"\"Peruvian council of chemistry\"\" (also known as \"\"Peruvian Board of Chemists\"\") and it has the approval of IUPAC and its affiliates.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108008", "title": "Iola Leroy", "text": "Iola Leroy\n\nIola Leroy, \"or Shadows Uplifted\", an 1892 novel by Frances E. W. Harper, is one of the first novels published by an African-American woman. While following what has been termed the \"sentimental\" conventions of late nineteenth-century writing about women, it also deals with serious social issues of education for women, passing, miscegenation, abolition, reconstruction, temperance, and social responsibility.\n\nIola Leroy, the principal character of the novel.\n\nHarriet Johnson, Iola Leroy's grandmother. While a slave of Nancy Johnson, she resists a whipping. As a punishment, she is sold.\n\nRobert Johnson. He is still a child when separated from his mother Harriet. His enslaver, Nancy Johnson, sees him as a \"pet animal\" (chapter 1) and teaches him to read. As a young man, he becomes the leader of a group of slaves who decide to seek refuge with the Union army during the Civil War. He enlists in a colored regiment and is promoted to lieutenant. On account of his white skin, his superiors council him to change to a white regiment for better chances of promotion, but he refuses. After the war, he successfully runs a hardware store.\n\nMarie Leroy, Iola's mother. A small child when brutally separated from her mother Harriet Johnson, she finally becomes the slave of wealthy Eugene Leroy. When Eugene becomes seriously ill, she nurses him back to health. He sets her free, has her educated and marries her in a secret ceremony. Although she is so white that \"no one would suspect that she has one drop of negro blood in her veins\" (chapter IX), the marriage results in the Leroy family becoming social outcasts.\n\nHarry Leroy, Iola's brother. Like Iola, he is educated in a North. The African ancestry of their mother is concealed from the children, and they are not allowed to pass their vacations at home, spending that time instead together with the parents in a northern holiday resort. When he learns that his father has died and his mother and sister are enslaved, he becomes seriously ill from the shock. When he recovers, the Civil War has begun and he decides to enlist in a colored regiment, making the recruiting officer wonder why a white man should want to do that.\n\nDr. Frank Latimer, the man who Iola finally marries. He was born into slavery as the son of an enslaved mother of predominantly European ancestry and a white man. After emancipation, his mother invested her hard earnings to pay for his studies. He graduated as a medical doctor and afterwards met his white grandmother, the rich mother of his deceased father, who offered to \"adopt him as her heir, if he would ignore his identity with the colored race\" (chapter XXVIII). Although no trace of his African ancestry was visible in his appearance, he declined the offer.\n\nLucille Delany, the woman who Harry finally marries.\n\nTom Anderson, friend of Robert Johnson. He seeks refuge with the Union army together with Johnson, causes the commander to set Iola free, joins the army and dies in Iola's care from wounds he received while knowingly sacrificing himself in order to save his comrades.\n\nAunt Linda, enslaved cook of Nancy Johnson who has a special liking for Robert. She is illiterate and speaks in black dialect, yet she is among the black female characters of the novel who are intelligent, loyal to each other and of central importance to their community.\n\nUncle Daniel, elder friend of Robert Johnson. When Robert and his group seek refuge with the Union army, he stays behind because he doesn't want to break his promise to his absent master.\n\nDr. Gresham, military physician. He falls in love with Iola while he still thinks that she is white. When informed that she is \"colored\", his love helps him to overcome his prejudice, and he proposes to Iola at two different points of the story. When rejected for the second time, \"sympathy, love, and admiration were blended in the parting look he gave her\" (chapter 27).\n\nDr. Latrobe, physician from the South. He is mentioned only in chapters 26, \"Open Questions\", and 28, \"Dr. Latrobe's Mistake\". In a discussion, he voices the view of southern white supremacists.\n\nIn a North Carolina town which is only identified as \"C—\", a group of slaves led by Robert Johnson seek refuge with the Union army that is approaching in the course of the Civil War. Robert's friend Tom Anderson then informs the Union commander of a beautiful young woman held as slave in the neighborhood who is subsequently set free by the commander.\n\nIn a retrospective, the narrative turns to the story of that woman, Iola Leroy. Her father, Eugene Leroy, was a wealthy slaveholder, who had survived a serious illness through the care of a young slave, Marie. He set Marie free, married her and had three children, whose African ancestry was not visible in their outward appearance. The elder children, Ioala and Harry, were educated in the North and their African ancestry (called \"negro blood\" in the book) was hidden from them. When Eugene suddenly died of yellow fever, his cousin, Alfred Lorraine, had a judge declare Marie's manumission illegal. Hence, Marie and her children were legally considered slaves and the heritage fell to Lorraine and other distant relatives. Lorraine sent his agent to the northern seminary where Iola was preparing for her graduation and defending the institution of slavery in discussions with her fellow students. Deceitfully being told that her father was dying, Iola followed the agent to her home, where she learned that she was a slave and was sold away from her mother.\n\nThe narrative then returns to the events following Iola's rescue by the Union army: Robert Johnson and Tom Anderson join the army \"to strike a blow for freedom\", while Iola becomes a nurse in a military hospital. When Robert is entrusted to her care after being wounded, they tell each other their stories which indicate that Robert is the brother of Iola's mother. After the war, they return to \"C—\" to search for Robert's mother, who they recognize when she tells her story during a prayer meeting.\n\nThe family is reunited when they locate Harry who had been fighting in the Union army and met with his and Iola's mother during the war.\n\nMuch space is given to discussions in which the characters talk about themes such as temperance, religion, the position of women in society, alleged white superiority, racism and lynchings, and the color line.\n\nTemperance: The damaging effects of alcohol are often discussed in the book. For example, after the war the black characters tell each other of two former masters who took to drink and ended up in the \"pore-house\" (chapters 18, 19). After Robert Johnson has found his long-lost mother, Aunt Linda pours three glasses of her home-made wine so they can celebrate the event. Robert refuses the wine stating, \"I'm a temperance man\", causing the conversion of Aunt Linda to the temperance idea (chapter 20).\n\nReligion: Prayer plays an important role in the life of the black characters: Iola and Robert discover the first clue of their kinship when Iola sings a special hymn at the bedside of the wounded Robert, which he has learned from his mother (chapter 16). Both find Harriet, their lost grandmother and mother, during a prayer meeting (chapter 20).\n\nWhen Iola's brother Harry learns that his mother and sister have been reduced to slavery, he asks how such a thing is possible in a \"Christian country\". The principal of his school gives the answer: \"Christian in name\" (chapter 14). After the war and the abolition of slavery, in a discussion with her uncle Robert and Dr. Gresham, Iola states that a \"fuller comprehension of the claims of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and their application to our national life\" is the only \"remedy by which our nation can recover from the evil entailed upon her by slavery\", to which both Robert and Gresham agree (chapter 25).\n\nIn the course of their discussions, the characters also mention Islam. The black pastor, \"Rev. Carmicle\", speaks of the \"imperfect creed\" of \"Mohammedanism\". In another discussion, \"Prof. Gradnor\", a black professor from North Carolina, sees Islamic countries as \"civilized\" and compares them favorably to the southern United States, referring to lynchings and stating, \"I know of no civilized country on the globe, Catholic, Protestant, or Mohammedan, where life is less secure than it is in the South\".\n\nWomen in society: The female characters who exert strong influence on the men in their roles as \"moral forces owe something to Stowe and the cult of true womanhood\", but they are neither \"patterned after the white model\" nor are they silent or submissive. On the contrary, \"Harper shows the necessity for women's voice\". In a \"conversazione\" among educated blacks, Iola and Lucille, the only female participants \"dominate the discussions. ... Their outspoken, sometimes feminist remarks are readily accepted by the men\".\n\nAfter Iola and her uncle Robert have moved to the North, Iola tells her uncle that she wants to apply for a job as saleswoman. Robert earns enough so that she doesn't have \"to go out to work\", but she tells him, \n\nAlleged white superiority: In chapter 17, Iola is teaching black children, when a \"gentleman\" asks to address the class. He talks about the \"achievements of the white race\" and then asks \"how they did it.\" \n\n\"Iola Leroy\" \"may well have [been] influenced\" by Harriet Jacobs's 1861 autobiography \"Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl\".\n\nThe novel was \"awarded more blame than praise\" by literary critics, but \"initial readers responded positively\", causing the novel to be reprinted until 1895. From then on, however, it was not re-published until 1971.\n\n\"Iola Leroy\" was for some time cited as the first novel written by an African-American woman. Professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr.'s 1982 discovery of Harriet Wilson's \"Our Nig\" (1859) displaced it from that spot. Still, it remains important as \"the first black vision of black women's roles in reshaping post-Civil War America\" and as a fictional work dealing with complex issues of race, class, and politics in the United States. Recent scholarship suggests that Harper's novel provides a sophisticated understanding of citizenship, gender, and community, particularly the way that African Americans developed hybrid forms of \"gemeinschaft and gesellschaft\" before, during, and after slavery.\n\nThe African-American journalist Ida B. Wells took up the pen name \"Iola\" when she first started writing articles about racism in the South.\n\nAccording to J. F. Yellin, \"Iola Leroy\" \"helped shape the writings of Zora Neale Hurston and other foremothers of black women writing today.\"\n\nHinds v. Brazealle, a Mississippi court case that may have inspired the novel\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108018", "title": "Trinity Episcopal Church (Houston)", "text": "Trinity Episcopal Church (Houston)\n\nTrinity Church, in Midtown Houston, Texas, is a parish church in the Episcopal Diocese of Texas.\n\nTrinity was founded in 1893 as a mission from Christ Church in a part of Houston then called the \"Fairground Addition\", now known as Midtown. It is the second-oldest Episcopal parish in Houston. Trinity was, at one time, one of the largest parishes in the Episcopal Church. Such notables as Walter Cronkite and Denton Cooley have been members of the parish. Its membership declined sharply as its parishioners moved to the suburbs in the 1950s and 1960s. In the 2000s membership has grown steadily.\n\nFive rectors of Trinity have gone on to be bishops in the Episcopal Church. Another has served as dean of a cathedral.\n\nThe Reverend Hannah E. Atkins became Trinity's fifteenth rector in September 2007.\n\nIn 1990, Trinity founded the Lord of the Streets Mission, a mission of the Diocese of Texas to the homeless of Houston. Although no longer under the auspices of Trinity Church, Lord of the Streets' services are held at Trinity.\n\nThe current church building, which dates from 1919, is a neo-Gothic structure, designed by the noted architectural firm, Cram and Ferguson, whose Houston work also includes several buildings at Rice University and the Julia Ideson Building of Houston Public Library. The church's Morrow Chapel was renovated in 2002 and features world-class stained glass, artwork, and liturgical furnishings by such artists as Kim Clark Renteria, Kermit Oliver, Troy Woods, Shazia Sikander, and Selven O’Keef Jarmon. The church also houses a 1918 Pilcher pipe organ, which was recently restored.\n\nAt Trinity, there are ministries for all ages, varied opportunities for spiritual growth, and many programs in which to reach out to others in the community. In addition, special events often take place at Trinity, including the annual Animal Blessing, in the autumn, and Jazz Festival, in the winter. There are also occasional Sunday-evening concerts and special services such as Choral Evensong and sung Compline presented by the Trinity Choir, as well as worship in the Taizé tradition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108020", "title": "Battle of San Patricio", "text": "Battle of San Patricio\n\nThe Battle of San Patricio happened because of the outgrowth of the Matamoros Expedition. The battle marked the start of the Goliad Campaign, the Mexican offensive to retake the Texas Gulf Coast. It took place in and around San Patricio.\n\nBy the end of 1835, all Mexican troops had been driven from Texas. Frank W. Johnson, the commander of the volunteer army in Texas, and James Grant gathered volunteers for a planned invasion of the Mexican port town of Matamoros. After spending several weeks gathering horses for the Matamoros Expedition. In late February, Johnson and about 40 men led the herd to San Patricio. Johnson assigned some of his troops to a ranch outside town to guard the horses, while the rest of his men garrisoned in three different locations in town.\n\nUnbeknownst to the Texians, on February 18 Mexican General José de Urrea had led a large contingent of troops from Matamoros into Texas. Their goal was to neutralize the Texian soldiers gathered along the coast. Urrea's men easily followed the trail left by Johnson's herd of horses. Mexican soldiers surprised the sleeping Texians in San Patricio in the early hours of February 27. After a fifteen-minute battle, all but six Texians had been killed or imprisoned. One Mexican soldier was killed and four injured.\n\nUnder President Antonio López de Santa Anna, the Mexican government began to shift away from a federalist model to a more centralized government. Santa Anna's increasingly dictatorial policies, including the revocation of the Constitution of 1824 in early 1835, incited federalists throughout the nation to revolt. The Mexican Army quickly put down revolts in the Mexican interior, including a brutal suppression of militias in Oaxaca and Zacatecas. Unrest continued in the northeastern Mexican state of Coahuila y Tejas. The area that bordered the United States, known as Texas, was populated primarily by English-speaking settlers, known as Texians. In October, the Texians took up arms in what became known as the Texas Revolution. The following month, Texians declared themselves part of a state independent from Coahuila and created a provisional state government based on the principles of the Constitution of 1824. By the end of the year, all Mexican troops had been expelled from Texas.\n\nLeading federalists in Mexico advocated a plan to attack centralist troops in Matamoros. Members of the General Council, the interim Texas governing body, were enamored with the idea of a Matamoros Expedition. They hoped it would inspire other federalist states to revolt and keep the bored Texian troops from deserting the army. Most importantly, it would move the war zone outside Texas. The Council officially approved the plan on December 25, and on December 30 Frank W. Johnson, the commander of the volunteer army, and his aide James Grant took the bulk of the army and almost all of the supplies to Goliad to prepare for the expedition.\n\nDetermined to quash the rebellion, Santa Anna began assembling a large force to restore order; by the end of 1835, his army numbered 6,019 soldiers. In late December, at his behest, Congress passed the Tornel Decree, declaring that any foreigners fighting against Mexican troops \"will be deemed pirates and dealt with as such, being citizens of no nation presently at war with the Republic and fighting under no recognized flag\". In the early nineteenth century, captured pirates were executed immediately. The resolution thus gave the Mexican Army permission to take no prisoners in the war against the Texians. Santa Anna personally led the bulk of his troops inland to San Antonio de Béxar and ordered General José de Urrea to lead 550 troops along the Atascocita Road toward Goliad. Urrea's efforts to quell the rebellion along the Texas Gulf Coast have become known as the Goliad Campaign.\n\nThe Texas provisional government had named Sam Houston the commander of a new regular army in Texas, but without authority over the volunteers who reported to Johnson. The provisional governor, Henry Smith, opposed the Matamoros Expedition and ordered Houston to find a way to disband it. In a rousing speech to the volunteers, Houston dissuaded the bulk of the men from continuing their mission. Many left the army, while others joined the troops stationed under Houston's second-in-command, James Fannin, at Presidio La Bahia in Goliad. By the end of January 1836, only 70 men remained with Johnson and Grant. Most of these volunteers were Americans or Europeans who had arrived in Texas after the Texas Revolution had commenced.\n\nUrrea reached Matamoros on January 31. A committed federalist himself, he soon convinced other federalists in the area that the Texians' ultimate goal was secession and their attempt to spark a federalist revolt in Matamoros was just a method of diverting attention from themselves. Urrea's force crossed into Texas on February 18.\n\nMeanwhile, Mexican double agents continued to assure Johnson and Grant that they would be able to take Matamoros easily. Despite hearing rumors that the Mexican army was approaching, Grant and Johnson chose to take their men south of the Nueces River, into territory belonging to the state of Tamaulipas, to search for horses to buy, steal, or otherwise gather. About February 21, Johnson and part of the group began herding about 100 horses back into Texas. The rest of the men remained with Grant, ostensibly to look for more horses. In actuality, he was attempting to rendezvous with his allies near Matamoros to determine whether federalists were still willing to rise up against the Mexican army.\n\nJohnson's men arrived on February 24 in San Patricio, an Irish settlement about north of Matamoros. Many of the San Patricio residents were centralists, loyal to the Mexican government. Johnson sent twelve men to guard the horses at the ranch of Julian de la Garza, approximately outside the town, while the rest garrisoned in San Patricio. The weather was frigid, and the men's clothes were threadbare. Confident that Grant would alert him if Mexican troops were in the area, Johnson chose not to appoint sentries, instead allowing all of the men to take shelter.\n\nThe Mexican troops easily followed the trail left by Johnson's herd. On February 25, Urrea led 100 dragoons and 100 infantry to corner the Texians. By 10 p.m., scouts reported that Texian troops were established in San Patricio. The Mexican soldiers continued marching through the cold night; six of the troops died of exposure.\n\nUrrea instructed three officers to go to San Patricio dressed as civilians and warn the centralists that the Mexican army was approaching. In an effort to reduce casualties and property damage, centralists were asked to declare their loyalties by leaving lanterns burning in their windows. Locals also gave the officers precise information on which buildings housed Texian soldiers. Urrea sent 30 men under Captain Rafael Pretalia to de la Garza's ranch to surprise the Texians camped there. At 3:30 a.m. on February 26, the remaining Mexican soldiers entered San Patricio.\n\nOne group of Texians surrendered immediately when they awoke to find themselves surrounded by Mexican troops. When another party of Texians was asked to surrender, they instead opened fire, killing a Mexican officer and wounding two other soldiers. Determined to prevent more casualties, Mexican dragoons prepared to set the house on fire to force the Texians out. At this point, several Texians called that they were surrendering. As they left the house, they were shot or lanced.\n\nBy chance, Johnson and three of his men, Lieutenant Daniel Toler and Sergeants Love and Miller, were still awake and discussing tactics. Mexican troops had been told that the house where Johnson was quartered was one of their targets, yet a lamp burned in the window, signaling that this was the home of a loyalist. Out of an abundance of caution, a group of troops knocked on the door. Before the Texians could open the door, they heard the gunfire from the town square. Toler looked out a window and saw uniformed troops on the porch. Without opening the door, he told the soldiers, in Spanish, that there were no troops there, but he would open the door momentarily. The fighting moved into the street, and soldiers who had been guarding the back door of the house rushed around to the front. Johnson, Toler, Love, and Miller dashed out the back door and escaped.\n\nAt the de la Garza ranch, the Texians had been taking turns standing sentry. In the cold, all of the sentries had fallen asleep. Pretalia's soldiers opened fire on the sleeping men, injuring two Texians. In the subsequent fight, four Texians died, eight men (three Americans and five \"Tejanos\", Mexican-Ethnicity Texans) were taken prisoner, and several escaped.\n\nThe fighting ended within fifteen minutes.\n\nSix Texians escaped, including Johnson, Toler, Miller, Love, and John F. Beck. They made their way on foot to Refugio, where they sent a messenger to Fannin at Goliad, north, to let him know that Urrea's army was close. The survivors reached Goliad on February 29. After filling out an official report on the battle, Johnson, Toler, and Love left the army and went to San Felipe. The remaining survivors joined Fannin's troops and were later killed in the Goliad Massacre.\n\nEleven Texians were killed outright, five suffered mortal wounds, and 21 others were taken prisoner. Six local men were also arrested for aiding the rebellion. Some historians report that most were executed immediately in the town square. According to reports by Johnson and another Texian, Urrea questioned several of the prisoners, and there were reports that the men were tortured. Within 72 hours all of the prisoners were dead. One Mexican soldier was killed and four were wounded.\n\nUrrea's official records state that the battle was fought at Fort Lipantitlán, on the other side of the Nueces River. Texian accounts are consistent that the fighting occurred in town and at the de la Garza ranch. While Urrea waited for reinforcements before beginning his march towards Goliad, his advance party searched for Grant and the remaining Texians. After learning of Grant's whereabouts from local spies, on March 2 Mexican dragoons ambushed the Texians at Agua Dulce Creek.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108023", "title": "Kotoko (musician)", "text": "Kotoko (musician)\n\nKotoko (stylized as KOTOKO, born January 19) is a Japanese J-pop musician, singer and songwriter from Sapporo, Hokkaido. Kotoko began her singing career as a member of I've Sound in 2000, and was later signed to Rondorobe under Geneon from 2004 to 2010. Kotoko left Geneon in 2010, left I've Sound and signed to Warner Home Video in 2011. She composes and writes lyrics (for herself as well as other singers in I've Sound) for numerous other song collections. She has contributed songs to numerous anime and video games including \"Please Teacher!\", \"Maria-sama ga Miteru\", \"Hourglass of Summer\", \"Hayate the Combat Butler\", \"Kannazuki no Miko\", \"Shakugan no Shana\", \"\", \"To Love-Ru\", \"Accel World\", \"Phantasy Star Online\" and \"Argevollen\", among others.\n\nFrom elementary school, Kotoko believed her career would be influenced by her voice and tried to involve herself in as many auditions as possible. In addition to regular education she attended courses at the music school Haura where she polished her musical talents.\n\nKotoko became a professional singer in 2000. Her first successful audition was with I've Sound, a team of producers using the talents of various female vocalists for their productions—best recognized for their many dating sim and eroge game soundtracks. She released her first album in 2000. Many of the tracks on this album were later re-recorded for her first I've Sound album, , which is officially considered her first album. Her first I've Sound CD appearance was on the CD \"Dear Feeling\" sold in Comiket 59, together with singer Aki. She then appeared on the album \"Disintegration\", a collection of various songs from I've Sound's singers. Since then, she has performed opening and ending themes for a few anime and has gained significant recognition from her two I've Sound-related album releases. Her second album, \"Garasu no Kaze\", released in June 2005 has been praised within multiple online communities. On October 13, 2005, she released her fourth maxi single, which featured a song from her album, \"\" and its B-side song , which is featured in her third album, \"Uzu-Maki\".\n\nKotoko's first official performance in North America was her highly successful American concert debut at Anime Expo 2005, soon followed by the Kotoko Lax Tour. In 2009, she wrote the song \"Screw\" for the Mamoru Oshii live-action movie \"Assault Girls\". The song was featured as the opening theme song to the console version of video game \"\", and her song \"Hekira no Sora e Izanaedo\" was used as the opening theme for the \"BlazBlue\" sequel \"\". Her 17th single \"Light My Fire\" was written by Ryo of Supercell and was used as the first opening theme to the 2011 anime series \"Shakugan no Shana Final\". She also appeared at the Animazement anime convention in 2012 and returned to the event in 2014. She collaborated with the band Altima in performing the song \"Plasmic Fire\", which is used in the anime film \"Accel World: Infinite Burst\". She collaborated with Luna Haruna on the song \"SxW (Soul World)\"; the song is used as the theme song to the video game \"Accel World VS Sword Art Online: Millennium Twilight\". In February 2018, she announced that she was returning to Geneon, now known as NBCUniversal Entertainment Japan. She released an album titled \"Tears Cyclone\" in June 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108032", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Climate and Ocean Research", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Climate and Ocean Research\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Climate and Ocean Research (CICOR) formalizes a major collaborative relationship between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI).\n\nCICOR provides a framework at WHOI for coordinating NOAA-funded research and for developing cooperative NOAA-funded research at academic institutions in the northeastern United States. CICOR also provides NOAA investigators with access to WHOI facilities, including 4 ships and 2 submersibles, and the Northeast National Ion Microprobe Facility.\n\nThe CICOR research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108037", "title": "Mairtín Crawford", "text": "Mairtín Crawford\n\nMairtín Crawford (25 November 1967 – 11 January 2004) was a poet and journalist who was born and educated in Belfast, Northern Ireland.\n\nHe was educated at Rathmore Grammar School and then Queen's University Belfast.\n\nHe co-founded and edited the Big Spoon literary arts magazine in the 1990s, was production and arts editor of Fortnight magazine, was a creative writing tutor at (amongst other places) the Crescent Arts Centre for eight years, and was appointed Director of Between The Lines Arts Festival for 2004.\n\nMairtín brought \"Beat\" poet Allen Ginsberg to Belfast in 1993 for two public reading events. Among several trips to the USA, in 2001 (as the recipient of an Arts Council Individual Artists’ Award) Mairtín travelled west and met with NASA personnel to research a book of poetry dealing with the concept and implications of space flight. Some of the resulting poems are published in his (posthumous) Selected Poems. His memory is kept alive by the annual Mairtin Crawford literature award which is part of the Belfast Book Festival.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108041", "title": "Point Pleasant, Wallsend", "text": "Point Pleasant, Wallsend\n\nPoint Pleasant is part of the town of Wallsend, Tyne and Wear, England, lying between the town centre and the River Tyne.\n\nThe historic area was once the home of Wallsend Slipway & Engineering Company, which built engines for some of the most famous ships constructed on the Tyne. The site is now owned by Shepherd Offshore.\n\nPoint Pleasant Hall, was an historic mansion dating back several hundred years until most of it was demolished in the 1930s. During this demolition, an abandoned tunnel was found in the main hall which it is believed may have led to Jarrow Monastery, although this has never been substantiated. In late 2009, the one remaining wing of the old hall (subsequently known as Point Pleasant House) was demolished pending further development.\n\nToday, Point Pleasant is made up of two streets of terraced houses and six semi-detached properties, originally built for senior staff at the Slipway.\n\nThe site of the former Point Pleasant Station, on the former Riverside Loop of the Tyneside Electric network, can still be identified. The station was closed in 1973.\n\nFamous ex-residents include Charlie Hardwick (born Claire Elizabeth Hardwick; 3 November 1960)[2]an English actress well known for her part in ITV's Emmerdale as Val Pollard.\n"}
{"id": "2108042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108042", "title": "ResKnife", "text": "ResKnife\n\nResKnife is an open-source resource editor for the Apple Macintosh platform. It supports reading and writing resource maps to any fork (data, resource or otherwise) and has basic template-based and hexadecimal editing functionality. ResKnife can export resource data to flat files and supports third-party plug-in editors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108059", "title": "July 3 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 3 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 2 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 4\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 16 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 3rd, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 20.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108060", "title": "Xavi", "text": "Xavi\n\nXavier Hernández Creus (, ; born 25 January 1980), nicknamed Xavi, is a Spanish football manager and former player who is the manager of Qatar Stars League football club Al Sadd. Highly regarded for his humble personality and team ethics, Xavi is viewed as being the embodiment of the \"tiki-taka\" passing style of play, and is widely considered to be one of the greatest central midfielders of all time. He is also considered by many to be one of the greatest Spanish players ever. \n\nXavi joined \"La Masia\", the Barcelona youth academy, at age 11, and made his first-team debut against Mallorca in August 1998. In all, he played over 700 matches, a club record, and scored 85 goals. Xavi is the first player in the club's history to play 150 European and FIFA Club World Cup matches combined. With Barcelona, Xavi won eight La Liga titles and four UEFA Champions League titles. He has won 31 trophies for Barcelona and Spain, a total only surpassed by Andrés Iniesta as the most decorated Spanish player in history. Xavi came third in the 2009 FIFA World Player of the Year, followed by third place for its successor award, the FIFA Ballon d'Or, in 2010 and 2011. In 2011, he was runner up to Lionel Messi for the UEFA Best Player in Europe Award.\n\nWith Spain, Xavi won the FIFA World Youth Championship in 1999, and the Olympic silver medal at the 2000 Olympics. After making his senior team debut in 2000, he was capped 133 times for the Spain national team, and was an influential figure in the team's successes. He played an integral role in Spain's victory at the 2010 FIFA World Cup, as well as their wins at both UEFA Euro 2008 and UEFA Euro 2012. He was named Player of the Tournament at UEFA Euro 2008, and was named in the UEFA Euro Team of the Tournament in 2008 and 2012. At UEFA Euro 2012, with his two assists in the final, Xavi became the first player to register assists in two separate UEFA Euro finals, having set up the only goal in the final four years earlier. He had a 91% passing success rate at the 2010 FIFA World Cup and was named in the World Cup All-Star Team. After the 2014 FIFA World Cup, Xavi announced his retirement from international football.\n\nXavi was awarded the IFFHS World's Best Playmaker award four times: 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. He was included in the UEFA Team of the Year five times (2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012), and was included in the FIFA FIFPro World XI on six occasions: 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. Xavi was awarded the Prince of Asturias Award for Sports in 2012.\n\nBorn in Terrassa, Barcelona, Catalonia, Xavi is a product of FC Barcelona's \"La Masia\" youth system, which he joined at the age of 11. His father, Joaquim, was a former player for Sabadell in the first division. Xavi made his way through the youth and reserve teams and was a key member of Josep Maria Gonzalvo's Barcelona B team that won promotion to the Second Division.\n\nAlthough he was initially inspired by compatriot playmaker Pep Guardiola at Barcelona, as a child Xavi also watched a lot of English football, and looked up to midfielders John Barnes, Paul Gascoigne and Matt Le Tissier.\n\nXavi's progression through the teams earned him a first-team appearance in a Copa Catalunya match against Lleida on 5 May 1998 and he scored his first goal on 18 August 1998 in the Super Cup final against Mallorca. His debut in La Liga came against Valencia on 3 October 1998 in a 3–1 victory for Barcelona. Initially featuring intermittently both for the reserve and senior teams, Xavi scored the only goal in a 1–0 victory over Real Valladolid when Barcelona were in tenth position in the league. Sustained impressive performances meant that he became a key member of Louis van Gaal's title-winning team, finishing his debut season with 26 matches played and being named 1999 La Liga Breakthrough Player of the Year. Xavi became Barcelona's principal playmaker after an injury to Pep Guardiola in the 1999–2000 season.\n\nIn these years, Barcelona was on the verge of bankruptcy and struggling to keep its place in La Liga's elite. Playing midfield, but in a more defensive role, Xavi made 20 assists and scored 7 goals in those two seasons. On 16 March 2002, he scored his first goal in \"El Clásico\" against Real Madrid.\n\nXavi was named the vice-captain in the 2004–05 season, in which he helped Barcelona win La Liga and the 2004 Supercopa de España. He was named La Liga Spanish Player of the Year in 2005.\n\nIn the 2005–06 season, Xavi tore the ligaments in his left knee in training; he was out of action for four months but returned in April and was on the substitutes bench for Barcelona's win in the 2006 Champions League final against Arsenal. He also won La Liga and the Supercopa de España again.\n\nAfter being named Player of the Tournament at Euro 2008, Xavi spoke to Bayern Munich about a transfer, but newly appointed Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola convinced him that he was too important to the club to be allowed to leave.\n\nHe was a main part of Barcelona's treble and scored the fourth goal in the 4–1 win in the 2009 Copa del Rey Final against Athletic Bilbao, with a free kick. In La Liga, one of his most significant games was the 6–2 \"Clásico\" victory over Real Madrid on 2 May; he assisted four goals – once to Carles Puyol, once to Thierry Henry and twice to Lionel Messi.\n\nXavi helped Barcelona win the 2009 Champions League final 2–0 against Manchester United, assisting the second goal by crossing to Messi for his header. Prior to the match, Manchester United coach Sir Alex Ferguson heaped praise on the central midfield combination of Xavi and Andrés Iniesta, stating, \"I don't think Xavi and Iniesta have ever given the ball away in their lives. They get you on that carousel and they can leave you dizzy.\" Xavi was voted \"UEFA Champions League best midfielder\" for his contribution during Barcelona's victorious 2008–09 Champions League campaign.\n\nXavi was the highest assisting player in La Liga with 20, and in the Champions League, with 7; he earned 29 assists overall that season. Xavi was under contract to Barça until 2014 after extending his contract during the 2008–09 season. The new contract made him one of the club's biggest earners, with a salary of €7.5 million a year.\n\nDuring the 2009–10 season, journalists increasingly noted Xavi's contribution to the Barcelona team. For example:\nIn the 2009–10 season, Xavi again topped the assists table and provided both the assists in Barcelona's 2–0 victory against Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium. Barcelona won the Liga title with a record 99 points, and Xavi was acclaimed Barcelona's second-best player in a season-long vote. On 3 June 2010, Madrid-based newspaper \"Marca\" awarded him third place in the annual Trofeo Alfredo di Stéfano award for the best player in La Liga, behind Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo.\n\nOn 9 June 2010, Xavi signed a new four-year contract with the club, which could be automatically renewed up to 30 June 2016 based on number of games played. On 29 November, he scored his third goal against arch-rivals Real Madrid in a 5–0 home win. On 18 December, he scored another goal against Espanyol in a 1–5 win. In the Champions League, Xavi scored a valuable goal with an assist from David Villa in a home win against Arsenal, that saw Barcelona progress to the quarter-finals.\n\nXavi was one of the three finalists for the 2010 FIFA Ballon d'Or, and finished third in the vote behind his Barcelona teammates Lionel Messi and Andrés Iniesta. He narrowly defeated Messi to win the Player of the Year award from \"World Soccer\" magazine.\n\nOn 2 January 2011, in a league match against Levante, Xavi made his 549th appearance for the club in all competitions, matching the record held by Migueli. Xavi later became the player with the most appearances for Barcelona of all time. On 28 May, Xavi was imperious in the 2011 UEFA Champions League Final at Wembley Stadium in London as Barcelona defeated Manchester United in the showpiece for the second time in three seasons, winning 3–1.\n\nXavi began the 2011–12 season in fine goalscoring form and seemed to grow in his influence of the team despite the long-anticipated return of Cesc Fàbregas and the promotion of Thiago to create added competition for places in \"Barça\"'s attacking midfield positions.\n\nOn 18 December, in the 2011 FIFA Club World Cup Final in Yokohama, Barcelona won 4–0 against Brazilian side Santos as Xavi scored a goal and made an assist to Lionel Messi. After the ball was slightly behind him, Xavi brought the ball down with a cocked leg, effectively using his ankle to control it, before slipping a pass through to Messi, who scored the first goal.\n\nXavi scored the winning goal in the Group H game against Milan, a vital match for Barcelona's progression in the UEFA Champions League. In total, Xavi had the best goalscoring return of his career in 2011–12 season with ten Liga goals, two in the Copa del Rey – which Barcelona won – and one in the Club World Cup final win.\n\nOn 18 December 2012, Barcelona renewed Xavi’s contract, extending it until 30 June 2016.\nHe scored a goal against Real Madrid in a 3–2 win for Barcelona. Xavi was named in the FIFA World XI, along with teammates Iniesta, Messi and Dani Alves. Barcelona had virtually secured their La Liga title by the start of 2013, eventually equalling Real Madrid's 100-point record of the previous season.\n\nOn 16 January 2014, Xavi made his 700th appearance for the first team against Getafe in the Copa del Rey. For the first time in five years, Barcelona ended the season without a major trophy; they were defeated in the Copa del Rey final by Real Madrid with Gareth Bale scoring a late winner, and lost the league in the last game to Atlético Madrid.\n\nIn June 2014, it was announced that Xavi would be leaving the club. On 22 July, however, after talks with newly appointed manager and former teammate Luis Enrique, Xavi decided to stay at Camp Nou for one more season. He was also appointed as club captain. On 25 April 2015, Xavi made his 500th La Liga appearance, becoming the eighth player in history to do so. On 4 June, a farewell event was held at Barcelona for Xavi with players, managers, friends and family paying tribute to him.\n\nOn 6 June 2015, Xavi came on as a 78th-minute substitute for Andrés Iniesta to make his final appearance for Barcelona during the Champions League final, as the club won its fifth European Cup, beating Juventus at Berlin's Olympiastadion. Xavi, as club captain, lifted the trophy. This made Barcelona the first club in history to win the treble of domestic league, domestic cup and European Cup twice. Xavi, Iniesta, Messi, Gerard Piqué, Pedro, Sergio Busquets and Dani Alves were part of both treble-winning teams.\n\nOn 21 May 2015, Xavi announced that he would join Qatari club Al Sadd at the end of the 2014–15 season on a three-year contract. According to his agent, the deal would involve him becoming an ambassador for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in the country, and also start his coaching qualifications. He made his debut for Al-Sadd in a 4–0 win over Mesaimeer on 13 September 2015, assisting in the team's first goal. In the following match, he scored his first goal for the club in a 2–2 draw with Umm Salal. Al Sadd ended the league campaign in third position putting them in a place for the next season's AFC Champions League. Xavi scored three goals during the season. In the Champions League, Al Sadd were knocked out from the qualifying rounds by Emirati side Al Jazira on penalties; Xavi missed his spot kick.\n\nXavi won his first trophy with Al Sadd following a 2–1 victory over El Jaish in the Qatar Cup final on 29 April 2017. On 10 November 2017, Xavi said that he would retire when his contract with Al Sadd expired at the end of the 2017–18 season, and would later pursue a coaching career. However, he postponed these plans and signed a two-year contract extension on 24 May 2018.\n\nOn 2 May 2019, Xavi announced that he would be retiring from professional football at the end of the season. On 20 May 2019, Xavi played the final match of his career, a 2–0 defeat to Persepolis in Tehran, which was Al Sadd's final AFC Champions League group match; before the match, he stated that he would like to remain in Qatar after his retirement, and that he would look to begin a coaching career, commenting: \"The idea is to start as a coach in Qatar, to test myself and get some experience.\"\n\nXavi played for Spain at the 2000 Olympics, 2002 World Cup, Euro 2004, 2006 World Cup, Euro 2008, 2009 Confederations Cup, 2010 World Cup, Euro 2012, 2013 Confederations Cup and the 2014 World Cup.\n\nXavi was named Euro 2008's player of the tournament after Spain defeated Germany 1–0 in the final. Xavi was dominant in midfield, where his passing and reading of the game was pivotal to Spain's success, as he led his nation to their first silverware since the 1964 European Championship. Andy Roxburgh, head of UEFA's Technical Committee, said, \"We have chosen Xavi because he epitomizes the Spanish style of play. He was influential in the whole possession, passing and penetrating kind of game that Spain played.\"\n\nXavi scored the first goal in the semi-final against Russia, which Spain won 3–0. In the final, he made the pass from which Fernando Torres scored the winning goal.\n\nXavi was named in Spain's squad for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, with Spain eventually winning their first World Cup. He provided the most number of accurate passes, 599 with a passing success rate of 91%, and he crossed the ball inside the 18-yard box more than any other player in the tournament. In the final he made 57 accurate forward half passes. Xavi also covered 80.20 kilometres throughout the competitions, averaging approximately 11.5 kilometres per game, more than any other player. In the final, he covered a distance of almost 15 kilometres.\n\nDuring the round of 16 match against Portugal, Xavi provided a backheel pass in the 63rd minute to David Villa. Although Villa had his shot with his left foot blocked by goalkeeper Eduardo, he then put in the rebound with his right foot for the winning goal. In the semi-final against Germany, Xavi crossed from a corner to the edge of the six-yard box, where Carles Puyol scored with a header into the top-right corner.\n\nXavi played for Spain at Euro 2012 which Spain won by defeating Italy 4–0 in the final. Xavi attempted 136 passes (127 completed, 94% success rate) during Spain's 4–0 victory in the group stage match against the Republic of Ireland, more than any other player in a European Championship match. The previous record of 117 had been set by Ronald Koeman in a Euro 1992 match between the Netherlands and Denmark. Xavi and Andrés Iniesta made 229 passes in the match, more than the combined Irish team managed. \"Pum, pum, pum, pum\" was how Xavi described the rhythmic sound of the ball moving between himself and his midfield partner.\n\nWith Xavi providing two assists in the final, for Jordi Alba and Fernando Torres, he became the first player to register assists in two European Championship finals. Spain's UEFA Euro 2012 victory made Xavi the most decorated player in Spanish football history, a status that he previously shared with Carles Puyol, who missed the tournament.\n\nOn 5 August 2014, following the 2014 World Cup where Spain were eliminated at the group stage, Xavi announced his retirement from international football, having made 133 appearances in a 14-year period. Spain's World Cup-winning manager Vicente del Bosque paid tribute, stating that Xavi was \"a key part of the team's style of play\" and \"he was more important to us than even the manager\", also adding, \"We will miss him both on and off the pitch. He is a player who we hold in great esteem both personally and as a player. He is and always will be a person and a player who is greatly valued by the federation, the coaching staff and by myself.\"\n\nOn 28 May 2019, it was announced that Xavi would take over as manager of Al-Sadd on a two-year contract. Xavi helped the club reach the semi-finals of the AFC Champions League, where they were eliminated by Al-Hilal FC 6–5 on aggregate.\nXavi is widely considered as one of the best central midfielders of all-time, relying largely on his ability to find and exploit space as a deep-lying playmaker. As he said, \"That's what I do: look for spaces. All day. I'm always looking.\" Finding space, he would appear for a teammate to receive and then move the ball on, with his coach Pep Guardiola putting it: \"I get the ball, I give the ball, I get the ball, I give the ball.\" A diminutive, agile, composed, and technically skilled player, with a slender physique and a low centre of gravity, Xavi’s signature move when in possession involved him performing a 360 degree turn, a feint known as \"la pelopina\", that allowed him to move away from the opposing player, retain possession, and gave him space and time on the ball to think about his next pass, which compensated for his lack of pace and physical strength. In his youth, he had also played as a centre-back, before being shifted to a midfield role.\n\nAlthough he was not known for his tackling ability, or for being prolific in front of goal, Xavi's outstanding vision, pinpoint accurate passing, excellent off the ball movement, superb reading of the game, positional sense, and world-class ball control allowed him to create chances for teammates and dictate the flow of play in midfield, while rarely relinquishing possession; his qualities were displayed by his performance during Spain's 2010 World Cup victory, where he maintained a 91% passing success rate throughout the entire tournament, in addition to providing two assists, while Spain dominated possession throughout the competition, averaging 59% possession during their three group matches, and 44 passes per shot throughout the entire World Cup, in large part thanks to midfield trio of Xavi, Iniesta, and Xabi Alonso, who were singled out in the media for their role in Spain's title–run; Spain also completed more passes (3,547) than any World Cup team since 1966. Xavi's \"metronomic\" ability to control some matches has earned him the sobriquet, \"\"The Puppet Master\"\". Barcelona president Sandro Rosell believed that Xavi, together with Lionel Messi, Andrés Iniesta and Sergio Busquets, perfected the club's \"tiki-taka\" style of play, a style introduced to the club by former coach Johan Cruyff. Xavi's creativity, range of passing, and unique set of skills have led many in the sport to regard him as one of the greatest passers and playmakers in history. In addition to his playing ability, Xavi was also known for his leadership.\n\nXavi has a sponsorship deal with German sportswear and equipment supplier Adidas and has appeared in Adidas commercials alongside Lionel Messi, Luis Suárez and Robin van Persie. Xavi features in EA Sports' \"FIFA\" video game series, and was the top passer in \"FIFA 15\" with a 91 rating.\n\nIn November 2014, Xavi appeared in FIFA's \"11 against Ebola\" campaign with a selection of top football players from around the world, including Cristiano Ronaldo, Neymar, Gareth Bale and Didier Drogba. Under the slogan \"Together, we can beat Ebola\", FIFA's campaign was done in conjunction with the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and health experts, with the players holding up 11 messages to raise awareness of the disease and ways to combat it.\n\nSince July 2013, Xavi has been married to Nuria Cunillera. Their daughter, Asia, was born on 3 January 2016.\n\nBarcelona\n\nAl Sadd\n\nSpain\n\nSpain Youth\n\nAl Sadd\n\n\n\n \"Members of the Spain national football team who won the 2010 FIFA World Cup were jointly awarded\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2108070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108070", "title": "July 4 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 4 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 3 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 5\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 17 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 4th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 21.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108074", "title": "Anholt", "text": "Anholt\n\nAnholt may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108078", "title": "Albert Orsborn", "text": "Albert Orsborn\n\nAlbert Orsborn (4 September 1886 – 4 February 1967) was the 6th General of The Salvation Army (1946-1954). \n\nBorn Albert William Thomas Orsborn, he became an Officer of The Salvation Army in 1905. Albert served as a Corps Officer and in divisional work in the British Territory of the Army. In 1909, he married his first wife, Captain Evalina Barker.\n\nIn 1925, he was sent to serve as Chief Side Officer at the International Training College. In 1933, he was farewelled to New Zealand as Chief Secretary. He then became Territorial Commander of Scotland and Ireland in 1936. In 1940, he became British Commissioner. \n\nAlbert Orsborn's first wife, Captain Evalina Barker, died in 1942. This was a very hard time for him. Two years later, in 1944, he married his second wife, Major Evelyn Berry. They were married for just a year when she died.\n\nIn 1946, the High Council of The Salvation Army elected Albert to become the General of The Salvation Army. He married his third wife, Commissioner Mrs Phillis Taylor (a daughter of General Higgins), in 1947.\n\nGeneral Orsborn served as General for eight years. He was the author of \"The House of My Pilgrimage\". He retired on 30 June 1954.\n\nGeneral Albert Orsborn died at the age of 80 years and 5 months.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108080", "title": "Woot", "text": "Woot\n\nWoot (originally W00t) is an American Internet retailer based in the Dallas suburb of Carrollton, Texas. Founded by electronics wholesaler Matt Rutledge, it debuted on July 12, 2004. Woot's main website generally offers only one discounted product each day, often a piece of computer hardware or an electronic gadget. Other Woot sites offer daily deals for T-shirts, wine, children's items, household goods; two other sites offer various items. On June 30, 2010, Woot announced an agreement to be acquired by Amazon.\n\nWoot's tagline is \"One Day, One Deal\". Originally, Woot offered one product per day until its stock of that item was sold out, or until the product was replaced at midnight Central Time with the next offering. If a product sold out during its run, the next item would not appear until midnight, except during Woot-Off promotions. However, post-acquisition from Amazon, if a product sells out fast enough (generally before Noon CST), a new product will be offered for purchase.\n\nProducts are never announced beforehand. This sales model means that defective products cannot be replaced, only refunded. The company also does not provide customer support for the products it sells; in case of problems, customers are advised to seek support either from the manufacturer or through the online user community on the Woot forums.\n\nWoot operates within the one-deal-a-day business model. Customers may buy up to three of the day's item, although the site has occasionally limited product quantity to one per customer.\n\nWoot does not reveal sales figures unless the item sells out or a new item is for sale. Except for Shirt.woot, items are shipped only to the United States, using FedEx Ground, FedEx SmartPost, or United Parcel Service. All items, regardless of size or weight, are shipped for a flat fee.\n\nWoot sometimes sells refurbished items. In 2011, sales of 6,200 refurbished Motorola Xooms included a small number (about 100) which weren't refurbished properly, and may have been sold with data from the devices' previous owners.\n\nWoot's main site previously featured a daily podcast by Matthew Shultz, that briefly described the item up for sale and included a humorous song or skit. This has since been replaced by a weekly video podcast. Photoshop contests among Woot forum users for prizes, including cash, free shipping on Woot orders, and the Monkey Prize (typically a random monkey-related item of little or no value) were other promotional events.\n\nCommunity members have contributed back to the site by offering Woot-related services. These include status checkers, Dashboard widgets, and Windows Sidebar widgets to report when the next product is listed; there are also webcasts and other means to monitor the site's status. \n\nThe site occasionally deviates from the one-product-per-day model for a \"Woot-Off\". A Woot-Off lasts for an unannounced length, usually 24–72 hours. During a Woot-Off, products usually sell out quickly, and when one product sells out, it is replaced within a minute or two by a new product. A percentage bar shows how much stock of the current product remains. However, Woot never gives the exact quantity available until after the item has sold out.\n\nBeginning with the \"gamma\" launch of the Neuros MPEG 4 Recorder on February 9, 2005, Woot has occasionally partnered with another company to launch a new product with a one-day exclusive Woot sale..\n\nStarting in July 2005, Woot began occasionally offering a blind grab bag officially called \"Random Crap\", in lieu of typical product sales. While today its accompanying picture of a paper lunch bag with a question mark has kept its unofficial name \"Bag of Crap\", (BOC) it was originally dubbed \"Bag of Crap\" during the early years of the site when a physical bag of some kind (notebook, iomega zipper bags, etc.) was sold with the 1–3 \"craps\" and was part of what you were buying. Today, the BOC contains at least three \"crappy\" items and one bag whose value and quality are not guaranteed, but sometimes expensive items are included. The BOC has been known to sell out in a matter of hours. During the January 25, 2011 selling, the website received a record 3.1 million requests, and the product was sold out within eight seconds.\n\nDuring April Fool's Day 2008, Woot staged a Woot-Off offering the same product repeatedly, except for a few brief periods when Woot sold Bags of Crap instead. Three years later on April Fools' Day, Woot staged a \"Bag of Crap\" flash game, which users were instructed to play in order to win the privilege of buying Bags of Crap. On April 1, 2011, eight thousand Bags of Crap were sold. Later in the day, once the Bag of Crap selling period was over, a Woot admin said that there were over seven million attempts to get the Bags of Crap.\n\nDebuting on March 10, 2010, Woot ran limited one-hour versions of the Woot-Off called Happy Hour. These events were promoted solely via Twitter, and did not appear on woot.com's front page. Happy Hour didn't quite work out and was put on an indefinite hold by August 2011.\n\nA special event was held on July 11, 2014 celebrating Woot.com's tenth birthday.\n\nWoot has created several spin-off sites, some following a similar business model as the main site, others providing other retail-related services. These include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108085", "title": "British Security Co-ordination", "text": "British Security Co-ordination\n\nBritish Security Co-ordination (BSC) was a covert organisation set up in New York City by the British Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) in May 1940 upon the authorisation of the Prime Minister, Winston Churchill.\n\nIts purpose was to investigate enemy activities, prevent sabotage against British interests in the Americas, and mobilise pro-British opinion in the Americas. As a 'huge secret agency of nationwide news manipulation and black propaganda', the BSC influenced news coverage in the \"Herald Tribune\", the \"New York Post\", \"The Baltimore Sun\", and Radio New York Worldwide. The stories disseminated from Rockefeller Center would then be legitimately picked up by other radio stations and newspapers, before being relayed to the American public. Through this, anti-German stories were placed in major American media outlets to turn public opinion.\n\nIts cover was the British Passport Control Office. BSC benefitted from support given by the chief of the US Office of Strategic Services, William J. Donovan (whose organisation was modelled on British activities), and US President Franklin D. Roosevelt who was staunchly anti-Nazi.\n\nThe declaration of war upon Germany by the British in September 1939 forced a break in liaison between SIS and the FBI because of the Neutrality Acts of 1930s. William Stephenson was sent to the US by the head of SIS to see if it could be rekindled to an extent that SIS could operate effectively in the US. While J. Edgar Hoover was sympathetic, he could not go against the State Department without the President's authorisation; he also believed that if it was authorised, it should be a personal liaison between Stephenson and himself without other departments being informed. However, Roosevelt endorsed co-operation.\n\nThe liaison was necessary because Britain's enemies were already present in the US and could expect sympathy and support from German and Italian immigrants, but the authorities there had no remit or interest in activities that were not directly against US security.\n\nStephenson's report on the American situation advocated a secret organisation acting beyond purely SIS activities and covering all covert operations that could be done to ensure aid to Britain and an eventual entry of the US into the war. Stephenson was given this remit and the traditional cover of appointment as a 'Passport Control Officer' which he took up in June 1940. Although the existing setup in New York was lacking, Stephenson could call upon his personal liaison with Hoover, the support of Canada, the British ambassador, and his acquaintances with US interventionists.\n\nThe office, which was established for intelligence and propaganda services, was headed by Canadian industrialist William Stephenson. Its first tasks were to promote British interests in the United States, counter Nazi propaganda, and protect the Atlantic convoys from enemy sabotage.\n\nThe BSC was registered by the State Department as a foreign entity. It operated out of \nRoom 3603 at Rockefeller Center and was officially known as the British Passport Control Office from which it had expanded. BSC acted as administrative headquarters more than operational one for SIS and the Special Operations Executive (SOE) and was a channel for communications and liaison between US and British security and intelligence organisations.\n\nBSC used a number of legitimate outlets for its work. In 1940, a German agent, Gerhard Alois Westrick, who was cultivating support and possible sabotage among American oil companies, was effectively exposed through news articles placed in the \"New York Herald Tribune\". A wave of public outrage was followed by Weldrick's expulsion from the US and the forced resignation of the head of Texaco (Torkild Rieber). \nThrough third parties, BSC developed the independent and non-profit WRUL shortwave radio station foreign-language broadcast capability and then fed it stories it wanted disseminated worldwide. The station had a large number of listeners who corresponded with the station, which made it possible for reactions to the broadcasts to be directly monitored. For a period, the station was unwittingly the agent of BSC; after the US entered the war, the WRUL operation was turned over to US control.\n\nAlthough the British and Americans were co-operating at the Prime Minister-President level at the time, the arrival of \"British spies\" in the United States infuriated J. Edgar Hoover, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and displeased the US Department of State.\n\nStephenson and Hoover did not see eye to eye but had cooperated in a number of operations against espionage activities by Nazi Germany in the US. The British hired Americans despite promising otherwise. The Americans who were recruited in the BSC were given British identification numbers beginning with the digits 4 and 8, apparently representing the 48 states.\n\nIn 1939, Stephenson arranged for the Hamilton Princess Hotel to become a censorship centre. All mail, radio and telegraphic traffic bound for Europe, the U.S. and the Far East were intercepted and analyzed by 1,200 censors, of \"British Imperial Censorship\", part of British Security Coordination (BSC), before being routed to their destination. With BSC working closely with the FBI, the censors were responsible for the discovery and arrest of a number of Axis spies operating in the US, including the Joe K ring.\nIt was through the BSC that the British acquired the powerful \"Aspidistra\" transmitter that was used for propaganda by the Political Warfare Executive (PWE), BBC overseas broadcasts and by the Royal Air Force (RAF) in the war against Germany. BSC also sourced a transmitter for it to communicate with the UK which was operated under the code name \"Hydra\" at Camp X, BSC's Special Training School No. 103, a Second World War paramilitary installation in Whitby, Ontario for training covert agents in the methods of \"secret warfare\". The Hydra station was established in May 1942 by engineer Benjamin deForest Bayly; he also invented a very fast coding/decoding machine for telegraph transmissions labelled the Rockex. Camp X had been established in December 1941 by Stephenson to train Allied agents in methods of clandestine operations; many graduates would be dropped behind enemy lines in Europe by SOE.\n\nThe British novelist William Boyd, in a 2006 article for \"The Guardian\", stated that although the total number of BSC agents operating in the US in the early 1940s is unknown, he estimated there were at least \"many hundreds\" and had seen \"the figure of up to 3,000 mentioned\".\n\nNoël Coward saw Stephenson, colloquially known as \"Little Bill\", at the end of July 1940 when on a world entertainment and propaganda tour. He wrote that the \"suite in the Hampshire House with the outsize chintz flowers crawling over the walls became pleasantly familiar to me...\" and that Stephenson \"had a considerable influence on the next few years of my life\". Stephenson offered him a job but was overruled by London.\n\nSouth America was an important neutral source of trade for the Axis forces; its importance would increase after the US entry into the war in 1941. The Italian airline LATI operated a transatlantic service - between Rome and Rio de Janeiro - which was a conduit for high-value goods (platinum, mica, diamonds, etc.), agents and diplomatic bags. London instructed the BSC to do something about that.\n\nThe airline had connections with the Brazilian government through the President's son-in-law, and it was supplied, despite the US State Department protests, by Standard Oil in the US, making official channels ineffective. To curtail LATI's activities, the BSC decided that the Brazilians themselves would have to take measures - sabotage would be only a temporary inconvenience. Accordingly, the BSC constructed a forged letter of such accuracy that its authenticity could not be questioned even under forensic examination. The letter purported to come from LATI's head office to an executive of the company stationed in Brazil. The contents included disparaging references to the Brazilian president and to the US, and implied connections with a fascist opposition party in Brazil, the Party of Popular Representation (founded in 1945). Following a \"burglary\" of the executive's house, a photostat of the letter was placed with an American Associated Press reporter, who immediately took it to the American Embassy, which then showed the letter to the President of Brazil, Getúlio Vargas. LATI's operations in Brazil were confiscated and its personnel interned - the airline ceased transatlantic flights in December 1941. Brazil broke off relations with the Axis and joined the Allies in 1942.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108086", "title": "Sulforaphane", "text": "Sulforaphane\n\nSulforaphane (sulphoraphane in British English) is a compound within the isothiocyanate group of organosulfur compounds. It is obtained from cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and cabbages. It is produced when the enzyme myrosinase transforms glucoraphanin, a glucosinolate, into sulforaphane upon damage to the plant (such as from chewing), which allows the two compounds to mix and react. Young sprouts of broccoli and cauliflower are particularly rich in glucoraphanin.\nSulforaphane occurs in broccoli sprouts, which, among cruciferous vegetables, have the highest concentration of glucoraphanin, the precursor to sulforaphane. It is also found in cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, bok choy, kale, collards, mustard greens, and watercress.\n\nAlthough there has been some basic research on how sulforaphane might exert beneficial effects \"in vivo\", there is no high-quality evidence for its efficacy against human diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108088", "title": "Glucoraphanin", "text": "Glucoraphanin\n\nGlucoraphanin is a glucosinolate found in broccoli, cauliflower, and mustard.\n\nGlucoraphanin is converted to sulforaphane by the enzyme myrosinase. In plants, sulforaphane deters insect predators and acts as a selective antibiotic. In humans, sulforaphane has been studied for its potential effects in neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases.\n\nDue to the potential health benefits, a variety of broccoli has been bred to contain two to three times more glucoraphanin than standard broccoli.\n"}
{"id": "2108090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108090", "title": "Pearlfish", "text": "Pearlfish\n\nPearlfish are marine fish in the ray-finned fish family Carapidae. Pearlfishes inhabit the tropical waters of the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans at depths to , along oceanic shelves and slopes. They are slender, elongated fish with no scales, translucent bodies, and dorsal fin rays which are shorter than their anal fin rays. Adults of most species live symbiotically inside various invertebrate hosts, and some live parasitically inside sea cucumbers. The larvae are free living.\n\nPearlfishes are slender, distinguished by having dorsal fin rays that are shorter than their anal fin rays. They have translucent, scaleless bodies reminiscent of eels. The largest pearlfish are about in length. They reproduce by laying oval-shaped eggs, about 1 mm in length.\n\nPearlfishes are unusual in that the adults of most species live inside various types of invertebrates. They typically live inside clams, starfish, or sea squirts, and are simply commensal, not harming their hosts. However, some species are known to be parasitic on sea cucumbers, eating their gonads and living in their anal pores. Pearlfish usually live alone, or in pairs.\n\nRegardless of the habits of the adults, the larvae of pearlfish are free-living among the plankton. Pearlfish larvae can be distinguished by the presence of a long filament in front of their dorsal fins, sometimes with various appendages attached.\n\nThe genera are divided into three major groupings based on their level of symbiosis:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108091", "title": "Battle of Agua Dulce", "text": "Battle of Agua Dulce\n\nThe Battle of Agua Dulce Creek was a skirmish during the Texas Revolution between Mexican troops and rebellious colonists of the Mexican province of Texas, known as Texians. As part of the Goliad Campaign to retake the Texas Gulf Coast, Mexican troops ambushed a group of Texians on March 2, 1836. The skirmish began approximately south of San Patricio, in territory belonging to the Mexican state of Tamaulipas.\n\nWhen Mexico transitioned to a centralized government in 1835, supporters of federalism took up arms. Colonists in Texas revolted in October 1835 and by the end of the year had expelled all Mexican troops from their province. With hostilities temporarily suspended, Frank W. Johnson, the commander of the volunteer army in Texas, and James Grant gathered volunteers for a planned invasion of the Mexican port town of Matamoros. In late February 1836, Johnson and half of the volunteers drove a herd of horses to San Patricio, while Grant took the remaining men to gather more horses and to attempt contact with federalist sympathizers near Matamoros.\n\nUnknown to the Texians, on February 18, Mexican General José de Urrea led a large contingent of troops from Matamoros into Texas to neutralize the rebels gathered along the coast. His troops easily defeated Johnson's small force on February 26. Several days later, informants revealed Grant's location, and on the morning of March 2, Urrea sent 150 troops to ambush the rebels. After a brief battle, the main body of the Texian and Tejano troops were defeated. Grant and two others escaped the battle and were pursued for . Grant was killed, as were 11 men under his command. Six Texians were taken prisoner; contrary to Santa Anna's orders, Urrea did not execute them, but instead sent them to a jail in Matamoros. An additional six Texians escaped; five of them later died in the Goliad massacre.\n\nUnder President Antonio López de Santa Anna, the Mexican government began to shift away from a federalist model to a more centralized government. His increasingly dictatorial policies, including the revocation of the Constitution of 1824 in early 1835, incited federalists throughout the nation to revolt. The Mexican Army quickly put down revolts throughout the country's interior, including a brutal suppression of militias in Oaxaca and Zacatecas. Unrest continued in the Mexican state of Coahuila y Tejas. The area that bordered the United States, known as Texas, was populated primarily by English-speaking settlers, known as Texians. In October, the Texians took up arms in what became known as the Texas Revolution. The following month, Texians declared themselves part of a Mexican state independent from Coahuila and created a provisional state government based on the principles of the Constitution of 1824. By the end of the year, all Mexican troops had been expelled from Texas.\n\nLeading federalists in Mexico advocated a plan to attack centralist troops in Matamoros, a major Mexican port. Members of the General Council, the interim Texas governing body, were enamored with the idea of a Matamoros Expedition. They hoped it would inspire other federalist states to revolt and keep the bored Texian troops from deserting the army. Most importantly, it would move the war zone outside Texas. The Council officially approved the plan on December 25, and on December 30 Frank W. Johnson, the commander of the volunteer army, and his aide James Grant took the bulk of the army and almost all of the supplies to Goliad to prepare for the expedition. Historian Stuart Reid posits that Grant was a British secret agent and that his efforts were an unofficial scheme to advance British interests in the region. Britain did not welcome the idea of an independent Texas, and the invasion of Matamoros was a way to tie Texas more tightly to Mexico.\n\nDetermined to quash the rebellion, Santa Anna began assembling a large force to restore order. In late December, at Santa Anna's behest, the Mexican Congress passed the Tornel Decree, declaring that any foreigners fighting against Mexican troops \"will be deemed pirates and dealt with as such, being citizens of no nation presently at war with the Republic and fighting under no recognized flag.\" In the early nineteenth century, captured pirates were executed immediately. The resolution thus gave the Mexican Army permission to take no prisoners in the war against the Texians. Santa Anna personally led the bulk of his troops inland to San Antonio de Béxar, and ordered General José de Urrea to lead 550 troops along the Atascocita Road toward Goliad. Urrea's efforts to quell the rebellion along the Texas Gulf Coast have become known as the Goliad Campaign.\n\nThe Texas provisional government had named Sam Houston the commander of a new regular army in Texas, but without authority over the volunteers who reported to Johnson. The provisional governor, Henry Smith, opposed the Matamoros Expedition and ordered Houston to find a way to disband it. In a rousing speech to the volunteers, Houston dissuaded the bulk of the men from continuing their mission. Many left the army. Others joined the troops stationed under Houston's second-in-command, James Fannin, at Presidio La Bahía in Goliad. By the end of January 1836, only 70 men remained with Johnson and Grant. Most of these volunteers were Americans or Europeans who had arrived in Texas after fighting had commenced.\n\nUrrea reached Matamoros on January 31. A committed federalist himself, he soon convinced other federalists in the area that the Texians' ultimate goal was secession and their attempt to spark a federalist revolt in Matamoros was just a method of diverting attention from themselves. Meanwhile, Mexican double agents continued to assure Johnson and Grant that they would be able to take Matamoros easily. Urrea's force crossed into Texas on February 18.\n\nDespite hearing rumors that the Mexican Army was approaching, Grant and Johnson chose to take their men south of the Nueces River, into territory belonging to the state of Tamaulipas, to search for horses to buy, steal, or otherwise gather. About February 21, Johnson and a small group began herding approximately 100 horses back into Texas. The rest of the men remained with Grant, ostensibly to look for more horses. In actuality, he was attempting to rendezvous with his allies near Matamoros to determine whether federalists were still willing to rise up against the Mexican Army.\n\nMexican troops arrived in San Patricio in the early hours of February 26. After a fifteen-minute battle, Johnson's men were defeated; six Texians, including Johnson, escaped, and the remainder were killed or captured. While Urrea waited for reinforcements before beginning his march towards Goliad, his advance party searched for Grant and the remaining Texians. Unaware of Johnson's fate, on February 27 Grant and his party began their march northward to San Patricio, driving a herd of several hundred horses he had purchased. The men camped along San Fernando Creek on March 1. Local ranchers welcomed them, but that night sent a messenger to Urrea with Grant's location and plans.\n\nMexican troops marched overnight towards El Puerto de los Cuates de Agua Dulce, a well-known crossing point on Agua Dulce Creek. Approximately south of San Patricio, about from Banquete, and just north of modern-day Kingsville, Mexican soldiers took cover in two groves of trees. Urrea had approximately 150 troops, including 80 dragoons.\n\nGrant's company comprised about 53 men, including a large contingent of \"Tejanos\" (Mexican-born residents of Texas) under the command of Plácido Benavides. The men were in good spirits and rode at an easy pace towards San Patricio. Grant, Benavides, and Ruben Brown rode ahead of the main body of Texians and saw no signs of Mexican soldiers.\n\nBetween 10 and 11 am, as the bulk of the Texians reached the trees, the Mexican cavalry attacked. Taken completely unaware, many of the Texians were shot before they were able to raise their guns. As they tried to flee, dragoons chased them down and lanced them off their horses. Five Texians dismounted and made a run for a small village nearby, hoping to gain cover so they could use their rifles. Urrea sent the infantry after them. Two of those Texians were captured and the rest escaped.\n\nGrant, Benavides, and Brown turned back to join the other Texians. Once in the battle, Brown dismounted, either to reload his rifle or because his horse was killed. Seeing that the battle was lost, Grant pulled Brown onto another horse, and the two of them and Benavides turned to flee. Mexican cavalry attempted to stop them; Grant shot one officer and he and Benavides then galloped past that officer's horse. At this point, the herd stampeded, forcing the Mexican cavalry aside. The three Texians followed the horses. Mexican soldiers promptly gave chase. According to Brown's later recollection, both his and Grant's horses were wounded as Mexican soldiers fired after them.\n\nThe three Texians ran for , occasionally firing their pistols to force Mexican dragoons to stay back. Mexican soldiers yelled that the men would be spared if they surrendered, but none of the Texians believed them. Benavides had the strongest mount, and Grant ordered him to go ahead to warn Fannin that the Mexican Army was close to Goliad. Grant and Brown were surrounded and forced to stop. Grant killed a Mexican soldier who drove a lance through Brown's arm. Between ten and twelve Mexican soldiers then surrounded Grant, and he died after being pierced multiple times. Historian Stuart Reid theorizes that Mexican soldiers were eager to ensure Grant did not survive the battle. Grant could identify federalist sympathizers in Matamoros and the surrounding areas, and his knowledge potentially put Urrea and some of his federalist-sympathizing troops at risk.\n\nBrown threw his empty pistol at one Mexican officer, then grabbed the lance from the man Grant had shot and used it to defend himself. After soldiers lassoed him, Brown surrendered and was taken captive. Brown was then brought back to the site of the ambush. He recalled that one severely injured Texian, Joseph Carpenter, was lying in the dirt, begging for his life. Brown then saw a Mexican soldier shoot him.\n\nAlthough Urrea reported that 42 Texians were killed, early 20th century historians generally only list 12 Texians as killed. Tejano involvement in the revolution had been notably absent from textbooks until the 1970s, so it is likely that historians were not including the \"Tejanos\" under Benavides. Six Texians were taken prisoner. In defiance of the Tornel Decree, Urrea spared those who surrendered and sent them to a prison in Matamoros. Reports indicated that Urrea offered clemency after the intervention of Francita Alavez, the mistress of one of Urrea's soldiers.\nSix Texians escaped. Five of these joined Fannin's garrison at Goliad and were later killed in the Goliad massacre. No reports of Mexican losses have been found, although at least one Mexican soldier is thought to have died. After the battle, Mexican soldiers rounded up the horses that the Texians had been herding and kept them. The battle marked the end of the Matamoros Expedition. Although it occurred on the same day that Texas declared independence, Grant and his men did not know that they were fighting for the new Republic of Texas.\n\nAccording to historian Stephen Hardin, this battle proved that the Texians did not fight well on open prairies. News of the battle reached Fannin on March 4. Urrea's imminent arrival worried Fannin, who feared that Santa Anna would lead his troops from San Antonio de Béxar towards Goliad, essentially trapping Fannin and his men between the two branches of the Mexican Army. Fannin wrote to the Acting Governor, James Robinson, \"I am a better judge of my military abilities than others, and if I am qualified to command an Army, I have not found it out.\" The acting Texas government nonetheless left Fannin in charge of the fort at Goliad, instructing him to determine whether it was best to retreat or make a stand. Fannin delayed making a decision, finally choosing to leave Goliad on March 19. Urrea's troops trapped Fannin's men on an open prairie. The Texians surrendered after the Battle of Coleto and most, including Colonel Fannin, were executed a week later in the Goliad massacre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108093", "title": "St. Lucie Nuclear Power Plant", "text": "St. Lucie Nuclear Power Plant\n\nSt. Lucie Nuclear Power Plant is a twin nuclear power station located on Hutchinson Island, near Port St. Lucie in St. Lucie County, Florida. Both units are Combustion Engineering pressurized water reactors. Florida Power & Light commissioned the station in 1976 and continues to operate the station. \nMinor shares of Unit 2 are owned by the Florida Municipal Power Agency (8.81%) and the Orlando Utilities Commission (6.08%).\n\nThe plant contains two nuclear reactors in separate containment buildings. However, the plant does not have the classic hyperboloid cooling towers found at many inland reactor sites; instead, it uses nearby ocean water for coolant of the secondary system.\n\nIn 2003 the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) extended the operating licenses of the St. Lucie units by twenty years, to March 1, 2036 for Unit 1 and April 6, 2043 for Unit 2.\n\nIn 2012, Extended Power Uprate modifications were completed, increasing the electric output from approximately 853 MW to 1,002 MW. The project involved replacing pipes, valves, pumps, heat exchangers, electrical transformers, and generators, some of which were original components of the plant.\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines two emergency planning zones around nuclear power plants: a plume exposure pathway zone with a radius of , concerned primarily with exposure to, and inhalation of, airborne radioactive contamination, and an ingestion pathway zone of about , concerned primarily with ingestion of food and liquid contaminated by radioactivity.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. population within of Saint Lucie was 206,596, an increase of 49.7 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S. Census data for msnbc.com. The 2010 U.S. population within was 1,271,947, an increase of 37.0 percent since 2000. Cities within 50 miles include Port St. Lucie (7.8 miles to city center), Ft. Pierce (8 miles to city center) and West Palm Beach (42 miles to city center).\n\nThe Nuclear Regulatory Commission's estimate of the risk each year of an earthquake intense enough to cause core damage to the reactor at Saint Lucie was 1 in 21,739, according to an NRC study published in August 2010.\n\nIn 2016 St. Lucie Power Plant shut down because of Hurricane Matthew.\nIn 2017 the plant did not shut down due to Hurricane Irma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108104", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Climate Science", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Climate Science\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Climate Science (CICS) fosters research collaborations between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)/Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL) and the Princeton University. It is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nThe CICS research themes are:\n"}
{"id": "2108105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108105", "title": "Architecture Firm Award", "text": "Architecture Firm Award\n\nThe Architecture Firm Award is the highest honor that The American Institute of Architects can bestow on an architecture firm for consistently producing distinguished architecture.\n\nPrior recipients of the AIA Architecture Firm Award include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108110", "title": "List of welding processes", "text": "List of welding processes\n\nThis is a list of welding processes, separated into their respective categories. The associated \"N reference numbers\" (second column) are specified in ISO 4063 (in the European Union published as \"EN ISO 4063\"). Numbers in parentheses are obsolete and were removed from the current (1998) version of ISO 4063. The AWS reference codes of the American Welding Society are commonly used in North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108111", "title": "Dällikon", "text": "Dällikon\n\nDällikon is a municipality in the district of Dielsdorf in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland.\n\nDällikon is first mentioned in 870 as \"Tellinghovon\".\nIn 1843 the village of Dänikon left Dällikon to become an independent municipality.\n\nDällikon has an area of . Of this area, 45% is used for agricultural purposes, while 32.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 22.1% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (0.4%) is non-productive (rivers, glaciers or mountains).\n\nThe municipality is located in the \"Furttal\" on the northern flank of the Altberg.\n\nDällikon has a population (as of ) of . , 24.4% of the population was made up of foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 17.6%. Most of the population () speaks German (83.7%), with Italian being second most common ( 4.0%) and Turkish being third ( 2.7%).\n\nIn the 2007 election the most popular party was the SVP which received 50.4% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the CSP (12.1%), the SPS (12%) and the FDP (9%).\n\nThe age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 22.9% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 70% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 7.1%. The entire Swiss population is generally well educated. In Dällikon about 72.9% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either University or a \"Fachhochschule\"). \n\nDällikon has an unemployment rate of 3.12%. , there were 45 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 13 businesses involved in this sector. 1220 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 74 businesses in this sector. 1156 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 135 businesses in this sector.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\nBuchs-Dällikon railway station is a stop of the S-Bahn Zürich on the line S6. Additionally, bus lines 491 and 449 run through Dällikon.\n"}
{"id": "2108115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108115", "title": "Steenbergen (disambiguation)", "text": "Steenbergen (disambiguation)\n\nSteenbergen is a town and municipality in North Brabant, the Netherlands. Steenbergen may also refer to\n"}
{"id": "2108120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108120", "title": "Master drummer", "text": "Master drummer\n\nIn African drumming, the title of master drummer is given to a drummer who is well known by other masters for their high skill and knowledge. It is a title passed down from a master to their pupil, after they have learned all there is to know about the African drum.\n\nIn general, a master drummer has given their whole life to the djembe and dunun. They are able to play any part of any rhythm for their ethnic group and neighbouring ethnic groups, in any ceremonial situation. They also know the songs and dances that go with each rhythm. A drummer can play for twenty years before he or she is given the status of 'Master'.\n\nAnother type of master drummer is a person who leads other drummers in playing drum rhythms, e.g. in the French Caribbean styles, the master drummer may be called \"kamande\" in French Creole.\n\nThe master drummer can also lead the other drummers through a well known dance.\n\nSome well-known master drummers include:\n\nThe term \"master drummer\" may also refer to an African live composer.\n"}
{"id": "2108131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108131", "title": "Paul Dunbar", "text": "Paul Dunbar\n\nPaul Dunbar may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108132", "title": "July 5 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 5 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 4 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 6\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 18 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 5th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 22.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108135", "title": "Homophony", "text": "Homophony\n\nIn music, homophony (Greek: ὁμόφωνος, \"homóphōnos\", from ὁμός, \"homós\", \"same\" and φωνή, \"phōnē\", \"sound, tone\") is a texture in which a primary part is supported by one or more additional strands that flesh out the harmony and often provide rhythmic contrast. This differentiation of roles contrasts with equal-voice polyphony (in which similar lines move with rhythmic and melodic independence to form an even texture) and monophony (in which all parts move in unison or octaves). Historically, homophony and its differentiated roles for parts emerged in tandem with tonality, which gave distinct harmonic functions to the soprano, bass and inner voices.\n\nA homophonic texture may be homorhythmic, which means that all parts have the same rhythm. Chorale texture is another variant of homophony. The most common type of homophony is melody-dominated homophony, in which one voice, often the highest, plays a distinct melody, and the accompanying voices work together to articulate an underlying harmony.\n\nInitially, in Ancient Greece, homophony indicated music in which a single melody is performed by two or more voices in unison or octaves, i.e. monophony with multiple voices. Homophony as a term first appeared in English with Charles Burney in 1776, emphasizing the concord of harmonized melody.\n\nHomophony first appeared as one of the predominant textures in Western classical music during the Baroque period in the early 17th century, when composers began to commonly compose with vertical harmony in mind, the homophonic basso continuo becoming a definitive feature of the style. The choral arrangement of four voices (soprano, alto, tenor, and bass) has since become common in Western classical music. Homophony began by appearing in sacred music, replacing polyphony and monophony as the dominant form, but spread to secular music, for which it is one of the standard forms today.\n\nIn 20th-century classical music some of the \"triad-oriented accompanimental figures such as the Alberti bass <nowiki>[a homophonic form of accompaniment]</nowiki> have largely disappeared from usage and, rather than the traditional interdependence of melodic and chordal pitches sharing the same tonal basis, a clear distinction may exist between the pitch materials of the melody and harmony, commonly avoiding duplication. However, some traditional devices, such as repeated chords, are still used.\n\nJazz and other forms of modern popular music generally feature homophonic influences, following chord progressions over which musicians play a melody or improvise (see \"melody-dominated homophony\").\n\nHomophony has appeared in several non-Western cultures, perhaps particularly in regions where communal vocal music has been cultivated. When explorer Vasco da Gama landed in West Africa in 1497, he referred to the music he heard there as being in \"sweet harmony\". While the concept of harmony in that time was not necessarily the same as the concept of homophony as understood by modern scholars, it is generally accepted that homophonic voice harmonies were commonplace in African music for centuries before contact with Europeans and is common in African music today. Singers normally harmonize voices in homophonic parallelism moving in parallel thirds or fourths. This type of harmonic model is also, implemented in instrumental music where voices are stacked in thirds or fourths. Homophonic Parallelism is not restricted to thirds and fourths, however all harmonic material adheres to the scalar system the particular tune or song is based on. The use of harmony in sixths is common in areas where a hexatonic scale system is used . For instance, the Fang people of Gabon use homophony in their music.\n\nIn eastern Indonesia (i.e. in the music of the Toraja in South Sulawesi, in Flores, in East Kalimantan and in North Sulawesi), two-part harmonies are common, usually in intervals of thirds, fourths or fifths. Additionally, Chinese music is generally thought to be homophonic, since instruments typically provide accompaniment in parallel fourths and fifths and often double the voice in vocal music, heterophony also being common in China.\n\nIn melody-dominated homophony, accompanying voices provide chordal support for the lead voice, which assumes the melody. Some popular music today might be considered melody-dominated homophony, voice typically taking on the lead role, while instruments like piano, guitar and bass guitar normally accompany the voice. In many cases, instruments also take on the lead role, and often the role switches between parts, voice taking the lead during a verse and instruments subsequently taking solos, during which the other instruments provide chordal support.\n\nMonody is similar to melody-dominated homophony in that one voice becomes the melody, while another voice assumes the underlying harmony. Monody, however, is characterized by a single voice with instrumental accompaniment, whereas melody-dominated homophony refers to a broader category of homophonic music, which includes works for multiple voices, not just works for solo voice, as was the tradition with early 17th-century Italian monody.\n\n\\new PianoStaff «\n\\new Staff { \\relative c' { \\key e \\major \\tempo \"Lento\" \\partial 4 b4_\\markup{ \\italic \"sostenuto\"}( | gis'4. a8 b dis e cis b2 fis4.\n\\new Staff { \\relative c, { \\key e \\major \\clef \"bass\"\n\\partial 4 r4 | e\\sustainOn <e' gis cis>\\sustainOff( \\sustainOn <gis' cis e>\\sustainOff)\nb,\\sustainOn <fis\" dis'>( <dis b,>)\\sustainOff <cis, cis,>\\sustainOn\n<e gis cis>\\sustainOff \\sustainOn <e gis d'>\\sustainOff \\sustainOn <e' cis'>\\sustainOff\n</score>\nMelody dominated homophony in Chopin's Nocturne in E Op. 62 No. 2. The left hand (bass clef) provides chordal support for the melody played by the right hand (treble clef).\n\n"}
{"id": "2108138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108138", "title": "Battle of Tara Hill", "text": "Battle of Tara Hill\n\nThe Battle of Tara Hill was fought on the evening of 26 May 1798 between British forces and Irish rebels involved in the Irish Rebellion of 1798, resulting in a heavy defeat for the rebels and the end of the rebellion in County Meath.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the rebellion signaled in Meath by the prearranged signal of the ceasing of a mail coach near Turvey hill, road blocks were posted on the Navan road United Irishmen and rebels in Meath began to assemble at the hill of Tara. Tara was chosen as it provided strategic control of road access to the capital Dublin and cultural significance as the former seat of the high kings of Ireland. Between 4,000-7,000 rebels gathered at the hill. There were incidents of violent encounters throughout the countryside as rallying rebels made their way to Tara from the outbreak of the rebellion on the 23rd to the day of the battle on the 26th.\n\nPicking up yeomanry reinforcements along the way, the combined fencible, yeoman and militia force formed up at the bottom of the hill to attack the rebels who had established a large camp on the hill. The lack of any cannon or cavalry placed the rebels at a great disadvantage despite their numbers. Disciplined volley fire and flanking cavalry action combined with withering grape shot delivered from a 6 pounder cannon drove the rebels to within graveyard walls at the summit. There at dusk, the rebels made their last stand on the hill until a final grenadier assault finished them.\n\nThe loss to the fencibles yeomen and militia was minimal. However rebel casualties have estimates running from several hundred to several thousand dead and many wounded. Many bodies were removed during the night of the 26th and 350 dead were counted still lying on the battlefield the following day. Witnesses to the burial recollect many more bodies of those rebels who died of their wounds during the night being collected from the surrounding countryside in carts. It was noted by the witnesses that the bodies were universally disembowelled by the victors. The dead are buried in a mass grave marked by the Lia Fail standing stone which was moved to mark the burial site. The defeat effectively ended the United Irishmens rising in Meath.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108143", "title": "John Addenbrooke (philanthropist)", "text": "John Addenbrooke (philanthropist)\n\nJohn Addenbrooke (1680 – 7 June 1719) was an English medical doctor who left more than £4,500 in his will for the founding of a hospital for the poor. Addenbrooke's Hospital, which has expanded significantly since its beginnings, is now a major teaching hospital in Cambridge, England.\n\nAddenbrooke studied at Catharine Hall, now St Catharine's College, a part of the University of Cambridge. He was later a fellow and bursar there, and bequeathed a collection of rare medical books to the college library.\n"}
{"id": "2108145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108145", "title": "Erica (disambiguation)", "text": "Erica (disambiguation)\n\nErica is a plant genus.\n\nErica or ERICA may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108146", "title": "Bassersdorf", "text": "Bassersdorf\n\nBassersdorf is a municipality in the Swiss canton of Zürich, located in the district of Bülach, and belongs to the Glatt Valley (German: \"Glattal\").\n\nThe name, mentioned in 1155 as \"Bazzelstorf\" and maybe yet in the early 11th century as \"Basselstorff\", is a compound consisting of \"dorf\", a widespread constituent in alemannic placenames meaning ‚hamlet, farm, village, estate‘, and the genitive form of an anthroponym, probably OHG \"*Bazzilo\" (or its feminine \"Bacila\", documented in the Abbey of St. Gall). The Alemannic settlement dates to the 8th or 9th century. Due to its position halfway between the towns of Zürich and Winterthur, the village gained some importance as a relay during the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nUnder the Helvetic Republic (1798–1803), it was the district capital.\n\nIn 2001, Crossair Flight 3597 crashed into the ground at Bassersdorf while on approach to land at Zurich Airport. Twenty-four of the thirty-three people on board were killed, including American singer Melanie Thornton (the lead singer of German group La Bouche) and two of the three members of the German group Passion Fruit. The investigation concluded that the accident was a controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) caused by a series of pilot errors and navigation mistakes that led the plane off-course. This course deviation caused the plane to crash into a hilltop, short of and north of its assigned landing strip, runway 28.\n\nBassersdorf has an area of . Of this area, 42.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while 30.8% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 26.3% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (0.3%) is non-productive (rivers, glaciers or mountains).\n\nThe municipality is located on the edge of the mid-Glatt Valley. Since 1931, the village of Baltenswil has been part of the municipality.\n\nBassersdorf has a population (as of ) of . , 21.2% of the population was made up of foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 50.5%. Most of the population () speaks German (85.8%), with Italian being second most common ( 3.8%) and Serbo-Croatian being third ( 1.7%).\n\nIn the 2007 election the most popular party was the SVP which received 37.2% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SPS (19.6%), the FDP (12.4%) and the CSP (10.3%).\n\nThe age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 23.4% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 65.2% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 11.4%. In Bassersdorf about 75.5% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\").\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\nCompaq at one point operated its Switzerland offices in Bassersdorf.\n\nBassersdorf has an unemployment rate of 3.46%. , there were 53 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 17 businesses involved in this sector. 617 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 67 businesses in this sector. 2380 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 267 businesses in this sector.\n\nBassersdorf railway station is a stop of the S-Bahn Zürich on the lines S24 and S7. Bassersdorf is also served by the bus lines 765, 766, 769, which are operated by the VBG and the bus line 660, which is operated by the Stadtbus Winterthur.\n\nBassersdorf is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108151", "title": "Hammarby IF", "text": "Hammarby IF\n\nHammarby Idrottsförening (\"Hammarby Sports Club\"), commonly known as Hammarby IF or simply Hammarby ( ), is a Swedish sports club located in Stockholm, with a number of member organizations active in a variety of different sports.\n\nIt was founded in 1889 as \"Hammarby Roddförening\" (\"Hammarby Rowing Association\"), but by 1897 the club had diversified and was participating in different sports, leading to the renaming to Hammarby IF.\n\nIn 1999, the club was reorganized into a legal format referred to in Swedish as an \"alliansförening\" (\"alliance association\"), with each of the club's departments becoming a separate legal entity cooperating under the \"Hammarby IF\" umbrella.\n\nOn 10 April 1889, Hammarby Roddförening (\"Hammarby Rowing Association\") was established in Södermalm, a district in the Stockholm City Centre, with engineer Axel Robert Schönthal, the first chairman, being credited as the founder. Originally, it solely competed against other local clubs in the sport of rowing, with the races usually taking place on the watercourse Hammarby Sjö, which the club took its name from. The members exclusively consisted of young men from the working class, employed as industrial workers at one of the many factories in the Södermalm district.\n\nBy 1897, the club had diversified into different sports following demands from its members, with the first other being athletics, and it was renamed Hammarby Idrottsförening (\"Hammarby Sports Club\"), or Hammarby IF for short. The new multi-sport club was officially established on 7 March said year, with Carl Julius Sundholm taking the inaugural chairman position.\n\nThe association launched its first team sport in 1905, the section Hammarby IF Bandy, thus becoming one of the first bandy clubs in Sweden.\n\nThe sporting ground Hammarby IP (also known as \"Kanalplan\") was built in Södermalm in 1915, officially opened on 15 September by Gustaf VI Adolf, by then the Crown Prince of Sweden.<ref name=\"Hammarby IP/Kanalplan\"></ref> Due to a lack of football pitches in Stockholm, several other local clubs proposed to merge with Hammarby IF to get access to the stadium. An offer from Klara SK was accepted and a football department was established the same year, Hammarby IF Fotboll. In 1918, Hammarby also merged with Johanneshofs IF, a club from the neighbouring district Johanneshov.\n\nThe club started playing ice hockey in 1921, with their team being made up by a group of bandy players during the very first matches.\nHammarby IF Hockey would soon position itself as a giant in the early history of the sport in the country, playing in the top league from its inaugural season in 1922 until 1957. During that period, they were crowned domestic champions eight times (in 1932, 1933, 1936, 1937, 1942, 1943, 1945, and 1951).\n\nThe club's colours are green and white, which is reflected in its crest and kit. When Hammarby Roddförening (Hammarby RF) was founded in 1889, the club's crest consisted of a white flag with three green horizontal lines. They drew inspiration from two other competing rowing clubs in Stockholm that used two blue respectively two red lines on a white flag, but chose the colour green since it represented hope. The club eventually added a third stripe when it discovered that Göteborgs RF used a similar green-white flag with two stripes.\n\nIn 1915, Hammarby IF determined their kit to consist of a white shirt with the abbreviation \"HIF\" on its chest, white shorts and black socks. Following the merger with Johanneshofs IF in 1918, Hammarby changed its team apparel to Johanneshof's black-and-yellow striped shirts, blue shorts and black socks with yellow stripes. The first section to use the new kit was the bandy team, with the football section adopting it not much later.\n\nThe club changed from blue pants to black in the 1960s. When the renowned footballer \"Nacka\" Skoglund rejoined Hammarby in 1964, he donated the club a set of black shorts because he thought the team's blue shorts looked awful.\n\nIn 1978, 60 years after the merger with Johanneshof, Hammarby changed its home colours from black and yellow to white shirts, green shorts and white socks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108154", "title": "Victor Hugues", "text": "Victor Hugues\n\nJean-Baptiste Victor Hugues sometimes spelled Hughes (July 20, 1762 in Marseille – August 12, 1826 in Cayenne) was a French politician and colonial administrator during the French Revolution, who governed Guadeloupe from 1794 to 1798, emancipating the island's slaves under orders from the National Convention.\n\nJean-Baptiste \"Victor\" Hugues was born to a rich family of Marseille's bourgeoisie, son of Jean-François Hugues (1725–1789), a salesman, and Catherine Fodrin (1729–1822), issued from a family of silk traders of Saint-Étienne.\n\nThe family settled as colonists in Saint-Domingue at the beginning of the 1780s, but Victor was forced to return to France because of the Haitian Revolution. He was then appointed Procureur of the Comité de salut public in La Rochelle with the support of the local Jacobin Club. He was subsequently appointed governor of Guadeloupe, where he was ordered to apply the emancipation decrees which declared the end of slavery in all French territories in February 1794.\n\nFollowing the signing of the Whitehall Accord by (representing Guadeloupe), a British task force successfully invaded the island in April 1794. The planters and other Royalists had signed the Whitehall Accord with the British and colluded with France's rival as a way of rejecting revolutionary events, particularly the abolition of slavery. When Hugues disembarked on 21 May 1794, he had a small force of 1,150 soldiers. He immediately declared an end to slavery and so rallied the slaves and \"gens de couleur\". Within five days he took the capital, Pointe-à-Pitre. Hugues was able to retake the island by 6 October 1794, when he obliged the English general to surrender in his camp of Barville with his whole force, in which were comprised 800 French emigres and 900 soldiers of African descent. He led a failed attempt to retake Anguilla in 1796.\n\nEven though he abolished chattel slavery, he still maintained a system of unpaid obligatory work. He reorganised the army, recruiting a large number of African former slaves, until his armed force amounted to around 10,000 men. Soldiers of both African and European descent were integrated into the same units with no racial distinctions.\n\nHe ruled for four years before being recalled to France and was replaced by General Edme Desfourneaux. During that time, he purged the island of counter-revolutionaries, using a guillotine brought from France, and also worked to create a viable post-slavery regime, in which the island's farms and plantations still functioned.\n\nHugues is perhaps best known for authorizing privateers to attack shipping through the Caribbean, which brought great wealth to the island but also was part of the tensions between France and the United States (known as the \"Quasi-War\" in American history).\n\nWith an army composed of White, Mulatto and ex-slave soldiers, Hugues worked to export the revolution to neighboring islands, including Dominica, Saint-Martin, Grenada, Saint Vincent and Saint Lucia. On 18 April 1795 he landed in Saint Lucia with 600 soldiers. They joined the 250 local Republicans and 300 Blacks, most of them carrying spikes but some with rifles captured from the British. The British from Castries landed over a thousand troops at Vieux Fort and marched them overland to Soufriere. They attacked on April 22 at Fond Doux and Rabot. However, after heavy fighting the English were forced to withdraw back to Castries. They were eventually defeated on June 19, and fled from the island. The Royalist planters fled with them, leaving the remaining Saint Lucians to enjoy “l’Année de la Liberté”, “a year of freedom from slavery…” \n\nIn 1799, Hugues was envoyed to French Guiana by the French Consulate, where he was responsible for legislating unfree labour, and then slavery itself. He remained an administrator under the First Empire, but was forced out when an Anglo-Portuguese force under the command of Captain Yeo of HMS \"Confiance\" invaded the colony and captured it on 14 January 1809.\n\nUpon his return, he was prosecuted for treason and conspiracy with the enemy. Acquitted in 1814, he returned to Guiana in 1817, served as governor, and then stayed on as a private citizen.\n\nCuban writer Alejo Carpentier made Hugues protagonist of his acclaimed novel \"El Siglo de las Luces\" (Explosion in a Cathedral), published in 1962.\n\nAmerican author, James A. Michener, includes an accounting of Hugues' time spent on Guadeloupe in Michener's work of historical fiction: \"The Caribbean\". In the chapter entitled 'The Creoles', Michener includes both historical facts about the man, and adds him to several fictional situations and plot twists. \"The Caribbean\" was published in 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108156", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research (CILER) fosters research collaborations between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory (GLERL), Michigan State University (MSU), and the University of Michigan (UM). It is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nThe CILER research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108158", "title": "July 6 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 6 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 5 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 7\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 19 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 6th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 23.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108159", "title": "Paku Alam VIII", "text": "Paku Alam VIII\n\nSri Paku Alam VIII (10 April 1910 – 11 September 1998) was the second Governor of Yogyakarta. He was the son of Paku Alam VII and \"Gusti Bendara Raden Ayu Retno Poewoso\". His child name was \"Gusti Raden Mas Harya Sularso Kunto Suratno\" and his adult name was \"Kanjeng Gusti Pangeran Adipati Arya Prabu\".\n\nHe acceded to the throne of the Pakualaman principality Kadipaten Pakualaman on 12 April 1937 with the official name \"Kanjeng Gusti Pangeran Adipati Arya Paku Alam VIII\". The Pakualaman dates from 1812 and is an enclave within the Yogyakarta Sultanate.\n\nHe died in office in 1998, and was buried in the family graveyard at Girigondo.\n\nPaku Alam VIII was a major figure in the independence struggle. His contribution, together with that of Hamengkubuwono IX, led to Yogyakarta gaining status as a Special Region where the sultan and the prince serve respectively as governor and vice-governor for life.\n"}
{"id": "2108163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108163", "title": "The Problems of Philosophy", "text": "The Problems of Philosophy\n\nThe Problems of Philosophy is a 1912 book by the philosopher Bertrand Russell, in which the author attempts to create a brief and accessible guide to the problems of philosophy. Focusing on problems he believes will provoke positive and constructive discussion, Russell concentrates on knowledge rather than metaphysics: If it is uncertain that external objects exist, how can we then have knowledge of them but by probability. There is no reason to doubt the existence of external objects simply because of sense data.\n\nRussell guides the reader through his famous 1910 distinction between knowledge by acquaintance and knowledge by description and introduces important theories of Plato, Aristotle, René Descartes, David Hume, John Locke, Immanuel Kant, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and others to lay the foundation for philosophical inquiry by general readers and scholars alike.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108164", "title": "Air Afrique", "text": "Air Afrique\n\nAir Afrique was a Pan-African airline, that was mainly owned by many West African countries for most of its history. It was established as the official transnational carrier for francophone West and Central Africa, because many of these countries did not have the capability to create and maintain a national airline, and had its headquarters in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. The carrier was a member of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) as well as the French Union's smaller IATA-like ATAF.\n\nAir Afrique began a steady decline in the early 1980s, yet many years later the company was still considered the most reputable carrier in West Africa, and even one of the top five airlines of Africa. Mismanagement, corruption, and the downturn in the aviation industry after the 11 September 2001 attacks led the airline to a crisis that ended with its liquidation in early 2002. Even though there were plans to revive the airline with the creation of a new company, they never materialised, as it was succeeded by short-lived Afrinat International Airlines.\n\nAir Afrique was originally conceived in as a joint subsidiary of Air France and Union Aéromaritime de Transport (UAT) to take over the regional services these airlines had operated in Africa. The new company was registered in September 1960 as \"Air Afrique (Société de Transports Aériens en Afrique)\". During the first conference of Francophone countries that was held in Abidjan in , the Ivorian president Felix Houphouët Boigny recommended the constitution of a multinational airline for these countries. Eleven heads of state that attended to the next conference, held at Brazzaville in the same year, agreed to form the company. Gambia, Ghana and Mali decided to stay away from the project, as they had plans for setting up their own airlines with aid from the Soviets. The formation of the company took place during the third conference, held at Yaoundé in early 1961: \"Air Afrique (Société de Transports Aériens en Afrique)\" changed its name to \"Société pour le Développement du Transport Aérien en Afrique (SODETRAF)\"; the eleven countries and SODETRAF would set up the new airline. The \"Treaty of Yaoundé\", signed on , founded Air Afrique as a joint venture between Air France and UAT, each of which had a 17% holding, while the eleven newly independent former French colonies in West Africa, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d'Ivoire, Gabon, Mauritania, Niger, the Republic of the Congo and Senegal, contributed with the remaining 66% of the capital, estimated in 500 millions of CFA francs. Léopoldine Doualla-Bell Smith, a flight attendant, was invited to move to Air Afrique in 1960; she was then the only qualified African person in French aviation, and thus became the first employee hired by Air Afrique.\nCheikh Fall was appointed as the first CEO of the company on . It started operations on serving internal routes with 12 leased DC-4s from Air France and UAT. On , an Air France Lockheed Constellation that flew the Paris–Port Etienne–Dakar–Abidjan–Cotonou–Douala route on behalf of the company inaugurated the long-haul operations. Pressurised Douglas DC-6 aircraft were added to the fleet in the early 1960s, also leased from UAT. On , the carrier deployed Boeing 707s, leased from Air France, on the Paris–Dakar–Abidjan and the Paris–Douala–Brazzaville runs; these were the first jet aircraft introduced on the carrier's intercontinental routes. Two DC-8s were the first jets ordered by the airline in the same year. Also in 1962, the carrier became a member of the International Air Transport Association.\nIn , Cheikh Fall was appointed general manager of the company. Union de Transports Aériens (UTA) was formed in from the merger of UAT and Transports Aériens Intercontinentaux (TAI). Following this, Air Afrique ownership was reorganised, with SODETRAF acquiring a 28% stake and the balance being held by the member states. The first DC-8 was delivered in , and entered service a month later; the second aircraft of the type was handed over in the next year, being deployed on the route to Marseille late that month. Air Afrique became the owner of its entire fleet in , following an agreement with UTA. Also in 1963, Hajj flights, carrying pilgrims to Mecca, commenced using the Starliner aircraft. In , Air Afrique was authorised to connect several African countries with the United States and in , the Paris–Abidjan run started calling at Geneva on a weekly basis.\n\nBy , Air Afrique had 2,500 employees. At this time, there were two DC-8-50s in service, along with three DC-4s and four DC-6s. That month, the route to Paris, already stopping at Dakar and Geneva, began calling at Robertsfield. A month later, Air Afrique passengers started flying to the United States allocated on Pan Am flights. Also in 1965, the company ordered two Caravelles; a third DC-8, a convertible (DC-8F) one that would be used to increase cargo capacity, was ordered in . In 1966, the DC-8F entered the fleet and the carrier started withdrawing the DC-6s from service. Togo became the state in joining the consortium in 1965, but it was not until 1968 that this country held a participation in the carrier. By the mid-1960s, the carrier took over the Air France and UTA maintenance facilities located at Dakar-Yoff Airport. There, the company carried out the maintenance for its aircraft (excluding the jet fleet) and also undertook maintenance works for foreign carriers, including Air Mauritanie and Air Senegal, and even for air forces of neighbour countries. Another maintenance centre was located at Douala Airport. However, major maintenance works were provided by UAT at Le Bourget Airport.\n\nAir Afrique received two Caravelle 11Rs, a mixed passenger-cargo version of the Caravelle 10R, in . Two DC-4s were sold at the time in order for the company to afford the costs of these new aircraft. The Caravelles were deployed on African routes, replacing the DC-6s. In 1968, another DC-8-50 joined the fleet. By then, the route network included 22 African countries, along with Bordeaux, Lyon, Marseille, Nice and Paris in France, Geneva in Switzerland and New York in the United States (in agreement with Pan Am).\n\nThe company ordered two McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30s in , boosting the order with one more aircraft of the type the same year. Amid increasing tourism in Africa, in the same year the airline acquired a 51% stake in \"Société de Développement Hôtelier & Touristique en Afrique d l'Ouest\"; Air Afrique also held interests in tourist agencies. At the same year, the number of employees was 3,370 and the aircraft park stood at three DC-8s, one DC-8F, two Caravelle 11Rs, one DC-3 and four DC-4s. In , a DC-8-63CF entered the fleet and two NAMC YS-11As were purchased; these turboprop airliners were transferred to Air Ivoire in 1972. Air Afrique started flights to New York in its own right in , using DC-8-63 aircraft. In the same year, Central African Republic's president Jean Bedel Bokassa stated that his country would leave the consortium to form their own airline, Air Centrafrique; the withdrawal plans were shelved. Shortly afterwards, Cameroon's president Ahmadou Ahidjo was discontented with the airline both for the lack of Cameroonians in top management positions and for the location of the head office in Abidjan, as Douala was the city with the highest traffic among the points served by the carrier in Africa at the time, and Ahidjo believed the head office should be located there. In , Cameroon withdrew its support from the consortium to run their own national carrier, Cameroon Airlines, which had been founded on . Ownership was reorganised following the Cameroon breakaway, with the remaining shareholder countries participating with 6.18% each and SODETRAF keeping a 28%.\nDuring 1971, a third Caravelle was incorporated into the fleet, and the regional headquarters for Central Africa were moved from Douala, Cameroon to Libreville in Gabon. The move angered Chadian president François Tombalbaye, who also threatened to withdraw support to the multinational enterprise in 1972, something that finally did not occur. The carrier joined the Air France reservation system in 1973. The first wide-bodied DC-10-30, named ″Libreville″, was delivered on , arriving in Dakar on 2 March. Starting 13 March, the type replaced the DC-8s on the Paris–Bordeaux–Nouakchott–Dakar, Paris–Dakar–Abidjan, Paris–Fort Lamy–Dakar–Brazaville, Paris–Marseilles–Niamey–Cotonou–Abidjan routes in a gradual manner. Late in 1973, a fourth Caravelle was acquired from Royal Jordanian Airlines and a Douglas DC-8-55F entered the fleet. Cheikh Fall was succeeded by Aoussou Koffi at the head of the company in 1974.\n\nAt , the workforce had grown to 3,726 and the carrier's fleet comprised three Caravelles (one 10R and two 11Rs), one DC-3, five DC-8s (one DC-8-63CF, one DC-8-30 and three DC-8-50s) and a DC-10-30. In , a third DC-8-55F was purchased. The second DC-10-30, ″Cotonou″, joined the fleet in 1976; prior to incorporation, the aircraft had been delivered in and leased to Thai International Airways. In 1976, Gabon left the consortium and formed Air Gabon; Sierra Leone was incorporated in 1978. A third DC-10-30 was ordered in 1977 and a Boeing 747-200C in 1978. In 1979, the company placed an order with Airbus for one Airbus A300B4, intended to fly the Dakar–Paris route, and two Airbus A310s; the order was later homogenised to include three A300B4s. A Boeing 747F was also ordered that year.\n\nIn the airline had 5,100 employees and a fleet that comprised a pair of Caravelle 10Rs, three DC-8-50s, two DC-8-50Fs, one DC-8-63 and three DC-10-30s that served 22 African nations and intercontinental routes to Bordeaux, Geneva, Lyon, Marseilles, Nice, New York, Paris, Rome and Zurich. Three aircraft (an Airbus A300B4, an Airbus A310 and a Boeing 747-200F) were on order. A DC-8-55F was sold in 1981 ahead of the incorporation of new aircraft; that year, three Airbus A300s, a Boeing 747-200C and the third DC-10-30 named \"Niamey\" joined the fleet. The airline had to sell three Caravelles and two DC-8-63s to counter the financial difficulties that arose from the decline of passengers carried in 1983. On 1 March 1984, a Boeing 747-200F was leased to National Airlines, which in turn sub-leased the aircraft to Saudi Arabian Airlines. Business class was introduced on most of the aircraft during 1984.\nThe carrier began a steep decline during the decade, just after the ″Africanisation″ of the airline, i.e. Africans holding all top positions, was completed. Since that time, overbooked flights became frequent, tickets reserved for the member states were never paid, and schedules were missed to such an extent that some flights arrived half a day later or even departed ahead of schedule without any explanation. Losses mounted to FRF 68 million and FRF 6,8 million for 1983 and 1984, respectively; by contrast, the carrier made an FRF 17.6 million ( million) profit during 1985. The number of passengers carried that year was 757,000, a 9.5% increase from the previous year. Largely due to the acquisition of new aircraft or wet-leasing planes from other companies, at early 1985 the carrier had a total debt of  million, with approximately a fifth of this amount being unpaid contributions from the member states. Director-general Koffi Aoussou also attributed the losses to the rise in fuel prices (Air Afrique spent  million in fuel in 1978 and almost  million in 1984), to overstaffing, to the increase in competition (mainly from UTA in the European routes), and to poor performance of the member countries' economies. During 1985, Auxence Ickonga, former head of the Congolese state-owned oil company Hydrocongo, succeeded Ivorian Aoussou Koffi as president and director general of the airline with plans to reduce salaries, shrink the 5,600-strong staff by 515, and to sell a Boeing 747 for  million in order to make the company economically viable. By , the debt-to-equity ratio was 8:1, with obligations rising to FRF 1,800 million. At the same time, the fleet comprised three A300s, two Boeing 727s (one chartered from Air France and the other from JAT), two DC-8s and three DC-10s; the Boeing 747 cargo that Ickonga intended to sell to alleviate the financial crisis was acquired by Korean Air Lines for  million.\n\nBy the late 1980s, Air Afrique had accumulated debts for over 200 billion CFA francs. The consortium members (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal and Togo) sought assistance from France. On 2 March 1989, Rolland Billecart —a high-ranking official of the French government— entered the company, becoming the first non-African chairman and CEO of Air Afrique with plans to keep the company afloat that included the reduction of the workforce by 2,000. The company carried 710,498 passengers in 1988 and recorded an FRF 288 million net loss for the year, whereas an FRF 7.3 million ( million) net profit was posted the following year, with 754,314 passengers carried. The workforce was cut by 1,600 in June 1989. The new management lobbied to restrict foreign airlines to serve the member countries in order for Air Afrique to take advantage of this situation. Agadez was made part of the route network in the fall of 1989. For a short period of time starting in late 1989, a 302-seater Lockheed L-1011, a 137-seater Boeing 737 and a Boeing 707 Freighter were leased from American Trans Air, Aeromaritime and Naganagani, respectively, in order to supplement the fleet.\n\nAt the fleet consisted of three Airbus A300B4, one McDonnell Douglas DC-8-63F and three DC-10-30. In mid-1990, an order was placed with Airbus for four Airbus A310-300s plus four more options, with deliveries starting in mid-1992. In 1990 Air France became UTA's controlling shareholder. This resulted in UTA's stake in Air Afrique passing into Air France's hands.\n\nThe first Airbus A310-304 entered the fleet in 1991. In 1994 the fleet comprised 12 aircraft and the carrier had more than 4,200 employees. Cash position dramatically worsened that year after a 50% devaluation of the CFA franc, a situation that led to the seizure of one fourth of the fleet, due to debt defaults, in the forthcoming years. Subsequently, the already indebted company had to lease in order to revert the lack of aircraft. It nevertheless suspended, or reduced the frequency on some routes, and codeshared others. During 1995, the airline transported 761,000 passengers, losing . Also in 1995, DHL started participating into the airline. One DC-10-30 was sold to AOM French Airlines in February 1996.\n\nBillecart left Air Afrique in 1997 and was succeeded by Sir Harry Tirvangadum, a Mauritian national, as Director General. Billecart's management was plagued of accusations. He claimed he failed to restructure the company due to the excessive interference from the governments that owned it, whereas employees accused him of worsening Air Afrique's financial position by acquiring four Airbus A310-300s. Tirvangadum reduced the debts to just 31 billion CFA francs. From all the member states, only Côte d'Ivoire, Mali and Senegal provided their quota from a total of 20 billion CFA francs that were necessary to alleviate the financial difficulties of the carrier at that time. During Tirvangandum's mandate, Air Afrique entered a partnership with the World Bank, which aimed operations to be restricted to Africa. In , the carrier reduced its fleet from 15 to 11 when four Airbus A310-300s were returned to the creditors. Late that year, debts rose to about . By that time, eleven countries on the CFA zone were the major shareholders of the airline (70.4%), African and French investors had a participation of 13.7%, Air France had a 12.2% stake, and DHL owned 3.2%.\n\n, the carrier had 4,440 employees, the fleet comprised one Antonov An-12, two Airbus A300-600Rs, three Airbus A300B4-200s, two Airbus A310-300s, two Boeing 707-320Cs, five Boeing 737-300s and a Boeing 767-300ER, whereas two Airbus A330-200s were on order. At the same time, the route network included Abidjan, Abu Dhabi, Accra, Athens, Bamako, Bangui, Banjul, Beirut, Bissau, Bordeaux, Brazzaville, Casablanca, Conakry, Cotonou, Dakar, Douala, Geneva, Jeddah, Johannesburg, Lagos, Libreville, Lisbon, Lome, Malabo, Marseille, Monrovia, Nairobi, Ndjamena, New York, Niamey, Nouakchott, Ouagadougou, Paris, Pointe Noire, Rome and Zürich. In , Jeffrey Erickson, former CEO of Trans World Airlines, attempted to re-structure the heavily indebted carrier, backed by both a consultancy and a World Bank grant, setting up a 14-month privatization plan. At that time schedules were commonly missed as the airline was suffering a lack of aircraft. By , Air Afrique still ranked among the top five African airlines alongside EgyptAir, Kenya Airways, Royal Air Maroc and South African Airways but debts had risen to  million. Later that year, the airline appealed to the French carrier Air France –still a minor shareholder in Air Afrique– for negotiation capacity. Air France became the major shareholder of the company when its holding was raised to 35% after a cash injection. The eleven African Governments reduced its participation in Air Afrique to 22%, 5% belonged to the employees, and the remaining stake were owned by other investors. The plan Air France had in mind was to close down Air Afrique and set up a new airline using the same name. Despite this, Air Afrique went out of business in , in the wake of the downturn in the aviation industry created by the 2001-09-11 attacks, and was never revived. Less than a year earlier the company had about 4,600 employees to service a fleet of just six planes; at the time of closure, it had one leased operative aircraft, and partly owned Air Burkina (17%), Air Mali (11.5%) and Air Mauritanie (32%). The carrier was declared bankrupt on . Air France took over most of Air Afrique routes.\n\nAt its heyday, the airline operated an extensive network within Central and Western Africa, as well as flights to Europe and North America. The scheduled network at the time of closure comprised 22 destinations: Abidjan, Athens, Bamako, Bangui, Banjul, Brazzaville, Casablanca, Cotonou, Dakar, Douala, Geneva, Libreville, Lomé, Marseille, N'Djamena, New York, Niamey, Nouakchott, Ouagadougou, Paris, Point Noire, and Rome.\n\nThe airline historically operated a wide variety of aircraft:\n\nAccording to Aviation Safety Network, Air Afrique experienced seven accidents/incidents; only two of them led to fatalities.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108170", "title": "Hamengkubuwono X", "text": "Hamengkubuwono X\n\nSri Sultan Hamengkubuwono X (also spelled as Hamengkubuwana X, often abbreviated as HB X) (born BRM Herjuno Darpito, 2 April 1946 in Yogyakarta) is the Sultan of the historic Yogyakarta Sultanate in Indonesia, and is currently also the Governor of the modern Yogyakarta Special Region (\"Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta\").\n\nHamengkubuwono X succeeded his father, Hamengkubuwono IX as the Sultan of Yogyakarta when Hamengkubuwono IX died on 3 October 1988. Hamengkubuwono X was formally installed as Sultan on 7 March 1989. However, the position of the Governor of the Yogyakarta Special Region did not go to Hamengkubuwono X. Vice Governor Sri Paku Alam VIII, prince of the subordinate enclave of Paku Alaman within Yogyakarta was instead controversially elevated to the position of governor. This was contrary to the agreement made at the independence of Indonesia in recognition of Hamengkubuwono IX's support and role in the Indonesian War of Independence. Under the agreement, the Yogyakarta Sultan holds the position of governor in the Yogyakarta Special Region, and the Paku Alam holds the position of vice governor.\n\nAfter the fall of the Suharto regime in May 1998, and following the death of Sri Paku Alam VIII on 11 September 1998, the central government required an election be held for the post of Yogyakarta Governor. Hamengkubuwono X was democratically elected as the Governor on 3 October 1998.\n\nOn 30 August 2012, following a decade of talks between Yogyakarta and the central government, the national legislature of Indonesia formally enshrined in law the convention that the Sultan inherits the position of governor.\n\nHamengkubuwono X was a graduate of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law of Gajah Mada University in Yogyakarta. He was active as Chairman DIY KADINDAII (Business Association), Chairman of the DPD Golkar DIY (Golongan Karya Party Yogyakarta), Chairman of the DIY Sports Committee Chairman and Managing Director of PT Punokawan Construction, President of the PG Madukismo Commissioner, and in July 1996 was appointed Chairman of the DIY Expert Counsel to the Governor.\n\nHamengkubuwono X followed the tradition of his late father Sri Sultan Hamengkubuwono IX in the spirit of Indonesian Nationalism over self-interest by participating in street protests in support of the student demonstrations opposing Suharto's rule on May 14 of 1998, and like his illustrious father, wanted to be a pioneer in the Yogyakarta Reformation Movement albeit in a non-violent manner. He was also one of the four key figures in the early reform period that sparked the Ciganjur Declaration urging the government to hold elections as soon as possible, because President BJ Habibie had neither Constitutional nor legal rights to take over the presidency of Suharto who had just resigned.\n\nHamengkubuwono X has stated his vision for his region and the Sultanate are the development of science and technology, development of agriculture, tourism and world-famous cultural industries and thus provide a fair and prosperous life to all his citizens. He was nominated by popular choice, to the Golkar Yogyakarta Assembly as a Presidential Candidate for the 2009 Indonesian Presidential Election Campaign. Hamengkubuwono X, though widely respected across all parties and nationwide as neutral, honest and uncorrupted was ultimately unsuccessful in garnering support outside Central Java and was unsuccessful to attain a first round voting position.\n\nHamengkubuwono X has discontinued the polygamist tradition of Javanese monarchs having several wives and possibly multiple concubines, as per his late father's wishes to modernize the royal system. He is married to Ratu Gusti Kanjeng Ratu (GKR) Hemas.\n\nTheir five daughters (in birth order) are:\n\nHamengkubuwono X resides in the Keraton Yogyakarta complex and uses the Governor's mansion solely for political affairs.\n\nIn Javanese Kraton (palaces) names of individuals change with respect to change in status:\n\nHis style and title in full English : His Highness Sultan Hamengkubuwono the Tenth, Commander-in-chief in war, Servant of the Most Gracious, Cleric and Caliph that Safeguards the Religion\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108171", "title": "St. George and the Dragonet", "text": "St. George and the Dragonet\n\n\"St. George and the Dragonet\" is a short audio satire recorded August 26, 1953 by Stan Freberg for Capitol Records. It was released September 21, 1953 as a 45 rpm single (Capitol F2596), and reached No. 1 on both the \"Billboard\" and \"Cash Box\" record charts.\n\nScripted by Freberg and Daws Butler, the spoof combined the tale of \"St. George and the Dragon\" with the popular 1950s radio-TV series \"Dragnet\". The recording was a #1 hit, selling over one million copies in the first three weeks. The cast featured Freberg, Butler, June Foray and Hy Averback. Freberg used a variation of the line \"Just the facts, ma'am,\" which was popularly associated with \"Dragnet\" despite never being used in the series. Freberg actually said: \"We just want to get the facts, sir.\" \n\nThe introduction states that the legend that the listener is going to hear is true, and that \"only the needle should be changed to protect the record.\" St. George begins his story: \"This is the countryside. My name is St. George. I am a Knight.\" (This parodies Sgt. Joe Friday's opening narration, \"This is the City.\") St. George learns that the dragon is wanted for \"devouring maidens out of season\", and he sets out to apprehend it. He encounters a maiden (June Foray in a New York accent) who was \"burned\" by the dragon and confident in her testimony, stating she got it \"straight from the dragon's mouth.\" He also meets a knave (Daws Butler) who has been accused of \"stealing tarts\", who gives the description of the dragon. When the Knave asks St. George how he plans to capture the dragon, the knight says he will use a \"dragon net\". George finds the dragon and charges him with a 502 (Devouring Maidens Out of Season) and as the dragon overdramatically bellows his defiance to the charge, St. George also charges him with a 412 (Overacting) and takes him into custody. The dragon's fire is \"put out\", its \"maiden-devouring license\" is revoked, and it is sentenced to a prison term. The narrator concludes by saying, \"Maiden devouring out of season is punishable by a term of not less than 50, or more than 300 years.\"\n\nFreberg wanted to use the original \"Dragnet\" opening theme music by Walter Schumann. Capitol Records insisted he get the permission of \"Dragnet\" star and creator, Jack Webb. Being a Freberg fan, Webb liked the idea, approved the use of the theme and allowed Freberg to use the same orchestra from the \"Dragnet\" series with Schumann conducting. (According to Freberg, when he approached Webb with the idea for the record, the actor said, \"I was wondering when you'd get around to me, Freberg.\")\n\nThe recording had to be restarted several times because the trombone players were laughing so hard at the jokes that they were unable to play their instruments. Schumann's music was issued on sheet music with a front cover photograph of Freberg (minus his glasses), a humorous close-up with \"noir\" lighting as if it were a still from \"Dragnet\".\n\n\"St. George and the Dragonet\" was issued through the same channels as the distribution of popular music, and in 1953 it was #1 on both the \"Billboard\" and \"Cash Box\" record charts. The B-side was another \"Dragnet\" spoof, \"Little Blue Riding Hood\", based on the fairy tale \"Little Red Riding Hood\", in which Little Red Riding Hood (voiced by June Foray) is accused of trafficking \"goodies\". The introductory narration claims that \"only the color has been changed, to prevent an investigation,\" a reference to the high-level \"red scare\" investigations conducted in that period by the House Un-American Activities Committee. Freberg's in-character narration begins, \"This is the woods\".\n\nFreberg and Butler later issued a Christmas-themed \"Dragnet\" parody, \"Christmas Dragnet\" (aka \"Yulenet\"), concerning a character named Grudge who was picked up by the squad for refusing to believe in Santa Claus. Freberg's in-character narration begins,\"This is the season\".\n\n\"St. George and the Dragonet\" was later made available in a 1991 CD set, \"Dr. Demento 20th Anniversary Collection\" (Rhino R2 70743, May 21, 1991); a 1998 CD \"The Very Best Of Stan Freberg\" (Collectables COL-CD-2733; reissue of 1990 CD The Capitol Collector's Series); and a 1999 CD set \"Tip of the Freberg: The Stan Freberg Collection\" 1951-1998 (Rhino R2 75645, August 3, 1999). In 1957 Freberg reprised the sketch on one episode of his radio series, \"The Stan Freberg Show\".\n"}
{"id": "2108174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108174", "title": "Hamengkubuwono IX", "text": "Hamengkubuwono IX\n\nHamengkubuwono IX or HB IX (12 April 1912 – 2 October 1988) was an Indonesian politician and royalty who was the second vice president of Indonesia, the ninth sultan of Yogyakarta, and the first governor of the Special Region of Yogyakarta.\n\nBorn as Raden Mas Dorodjatun in Sompilan, Ngasem, Yogyakarta to \"Gusti Pangeran Haryo\" (Prince) Puruboyo and \"Raden Ajeng\" (Lady) Kustillah, when he was three years old he was named Crown Prince to the Yogyakarta Sultanate after his father ascended to the throne and became Sultan Hamengkubuwono VIII.\n\nHamengkubuwono IX had a Western education. When he was four, he was sent away to live with a Dutch family. After completing his primary and secondary education in 1931, Hamengkubuwono IX left Dutch East Indies to attend the Leiden University in the Netherlands. There Hamengkubuwono IX took Indonesian studies and economics. He returned to his native land in 1939.\n\nWith the death of Hamengkubuwono VIII in October 1939, Hamengkubuwono ascended to the throne with a coronation ceremony on 18 March 1940.\n\nHis full title in Javanese was Sampéyan Dalêm Ingkang Sinuwún Kanjêng Sultan Hamêngkubuwónó Sénópati Íng Alogó Ngabdurråkhman Sayidin Panåtågåmå Khålifatullåh Ingkang Kapíng Sångå. In English, his title would be: His Highness Sultan Hamengkubuwono the Ninth, Commander-in-chief in war, Servant of the Most Gracious, Cleric and Caliph that Safeguards the Religion.\n\nDuring his coronation speech, Hamengkubuwono recognized his Javanese origins and said \"Even though I have tasted Western Education, I am still and will always be a Javanese.\"\n\nThe 28-year-old young Sultan negotiated terms and conditions with the 60-year-old governor, Dr Lucien Adam, for four months from November 1939 to February 1940. The main points of contention were:\n\nEventually, the Sultan agreed to the proposal by the government of the Netherlands, and in February 1942, the Netherlands surrendered Indonesia to the invading Japanese army.\n\nIn 1942, the Dutch Colonial Government in Indonesia was defeated by the Japanese Imperial Army. As the Japanese Imperial Army consolidated their hold on Indonesia, many suggested that Hamengkubuwono IX evacuate himself and seek asylum in Australia or the Netherlands. Hamengkubuwono IX refused this offer, insisting that Sultan had to stay close to his people in times of crisis. In fact, he saved his people from being sent to Burma to become romusha forced-laborers, by asking the Japanese to allow the building of a water canal (the Selokan Mataram).\n\nDirectly after the declaration of Indonesian independence at 17 August 1945, Hamengkubuwono IX together with Paku Alam VIII, the Prince of Pakualaman decided to support the newly formed Republic. Hamengkubuwono IX's support was immediately recognized by the Central Government with an appointment to the Life-Governorship of Yogyakarta with Paku Alam VIII as vice governor. Yogyakarta's status was also upgraded to that of Special Region. In addition, Hamengkubuwono IX served as Yogyakarta's military governor and was also minister of the state from 1945 to 1949.\n\nThe Dutch returned to lay claim to their former colony. Hamengkubuwono IX played a vital role in the resistance. In early 1946, the capital of Indonesia was quietly relocated to Yogyakarta, in that time the Sultan gave the new government some funds. When Indonesia first sought a diplomatic solution with the Dutch Government, Hamengkubuwono IX was part of the Indonesian delegation.\n\nIn early 1949, Hamengkubuwono IX conceived the idea of a major offensive to be launched against Yogyakarta and the Dutch troops occupying it. The purpose of this offensive was to show to the world that Indonesia still existed and that it was not ready to surrender. The idea was suggested to General Sudirman, the Commander of the Indonesian Army and received his approval. In February 1949, Hamengkubuwono IX had a meeting with then Lieutenant Colonel Suharto, the man chosen by Sudirman to be the field commander for the offensive. After this discussion, preparations were made for the offensive. This involved intensified guerilla attacks in villages and towns around Yogyakarta so as to make the Dutch station more troops outside of Yogyakarta and thin the numbers in the city itself. On 1 March 1949 at 6 am, Suharto and his troops launched the \"1 March General Offensive\". The offensive caught the Dutch by surprise. For his part, Hamengkubuwono IX allowed his palace to be used as a hide out for the troops. For 6 hours, the Indonesian troops had control of Yogyakarta before finally retreating. The offensive was a great success, inspiring demoralized troops all around Indonesia.\n\nOn 30 June 1949, the retreating Dutch forces handed over authority over Yogyakarta to Hamengkubuwono.\n\nOn 27 December, immediately after the transfer of sovereignty was signed by Queen Juliana in Dam Palace in Amsterdam, High Commissioner A.H.J. Lovink transferred his powers to Hamengkubuwono during a ceremony in Jakarta in Koningsplein Palace, later renamed Merdeka Palace.\n\nAfter Indonesia's Independence was recognized by the Dutch, Hamengkubuwono IX continued to serve the Republic. In addition to continuing his duties as Governor of Yogyakarta, Hamengkubuwono IX continued to serve in the Indonesian Government as Minister.\n\nHamengkubuwono IX served as Minister of Defense and Homeland Security Coordinator (1949–1951 and 1953), vice premier (1951), chairman of the State Apparatus Supervision (1959), chairman of the State Audit Board (1960–1966), and Coordinating Minister for Development while concurrently holding the position of Minister of Tourism (1966). In addition to these positions, Hamengkubuwono IX held the positions of chairman of the Indonesian National Sports Committee (KONI) and chairman of the Tourism Patrons Council.\n\nDuring the G30S Movement, in the course of which six generals were kidnapped from their homes and killed, Hamengkubuwono IX was present in Jakarta. That morning, with President Sukarno's location still uncertain, Hamengkubuwono was contacted by Suharto, who was now a major general and the commander of Kostrad for advice. Suharto suggested that because Sukarno's whereabouts are still unknown, Hamengkubuwono IX should form a provisional government to help counter the movement. Hamengkubuwono IX rejected the offer and contacted one of Sukarno's many wives who confirmed Sukarno's whereabouts.\n\nAfter Suharto had received Supersemar in March 1966, Hamengkubuwono IX and Adam Malik joined him in a triumvirate to reverse Sukarno's policies. Hamengkubuwono IX was appointed Minister of Economics, Finance, and Industry and charged with rectifying Indonesia's Economic problems. He would hold this position until 1973. \n\nEver since Mohammad Hatta resigned as vice-president in December 1956, the position had remained vacant for the rest of Sukarno's time as president. When Suharto was formally elected to the presidency in 1968 by the People's Consultative Assembly, it continued to remain vacant. Finally in March 1973, Hamengkubuwono IX was elected as vice president alongside Suharto who had also been re-elected to a second term as president. He retained his post as Yogyakarta Governor during his vice-presidential tenure.\n\nHamengkubuwono IX's election was not a surprise as he was a popular figure in Indonesia. He was also a civilian and his election to the vice presidency was hoped to complement Suharto's military background. Despite being officially elected in 1973, it can be said that Hamengkubuwono IX had been the de facto vice president beforehand as he regularly assumed the leadership of the country whenever Suharto was out of the country. As vice president, Hamengkubuwono IX was put in charge of welfare and was also given the duty of supervising economic development.\n\nIt was expected that the Suharto and Hamengkubuwono IX duet would be retained for another term. However, Hamengkubuwono IX had become disillusioned with Suharto's increasing authoritarianism and the increasing corruption.\n\nThese two elements were also recognized by protesters who had demanded that Suharto not stand for another term as president. These protests reached its peak in February 1978, when students of Bandung Technological Institute (ITB) published a book giving reasons as to why Suharto should not be elected president. In response, Suharto sent troops to take over the campus and issued a ban on the book. \nHamengkubuwono could not accept what Suharto had done. In March 1978, Hamengkubuwono rejected his nomination as vice president by the MPR. Suharto asked Hamengkubuwono to change his mind, but Hamengkubuwono continued to reject the offer and cited health as his reason for not accepting the nomination.\n\nSuharto took Hamengkubuwono IX's rejection personally and in his 1989 autobiography would claim credit for conceiving 1 March General Offense. \n\nHamengkubuwono IX had been active with Scouts from the days of the Dutch colonial government and continued to look after the movement once Indonesia became independent. In 1968, Hamengkubuwono IX was elected Head of the national Scout movement. Hamengkubuwono IX was also awarded the Bronze Wolf, the only distinction of the World Organization of the Scout Movement, awarded by the World Scout Committee for exceptional services to world Scouting, in 1973.\n\nDuring a visit to Washington D.C. in 1988, Hamengkubuwono IX experienced a sudden internal bleeding. He was brought to the George Washington University Medical Center, where he died on 2 October 1988 evening, or 3 October morning in Indonesia. His body was flown back to Yogyakarta and buried in the royal mausoleum of the Mataram monarchs in Imogiri. There is a special museum dedicated to him in the sultan's palace (\"kraton\") in Yogyakarta. He was also given the title National Hero of Indonesia, a distinction for Indonesian patriots. He was replaced by his son, Raden Mas Herdjuno Darpito, who took the regnal name Hamengkubuwono X.\n\nOne of the two symbolically important banyan trees, the \"Kiai Dewandaru\" planted during the reign of Sri Sultan Hamengkubuwono I, coincidentally fell in the \"Alun-Alun Lor\" (Northern Parade Square) concurrently with the funerary rites of Hamengkubuwono IX; this was attributed by Kejawèn Javanese as a sign of immense grief of even the physical lands of the kingdom. The banyan was replanted with the approval of Hamengkubuwono X, although it is diminutive beside the centuries-old \"Kiai Wijayadaru\" on the east flank.\n\nHamengkubuwono IX never had a queen consort during his reign; preferring instead to take four concubines from which he had 21 children. \n\nHamengkubuwono IX was a fan of Chinese Silat movies and novels. He also enjoyed cooking and headed an unofficial Chinese Silat club which included Cabinet Ministers as its members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108181", "title": "Orthognathic surgery", "text": "Orthognathic surgery\n\nOrthognathic surgery (); also known as corrective jaw surgery or simply jaw surgery, is surgery designed to correct conditions of the jaw and face related to structure, growth, sleep apnea, TMJ disorders, malocclusion problems owing to skeletal disharmonies, or other orthodontic problems that cannot be easily treated with braces. Originally coined by Harold Hargis, this surgery is also used to treat congenital conditions such as cleft palate. Typically during oral surgery, bone is cut, moved, modified, and realigned to correct a dentofacial deformity. The word \"osteotomy\" means the division, or excision of bone. The dental osteotomy allows surgeons to visualize the jawbone, and work accordingly.\n\nThe operation is used to correct jaw problems in about 5% of general population presenting with dentofacial deformities like maxillary prognathisms, mandibular prognathisms, open bites, difficulty chewing, difficulty swallowing, temporomandibular joint dysfunction pains, excessive wear of the teeth, and receding chins.\n\nIt is estimated that nearly 5% of the UK or USA population present with dentofacial deformities that are not amenable to orthodontic treatment requiring orthognathic surgery as a part of their definitive treatment. Orthognathic surgery can be used to correct:\nA disproportionately grown upper or lower jaw causes dentofacial deformities. Chewing becomes problematic, and may also cause pain due to straining of the jaw muscle and bone. Deformities range from micrognathia, which is when the mandible doesn't grow far forward enough (over bite), and when the mandible grows too much, causing an under bite; all of which are uncomfortable. Also, a total maxilla osteotomy is used to treat the \"long face syndrome,\" known as the skeptical open bite, idiopathic long face, hyper divergent face, total maxillary alveolar hyperplasia, and vertical maxillary excess. Prior to surgery, surgeons should take x-rays of the patient's jaw to determine the deformity, and to make a plan of procedures. Mandible osteotomies, or corrective jaw surgeries, benefit individuals who suffer from difficulty chewing, swallowing, TMJ pains, excessive wear of the teeth, open bites, overbites, underbites, or a receding chin. The deformities listed above can be perfected by an osteotomy surgery of either the maxilla or mandible (whichever the deformity calls for), which is performed by an oral surgeon who is specialized in the working with both the upper and lower jaws. Orthognathic surgery is also available as a very successful treatment (90–100%) for obstructive sleep apnea.\n\nOrthognathic surgery is a well established and widely used treatment option for insufficient growth of the maxilla in patients with an orofacial cleft. There is some debate regarding the timing of orthognathic procedures, to maximise the potential for natural growth of the facial skeleton. Patient reported aesthetic outcomes of orthognathic surgery for cleft lip and palate appear to be of overall satisfaction, despite complications that may arise. A potentially significant long-term outcome of orthognathic surgery is impaired maxillary growth, due to scar tissue formation. A 2013 systematic review comparing traditional orthognathic surgery with maxillary distraction osteogenesis found that the evidence was of low quality; it appeared that both procedures might be effective, but suggested distraction osteogenesis might reduce the incidence of long-term relapse.\n\nAlthough infrequent, there can be complications such as bleeding, swelling, infection, nausea and vomiting. Infection rates of up to 7% are reported after orthognathic surgery; antibiotic prophylaxis reduces the risk of surgical site infections when the antibiotics are given during surgery and continued for longer than a day after the operation.\n\nThere can also be some post operative facial numbness due to nerve damage. Diagnostics for nerve damage consist of: brush-stroke directional discrimination (BSD), touch detection threshold (TD), warm/cold (W/C) and sharp/blunt discrimination (S/B), electrophysiological tests (mental nerve blink reflex (BR), nerve conduction study (NCS), and cold (CDT) and warm (WDT) detection thresholds. The inferior alveolar nerve, which is a branch of the mandibular nerve, must be identified during surgery and worked around carefully in order to minimize nerve damage. The numbness may be either temporary, or more rarely, permanent. Recovery from the nerve damage typically occurs within 3 months after repair.\n\nOrthognathic surgery is performed by an oral and maxillofacial surgeon in collaboration with an orthodontist. It often includes braces before and after surgery, and retainers after the final removal of braces. Orthognathic surgery is often needed after reconstruction of cleft palate or other major craniofacial anomalies. Careful coordination between the surgeon and orthodontist is essential to ensure that the teeth will fit correctly after the surgery.\n\nPlanning for the surgery usually involves input from a multidisciplinary team, including oral and maxillofacial surgeons, orthodontists, and occasionally a speech and language therapist. Although it depends on the reason for surgery, working with a speech and language therapist in advance can help minimize potential relapse. The surgery usually results in a noticeable change in the patient's face; a psychological assessment is occasionally required to assess patient's need for surgery and its predicted effect on the patient.\nRadiographs and photographs are taken to help in the planning. There is also advanced software that can predict the shape of the patient's face after surgery, which is useful for the planning and also explaining the surgery to the patient and the patient's family.\n\nThe main goals of orthognathic surgery are to achieve a correct bite, an aesthetic face, and an enlarged airway. While correcting the bite is important, if the face is not considered, the resulting bone changes might lead to an unaesthetic result. Great care needs to be taken during the planning phase to maximize airway patency.\n\nAll dentofacial osteotomies are performed under general anesthesia, causing total unconsciousness. General anesthesia allows surgeons to perform dentofacial osteotomies effectively without involuntary muscle movement or complaints about minor pain. Prior to any Osteotomy, third molars (wisdom teeth) are extracted to reduce the chance of infection.\nDentofacial osteotomy is usually performed using oscillating and reciprocating saws, burs, and manual chisels. Reciprocating saws are straight and are used for making straight bone cuts. Oscillating saws are angled, to different degrees, in order to make deep curved cuts for certain osteotomies like mandible angle reduction. The recent advent of piezoelectric saws has simplified bone cutting, but such equipment has not yet become the norm outside of the most developed countries.\nThe surgery might involve one jaw or both jaws concurrently. The modification is done by making cuts in the bones of the mandible and/or maxilla, and repositioning the cut pieces in the desired alignment. This surgery is usually performed with the use of general anaesthetic and a nasal tube for intubation. The nasal tube enables the teeth to be wired together during surgery. The surgery usually does not involve cutting the skin. Instead, the surgeon is often able to go through the interior of the mouth.\nCutting one bone is known as an osteotomy, while performing the surgery on both jaws simultaneously is known as a bi-maxillary osteotomy (cutting the bone of both jaws) or a maxillomandibular advancement.\n\nThe maxilla can be adjusted using a \"Lefort I\" level osteotomy (most common). Additionally, the midface can be mobilized by using a Lefort II, or Lefort III osteotomy. These techniques are utilized extensively for children that suffer from various craniofacial abnormalities, such as Crouzon syndrome.\n\nThe jaws will be wired together (inter-maxillary fixation) using stainless steel wires during the surgery to ensure the correct re-positioning of the bones. In most cases, these wires are released before the patient wakes up. However, some surgeons prefer to wire the jaws shut instead.\n\nIn some instances, the change in jaw structure will cause the cheeks to become depressed and shallow. Some procedures will call for the insertion of implants to give the patient's face a fuller look.\n\nThis procedure is intended for patients with an upper jaw deformity, or with an open bite.\nOperating on the upper jaw requires surgeons to make incisions below both eye sockets, making it a bilateral osteotomy, enabling the whole upper jaw, along with the roof of the mouth and upper teeth, to move as one unit. At this time, the upper jaw can be moved and aligned correctly in order to fit the upper teeth in place with the lower teeth. Then, the jaw is stabilized using titanium screws that will eventually be grown over by bone, permanently staying in the mouth.\n\nThe mandible osteotomy is intended for those with a receded mandible (lower jaw) or an open bite, which may cause difficulty chewing and jaw pain.\nFor this procedure cuts are made behind the molars, in between the first and second molars, and lengthwise, detaching the front of the jaw so the palate (including the teeth and all) can move as one unit. From here, the surgeon can smoothly slide the mandible into its new position. Stabilization screws are used to support the jaw until the healing process is done.\n\nThis procedure is used to correct mandible retrusion and mandibular prognathism (over and under bite).\nFirst, a horizontal cut is made on the inner side of the ramus mandibulae, extending anterally to the anterior portion of the ascending ramus. The cut is then made inferiorly on the ascending ramus to the descending ramus, extending to the lateral border of the mandible in the area between the first and second molar. At this time, a vertical cut is made extending inferior to the body of the mandible, to the inferior border of the mandible.\nAll cuts are made into the middle of the bone, where bone marrow is present. Then, a chisel is inserted into the pre existing cuts and tapped gently in all areas to split the mandible of the left and right side. From here, the mandible can be moved either forwards or backwards. If sliding backwards, the distal segment must be trimmed to provide room in order to slide the mandible backwards. Lastly, the jaw is stabilized using stabilizing screws that are inserted extra-orally. The jaw is then wired shut for approximately 4–5 weeks.\n\nThis procedure is used for the advancement (movement forward) or retraction (movement backwards) of the chin.\nFirst, incisions are made from the first bicuspid to the first bicuspid, exposing the mandible. Then, soft tissue of the mandible is detached from the bone; done by stripping attaching tissues. A horizontal incision is then made inferior to the first bicuspids, bilaterally, where bone cuts (osteotomies) are made vertically inferior, extending to the inferior border of the mandible, thereby detaching the bony segments of the mandible. The bony segments are stabilized with titanium plates; no fixation (binding of the jaw) necessary. If advancement is indicated for the chin, there are inert products available to implant onto the mandible, utilizing titanium screws, bypassing bone cuts.\n\nWhen a patient has a constricted (oval shape) maxilla, but normal mandible, many orthodontists request a rapid palatal expansion.\nThis consists of the surgeon making horizontal cuts on the lateral board of the maxilla, extending anterally to the inferior border of the nasal cavity. At this time, a chisel designed for the nasal septum is utilized to detach the maxilla from the cranial base. Then, a pterygoid chisel, which is a curved chisel, is used on the left and right side of the maxilla to detach the pterygoid palates. Care must be taken as to not injure the inferior palatine artery. Prior to the procedure, the orthodontist has an orthopedic appliance attached to the maxilla teeth, bilaterally, extending over the palate with an attachment so the surgeon may use a hex-like screw to place into the device to push from anterior to posterior to start spreading the bony segments. The expansion of the maxilla may take up to 8 weeks with the surgeon advancing the expander hex lock, sideways (← →), once a week.\n\nAfter orthognathic surgery, patients are often required to adhere to an all-liquid diet for a time. Weight loss due to lack of appetite and the liquid diet is common. Normal recovery time can range from a few weeks for minor surgery, to up to a year for more complicated surgery. For some surgeries, pain may be minimal due to minor nerve damage and lack of feeling. Doctors will prescribe pain medication and prophylactic antibiotics to the patient. There is often a large amount of swelling around the jaw area, and in some cases bruising. Most of the swelling will disappear in the first few weeks, but some may remain for a few months.\n\nAll dentofacial osteotomies require an initial healing time of 2–6 weeks with secondary healing (complete bony union and bone remodeling) taking an additional 2–4 months. The jaw is sometimes immobilized (movement restricted by wires or elastics) for approximately 1–4 weeks. However, the jaw will still require two to three months for proper healing. Lastly, if screws were inserted in the jaw, bone will typically grow over them during the two to three month healing period. Patients also may not drive or operate vehicles or large machinery during the consumption of painkillers, which are typically taken for six to eight days after the surgery, depending on the pain experienced. Immediately after surgery, patients must adhere to certain infection preventing instructions such as daily cleaning, and the consumption of antibiotics. Cleaning of the mouth should always be done regardless of surgery to ensure healthy, strong teeth. Patients are able to return to work 2–6 weeks after the surgery, but must follow the specific rules for recovery for ~8 weeks.\n\nMandible and maxilla osteotomies date to the 1940s. They were used to correct dentofacial deformities like a malocclusion, and a prognathism. Advances have been made in the procedures, and in the anesthesia used. In 1985, mandible and maxilla osteotomies were effectively used to correct more extreme deformities like receding chins, and to relieve pain from temporomandibular joint disorder (TMJ).\n\nPrior to 1991, some patients undergoing a dentofacial osteotomy still had third molars (wisdom teeth), and had them removed during surgery. An extensive study done by Dr. M Lacy and Dr. R Colcleugh, was used to identify threats of combining the two surgeries used 83 patients from the time span of 1987 and 1991. Patients were reviewed, and divided into two groups; those who had, and those who didn't have their third molars extracted during the dentofacial Osteotomy. The study showed that 73% of patients developed an infection of the hardware inserted into the jaw when having their third molars removed during an osteotomy. The data indicated that getting the osteotomy and the third molar extraction at the same time highly increases the chances of infection development.\n\nAdvances in the surgical techniques allow surgeons to perform the surgery under local anesthesia with assistance from intravenous sedation. Dr. Raffaini introduced this technique in 2002 after a four-year study done with local anesthesia and assistance from intravenous sedation. Prior to this, surgeons would fully sedate patients, hospitalizing them shortly after the surgery for a 2-3 day recovery, specifically from the anesthesia. Advancements allow surgeons to expand the use of an osteotomy on more parts of the jaws with faster recovery time, less pain, and no hospitalization, making the surgery more effective with respect to time and recovery.\nThe procedure, which is strictly used for a mandibular (jaw) deformity and mobilization, has advanced from similar, very effective procedures performed since 1985. The original mandible and maxilla osteotomy procedure still remains almost unchanged, as it is the simplest and still the most effective for dentofacial deformity correction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108187", "title": "The Black Cloud", "text": "The Black Cloud\n\nThe Black Cloud is a science fiction novel by British astrophysicist Fred Hoyle. Published in 1957, the book details the arrival of an enormous cloud of gas that enters the solar system and appears about to destroy most of the life on Earth by blocking the Sun's radiation.\n\nIn 1964, astrophysicists on Earth become aware of a cloud of gas and dust, initially thought to be a Bok globule, that is heading for the solar system. The cloud, if interposed between the Sun and the Earth, could wipe out most of the life on Earth by blocking solar radiation and ending photosynthesis. A cadre of astronomers and other scientists is drawn together in Nortonstowe, England, to study the cloud and report to the British government about the consequences of its presence.\n\nThe cloud unexpectedly decelerates as it approaches and comes to rest around the Sun, causing disastrous climatic changes on Earth and immense mortality and suffering for the human race. As the behaviour of the cloud proves to be impossible to predict scientifically, the team at Nortonstowe eventually come to the conclusion that it might be a life-form with a degree of intelligence. The scientists try to communicate with the cloud, and succeed. The cloud is revealed to be an alien gaseous superorganism, many times more intelligent than humans, which is surprised to find intelligent life-forms on a solid planet. It reconfigures itself to allow sunlight to return to the Earth and humanity is saved.\n\nThough its ill-effects on humanity have ceased, several governments are mistrustful of the cloud and prepare a nuclear attack upon it. When the scientists alert the cloud of this plot, it turns the missiles back upon their senders but does not otherwise retaliate. When the astronomers ask the cloud how its lifeform originated, it replies that they have always existed. One of the characters suggests this is incompatible with the Big Bang theory.\n\nThe cloud announces that another nearby (by the cloud's standards) intelligent cloud has suddenly stopped communicating and may have vanished. This has apparently happened many times before and is a long-standing mystery to the clouds; the cloud therefore decides to leave the Solar System to investigate. During their last few days of communication two of the scientists try to learn some of the cloud's vast store of knowledge through visual signals, in order to gain further insights about the Universe. Both of them die in the attempt.\n\n\"The Spectator\" described it as \"delightful and fascinating,\" despite the \"slightly chilling\" implication of the scientists' attitude to the victims. \"Galaxy\" reviewer Floyd C. Gale stated that he had not expected \"such a noted cosmological theorist\" as Hoyle to be a fiction writer but praised the novel \"for the high quality of the narrative.\" Gale stated that \"[w]ith the utmost of apparent ease, Hoyle writes a brand of humor that eludes the pens of pros,\" and hoped that he would \"write more superior fictional ventures like this.\" Damon Knight described Hoyle's plotting as \"masterly,\" saying the novel was \"more elaborately convincing and a lot livelier than the usual gloom-laden treatment\" in similar stories. Richard Dawkins (writing in the 2010 Penguin Classics reissue) claimed the novel was \"one of the greatest science fiction novels ever written.\"\n\nThough the presence of a sentient cloud of gas may seem unlikely, the story is grounded in hard science. The detection of the cloud is described using physics equations, all of which are included in the book. Hoyle brought his experience and knowledge as the Director of the Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge, a Fellow of the Royal Society into the book. Hoyle was also responsible for the term \"Big Bang\", though Hoyle himself did not subscribe to the Big Bang theory in favour of his own Steady State Theory.\n\nIn a plot twist that foreshadows Hoyle's stance on panspermia, the cloud expresses surprise that intelligent life is capable of forming on planets.\n\nThe novel has a recurrent theme of the duplicity and shallowness of politicians compared with scientists.\n"}
{"id": "2108191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108191", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Studies", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Studies\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Studies (CIMAS) is a research institute of the University of Miami located in the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science (RSMAS). CIMAS serves as a mechanism to bring together the research resources of the Partner Universities (including UM/RSMAS) with those of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in order to develop a Center of Excellence that is relevant to understanding the Earth's oceans and atmosphere within the context of NOAA's mission. In 2010 CIMAS was restructured in light of its successful submission to a competitive award program to keep pace with changes in scientific and societal priorities as well as changes in both the NOAA and university regional context. It is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nThe nine Partner Universities include:\n\nThe CIMAS research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108195", "title": "David Malet Armstrong", "text": "David Malet Armstrong\n\nDavid Malet Armstrong (8 July 1926 – 13 May 2014), often D. M. Armstrong, was an Australian philosopher. He is well known for his work on metaphysics and the philosophy of mind, and for his defence of a factualist ontology, a functionalist theory of the mind, an externalist epistemology, and a necessitarian conception of the laws of nature. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008.\n\nKeith Campbell said that Armstrong's contributions to metaphysics and epistemology \"helped to shape philosophy's agenda and terms of debate\", and that Armstrong's work \"always concerned to elaborate and defend a philosophy which is ontically economical, synoptic, and compatibly continuous with established results in the natural sciences\".\n\nAfter studying at the University of Sydney, Armstrong undertook a B.Phil at the University of Oxford and a Ph.D at the University of Melbourne. He taught at Birkbeck College in 1954–55, then at the University of Melbourne from 1956–63. In 1964, he became Challis Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney, where he stayed until his retirement in 1991. During his career, he was a visiting lecturer at a number of institutions including Yale, Stanford, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Texas at Austin and Franklin and Marshall College.\n\nIn 1974, when the University of Sydney's Philosophy department split into two departments—the Department for General Philosophy and the Department for Traditional and Modern Philosophy—Armstrong joined the latter along with David Stove and Keith Campbell, while the former department pursued more radical politics and taught courses on Marxism and feminism. The two departments were reunified in 2000.\n\nArmstrong married Jennifer Mary de Bohun Clark in 1982 and had step children. He previously married Madeleine Annette Haydon in 1950. He also served in the Royal Australian Navy.\n\nIn 1950, Armstrong formed an Anti-Conscription Committee with David Stove and Eric Dowling, all three former students of John Anderson, the Australian philosopher, who supported conscription and also believed that anti-conscription opinions ought to be suppressed.\n\nTo mark the 50th anniversary in 2014 of Armstrong's appointment to the Challis Chair of Philosophy at Sydney University, \"Quadrant\" magazine published a tribute to him (originally written in 1991) by David Stove and an overview of Armstrong's work by Andrew Irvine.\n\nArmstrong's philosophy is broadly naturalistic. In \"Sketch for a Systematic Metaphysics\", Armstrong states that his philosophical system rests upon \"the assumption that all that exists is the space time world, the physical world as we say\". He justifies this by saying that the physical world \"seems obviously to exist\" while other things \"seem much more hypothetical\". From this fundamental assumption flows a rejection of abstract objects including Platonic forms.\n\nArmstrong's development as a philosopher was influenced heavily by John Anderson, David Lewis, and J. J. C. Smart, as well as by Ullin Place, Herbert Feigl, Gilbert Ryle and G. E. Moore. Armstrong collaborated with C. B. Martin on a collection of critical essays on John Locke and George Berkeley.\n\nArmstrong's philosophy, while systematic, does not spend any time on social or ethical matters, and also does not attempt to build a philosophy of language. He once described his slogan as 'Put semantics last' and, in \"Universals & Scientific Realism\", he rebuts an arguments in favour of Plato's theory of forms that rely on semantics by describing \"a long but, I think, on the whole discreditable tradition which tries to settle ontological questions on the basis of semantic considerations\".\n\nIn metaphysics, Armstrong defends the view that universals exist (although Platonic uninstantiated universals do not exist). Those universals match up with the fundamental particles that science tells us about. Armstrong describes his philosophy as a form of scientific realism.\n\nArmstrong's universals are \"sparse\": not every predicate will have an accompanying property, but only those which are deemed basic by scientific investigation. The ultimate ontology of universals would only be realised with the completion of physical science. Mass would thus be a universal (subject to mass not being discarded by future physicists). Armstrong realises that we will need to refer to and use properties that are not considered universals in his sparse ontology—for instance, being able to refer to something \"being a game\" (to use the example from Wittgenstein's \"Philosophical Investigations\"). Armstrong then suggests that a supervenience relation exists between these second order properties and the ontologically authentic universals given to us by physics.\n\nArmstrong's theory of universals treats relations as having no particular ontological difficulty, they can be treated in the same way non-relational properties are. How Armstrong's theory of universals deals with relations with varying adicities has been raised as an issue by Fraser MacBride. MacBride argues that there can be relations where the number of terms in the relation varies across instances. Armstrong's response is to affirm a theory he describes as the Principle of Instantial Invariance, wherein the adicity of properties are essential and invariant. According to Armstrong, complex relations which seem to challenge the principle are not ontologically real but are second-order properties that can be reduced to more basic properties that subscribe to the Principle of Instantial Invariance.\n\nArmstrong rejects nominalist accounts of properties that attempt to align properties simply with classes. Coextension is a problem they face: if properties are simply classes, in a world where all blue things are also wet, class nominalists are unable to draw a distinction between the property of being blue and being wet. He provides an analogy to the argument in \"Euthyphro\": to say that electrons are electrons because they are part of the class of electrons puts the cart before the horse. They are part of the class of electrons \"because\" they \"are\" electrons.\n\nIn Armstrong's view, nominalisms can also be criticised for producing a blob theory of reality. Objects have structure: they have parts, those parts are made of molecules, which are in turn made up of atoms standing in relation to one another, which are in turn made up of subatomic particles and so on. Blobbiness also threatens Platonic universals: a particular instantiating a universal in a world of Platonic universals becomes a matter of the blob-particular having a relation to a universal \"elsewhere\" (in the Platonic heaven, say), rather than having an internal relation in the way that a chemical element does to a constituent atom.\n\nArmstrong further rejects nominalisms that deny that properties and relations exist in reality because he suggests that these sorts of nominalisms, specifically referring to what he calls class nominalism, and resemblance nominalism, postulate primitives of either class membership or resemblance.\nThis primitive results in a vicious regress for both kinds of nominalisms, Armstrong suggests, thus motivating his states-of-affairs based system that unites properties by postulating a primitive tie of instantiation based on a fact-ontology, called states of affairs.\nIn terms of the origin of Armstrong's view of universals, Armstrong says his view of universals is \"relatively unexplored territory\" but points to Hilary Putnam's 1970 paper 'On Properties' as a possible forerunner. He also says that \"Plato in his later works, Aristotle and the Scholastic Realists were ahead of contemporary philosophy in this matter, although handicapped by the relative backwardness of the science and the scientific methodology of their day\".\n\nCentral to Armstrong's philosophy is the idea of states of affairs (\"facts\" in Russell's terminology): in \"Sketch for a Systematic Metaphysics\", Armstrong claims that states of affairs are \"\"the\" fundamental structures in reality\". A state of affairs roughly put is an instantiation of a particular and a universal: a state of affairs might be that a particular atom exists, instantiating a universal (say, that it is of a particular element, if chemical elements are ultimately accepted as part of Armstrong's universals). The particulars in Armstrong's ontology must have at least one universal—just as he rejects uninstantiated universals, he also rejects \"unpropertied particulars\".\n\nArmstrong argues that states of affairs are distinct things in ontology because they are more than the sum of their parts. If some particular \"a\" has a non-symmetric relation \"R\" to another particular \"b\", then \"R (a, b)\" differs from \"R (b, a)\". It may be the case that \"R (a, b)\" obtains in the world but \"R (b, a)\" does not. Without states of affairs instantiating the particulars and universals (including relations), we cannot account for the truth of the one case and the falsity of the other.\n\nArmstrong's theory of universals gives him the basis for an understanding of laws of nature as being relations between universals, a non-Humean account of laws of nature proposed independently by Armstrong, Michael Tooley, and Fred Dretske. This account posits that the relations between universals are truthmakers for the statements about physical laws, and it is realist as it accepts that laws of nature are a feature of the world rather than just a way we talk about the world. Armstrong identifies the laws as holding between universals rather than particulars as an account of laws involving just particulars rather than universals would not adequately explain how laws of nature operate in the case of counterfactuals.\n\nTo illustrate the theory, Stephen Mumford gives the example of \"all ravens are black\". Under the theory of Armstrong, Tooley and Dretske, there is a relation of necessity between the universals ravenhood and blackness, rather than there being a relationship with every single raven. This allows the explanation of laws of nature that have not been instantiated. Mumford cites the frequently-used example of the moa bird: \"It is supposed that every bird of this now-extinct species died at a young age, though not because of anything in its genetic makeup. Rather, it died mainly because of some virus that just happened to sweep through the population. One bird could have escaped the virus only to be eaten by a predator on the day before its fiftieth birthday.\" Under the theory of Armstrong, Tooley and Dretske, such a coincidence would not be a law of nature.\n\nArmstrong rejects dispositionalism, the idea that dispositional properties (or powers as they are sometimes referred to) are ontologically significant and have an important role in explaining laws of nature. Armstrong believes that the challenge that dispositionalism presents for his account of laws of nature is not in the case of \"manifested\" dispositions (say, a glass dropping on the ground and breaking) but \"unmanifested\" dispositions (the fact that counter factually if one were to drop the glass on the ground, it \"would\" break). Armstrong simply states that the disposition is simply in the nature of the instantiated properties of the thing which is supposed to have the disposition.\n\nRegarding truth, Armstrong holds to what he describes as a \"maximalist version\" of truthmaker theory: he believes that every truth has a truthmaker, although there doesn't necessarily exist a one-to-one mapping between truth and truthmaker. The possibility of one to many relations between truths and truthmakers is a feature that Armstrong believes allows truthmaker theory to answer some of the criticisms levelled at older correspondence theories of truth (of which he believes truthmaker theory to be an improved version). Negative truths have truthmakers in Armstrong's account: he gives the example of a wall that is painted green. The wall being painted green is a truth for the proposition that it is \"not\" painted white \"and\" the proposition that it is \"not\" painted red and so on.\n\nThe difficulty in providing an adequate account of truthmakers for events in the past is one reason Armstrong gives for rejecting presentism—the view that only the present exists (another reason being the incompatibility of such a view with special relativity). Presentists, Armstrong argues, must either deny that truthmakers are needed for statements about the past, or account for them \"by postulating rather strange truthmakers\".\n\nArmstrong holds to a physicalist, functionalist theory of the mind. He initially was attracted to Gilbert Ryle's \"The Concept of Mind\" and the rejection of Cartesian dualism. Armstrong did not accept behaviourism and instead defended a theory he referred to as the \"central-state theory\" which identifies mental states with the state of the central nervous system. In \"A Materialist Theory of Mind\", he accepted that mental states such as consciousness exist, but stated that they can be explained as physical phenomena. Armstrong attributes his adoption of the central-state theory to the work of J. J. C. Smart—specifically the paper 'Sensations and Brain Processes'—and traces the lineage from there to Ullin Place's 1956 paper 'Is Consciousness a Brain Process?'\n\nStephen Mumford said that Armstrong's \"A Materialist Theory of Mind\" \"represents an authoritative statement of Australian materialism and was, and still is, a seminal piece of philosophy\".\n\nArmstrong's view of knowledge is that the conditions of knowledge are satisfied when you have a justified true belief that you arrived at through a reliable process: that is, the belief was caused by some factor in the external world (hence the label of externalism). Armstrong uses the analogy of a thermometer: as a thermometer changes to reflect the temperature of the environment it is in, so must one's beliefs if they are reliably formed. The connection between knowledge and the external world, for Armstrong, is a nomological relationship (that is, a law of nature relationship). Here, Armstrong's view is broadly similar to that of Alvin Goldman and Robert Nozick. The intuitions that lead to this kind of externalism led Alvin Plantinga towards an account of knowledge that added the requirement for 'properly-functioning' cognitive systems operating according to a design plan.\n\nOn the question of the relationship between beliefs and knowledge, Armstrong defends a \"weak acceptance\" of the belief condition, namely that if a person can be said to know some thing \"p\", he or she believes \"p\". In a paper for the Aristotelian Society, Armstrong rejects a series of linguistic arguments for a rejection of the belief condition which argue that one can have knowledge without having belief because a common usage of the word 'belief' is to imply lack of knowledge—Armstrong gives the example of if you asked a man on a railway station whether the train has just left and he said \"I believe it has\", you would take from this that he does not \"know\" that it has.\n\nArmstrong also argues that contradictory beliefs show that there \"is\" a connection between beliefs and knowledge. He gives the example of a woman who has learned her husband is dead but cannot bring herself to \"believe\" her husband is dead. She both believes and disbelieves her husband is dead: it just happens that one of her two beliefs is justified, true and satisfies some knowledge conditions.\n\nArmstrong presents a response to Colin Radford's modified version of the \"unconfident examinee\" example. A student is asked when Queen Elizabeth I died, and he hesitatingly answers \"1603\" and exhibits no confidence in his answer. He has forgotten that at some point previously, he studied English history. Radford presents this as an example of knowledge without belief. But Armstrong differs on this: the unconfident examinee has a belief that Queen Elizabeth I died in 1603, he knows that she died in 1603, but he does not \"know that he knows\". Armstrong rejects the KK Principle—that to know some thing \"p\", one must know that one knows \"p\". Armstrong's rejection of the KK Principle is consistent with his wider externalist project.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108200", "title": "Crangonidae", "text": "Crangonidae\n\nThe family Crangonidae is a taxon of shrimp, of the superfamily Crangonoidea, including the commercially important species \"Crangon crangon\". Its type genus is \"Crangon\".\n\nTwenty-four genera are included in the family:\n"}
{"id": "2108201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108201", "title": "David Armstrong", "text": "David Armstrong\n\nDavid or Dave Armstrong may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108203", "title": "July 7 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 7 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 6 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 8\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 20 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 7th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 24.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108207", "title": "List of governors of Yogyakarta", "text": "List of governors of Yogyakarta\n\nThis is the list of governors of Special Region of Yogyakarta in Indonesia. Due to its root from the Yogyakarta Sultanate, and the great contribution of the royal realms in the Indonesia National Revolution, the former royal realms is formally granted the status of special province since 1950, and since 2012 the Government of Indonesia formally recognized the reigning Sultan of Yogyakarta as the hereditary Governor of Yogyakarta Special Region, and the reigning Prince of Paku Alam as the hereditary Vice Governor of Yogyakarta Special Region (article 18 paragraph 1c of UU No. 13 Tahun 2012). The terms for both offices is limited to 5 years per period (article 25 paragraph 1 of UU No. 13 Tahun 2012), but the office isn't bound by periodic provision (article 25 paragraph 2 of UU No. 13 Tahun 2012), as normally applied to such public office, effectively allowing the holder of the offices to hold the position for life.\n"}
{"id": "2108219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108219", "title": "Valorisation", "text": "Valorisation\n\nIn Marxism, the valorisation or valorization of capital is the increase in the value of capital assets through the application of value-forming labour in production. The German original term is \"\"Verwertung\"\" (specifically \"Kapitalverwertung\") but this is difficult to translate. The first translation of \"Capital\" by Samuel Moore and Edward Aveling, under Engels' editorship, renders \"\"Verwertung\"\" in different ways depending on the context, for example as \"creation of surplus-value\", \"self-expanding value\", \"increase in value\" and similar expressions. These renderings were also used in the US Untermann revised edition, and the Eden and Cedar Paul translation. It has also been wrongly rendered as \"realisation of capital\", .\n\nIn German, the general meaning of \"Verwertung\" is the productive use of a resource, and more specifically the use or application of something (an object, process or activity) so that it makes money, or generates value, with the connotation that the thing validates itself and proves its worth when it results in earnings, a yield. Thus, something is \"valorised\" if it has yielded its value (which could be use-value or exchange-value). Similarly, Marx's specific concept refers both to the process whereby a capital value is conferred or bestowed on something, and to the increase in the value of a capital asset, within the sphere of production.\n\nIn modern translations of Marx's economic writings, such as the Penguin edition of \"Capital\" and the English \"Marx-Engels Collected Works\", the term valorisation (as in French) is preferred because it is recognized that it denotes a highly specific economic concept, i.e., a term with a technical meaning.\n\nMarx first refers the concept of valorization in chapter 4 of Capital Vol. 1, when he discusses the capitalist activity of buying commodities in order to sell them, and realize more value than existed before. Marx writes:\n\nThe question then arises of how net new value can continuously and spontaneously emerge from trading activity. Marx's answer is that net additional value can be realized in trading, because that additional value is already created previously in the production process. \nIf a capitalist buys commodities for $100 and sells them for $120 then he has certainly made money, but he hasn't truly created more value than existed before, since the quantity of commodities is still exactly what it was before. To create more value requires extra production. At that point, the concept of valorization is modified.\n\nThe capitalist production process, Marx argues, is both a labour process creating use-values and a value-creation process through which additional new value is created. However, value creation as such is not what the capitalist aims at. The capitalist wants his \"capital\" to increase. This means that the worker must create more value for the capitalist than he receives as wage from the capitalist. The worker must create not only new value but surplus value. A \"value creation process\" which goes beyond the point at which the worker has just created the equivalent of the value of his own labour power, and begins to increase the value of capital, is a \"valorisation process\", not just a value creation process.\n\nValorisation thus specifically describes the increase in the value of capital assets through the application of living, value-forming labour in production. The \"problem\" of valorisation is: how can labour be applied in production so that capital value grows? How can assets be invested productively, so that they gain value rather than lose it? In \"Theories of Surplus Value\", chapter 3 section 6, Marx emphasizes his view that \"Capital is productive of value only as a relation, in so far as it is a coercive force on wage-labour, compelling it to perform surplus-labour, or spurring on the productive power of labour to produce relative surplus-value.\"\n\nWhen a worker is put to work on a commercial basis, he initially produces a value equal to what it costs to hire him. But once this value has been created, and the work continues, he begins to \"valorise capital\", i.e. increase its value. Thus, normally a worker works part of the day \"for himself\" in the sense of producing the equivalent of his wage, and part of the day for the employer of his labour. On average, statistical information suggests the ratio is about 50/50, but it can be more or less.\n\nBy contrast, in management theory, analysts are extremely aware of value adding activities occurring when factors of production are withdrawn from the market in order to produce new outputs with them. That is because they aim to maximize productivity, i.e. get as much work and product out of the workers as efficiently as possible.\n\nYet, because perceptions of value growth are based on the relationship between input costs and sales revenue, revealed by accounts, the central role of living labour in conserving, transferring and creating value is still obscured.\n\nThe official story is that the factors of production all add value to the new output. In a sense this is true, since living labour conserves and transfers value from materials and equipment to the new product; and capitalist production could not occur if capitalists did not supply capital in return for profit. But without the active human subject, no new value is created at all, and capital assets lose value. This becomes apparent when workers go on strike.\n\nThe opposite process is \"devalorisation\" (\"Entwertung\") which refers to the process whereby production capital invested loses part or all of its value, because the labour maintaining the value of capital is withdrawn, or because output cannot be sold, or sold at the intended price, or because more modern production techniques devalue older equipment.\n\nOver time capitalist assertion of valorisation can be seen to always depreciate over extended periods of time. Marx describes the effect as “tendency for the profit rate to fall”. Revitalised by the likes of Kliman (2010, cited in Giacché 2011) and Perri (2010, cited in Giacché 2011), whom in compliance with Marx's theory believe that although valorisation is the driving force of capitalisation, it also contributes to an impending downfall. However, due to excessive supply requirements and ever increasing demand from the global markets, industrial collapses tend to operate in favour for the emergence of new independent capitals.\n\nTypically what happens in a severe economic crisis is that the real cost structure of production is realigned with market prices. In Marx's terms, productivity growth has changed product-values in different sectors, but it is only after quite some time that prices adjust to changed underlying values. In that case, devalorisation may occur quite rapidly: capital assets are suddenly worth less, and as soon as capital assets are no longer utilised and maintained by living human labour (because of unemployment), the value of those capital assets begins to deteriorate. In the end, the total withdrawal of human labour leaves nothing but a ghost town.\n\n\"Devalorisation\" is not the same as \"devaluation\" of capital, because the term \"devalorisation\" applies specifically only to assets which function as production capital, whereas \"devaluation\" of capital could refer to the loss in value of any capital asset in any particular form. Devalorization means specifically that means of production lose value because the living labour required to maintain them is withdrawn.\n\nValorisation of capital is for Marx not at all the same as the \"realisation of capital\". Value may be added in the production process, but this additional value may not be \"realised\" as an additional sum of money, unless the outputs are \"sold\" at a favourable price.\n\nAt an unfavourable price, output is sold without increasing capital assets. So, the new value added in production may be lost to the producer or owner, when the new product is traded. The capital is \"valorized\" because a new output value has been created, but the value-increase is not (fully) \"realized\" by its owner.\n\nIn reality, Marx argues, the valorisation of capital in one enterprise is dependent on the valorisation of many related enterprises, since they all influence each other with respect to costs, values and prices. When all is said, the preservation and increase of capital value is a purely \"social\" phenomenon.\n\nIn \"Capital Vol. 3\" (Penguin ed., p. 136) Marx defines the \"rate of valorisation\" as S/C where \"S\" is the surplus value produced and \"C\" is the total capital invested to produce it. This is strictly a \"value ratio\", a relationship between value proportions, not to be confused with the rate of profit on capital invested, since the amount of surplus value yielded by a capital investment, corresponding to a certain quantity of labour-time expended in production, typically \"diverges\" from that part of the surplus value which is realized as profit, since at any time products are likely to be traded above or below their value, rather than at prices which exactly reflect their value (Marx often assumes for the purpose of his analysis that the total mass of profit and the total surplus-value are the same magnitude, although in reality they can vary from each other, due to continual changes in labour productivity across time, imperfect pricing, and imperfect competition).\n\nIn \"Capital Vol. 3\", chapter 15, section 2 (Penguin ed., p. 355f) Marx discusses how conflicts arise between expanding physical output and the valorization of capital. From the point of view of capital, increased productivity means both increase in the scale of production and a reduction of labour-costs as a fraction of the total capital invested. From the point of view of labour, increased productivity means both an increase in surplus labour and an increase in the amount of capital used per worker. Marx then explains that these four variables can come into conflict with each other, creating disturbances in the growth process of capital:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108221", "title": "Curt Smith", "text": "Curt Smith\n\nCurt Smith (born 24 June 1961) is an English-American singer, songwriter, musician, record producer, and co-founding member of the pop rock band Tears for Fears along with childhood friend Roland Orzabal. Smith played the bass guitar, co-wrote many of the band's songs, sang backing and lead vocals on hits such as \"Mad World\", \"Pale Shelter\", \"Change\", \"The Way You Are\" and \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\". Smith possesses a tenor singing voice.\n\nAfter his departure from Tears for Fears in 1991, Smith pursued a solo career and released his debut album \"Soul on Board\" in 1993. In total, he has released five studio albums and one EP, and has also dabbled in acting. He reunited with Orzabal, as Tears for Fears, in 2000.\n\nSmith met Roland Orzabal when both were teenagers. They first formed a band in their teens, for which Smith taught himself to play bass guitar. They next formed the ska influenced band Graduate, who released their only album in 1980 achieving minor success in Europe. Around this time, Smith and Orzabal also became session musicians for the band Neon. Fellow band members included Pete Byrne and Rob Fisher who went on to become the duo Naked Eyes.\n\nAfter Graduate and Neon disbanded, Smith and Orzabal founded Tears for Fears in 1981. Their debut album, 1983's \"The Hurting\", reached no.1 in the UK and produced three international hit singles – \"Mad World\", \"Change\", and \"Pale Shelter\" – each with lead vocals performed by Smith.\n\nTheir 1985 album \"Songs from the Big Chair\" was even more successful, yielding hits including \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\" (with Smith again on lead vocals), \"Shout,\" and \"Head Over Heels\" (which Smith co-wrote).\n\nThe duo spent the next several years recording their 1989 album \"The Seeds of Love,\" which proved to be another international best-seller. Smith's last single as a lead vocalist with the group (and his only lead vocal track on the album) was \"Advice for the Young at Heart\". Following another world tour, increasing tensions between himself and Orzabal prompted Smith to leave the band in 1991, and he moved to New York.\n\nIn 2000, routine legal paperwork obligations led to Orzabal and Smith's first conversation in nearly a decade. The two patched up their differences and, along with Smith's associate Charlton Pettus, began writing a new album – \"Everybody Loves a Happy Ending\" – released in 2004. Prior to this, \"Mad World\" was covered by Michael Andrews and Gary Jules for the soundtrack of the film \"Donnie Darko\". It was released as a single and reached no.1 in the UK during Christmas 2003. The single re-ignited interest in the group's earlier work and their 1992 Greatest Hits album was re-released and re-entered the UK Top 10 for several weeks, garnering its second UK platinum disc.\n\nAfter leaving Tears for Fears, Smith released his first solo album, \"Soul on Board\", in 1993. The album was unsuccessful in the UK, and was not released at all in the U.S. Smith later claimed that he made the album purely to fulfil his record contract with Mercury/Phonogram.\n\nAfter moving to New York, Smith formed the band Mayfield with guitarist-producer Charlton Pettus and which also featured Russ Irwin & Doug Petty on keyboards, Smith himself on bass and vocals and finally Shawn Pelton on drums. According to Smith, the name of the band was a play on words (Curt is Mayfield) based on the name of the legendary American soul singer Curtis Mayfield. The band was mostly a live act but did release a self-titled album in 1998, which met with little success.\n\nSmith later released the album \"Aeroplane\" under his own name. In the U.S., this was a six-track EP, but in Canada and elsewhere, it was essentially the earlier Mayfield album combined with additional songs from the U.S. EP.\n\nIn October 2011, Smith announced on his website that he will re-release the Mayfield album on 15 November 2011. The new release, on his KOOK Media label, will include a bonus version of the song \"Trees\" featuring Janice Whaley.\n\nDuring 2000, Smith began work on what was to become \"Halfway, Pleased\", but the project was put on hold when he re-established contact with Roland Orzabal again after almost a decade of silence. Their conversations culminated in Tears for Fears reforming for 2004's \"Everybody Loves a Happy Ending\" which led to a worldwide tour, so it wasn't until 2006 that Smith resumed work on \"Halfway, Pleased\". The semi-autobiographical album explores Smith's relationships with his children, parents and friends.\n\nIn April 2007, French record label XIII Bis Records released \"Halfway, Pleased\" in France. Its 14 tracks included the original version of \"Who You Are\" (which was recorded by Tears for Fears on \"Everybody Loves a Happy Ending\"); a live version of \"Snow Hill\" from the 2005 Tears for Fears UK tour; the single version of \"Seven of Sundays\" (also recorded as a duet with French singer SO); and a cover of \"On Ira Tous au Paradis\" (also available on \"A Tribute to Polnareff\"). Two music videos were made for \"Seven of Sundays\" – one as a solo track, and one as the duet with SO.\n\nAll the songs except \"Seven of Sundays\" were co-written by Smith and Charlton Pettus. The solo version of \"Seven of Sundays\" was co-written by Pettus and Chesney Hawkes; Smith and Sophie Saillet helped adapt the song for the duet version.\n\nSmith finally released the album in the U.S. and the rest of the world in May 2008 via his own KOOK Media label. The KOOK release features a slightly different track listing, eliminating the Polnareff tribute and adding two new acoustic tracks (\"Coming Out\" and \"Seven of Sundays\"). It was released under a Creative Commons license which allows fans to distribute, perform and use the songs so long as the uses are non-commercial and attributed to Smith.\n\nSmith has made limited live concert appearances in the Los Angeles area to support \"Halfway, pleased\". In January 2009, he announced that he will perform a weekly residency at The Standard Hollywood in West Hollywood, CA during the month of February 2009. He announced in mid-February that The Standard had asked him to extend through March 2009 and he agreed. He played a similar residency there in October 2008.\n\nSmith's fourth solo album was released on 16 July 2013.\n\nIn January 2010, Smith released the standalone single \"All Is Love\" (featuring Zoë Keating), the first track in what he says will be an album-length project of collaborations with artists he meets via social media. Smith met Keating, an avant-garde cellist, via Twitter. The second track in the series, \"Perfectly...Still (featuring Universal Hall Pass)\" was released in August 2010. A fan of Smith's suggested the collaboration via Twitter; Smith contacted UHP (aka Melissa R. Kaplan) via the MySpace service. As of January 2012, Smith's site lacks any specific details but claims \"More tracks coming in 2011!\".\n\nSmith occasionally collaborates with other artists. He worked with the French singer So (Sophie Saillet) providing vocals on her track \"Les Autres\", and the pair worked together again on Smith's track \"Seven of Sundays\" (Saillet also appeared in both videos for the song). Smith is also featured on The Shadow Bureau's 2011 track \"Don't Give Yourself Away\" with artist Linda Strawberry, inspired by the 2010 Australian film \"Griff the Invisible\". In May 2011, Smith tweeted that he was working on a track with JunkieXL which features on JXL's album \"Synthesized\". He also recorded a vocal track for the American punk band American Eyes on their song entitled \"The Day We Died\" on their album \"Never Trust Anything That Bleeds\".\n\nSmith and longtime collaborator Charlton Pettus composed and recorded the score for the 2011 film \"Meth Head\", starring Lukas Haas, and the 2015 film \"Gravy.\" \n\nSmith contributed an original song, \"This Is Christmas\", to an episode of the fifth season of the USA Network series \"Psych\".\n\nIn August 2010, Smith debuted a live music web series, \"Stripped Down Live With Curt Smith\", which he produced along with his manager Arlene Wszalek and Streamin' Garage CEO Mike Rotman. Each episode was devoted to a single featured artist. The band or musician played acoustic versions of their songs (the show was streamed live via UStream); Smith interviewed them between sets, as well as took viewer questions via Skype and the show's chat room. Smith's guests included Hypnogaja, Carina Round, Chris Pierce, Peter Himmelman, Common Rotation, Gary Jules, All Day Sucker, The Daylights, Matthew Sweet, The Fallen Stars, Nightmare & The Cat, Whiskey Saints, Fitz & The Tantrums and Friendly Indians. In January 2011, Smith stated that he will not do another season of the series.\n\nIn 1988, Smith appeared at the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute performing \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\", with accompanying musicians Phil Collins, Midge Ure, and Mark Brzezicki on stage.\n\nIn 1989, Smith appeared on stage with various other performers at Stevie Wonder's birthday concert at London's Wembley Arena.\n\nSmith is an avid user and advocate of social media. Since 2008, he has been asked to speak at a variety of social media, technology and creative conferences, including 140TC, the Creative Commons Los Angeles Salon, the 2010 ITV Fest, TEDxHollywood, and TEDxSF. He has also guest-lectured at the USC Annenberg School's graduate Online Communities program.\n\nSmith has also tried his hand at acting. He had a minor role as a desk clerk in \"The Dead Connection\" (1994), and a more significant role as a professor in 2000's \"The Private Public\". Smith made a surprise appearance to open Psych's 2010 Comic Con panel, where he sang onstage with Psych co-stars James Roday and Dulé Hill. Roday's character Shawn Spencer makes several proclamations throughout the series about his admiration for Tears for Fears, especially Smith. He then appeared, as himself, in the \"Psych\" episode \"Shawn 2.0\", an episode for which he also wrote a variation of the opening theme. His single \"This is Christmas\" later appeared in the episode \"The Polarizing Express\". He again appeared as himself in the show's 100th episode, \"100 Clues\", in March 2013. He also appeared in the episode \"A Nightmare on State Street\" as himself.\n\nIn May 2009, Smith performed at the Artist for the Arts Foundation benefit at Barnum Hall, Santa Monica High School, Santa Monica, California. Performing live, alongside Colin Hay (Men at Work), Fee Waybill (The Tubes) & Venice (Crazy on You) and over 70 members of the Santa Monica High School (SaMoHi) Orchestra and Girls Choir, the benefit helped to provide funds for the continuation of Music Education in public schools.\n\nIn September 2016, Smith and his drummer Jamie Wollam appeared in the \"Orchard\" with Ted Yoder to accompany him on a re-recording of his popular rendition of \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\" played on the hammered dulcimer.\n\nSmith grew up in Bath, England, and lived on the Snow Hill council estate (subject of the track \"Snow Hill\"). He attended the Beechen Cliff School.\n\nSmith has been married twice. His first wife was Lynda \"Lynne\" Altman, whom he married in 1982. They divorced in 1988, and he then began a relationship with marketing executive Laura \"Frances\" Pennington. They married in 1996 and now live in Los Angeles with their two daughters, Diva and Wilder, born in 1999 and 2001. Smith became a naturalised U.S. citizen in 2007. He is a supporter of Manchester United and LAFC.\n\nIn April 2020 while staying home under general quarantine orders due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Smith and his daughter Diva performed an acoustic guitar rendition of \"Mad World\" in the style of the 2001 \"Donnie Darko\" soundtrack.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2108228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108228", "title": "Westerbork (village)", "text": "Westerbork (village)\n\nWesterbork () is a village with a population of 4,710 in the municipality of Midden-Drenthe in the Netherlands. It is located in the middle of the eastern province of Drenthe. During World War II, the Westerbork transit camp was located near the village. The Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope and the Camp Westerbork Museum are now situated at the site.\n\nIn 1939, the refugee camp Westerbork was established outside of the village to accommodate German refugees who had fled Nazi Germany. A year later, Nazi Germany had occupied the Netherlands following the Battle of the Netherlands. In 1942, the refugee camp was turned into a transit camp and more than 100,000 Jews, Roma, and Sinti were deported via Westerbork to concentration and extermination camps in Nazi Germany and occupied Poland. Between 1945 and 1948, after the war had ended, the camp was used as internment camp for collaborators.\n\nIn 1969, the Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope was installed near the site of the former camp. The radio telescope consists of an array of 14 antennas with a diameter of 25 metres each and is operated by ASTRON.\n\nIn 1983, the Camp Westerbork Museum was opened at the former camp site. It focuses on the occupation of the Netherlands during World War II, the persecution of the Jews, and the history of the camp.\n\nWesterbork was a separate municipality until 1998, when it became part of Middenveld, which was renamed Midden-Drenthe in 2000.\n\nThe village of Westerbork is located at , part of the municipality of Midden-Drenthe, in the middle of the province of Drenthe in the northeast of the Netherlands.\n\nIn 2001, the town of Westerbork had 4,075 inhabitants. The built-up area of the town was 1.8 km², and contained 1,794 residences. The statistical area \"Westerbork\", which can also include the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 4,710.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108233", "title": "6th Rajputana Rifles", "text": "6th Rajputana Rifles\n\nThe 6th Rajputana Rifles were an infantry regiment of the British Indian Army. They were formed in 1922, after the Indian government reformed the army. They moved away from single battalion regiments to multi battalion regiments. The regiment served in World War II and in 1947 was allocated to the new Indian Army after independence as the Rajputana Rifles.\nDuring World War II the regiment was expanded to thirteen battalions and served in the Middle East, Burma and Malaya. The 4th Battalion had the distinction of earning two Victoria Crosses during this conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108237", "title": "Pineios (Thessaly)", "text": "Pineios (Thessaly)\n\nThe Pineiós (, , referred to in Latin sources as Peneus) is a river in Thessaly, Greece. The river is named after the god Peneus. During the later Middle Ages, it was also known as the Salambrias or Salabrias (Σαλα[μ]βριάς).\n\nIt flows from the Pindus mountains and empties into the Aegean Sea, northeast of the Vale of Tempe, near Stomio. It creates a large delta, well known for its beauty and for many animal species, protected by international environmental treaties. Its total length is 205 km. Its source is near the village Malakasi, on the eastern slope of the Pindus main range, east of Metsovo. The Meteora region and the city of Larissa lie along the Pineiós. Trikala lies on its tributary, the Lithaios. In the 1960s, a freeway connecting Athens and Thessaloniki was constructed in much of the Vale of Tempe.\n\nThe battleship \"Pineios\" is named after the river.\n\nPineios major tributaries are: Malakassiótiko réma (stream), Mourgkánis (stream), Portaikós, Lithaíos, Pámissos, Enipeas and Titarisios.\n\nThe Pineios flows along the following places, from the source downstream: Malakasi, Kalampaka, Megarchi, Megala Kalyvia, Farkadona, Larissa, Evangelismos, Omolio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108239", "title": "Typhlocaris", "text": "Typhlocaris\n\nTyphlocaris is a genus of blind cave-dwelling shrimp, placed in its own family, Typhlocarididae. It contains 4 species:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108241", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies is a research organization created in 1978 by a cooperative agreement between the University of Oklahoma (OU) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). CIMMS promotes collaborative research between NOAA and OU scientists on problems of mutual interest to improve basic understanding of mesoscale meteorological phenomena, weather radar, and regional climate to help produce better forecasts and warnings that save lives and property. CIMMS research contributes to the NOAA mission through improvement of the observation, analysis, understanding, and prediction of weather elements and systems and climate anomalies ranging in size from cloud nuclei to multi-state areas.\n\nIt is one of 16 NOAA Cooperative Institutes (CIs).\n\nCIMMS concentrates its research and outreach efforts and resources on the following principal themes:\n\nCIMMS is part of the National Weather Center, a unique confederation of federal, state, and OU organizations that work together in partnership to improve understanding of the Earth's atmosphere. Recognized for its collective expertise in severe weather, many of the research and development activities of the Center have served society by improving weather observing and forecasting, and thus have contributed to reductions in loss of life and property. Many entities of the National Weather Center played a key role in the decade-long, $2 billion modernization and restructuring of the National Weather Service. National Weather Center organizations employ 650 individuals and provide more than $45 million annually to the Oklahoma economy. Today, all organizations are collocated in the new National Weather Center facility, which was completed in 2006 at a cost of $69 million.\n\nCIMMS promotes cooperation and collaboration on problems of mutual interest among OU research scientists and students and the NOAA Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) National Severe Storms Laboratory, NOAA Air Resources Laboratory, National Weather Service Radar Operations Center for the WSR-88D (NEXRAD) Program, NWS National Centers for Environmental Prediction Storm Prediction Center, NWS Warning Decision Training Division, the NWS Forecast Office in Norman, Oklahoma, and the NWS Training Center located in Kansas City, Missouri.\n"}
{"id": "2108245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108245", "title": "Grójec County", "text": "Grójec County\n\nGrójec County () is a unit of territorial administration and local government (powiat) in Masovian Voivodeship, east-central Poland. It came into being on January 1, 1999, as a result of the Polish local government reforms passed in 1998. Its administrative seat and largest town is Grójec, which lies south of Warsaw. The county contains three other towns: Warka, east of Grójec, Nowe Miasto nad Pilicą, south-west of Grójec, and Mogielnica, south-west of Grójec.\n\nThe county covers an area of . As of 2006 its total population is 96,489, out of which the population of Grójec is 14,990, that of Warka is 11,028, that of Nowe Miasto nad Pilicą is 3,832, that of Mogielnica is 2,461, and the rural population is 64,178.\n\nGrójec County is bordered by Grodzisk Mazowiecki County and Piaseczno County to the north, Otwock County to the north-east, Garwolin County and Kozienice County to the east, Białobrzegi County and Przysucha County to the south, Tomaszów Mazowiecki County and Rawa County to the west, and Żyrardów County to the north-west.\n\nThe county is subdivided into 10 gminas (four urban-rural and six rural). These are listed in the following table, in descending order of population.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2108253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108253", "title": "Decoding (semiotics)", "text": "Decoding (semiotics)\n\nDecoding, in semiotics, is the process of interpreting a message sent by an addresser to an addressee. The complementary processcreating a message for transmission to an addresseeis called encoding.\n\nAll communication depends on the use of codes. When the message is received, the addressee is not passive, but decoding is more than simply recognising the content of the message. Over time, each individual in the audience develops a cognitive framework of codes which will recall the denotative meaning and suggest possible connotative meanings for each signifier. But the actual meaning for each message is context-dependent: the codified relations between the signifiers in the particular context must be interpreted according to the syntactic, semantic and social codes so that the most appropriate meaning is attributed (for labelling usages by reference to national characteristics, see Americanism).\n\nAlthough the addresser may have a very clearly defined intention when encoding and wish to manipulate the audience into accepting the preferred meaning, the reality is not that of textual determinism. What is decoded does not follow inevitably from an interpretation of the message. Not infrequently, the addressees find different levels of meaning. Umberto Eco called this mismatch between the intended meaning and interpreted meaning aberrant decoding. This apparent failure of communication may result from the fact that the parties use different codes because they are of a different social class or because they have different training or ability, because they have different world views or ideologies, or because they are from different cultures. David Morley argues that the outcome of decoding will be influenced by pragmatic issues, i.e. whether: \nFurther, Umberto Eco suggests a distinction between \"closed\" texts which predispose a dominant interpretation and more \"open\" texts which may have latent meanings or be encoded in a way that encourages the possibility of alternative interpretations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108257", "title": "Hidden in Plain View (EP)", "text": "Hidden in Plain View (EP)\n\nHidden in Plain View is Hidden in Plain View's eponymous Drive-Thru Records debut. The CD was issued on November 11, 2003 and marks the band's third release, after their first two EPs \"Find\" (2001) and \"\" (2002).rel=nofollow\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108262", "title": "Alan Badel", "text": "Alan Badel\n\nAlan Fernand Badel (; 11 September 1923 – 19 March 1982) was an English stage actor who also appeared frequently in the cinema, radio and television and was noted for his richly textured voice which was once described as \"the sound of tears\".\n\nBadel was born in Rusholme, Manchester, and educated at Burnage High School. He fought in France and Germany during the Second World War, serving as a paratrooper on D-Day. He partially lost his hearing when a shell exploded near him.\n\nIn his early career, he played leading parts, including Romeo and Hamlet, with the Old Vic and Stratford companies.\n\nBadel's earliest film role was as John the Baptist in the Rita Hayworth version of \"Salome\" (1953), a version in which the story was altered to make Salome a Christian convert who dances for Herod in order to save John rather than have him condemned to death. He portrayed Richard Wagner in \"Magic Fire\" (1955), a biopic about the composer. He also played the role of Karl Denny, the impresario, in the film \"Bitter Harvest\" (1963). Around the same time, he played opposite Vivien Merchant in a television version of Harold Pinter's play \"The Lover\" (also 1963) and as Edmond Dantès in a BBC television adaptation of Alexandre Dumas' \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" (1964).\n\nBadel also played the villainous sunglasses-wearing Najim Beshraavi in \"Arabesque\" (1966) with Gregory Peck and Sophia Loren. He played the French Interior Minister in \"The Day of the Jackal\" (1973), a political thriller about the attempted assassination of President Charles de Gaulle; in the political television drama \"Bill Brand\" (1976) he played David Last, the government's Employment Minister, a left-wing former backbench MP who had recently joined the front bench after 30 years in the House of Commons. One of his last roles was that of Baron Nicolas de Gunzburg in the Paramount film \"Nijinsky\" (1980). A television adaptation for the BBC of \"The Woman in White\" (1982) by Wilkie Collins, in which Badel played the role of Count Fosco, was shown posthumously.\n\nBadel married the actress Yvonne Owen in 1942 and they remained married until his death from a heart attack in Chichester, aged 58. Their daughter Sarah Badel is an actress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108263", "title": "Painting It Red", "text": "Painting It Red\n\nPainting It Red is the seventh original album released by The Beautiful South in October 2000. A concept album about impending middle age, \"Painting it Red\" album is the band's joint longest, with 19 tracks. A two-disc UK bonus version contains 20 tracks. The American release on Ark21 has only 17 tracks.\n\nThe album made it to number 2 in the charts, but despite the number of tracks, only two singles were produced: \"Closer Than Most\", which reached number 22 in September and the double A-side \"The River\"/\"Just Checkin'\", which reached number 59 in December.\n\n\nAll songs written by Paul Heaton and David Rotheray.\n\nAs was their usual practice, the Beautiful South included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums.\n\nfrom \"Closer Than Most\" (CD1)\nfrom \"Closer Than Most\" (CD2)\n\nfrom \"The River/Just Checkin'\" (CD1)\nfrom \"Just Checkin'\"/The River\" (CD2)\n\n"}
{"id": "2108269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108269", "title": "Rags to Riches (song)", "text": "Rags to Riches (song)\n\n\"Rags to Riches\" is a 1953 popular song by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross. It is based on a famous Russian tune called \"Volga Melody\" by Yuri Shchetkov sometimes known as \"Samara My Lovely Town.\" The bridge passage or middle 8 was inserted by the composer.\n\nThe best-known version of the song, recorded by Tony Bennett with Percy Faith and his orchestra, was number one for eight weeks on the Billboard chart in 1953 and became a gold record. In the same year, a version by David Whitfield reached number three in the British charts and one by Billy Ward and his Dominoes with Jackie Wilson singing lead made number two on Billboard's R&B chart. Later recordings by Sunny & the Sunliners (#45 in 1963) and Elvis Presley (#33 in 1971) also made the Billboard charts.\n\nTony Bennett's version was featured in the opening sequence of the 1990 film \"Goodfellas\". The song was also used in an episode of \"Columbo\".\n\nThe opening line of the song was sung regularly and exuberantly by the character Carmine Ragusa on the television series \"Laverne & Shirley\", typically when he had good news.\n\nJackie Wilson's version of the song is featured in the 2010 video game \"Mafia II\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108270", "title": "Rags to Riches (TV series)", "text": "Rags to Riches (TV series)\n\nRags to Riches is an American musical comedy-drama that was broadcast on NBC for two seasons from March 9, 1987 to January 15, 1988. Set in the pre-British Invasion 1960s, the series tells the story of Nick Foley, a self-made millionaire who adopts six orphan girls. Each episode included musical scenes of hit songs from the era performed by the girls integrated into the plot (with the lyrics modified to provide commentary on the storyline).\n\nNick Foley (Joseph Bologna), the millionaire owner of Foley's Frozen Foods, is a streetwise New Jersey-born businessman with a playboy lifestyle. In the TV movie pilot which launched the series, Foley attempts to develop a family man image by bringing a group of six orphaned girls, who were featured in a newspaper story, saying that they refused to be separated from each other to live in the mansion in Bel Air where he lives with his butler, John Clapper (Douglas Seale). Foley does this to seal a business deal and does not intend to keep the girls permanently, but Foley's plans change as he grows attached to the girls, and he ends up adopting them as his legal daughters\n\nThe adjustment is huge on both sides, as the girls acquire a new father with no parenting experience. Having spent the past few years in a rundown orphanage, the girls suddenly find themselves in a life of luxury (hence the series' title). The series follows the trials and tribulations of the girls and a man who has previously never loved anyone but himself, and often struggles to cope with his new family.\n\nIn the pilot for the series, Foley takes in a group of six girls; however, Foley only adopted five of them for the remainder of the series' run: Rose, 17; Diane, 16; Marva, 15; Patti, 14; and Mickey, 8. The sixth girl, Nina, appears only in the pilot (after the pilot was produced, it was decided that six children was too many for the series cast, so Nina was written out of the series as having been reunited with her birth mother).\n\nThe series differed from regular comedy-dramas in that the girls would frequently burst into song to help explain their feelings or move along the plot. Each episode therefore contained at least two musical scenes with covers of popular songs from the early 1960's with the lyrics changed to provide commentary on the storyline of the episode.\n\nPromoted with the tagline, \"If you liked \"Annie\", you'll like \"Rags to Riches\"\", ratings for the series were not strong enough for its Friday night time slot, and NBC canceled the show part way through its second season.\n\nMark Mueller wrote new comedic lyrics for existing hit songs from the '50s and early '60s that were featured in most episodes of both seasons of the show. He also wrote the lyrics to the show's theme song. Many of the songs used were not around yet during the time frame when the series takes place; 1961-63.\n\nOn June 5, 2012, Image Entertainment released \"Rags to Riches: The Complete Series\" on Region 1 DVD.\n\nDTP Entertainment released the entire series on DVD in Germany. Season 1 was released on May 13, 2011 and season 2 on October 27, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108274", "title": "Lena Headey", "text": "Lena Headey\n\nLena Kathren Headey ( ; born 3 October 1973) is an English actress. She is best known for her acclaimed portrayal of Cersei Lannister on the HBO fantasy drama series \"Game of Thrones\" (2011–2019), for which she has received five Primetime Emmy Award nominations and a Golden Globe Award nomination.\n\nHeadey made her film debut in the mystery drama \"Waterland\" (1992). She continued to work steadily in British and American films and on television, before gaining further recognition with her lead performances in the films \"The Brothers Grimm\" (2005) and \"300\" (2007). Her other film credits include \"The Remains of the Day\" (1993), \"The Jungle Book\" (1994), \"Mrs Dalloway\" (1997), \"Ripley's Game\" (2002), \"Imagine Me & You\" (2005), \"Dredd\" (2012), \"The Purge\" (2013), \"\" (2014), \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" (2016), and \"Fighting with My Family\" (2019).\n\nOutside of film, Headey starred as Sarah Connor in the science fiction television series \"\" (2008–2009). She provided voices for the role-playing video game \"Risen\" (2009) and the video game tie-in film \"\" (2016), as well as the animated series \"Danger Mouse\" (2015–2017) and \"Trollhunters\" (2017–2018), and puppet-animated series \"\" (2019).\n\nHeadey was born in Hamilton, Bermuda, to English parents, Sue and John Headey. Her father, a Yorkshire police officer, was stationed there at the time in the Bermuda Police Service. She has one younger brother, Tim. She is of part Irish descent. The family moved to Somerset when she was five, and then to Highburton, near Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, when Headey was 11. She took ballet lessons as a child.\n\nHeadey had her first experience of acting when she was a pupil at Shelley College; she was noticed at age 17, when performing in a school production at the Royal National Theatre, and was picked for a role in the 1992 film \"Waterland\".\n\nAt the age of 17, Headey performed in a one-off show and afterwards a casting agent took a photo and asked her to audition. She eventually obtained a supporting role in the drama \"Waterland\" (1992), in which she had the opportunity to work with actors who had been in the business several years before her. She also had a small role in the critically acclaimed 1993 drama film \"The Remains of the Day\", which received eight Academy Awards nominations. Her career would continue to grow in England throughout the decade, and see larger parts in bigger motion pictures. In 1997, she appeared in the drama series \"Kavanagh QC\", playing the role of Natasha Jackson.\n\nHeadey played Kitty Brydon, the childhood friend and romantic interest of Mowgli, in Disney's \"The Jungle Book\" (1994). James Berardinelli praised the cast's \"solid performances\" as part of a positive critical reception, and the film found moderate commercial success in theaters. She appeared opposite Vanessa Redgrave in the 1997 romantic drama \"Mrs Dalloway\", portraying the closest friend of a housewife, who is now wife of a self-made millionnaire and mother of five. She was then cast in the drama \"Onegin\" (1999), a film based on the 19th-century Russian novel \"Eugene Onegin\" by Alexander Pushkin, in which she portrayed the fiancée of an aspiring poet and appeared with Ralph Fiennes and Liv Tyler. The film was critically and financially unsuccessful.\n\nIn 2000, Headey played a newly promoted lawyer with no apparent emotional attachments in the romantic comedy \"Aberdeen\", receiving the Silver Iris Award for Best Actress at the 2001 Brussels European Film Festival, and also starred as a troubled college student in the psychological drama \"Gossip\", with Kate Hudson. In 2001's comedy \"The Parole Officer\", Headey took on the role of a police officer, alongside Steve Coogan in his first film role. While the film was warmly received, \"ViewLondon\" remarked: \"The only disappointment is Lena Headey, who, despite being fantastically sexy (she's given both a nude scene and a 'dressed as a prostitute' scene), smirks her way through the entire film, even at the most inappropriate moments\".\n\nIn 2002, she appeared as a mousey Victorian lesbian artist with Gwyneth Paltrow and Aaron Eckhart in the mystery drama \"Possession\", based on the 1990 by British author A. S. Byatt, and as the wife of a law-abiding art framer dying of leukemia in the thriller \"Ripley's Game\", adapted from the 1974 novel of the same name. In its review for the latter, \"Eye for Film\" noted: \"Whilst this is very much a male-centered film, Lena Headey turns in a powerful performance as Jonathan's wife, creating a sense of balance and normality against which other events are contrasted\". Headey appeared in the comedy \"The Actors\" (2003), opposite Dylan Moran and Michael Caine, portraying the love interest of a struggling actor. She is credited as voice actor for the character Callista in the video game Dishonored.\n\nHeadey found much wider recognition when she starred with Matt Damon and Heath Ledger in Terry Gilliam's adventure fantasy film \"The Brothers Grimm\" (2005), as Angelika, whose woodsman father was transformed into a werewolf by the Evil Queen. She was drawn to the \"tomboy\" nature of her character, on which she stated: \"She lives and grows up and survives in the forest. Terry and I talked about how her instincts are almost animalistic and she can see 360 degrees around her. She is aware of what is going on. That is how she is grounded. She is of the earth\". \"The Brothers Grimm\" received mixed reviews and made US$105.3 million worldwide.\n\nIn 2005, Headey also starred with actress Piper Perabo in the films \"The Cave\" and \"Imagine Me & You\". The horror film \"The Cave\" saw the actress play a member of a group of divers who become trapped in an underwater cave network. While critical response was negative, the film managed to turn a profit at the box office. In the romantic dramedy \"Imagine Me & You\", she took on the role of a woman who falls in love at first sight with a newlywed bride who reciprocates her feelings; the newlywed struggles with whether to remain in a passionless marriage to a sweet husband, or pursue her electric connection to Heady's character Luce. The film, which Commonsense Media called \"charming\", \"quirky\" and \"witty\", found a limited release in theaters, but Mick LaSalle from the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" stated that the actress \"has a forthright, irresistible appeal and a face and especially a smile that suggest intelligence, integrity and lots of fun\".\n\nHer most known film role came perhaps in 2007, when Headey played Queen Gorgo in Zack Snyder's epic war film \"300\", based on the 1998 comic series of the same name by Frank Miller and Lynn Varley, a fictionalized retelling of the Battle of Thermopylae within the Persian Wars. Her character has a much larger role in the film than she does in the comic book, where she only appears in the beginning, and required her to film naked for one scene. \"It's always weird the thought of taking your clothes off in front of 20 people and then to have it projected in front of many more\", she said during an interview. \"I think it was necessary because we only get that scene to establish their relationship. It is a very obvious moment but I think it does it in quite a beautiful way.\" The film received mixed reviews, but was a box office success, grossing over US$450 million. In 2007, she also appeared as the stuffy Miss Dickinson in the sixth release of the \"St. Trinian's\" film series.\n\nHeadey starred as Fembot in Austin Powers, as well as Sarah Connor in Fox's \"\", a television spin-off of James Cameron's popular \"Terminator\" franchise. The show ran for 31 episodes in two seasons, from January 2008 to April 2009. \"Variety\" praised \"Headey's gritty performance as Sarah —managing to be smart, resourceful and tough, yet melancholy and vulnerable as well\". For her performance, she was nominated twice for the Saturn Award for Best Actress on Television. In 2008, she starred alongside Matthias Schweighöfer and Joseph Fiennes in \"The Red Baron\", a biographical film of the legendary World War I fighter pilot Manfred von Richthofen, appeared in Ridley Scott-produced sci-fi drama \"Tell-Tale\", a film based on the short story by Edgar Allan Poe, and played a radiologist in the horror film \"The Broken\", which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. While the three aforementioned films went largely unnoticed by audiences, some critics praised Headey's performance in \"The Broken\", including Kim Koynar, of \"Cinematical\", who wrote that Headey \"largely carries the film, and does so quite ably\".\n\nIn 2009, Headey played an ill-fated character in the slasher film \"Laid to Rest\", which received a DVD release, had a part in a short film titled \"The Devil's Wedding\", and also provided her voice for an episode of the Cartoon Network series \"The Super Hero Squad Show\", playing Black Widow and Mystique. She briefly appeared in the independent comedy \"Pete Smalls Is Dead\" (2010).\n\nBeginning in April 2011, Headey portrayed queen regent Cersei Lannister on the HBO series \"Game of Thrones\", based on George R. R. Martin's \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" series of novels. She was cast in the role after her friend and eventual co-star, Peter Dinklage, suggested her casting to producers. Her performance as the ruthless queen has received critical acclaim, earning a Scream Award nomination for Best Fantasy Actress for the role in 2011 and Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2018.\n\nAfter guest-starring in the \"White Collar\" episode \"Taking Account\" in 2011, Headey took on the role of the leader of a drug dealing gang and the primary villain in the 3D sci-fi action film \"Dredd\" (2012), alongside Karl Urban and Olivia Thirlby. Her performance was inspired by punk-rock singer Patti Smith, and on the character, Headey asserted: \"I think of [Ma-Ma] like an old great white shark who is just waiting for someone bigger and stronger to show up and kill her [...] she's ready for it. In fact, she can't wait for it to happen [...] She's an addict, so she's dead in that way, but that last knock just hasn't come\". Despite a positive critical response, the film flopped at the box office, seeing greater success following its home release; it has since been recognised as a cult film.\n\nHeadey joined again with Ethan Hawke to star in \"The Purge\" (2013), a \"micro-budget\" horror film, in which she took on the role of the matriarch of a family who find themselves endangered by a gang of murderers during the annual Purge, a night during which all crime, even murder, is temporarily legal. The film at number one position in the United States, grossing over US$36 million over the weekend; it eventually made US$89.3 million worldwide. She next played shadowhunter Jocelyn Fray/Jocelyn Fairchild in\"\" (also 2013), based on the first book of \"The Mortal Instruments\" series by Cassandra Clare, and opposite Lily Collins and Jamie Campbell Bower. The film flopped at the box office, and as a result, plans for sequels were eventually canceled.\n\nFollowing the success of \"300\" (2007), Headey reprised her role as Queen Gorgo in \"\", which was released in 2014. Like the first film, \"Rise of an Empire\" received mixed reviews, but was a major commercial success, grossing over US$337 million worldwide. In 2014, she also starred in the fantasy adventure film \"\" and the biographical film \"Low Down\", which detailed the life of jazz pianist Joe Albany. In 2015, she played the wife of a federal prosecutor running for office who cannot stop himself from sleeping with high-class escorts in the political thriller \"Zipper\", opposite Patrick Wilson.\n\nIn the historical action comedy \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\", Headey appeared as Lady Catherine de Bourgh, with her former \"Game of Thrones\", \"Century\" and \"The Contractor\" co-star Charles Dance. Andrew Barker, of \"Variety\", found her to be \"excessively diverting\" in what he considered a \"tolerable, but not handsome enough\" film. In 2017, Headey appeared as a \"predictably hard-boiled boss\" in the crime thriller \"Thumper\", which premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival, and provided the voiceover for Mercedes A-Class television advertisement and Morgana in \"\".\n\nShe has appeared on the covers of \"TV Guide\", \"G3\", \"Sunday Mirror\" and Germany's \"Filmstar\". She ranked No. 64 on the \"Maxim\" magazine Hot 100 of 2007 list. She was listed at No. 4, No. 10 and No. 3 in AfterEllen's list of the Hot 100 in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively.\n\nHeadey was vegetarian; however, in a 2011 interview she stated she now eats meat again, albeit rarely.\n\nHeadey has a number of tattoos. Her tattoos include a large floral design on her back as well as a Pema Chödrön quote on her ribs. She told \"Esquire\": \"I love tattoos. I find it calming.\" Her tattoos often require covering when Headey works, although she has stated, \"you can usually get away with it by keeping your clothes on.\"\n\nHeadey married musician Peter Loughran in May 2007; their son, Wylie Loughran, was born on 31 March 2010. She has spoken about suffering from postnatal depression following Wylie's birth. Headey and Loughran separated in 2011, and she filed for divorce in the Los Angeles County Superior Court on 20 July 2012. The divorce was finalised on 26 December 2013. She was linked to \"Game of Thrones\" co-star Jerome Flynn. The relationship allegedly ended badly some time before March 2014, resulting in the two being kept apart on set. However, Flynn rebuffed the claims in 2019, saying the two had worked in a scene together, while adding \"And the last time I saw Lena we were speaking, so I wouldn’t believe everything you read, and like I said, [the media] can get pretty desperate for stories.\"\n\nOn 10 July 2015, Headey gave birth to her second child, a daughter named Teddy, with director Dan Cadan (her childhood friend, who also worked with Headey on his short film \"The Devil's Wedding\"). They had separated by June 2019.\n\nHeadey has been close friends with actress Piper Perabo since they starred together in the 2005 films \"The Cave\" and \"Imagine Me & You\". She is also good friends with her \"Game of Thrones\" co-stars Pedro Pascal and Peter Dinklage, the latter of whom first suggested to producers on \"Game of Thrones\" that she be cast as Cersei Lannister.\n\nHeadey has campaigned on behalf of animal rights. In 2008, she spoke out against animal abuse in an advertisement for animal welfare group PETA.\n\nHeadey supports the LGBT rights organisation NOH8, and in April 2015 appeared on a T-shirt designed by them and sold through Represent.com to raise funds for the cause. She has been involved with humanitarian organization the International Rescue Committee (IRC), advocating for migrants languishing in Greece during the European migrant crisis, saying that in the face of rising populism, and the \"lost humanity in leadership\", people should continue to \"fight for the good\". In 2018, Headey did a voice-over for an advertisement by the charity Alzheimer's Research UK, which launched ahead of World Alzheimer's Day (21 September).\n\nHeadey's most critically acclaimed and commercially successful films, as of 2018, include:\n"}
{"id": "2108285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108285", "title": "Hannah Gordon", "text": "Hannah Gordon\n\nHannah Campbell Grant Gordon (born 9 April 1941) is a Scottish actress and presenter who is well known in the United Kingdom for her television work, including \"My Wife Next Door\" (1972), \"Upstairs, Downstairs\" (1974–75), \"Telford's Change\" (1979), \"Joint Account\" (1989–90) and an appearance in the final episode of \"One Foot in the Grave\". She is also known for her appearance as Ann Treves in David Lynch's 1980 film \"The Elephant Man\". She is sometimes credited under her married name of Hannah Warwick.\n\nGordon was born in Edinburgh, the daughter of Hannah (née Grant) and William Munro Gordon. She studied drama at the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama in Glasgow and, after graduating, spent one year at a repertory theatre in Dundee. In 1966-67, Gordon played Kirsty in the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Highlanders\", and made appearances on \"Jackanory\" (1969). In 1967, she appeared in the stage play \"Spring and Port Wine\", and in 1970 took the same role in the film version.\n\nHer first appearance was as \"Zayla\" in the first episode of Out of The Unknown entitled \"No Place Like Earth\" by John Wyndham in October 1965. Her next appearance was as Virginia Hamilton who later married Lord Bellamy in the fourth and fifth series of the period drama \"Upstairs, Downstairs\". In 1979, she appeared in \"Telford's Change\", another drama. During the 1970s, Gordon also appeared in \"Play for Today\", \"The Persuaders!\" and the 1973 Christmas edition of \"The Morecambe & Wise Show\". In 1989-90 she starred as a bank manager with Peter Egan and John Bird in the BBC sitcom \"Joint Account\". She voiced the character Hyzenthlay in \"Watership Down\" (1978), her other film roles included \"Alfie Darling\" (1975) and \"The Elephant Man\" (1980) as the wife of Anthony Hopkins. Her most recent film role was as Kevin McKidd's mother in \"Made of Honour\" (2008).\n\nIn 1981 she starred in \"Miss Morrison's Ghosts\" (with Wendy Hiller). She has appeared on television in \"Goodbye, Mr Kent\" (1982), \"Hammer House of Mystery and Suspense\" (1984), \"My Family and Other Animals\" (1987), \"Taggart\" (1993) and \"Jonathan Creek\" (1998). In 2000, Gordon played Glynis, the woman who kills Victor Meldrew in \"Things Aren't Simple Any More\", the final episode of the sitcom \"One Foot in the Grave\".\n\nSince 2000, she has made guest appearances in \"Midsomer Murders Judgement Day\" (2000) as Annabel Weston/Bella Devere, \"Monarch of the Glen\" (2002) and \"Heartbeat\" (2004) in which she played Mrs Barton in episode 5 of series 14, \"Hunter's Moon.\"\n\nFrom 1998 to 2001 she hosted the Channel 4 programme \"Watercolour Challenge\".\n\nShe also more recently appeared in the 2007 Christmas episodes of BBC Scotland soap \"River City\", as hotel owner Rose who had rescued Archie Buchanan from the cliffside and taken him in because of his memory loss. In the final episode of series 7 of the BBC series \"Hustle\" (2011), she played an old flame of Albert Stroller.\n\nIn the 2015 crime drama series \"Unforgotten\" made for ITV, she played Grace Greaves, wife of Father Robert Greaves.\n\nHannah Gordon narrated Sergei Prokofiev's \"Peter and the Wolf\" in a Christmas concert with the Corinthian Chamber Orchestra at St. James's Church, Piccadilly, London on 14 December 2007.\n\nShe was the narrator of the opening concert at the 2008 Edinburgh International Festival - \"Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny\" by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht at Usher Hall on Friday, 8 August 2008. This performance brought together the RSNO, the Edinburgh Festival Chorus, the ladies of the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama and eight soloists.\n\nFrom 9–20 March 2009, Gordon read Nina Bawden's novel \"Family Money\" for BBC Radio 4's \"Book at Bedtime\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2108289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108289", "title": "July 8 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 8 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 7 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 9\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 21 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 8th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 25.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108290", "title": "Pineios (Peloponnese)", "text": "Pineios (Peloponnese)\n\nThe Pineiós (, ) is a river in Peloponnese, Greece. It is probably not named after the god Peneus. It is long. Its source is on the southwestern slope of the mountain Erymanthus, near the village Kryovrysi. It empties into a bay of the Ionian Sea, southwest of Gastouni. For a part of its upper course, it forms the border between Elis and Achaea. The river flows through the plain of Elis. The river passes through the following villages:\n\n\nIn the 1960s, the government began building an earth-shaped dam named the \"Peneus Dam\" (Φράγμα Πηνειού \"Fragma Pineiou\") to supply water for the north and much of Elis. The dam is considered the highest dam in Elis. In Greek mythology, the Peneus and Alpheus were two rivers re-routed by Heracles in his fifth labour in order to clean the filth from the Augean Stables in a single day, a task which had been presumed to be impossible.\n"}
{"id": "2108291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108291", "title": "Master of Mathematics", "text": "Master of Mathematics\n\nA Master of Mathematics (or MMath) degree is a specific integrated master's degree for courses in the field of mathematics.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the MMath is the internationally recognized standard qualification after a four-year course in mathematics at a university.\nThe MMath programme was set up by most leading universities after the \"Neumann Report\" in 1992. It is classed as a level 7 qualification in the Frameworks of Higher Education Qualifications of UK Degree-Awarding Bodies. The UCAS course codes for the MMath degrees start at \"G100\" upwards, most courses taking the codes \"G101 - G104\".\n\nUniversities which offer MMath degrees include:\n\nThe Open University offered this degree until 2007.\n\nIn Canada, the MMath is a graduate degree offered by the University of Waterloo. The length of the MMath degree program is typically between one and two years, and consists of course work along with a research component. The first Waterloo MMath degrees were awarded in 1967. MMath is the master's degree offered by David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, since it is within the Faculty of Mathematics at Waterloo.\n\nIn India, the M. Math. is a graduate degree offered by the Indian Statistical Institute. The course consists of two years and is done in the Bangalore and Kolkata centers in alternating years. The participants are selected through a screening test and it is one of the best graduate courses in mathematics offered in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108299", "title": "Systems philosophy", "text": "Systems philosophy\n\nSystems philosophy is a discipline aimed at constructing a new philosophy (in the sense of worldview) by using systems concepts. The discipline was first described by Ervin Laszlo in his 1972 book \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy: Toward a New Paradigm of Contemporary Thought\". It has been described as the \"reorientation of thought and world view ensuing from the introduction of \"systems\" as a new scientific paradigm\".\n\nSoon after Laszlo founded systems philosophy it was placed in context by Ludwig von Bertalanffy, one of the founders of general system theory, when he categorized three domains within systemics namely:\n\nSystems philosophy consists of four main areas:\n\nThe term \"systems philosophy\" is often used as a convenient shorthand to refer to \"the philosophy of systems\", but this usage can be misleading. The philosophy of systems is in fact merely the element of systems philosophy called \"systems ontology\" by von Bertalanffy and \"systems metaphysics\" by Laszlo. Systems ontology provides important grounding for systems thinking but does not encompass the essential focus of systems philosophy, which is about articulating a worldview grounded in systems perspectives and humanistic concerns.\n\nSystems philosophy was founded by Ervin Laszlo in 1972 with his book \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy: Toward a New Paradigm of Contemporary Thought\". The \"Foreword\" was written by Ludwig von Bertalanffy.\n\n\"Systems philosophy\", in Ervin Laszlo's sense of the term, means using the systems perspective to model the nature of reality, and to use this to solve important human problems (Laszlo, 1972). Laszlo developed the idea behind systems philosophy independently of von Bertalanffy's work on \"General System Theory\" (published in 1968), but they met before \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy\" was published and the decision to call the new discipline \"systems philosophy\" was their joint one. Writing \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy\" took five years, and in his autobiography Laszlo calls it \"my major work\".\n\nLaszlo's \"great idea\", that made systems philosophy possible, was that the existence of a general system theory that captures the \"patterns\" that recur across the Systemics, who themselves capture \"patterns\" that recur across the specialized disciplines, entails that the world is organised as a whole, and thus has an underlying unity. In this light, nature's special domains (as characterized by the specialized sciences) are contingent expressions or arrangements or projections of an underlying intelligibly ordered reality. If the nature of this underlying unity and the way it conditions phenomenal reality could be understood, it would provide a powerful aid to solving pressing sociological problems and answering deep philosophical questions.\n\nIn the subsequent years, systems philosophy has been developed in four important ways, discussed below.\n\nThe first development was due to Ervin Laszlo himself, and is grounded in the concern that the way in which global resources are exploited does not take global systemic effects into account, and appears likely to have catastrophic global consequences. Work in this area is focused on developing models and interventions that can bring about human thriving in a sustainable way on a global scale. Laszlo promotes work in this area through the Club of Budapest International Foundation, of which he is the founder and President, and the journal \"World Futures: The Journal of General Evolution\", of which he is the editor.\n\nA contemporary of Laszlo, Hasan Ozbekhan in the original proposal to the Club of Rome identified 49 \"Continuous Critical Problems\" (CCPs) that intertwine to generate the Global Problematique. This work was shoved aside by the Club as too humanistic and it adopted the system dynamics approach of Jay Forrester. This decision resulted in the volume \"The Limits to Growth\".\n\nOzbekhan sat down with Alexander Christakis and revisited the 49 CCPs in 1995 using the methodology of \"Structured Dialogic Design\" (SDD) which was not available in 1970. They generated an influence map that identified leverage points for alleviating the global problematique. Subsequently, an online class at Flinders University generated an influence map that bore remarkable similarities to that produce by Ozbekhan and Christakis. In 2013, Reynaldo Trevino and Bethania Arango aligned the \"15 Global Challenges of the Millennium Project\" with the 49 CCPs and generated actions that that shows the influence among the challenges and identifies actions for addressing the leverage points.\n\nThe second strand was inspired by Leo Apostel, and is grounded in the concern that disciplinary worldviews are becoming increasingly fragmented, thus undermining the potential for the inter-disciplinary and trans-disciplinary work required to address the world's pressing social, cultural and economic problems. This effort was initiated via the publication in 1994 by Apostel et al. of the book \"Worldviews: from fragmentation to integration.\" Apostel promoted this agenda by forming the Worldviews Group and founding what is now the Leo Apostel Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in the Free University of Brussels. The work of these units is focused on developing systematic models of the structure and nature of worldviews and using this to promote work towards a unified perspective on the world.\n\nThe third initiative was led by Gerald Midgley, and reflects concerns that developments in philosophy of language, philosophy of science and philosophy of sociology suggested that objectivity in modelling reality is an unattainable ideal, because human values condition what is included or excluded in any investigation (\"content selection\"), and condition how subjects of interest are delineated (\"boundary critique\"). The implication that it may be impossible \"in practice\" to obtain objective agreement about the nature of reality and about the \"rightness\" of theories inspired Midgley to develop practices for systemic interventions that could bypass these debates by focusing on the \"processes\" involved in making boundary judgements in practical situations. This supports systematic intervention practices that exploit, rather than trying to unify, the plurality of theories and methods that reflect different value-conditioned perspectives. This perspective is grounded in the recognition that values have to be overtly taken into account in a realistic systems paradigm, contrary to the mechanism that is still widely used in modelling the behavior of natural systems. The central text of this approach is Midgley's 2000 book \"Systemic Intervention: Philosophy, Methodology, Practice\". This approach is now called critical systems thinking (\"critical\" in the sense of \"reflective\"), and is a major focus of the University of Hull's Centre for Systems Studies, of which Midgley is the Director.\n\nThe fourth development was initiated by David Rousseau, and is grounded in the concern that the value relativism dominating academic discourse is problematic for social and individual welfare, is contrary to the holistic implications of systems philosophy, and is inconsistent with universalist aspects of moral intuitions and spiritual experiences. He is promoting research towards elucidating the ontological foundations of values and normative intuitions, so as to incorporate values into Laszlo's model of the natural systems in a way that is holistic (as Apostel advocated), non-reductive (as Midgley advocates), and empirically supported (as William James advocated). Rousseau promotes this work through the Center for Systems Philosophy, of which he is the founder and Director, and collaborative projects with the University of Hull, where he is a Visiting Fellow in the Centre for Systems Studies and a full member of the Centre for Spirituality Studies.\n\nThe relationship of general system theory (GST) to systems philosophy (SP) has been the subject of a technical debate within the field of systems studies.\n\nGST was presented in 1969 by Von Bertalanffy as a theory that encapsulates \"models, principles, and laws that apply to generalized systems or their subclasses, irrespective of their particular kind, the nature of their component elements, and the relationships or \"forces\" between them. ... It [is] a theory, not of systems of a more or less special kind, but of universal principles applying to systems in general\", so that the subject matter of GST is \"the derivation of those principles which are valid for \"systems\" in general\". However, by the early 1970s he was seeking to broaden the term to stand for the general subject of \"systems inquiry\", arguing that \"systems science\" (which includes the Systemics and the 'classical' version of GST), \"systems technology\" and \"systems philosophy\" are \"aspects\" of GST that \"are not separable in content but distinguishable in intention\". This perspective is supported by modern von Bertalanffy scholars such as David Pouvreau.\n\nAn alternative perspective defends the original intent behind GST, and considers systems philosophy to be an endeavor that has a distinct objective from that of GST. This perspective follows the implications Ervin Laszlo laid out in his \"Introduction to Systems Philosophy\", and regards systems philosophy as following up on an implication of GST, namely that there is an organized reality underlying the phenomenal world, and that GST can guide us to towards an understanding of it which systems philosophy seeks to elucidate. From this perspective GST \"is the foundation upon which we can build ... systems philosophy\". This view was taken up by other systems scientists such as Béla H. Bánáthy, who regarded systems philosophy as one of four distinct \"conceptual domains\" of \"systems inquiry\" alongside \"theory\", \"methodology\" and \"application\", and the systems philosopher David Rousseau, who following Laszlo reiterated that GST provides a formal model of the nature of Nature, but that an \"understanding\" of the nature of Nature requires an interpretation of GST involving concrete commitments that systems philosophy aims to provide.\n\nDavid Pouvreau has suggested that this quandary can be resolved by the coinage of the new term \"general systemology\", to replace the usage of GST in the sense of the encompassing conception that the later Von Bertalanffy envisaged.\n\nAn important debate in systems philosophy reflects on the nature of natural systems, and asks whether reality is really composed of objectively real systems, or whether the concept of \"natural systems\" merely reflects a way in which humans might regard the world in terms relative to their own concerns.\n\nErvin Laszlo's original conception of systems philosophy was as \"a philosophy of natural systems\", and as such to use the systems paradigm to show how nature is organized, and how that organization gives rise to the functional properties that we find exercised in the processes in Nature. However, this was immediately problematic, because it clearly is the case that natural systems are \"open systems\", and continuously exchange matter and energy with their environment. This might make it look as if the boundary between a system and its environment is a function of the interests of the observer, and not something inherent in an actually existing system. This was taken by some to mean that system boundaries are subjective constructions, e.g., C. West Churchman argued that \"boundaries are social or personal constructs that define the limits of the knowledge that is taken as pertinent in an analysis\".\n\nErvin Laszlo acknowledged the problem without conceding to an ultimate relativism, saying \"we can conceive of no radical separation between forming and being formed, and between substance and space and time…the universe is conceived as a continuum [in which] spatio-temporal events disclose themselves as \"stresses\" or \"tensions\" within the constitutive matrix…the cosmic matrix evolves in patterned flows…some flows hit upon configurations of intrinsic stability and thus survive, despite changes in their evolving environment…these we call \"systems\".\" In this way Ervin Laszlo accommodated the intrinsic continuity of the cosmos understood as a plenum while insisting that it contained real systems whose properties emerge from the inherent dynamics of the universe.\n\nAlthough solving social problems means taking social norms and perspectives into account, systems philosophy proposes that these problems have a \"proper\" solution because they are about real systems: as Alexander Laszlo pointed out, natural systems are \"a complex of interacting parts that are interrelated in such a way that the interactions between them sustain a boundary-maintaining entity\". In this way, the identity of a system is maintained over time despite continuing interactions with a changing environment. Systems can be destroyed or transformed, but absent radical interactions (e.g. the fission of an atom or the death of an organism) their identity is dynamically maintained by internal (autopoietic) processes. Although we can draw the boundaries around \"conceptual\" systems in ways that serve our needs or purposes, nature has (according to systems philosophy) intrinsic ways of drawing boundaries, and if we mismatch these in our models our 'solutions' might not work very well in practice.\n\nIn this way the answer to the \"ontological\" question about natural systems (do they exist?) is made conditional on epistemological virtue considerations: systems can be argued to exist if systems practice produces positive results in the real world. This debate in systems philosophy thus parallels the wider discussion in academia about the existence of a real world and the possibility of having objective knowledge about it (see e.g. the \"science wars\"), in which the technological success of science is often used as an argument favoring realism over relativism or constructivism. The systemic debate is far from resolved, as indeed is the case with the wider debate about constructivism, because natural systems include ones that exhibit values, purposes, and intentionality, and it is unclear how to explain such properties given what is known about the foundational nature of natural systems. This debate is therefore connected with the ones in \"philosophy of mind\" about the grounding of consciousnesses, and in \"axiology\" about the grounding of values.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108301", "title": "New Poems", "text": "New Poems\n\nNew Poems () is a two-part collection of poems written by Bohemian-Austrian poet and novelist Rainer Maria Rilke (1875–1926). The first volume, dedicated to Elisabeth and Karl von der Heydt was composed from 1902 to 1907 and was published in the same year by Insel Verlag in Leipzig. The second volume (New Poems: The Other Part), dedicated to Auguste Rodin, was completed in 1908 and published by the same publisher. With the exception of eight poems written in Capri, Rilke composed most of them in Paris and Meudon. At the start of each volume he placed, respectively, Früher Apollo (Early Apollo) and Archaïscher Torso Apollos (Archaic Torso of Apollo), poems about sculptures of the poet-God.\n\nThese poems, many of them sonnets, are often intensely focused on the visual. They show Rilke aware of the objective world and of the people amongst whom he lives. The poems are astonishingly concentrated: both short, and compacting a profundity of experience into small compass. He called them \"Dinggedichte\", which translated literally means \"Thing-Poems,\" intending to reveal both that the poems were about \"things\" and that the poems had become, so concentrated and whole in themselves were they, things (poetic objects) themselves.\n\nAlong with \"The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge\", the collection is considered to be the main work of his middle period, which clearly stands out from the work preceding and following it. It marks a shift from the emotive poetry of ecstatic subjectivity and interiority, which somewhat dominates his three-part \"The Book of Hours\", to the objective language of the \"Dinggedicte\". With this new poetic orientation, which was influenced by the visual arts and especially Rodin, Rilke came to be considered one of the most important poets of literary modernism.\n\nBecause the collection lacks a cohesive meaning as well as an overarching central concept, it is no cycle of poems in the strict sense. On the other hand, it cannot be concluded to be an arbitrary compilation, because despite the great diversity of forms and genres, everything is permeated by a coherent formal principle - the 'thing' aspect of lyrical speech, which is bound to the experience of observed reality.\n\nThe \"Dinglyrik\" (\"thing-lyric\") of the Parnassians through to Eduard Mörike and Conrad Ferdinand Meyer had not been oriented towards music, as in romantic poetry, but rather the visual arts. This point of reference is also noticeable in Rilke's poems. Firstly in the towering figure of the sculptor Auguste Rodin, (who Rilke wrote a monograph about while acting as his private secretary), and later in Rilke's encounter with the work of Paul Cézanne, at the Paris Cézanne exhibition of 1907.\n\nThe poems reflect Rilke's impressions of his environment, and experiences, which he sometimes confided to Lou Andreas-Salomé or Clara Westhoff in numerous letters with a great wealth of detail. They also describe his own influences in the objects of reality-oriented art. The poems also stand at the end of a long development process: A year after he completed the monograph on Rodin, he told Lou Andreas-Salomé how desperately he was looking for a craft-like foundation for his art, a tool that would give his art the necessary solidity. He excluded two possibilities: The new craft should not be the craft of language itself, but rather an attempt \"to find a better understanding of inner life\". Likewise, the humanistic way of education that Hugo von Hofmannsthal had undertaken, the foundation \"to seek a well-inherited and increasing culture\" did not appeal to him. The poetic craft should rather be seeing itself, the ability to \"see better, to look with more patience, with more immersion.\"\n\nRilke was fascinated by both artisanal precision and concentration on the subject, a way of working which he observed frequently with Rodin. The formal nature of art and the opportunity to show with it the surface of an object, while at the same time leaving its essence to the imagination, were reflected in the two volumes of poetry.\n\nHe described Rodin to Lou Andreas-Salomé as a lonely old man, \"sunk in himself, standing full of sap like an old tree in autumn.\" Rodin had given his heart \"a depth, and its beat comes from afar as though from a mountain center.\" For Rilke, Rodin's real discovery was the liberation of surfaces, as well as the seemingly unintentional fashioning of the sculpture from the thus liberated forms. He described how Rodin did not follow a principal concept, but masterfully designed the smallest elements, in accordance with their own development.\n\nWhile Rodin closed himself to what is unimportant, he was open to reality, where \"animals and people... touch him like things\". Like a continually receptive lover, nothing escapes him, and as a craftsman he has a concentrated \"way of looking.\" There is nothing \"uncertain for him in an object that serves him as a model... The object is definite, the art-object must be even more definite, withdrawn from all chance and removed from all ambiguity, lifted out of time and given to space, it has become permanent, capable of eternity. The model \"seems\", the art-object \"is\".\"\n\nJust as Rilke had discovered landscape \"as the language for his confessions\" in Worpswede, and learned the \"language of the hands\" with Rodin, so did Cézanne lead him into the realm of colors. The special color perception that Rilke developed in France is illustrated in his famous Blaue Hortensie (Blue Hydrangea) sonnet, in which he shows, in an almost detached fashion, the interplay of the appearance of lively colors.\n\nRilke's turn to the visual is evidence of a low confidence in language and is related to the language crisis of modernity, as exemplified by Hofmannsthal's Chandos letter, in which he addresses the reasons for a profound skepticism about language. Language, according to Rilke, offers \"too-rough pliers\" to tap into the soul; the word can not be \"the outward sign\" for \"our actual life\". As much as he admired Hofmannsthal, Rilke also distinguished between a poetic and metaphorical language of things and a language conceived abstractedly and rationally.\n\nThe New Poems show Rilke's great sensitivity to the world of representational reality. The ascetic thing-aspect of his verse no longer allowed the frank and open discussion of his soul, or the fine emotional and sensual states, presented clearly in The Book of Hours in the shape of prayer.\n\nThe poems tend to be stylistically descriptive at the starting point, but the boundary between observer and object soon dissolves via observation and elicits new connections. With this thing-mysticism Rilke did not however want ecstasy to overcome the clarity of consciousness, especially since he frequently made use of the sonnet form, whose caesuras are, however, glossed over by the musical language. In contrast to Eduard Mörike and Conrad Ferdinand Meyer - whose Roman fountain is paradigmatic - Rilke wanted objects to not merely describe or objectify moods; the thing should rather be charged, as it were, with a special meaning and thus be released from conventional references to space and time. This is confirmed by the lines of the unrhymed poem The Rose Bowl, which completes the first part: \"And the movement in the roses, see: / gestures from such small vibrations, / that they would remain invisible, if their / Rays did not diverge into the universe.\"\n\nAs he described in a brief 1919 published essay, Primal Sound, he wanted to expand the senses by means of art, to return to things their own worth, their \"sheer size\", and to withdraw the availability of rational purpose for the recipient. He believed in a higher total context of all beings, attainable only through art, which transcends the world: the \"perfect poem\" could \"arise only under the condition that the world, acted upon by five levers simultaneously, appears, under a certain aspect on the supernatural plane, which is precisely the plane of the poem.\"\n\nFollowing research, Rilke's long-neglected collection (compared to his later works, such as the \"Duino Elegies\" or the \"Sonnets to Orpheus\"), has in the last decades arrived at a re-appraisal. Within his oeuvre, the New Poems were now regarded as his most important contribution to modern literature and were most intensively received. They document his ideal of the \"Dinggedicht\", relating primarily to (external) objects, works of painting, sculpture and architecture, and to animals from the Parisian Jardin des Plantes and landscapes.\n\nIn poems such as \"The Panther\", his most famous work, or \"Archaic Torso of Apollo\", Rilke approaches this sort of ideal clearly. In this sonnet he converts the object of observation into a transcendent symbol, the observing subject and seeing object embrace: although the torso is missing its head, the entire statue glows from within, beaming towards the observer like a star and leading to an epiphanic experience: \"For there is no place / that does not see you. You must change your life.\"\n\nThe New Poems are also subjected to opposing interpretations. One part of scholarship saw in them a reconciling interpretation of human existence or alternatively, like Walther Rehm, pointed out their \"icy splendour\". \"All these things, the fountains and marble wagons, the stairs to the orangery, the courtesan and the alchemist, the beggar and the saint - none profoundly knows the others. They are all non-relational - accidental and hollow, like statues or sculptures, isolated next to each other, in the artfully assembled space of this collection of poems, almost like in a museum.\"\n\nSince Rilke attended not to the objects as such, but to their representation, it was natural to interpret his poetry phenomenologically. Kate Hamburger indicated such a connection to the philosophy of Edmund Husserl, who himself dealt with this question with his 'Thing and Space' lecture of 1907.\n\nIn 2013, Copper Canyon Press published \"Rilke: New Poems\", a bilingual edition of \"New Poems\", translated into English by Joseph Cadora, and containing a brief commentary on each poem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108303", "title": "Strath", "text": "Strath\n\nA strath is a large valley, typically a river valley that is wide and shallow (as opposed to a glen, which is typically narrower and deep).\n\nAn anglicisation of the Gaelic word \"srath\", it is one of many that have been absorbed into the English and Scots languages. It is commonly used in rural Scotland to describe a wide valley, even by non-Gaelic speakers.\n\nIt occurs in numerous place names within Scotland including Strathspey and Strathclyde. Internationally, many places with Scottish heritage also use the prefix, including Strath-Taieri in New Zealand; Strathalbyn in South Australia, Strathfield, a suburb of Sydney, Australia; Strathewen, Victoria, Australia; Strathpine, a suburb of Brisbane, Australia; and various places in Canada: Strathmore, Alberta; Strathcona; Strathroy, Ontario; and Strathburn, Ontario.\n\nIt also occurs in the names of five Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company liners, four of which, the \"Strathaird\", the \"Strathnaver\", the \"Stratheden\" and the \"Strathmore\", carried thousands of migrants to Australia between the 1950s and the 1960s. The ships acted as troop carriers during the Second World War and the fifth ship, the \"Strathallan\", sank in the Mediterranean in 1942 taking troops to the landings in North Africa.\n\nThe word is related to Old Welsh \"Ystrad\", as in \"Ystrad Clud\", the Old Welsh name for the Kingdom of Strathclyde.\n\nIn Keith there is a distillery producing the Strathisla whisky. It is a single malt whisky that is also an ingredient to the blend Chivas Regal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108313", "title": "Thuraya", "text": "Thuraya\n\nThuraya (, ; from the Arabic name for the constellation of the Pleiades, \"Thurayya\") is a United Arab Emirates-based regional mobile-satellite service (MSS) provider. The company operates two geosynchronous satellites and provides telecommunications coverage in more than 161 countries in Europe, the Middle East, North, Central and East Africa, Asia and Australia. Thuraya’s L-band network delivers voice and data services\n\nThuraya, is the mobile satellite services subsidiary of Yahsat, a global satellite operator based in the United Arab Emirates, fully owned by Mubadala Investment Company.\n\n\nThuraya's country calling code is +882 16, which is part of the ITU-T International Networks numbering group. Thuraya is not part of the +881 country calling code numbering group as this is allocated by ITU-T for networks in the Global Mobile Satellite System, of which Thuraya is not a part, being a regional rather than a global system.\n\nTransceivers communicate directly with the satellites using an antenna of roughly the same length as the handset and have a maximum output power of 2 Watts. QPSK modulation is used for the air interface. Thuraya SIM cards will work in regular GSM telephones and ordinary GSM SIM cards can be used on the satellite network as long as the SIM provider has a roaming agreement with Thuraya. As with all geosynchronous voice services a noticeable lag is present while making a call.\n\nDue to the relatively high gain of the antennas contained within handsets, it is necessary to roughly aim the antenna at the satellite. As the handsets contain a GPS receiver it is possible to program the ground position of the satellites as waypoints to assist with aiming. \nThe service operates on L-band carriers assigned in blocks to areas of coverage referred to as \"spotbeams\", which are Thuraya’s equivalent to cells or service areas. In L-band, 34 MHz of bandwidth from 1.525 GHz to 1.559 GHz is assigned for downlink (space-to-earth) communication, while the uplink (earth-to-space) operates between 1.6265 GHz and 1.6605 GHz. Uplink and downlink channels are 1087 paired carrier frequencies, on a raster of 31.25 kHz. A Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) time slot architecture is employed which allocates a carrier in timeslots of a fixed length.\n\nEvery Thuraya phone and standalone transceiver unit is fitted with a GPS receiver and transmits its location to the Thuraya gateway periodically. The built-in GPS capability can be used for waypoint navigation.\n\nThuraya operates two communications satellites built by Boeing.\n\nThe first satellite, named Thuraya 1, had deficient solar panels and could not operate properly; this satellite was positioned above Korea for testing purposes. It was launched on 21 October 2000 by Sea Launch on a Zenit 3SL rocket. At launch it weighed 5250 kg. The satellite was used for testing and backup until May 2007, when it was moved to junk orbit and declared at its end of life.\n\nThuraya 2 was launched by Sea Launch on 10 June 2003. It is located in geosynchronous orbit at 44° E longitude, inclined at 6.3 degrees. The satellite can handle 13,750 simultaneous voice calls. This satellite currently serves most of Europe, the Middle East, Africa and parts of Asia. The craft had a weight of 3200 kg and an expected life of 12 years. The two solar-panel wings, each containing five panels, generate 11 KW electric power. The craft has two antenna systems: a round C-band antenna, 1.27 meters in diameter and a 12 × 16 meter AstroMesh reflector, 128 element L-band antenna, supplied by Astro Aerospace in Carpinteria, California. These antennas support up to 351 separate spot beams, each configurable to concentrate power where usage needs it (This Ref. leads to a 404 page ) . Amateur astronomer observations suspected the nearby MENTOR 4 USA-202, a satellite belonging to the US National Reconnaissance Office, was eavesdropping on Thuraya 2 and this was reported to be confirmed by documents released on 9 September 2016 by \"The Intercept\" as part of the Snowden files.\n\nThe third satellite was planned for launch by Sea Launch in 2007, and the start of Far East and Australia service was planned for 15 October 2007. The failure in January 2007 of the NSS-8 mission on another Sea Launch rocket led to a substantial delay in the launch of Thuraya-3, which was rescheduled for 14 November 2007, but the launch was postponed several times due to sea conditions. The launch vessels set out from port again on 2 January 2008, and launch occurred successfully at 11:49 GMT on 15 January 2008. The Thuraya 3 satellite is technically the same as Thuraya 2, but located in geosynchronous orbit at 98.5° E longitude, inclined at 6.2 degrees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108325", "title": "Alien from the Darkness", "text": "Alien from the Darkness\n\nWhile on a government mission far from civilization, the all-female crew of the spaceship \"Muze\" finds a seemingly lifeless ship, named the \"Zogne\", drifting in space. They investigate and stumble across numerous dead bodies as well as a single survivor — Flair Mytomeyer, an innocuous-looking girl, who is diagnosed with amnesia after being found in a sleep chamber. The crew bring the girl back to the \"Muze\" and treat her with sympathy as a medical patient. Computer expert Hikari begins attempting to decrypt the computer records of the \"Zogne\" to find out what happened to its crew.\n\nAfter further searching, Hikari discovers the illegal drug Metrogria (which disables the immune system) on the \"Zogne\", and the Captain of the \"Muze\" commands that the \"Zogne\" be destroyed. Meanwhile, Flair (who is actually a dangerous tentacled alien) has begun to wreak havoc, approaching the crew members one by one and tentacle raping them to implant eggs in them. This causes the victims to become insane and die. Hikari finally learns this secret after decoding the computer records, but not before the Captain and several other crew members have already succumbed to Flair.\n\nHikari and her sister attempt to destroy Flair with weaponry, but the alien seems invincible. Eventually, the alien corners the sisters in the ship's cargo hold. Hikari escapes but her sister does not, ending up locked in the hold with the alien. Seeking revenge, Hikari puts a Metrogria capsule in a pistol, re-enters the hold and shoots the alien, mortally wounding it. She then opens the cargo bay door and the alien is blown out into space along with several dead bodies.\n\nThe show has a post-credits sequence where \"the real ending\" is revealed. which reveals Hikari's sister returning to the control room in a normal state to greet her, who Hikari embraces. As they hug, her sister shows an evil grin with the film ending with Hikari's pet snarling leaving Hikari's fate unknown.\n\nHikari - Hikari is the main character of the movie. She is a computer expert for the Spaceship Muze. On a mission in space, her crew discovers a lifeless vessel called Zogne. Curious to see what's inside they gear up and board the ship. She has a pet ferret named Einstein.\n\nAl - Al is the A.I. for the spaceship Muze.\n\nFlair Mytomeyer - Flair is a mysterious girl with mint green hair found by the crew in a freeze chamber aboard the Zogne. She is the only survivor on the ship, as the rest of the passengers and crew have died mysteriously. She is treated by the crew of the Muze as a medical patient, although she can't remember what happened to her fellow passengers.\n\nAnnie One of the crew members of the Muse and the first to go. She has a childlike personality.\n\nLindo One of the crew members who is after the Metrogria with plans of selling it on the black market. She has a spoiled personality and is also a bit of a crybaby.\n\nKeith The tomboy of the crew and has a dislike for Lindo. She has the appearance of a teenage biker boy.\n\nHilda The Medic of the crew and is the captain's lover.\n\nCaptain Sara The captain of the crew and is Hilda's lover. She has a masculine appearance just like Keith.\n\nEinstein Hikari and Yuri's mischievous pet ferret who has a habit of sneaking off and slipping himself inside Hikari's clothes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108327", "title": "17th Dogra Regiment", "text": "17th Dogra Regiment\n\nThe 17th Dogra Regiment was an infantry regiment of the British Indian Army. It was formed in 1922, after the Indian government decided to reform the army moving away from single battalion regiments to multi battalion regiments. After the partition of India in 1947, it was allocated to the new Indian Army and renamed the Dogra Regiment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108331", "title": "Kurt Baier", "text": "Kurt Baier\n\nKurt Baier (January 26, 1917 – November 7, 2010) was an Austrian moral philosopher who taught for most of his career in Australia and the United States.\n\nBorn in Vienna, Austria, Baier studied law at the University of Vienna. In 1938, after the Anschluss he had to abandon his studies, and went to the United Kingdom as a refugee, where he was interned as a \"friendly enemy alien\" and sent to Australia on the \"Dunera\". There he began studying philosophy. Baier received his B.A. from the University of Melbourne in 1944, and his M.A. in 1947. In 1952, he received his DPhil at Oxford University.\n\nBaier taught at the University of Melbourne and the Australian National University. He met and married Annette Baier in 1958. He joined the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh in 1961, and became Chair of the Department in 1967, and remained at Pitt until his retirement in 1996. He became president of the Eastern Division and chair of the National Board of Officers of the American Philosophical Association, Both Baiers gave the Paul Carus lectures. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1974. In 2001, Kurt was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the Karl Franzen University of Graz. He was also honored by the Humanist Society.\n\nBaier died at his home in Dunedin, New Zealand.\n\nBeginning with his first and best known book, \"The Moral Point of View\" (1958), Baier has been attempting to construct a justification of morality that is grounded in rationality. His original strategy was to find certain nonquestion-begging requirements of practical reason that then could be shown to favor morality over egoism. According to Baier, the very raison d'être of a morality is to yield reasons that overrule the reasons of self-interest in those cases when everyone following their own self-interest would be harmful to everyone. If we appeal to self-interested reasons to be moral, it would seem that such reasons cannot support morality over self-interest in cases of conflict. On the other hand, if we appeal to non-self-interested reasons to justify morality, those reasons seem to be implicitly moral, and so this would just be begging the question against egoistic opponents of morality. While making many contributions to the conceptual analysis of basic concepts in moral, political and legal philosophy such as those of obligation, responsibility, reason for action, egoism and the meaning of life, and also to applied ethics, Baier has struggled with the fundamental question of how to justify morality throughout his career. He inspired many other philosophers to do so as well.\n\nIn \"The Rational and the Moral Order\" (1995), Baier attempted to answer the question by interpreting morality as a system of reasons of mutual benefit that are appropriate for contexts in which everyone's following self-interested reasons would have suboptimal results for everyone. So interpreted, moral reasons apply only when there exists an adequate enforcement system that makes acting against those reasons unprofitable. Morality so construed never requires any degree of altruism or self-sacrifice; it only requires that people act upon reasons of mutual benefit. Given this interpretation of morality, it is not possible for the egoist to do better by acting against morality. So construed, morality and egoism do not really conflict. This solution to the problem of the justification of morality bears some resemblance to the one offered by David Gauthier in \"Morals By Agreement\" (1986), a philosopher who was also inspired by Baier’s work and who later joined Baier as a colleague at the University of Pittsburgh in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108339", "title": "Pernis, Netherlands", "text": "Pernis, Netherlands\n\nPernis is a neighborhood and submunicipality (since 3 March 2010) of Rotterdam, Netherlands. The district has a population of 4,845 (2018) on a total area size of 1.60 km² (0.62 sq mi). Pernis is thus a full submunicipality of Rotterdam, but the former independent municipality had its own district council already. Although surrounded by ports, Pernis has preserved its village-like atmosphere very well.\n\nPernis is best known for its petrochemical industry. Refineries define its skyline. Shell's sprawling complex located there is the largest oil refinery in Europe, and one of the largest in the world.\n\nPernis was merged with 's-Gravenambacht in 1832. It remained an independent municipality until 1934, when it was merged into Rotterdam.\n\nResidents by age (2011)\nBirths and deaths(2010)\nResidents by origin (2011)\nHousehold composition (2011)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108345", "title": "Long Walk to Freedom", "text": "Long Walk to Freedom\n\nLong Walk to Freedom is an autobiography written by South African President Nelson Mandela, and first published in 1994 by Little Brown & Co. The book profiles his early life, coming of age, education and 27 years in prison. Under the apartheid government, Mandela was regarded as a terrorist and jailed on the infamous Robben Island for his role as a leader of the then-outlawed ANC. He later achieved international recognition for his leadership as president in rebuilding the country's once segregated society. The last chapters of the book describe his political ascension, and his belief that the struggle still continued against apartheid in South Africa.\n\nMandela dedicated his book to \"my six children, Madiba and Makaziwe (my first daughter) who are now deceased, and to Makgatho, Makaziwe, Zenani and Zindzi, whose support and love I treasure; to my twenty-one grandchildren and three great-grandchildren who give me great pleasure; and to all my comrades, friends and fellow South Africans whom I serve and whose courage, determination and patriotism remain my source of inspiration.\"\n\nIn the first part of the autobiography, Mandela describes his upbringing as a child and adolescent in South Africa, and being connected to the royal Thembu dynasty. His childhood name was Rolihlahla, which is loosely translated as \"pulling the branch of a tree\", or a euphemism for \"troublemaker\".\n\nMandela describes his education at a Thembu college called Clarkebury, and later at the strict Healdtown school, where students were rigorously put in routines. He mentions his education at the University of Fort Hare, and his practice of law later on. He also then writes; \"Democracy meant all men to be heard, and decision was taken together as a people. Majority rule was a foreign notion. A minority was not to be clashed by a majority.\" (p. 29)\n\nIn the second part of the book, Mandela introduces political and social aspects of apartheid in South Africa, and the influences of politicians such as Daniel François Malan who implemented the nadir of African freedoms, as he officially commenced the apartheid policies. Mandela joined the African National Congress in 1950 and describes his organisation of guerrilla tactics and underground organisations to battle against apartheid.\n\nIn 1961, Mandela was convicted for inciting people to strike and leaving the country without a passport and sentenced to five years' imprisonment. However, Mandela was shortly thereafter sentenced to life imprisonment for sabotage in what was known as the \"Rivonia Trial\", by Justice Dr. Quartus de Wet, instead of a possible death sentence. (p. 159)\nMandela describes prison time on Robben Island and Pollsmoor Prison. His 28-year tenure in prison was marked by the cruelty of Afrikaner guards, backbreaking labour, and sleeping in minuscule cells which were nearly uninhabitable. Unlike his biographer Anthony Sampson, Mandela does not accuse the warder James Gregory of fabricating a friendship with his prisoner. Gregory's book \"Goodbye Bafana\" discussed Mandela's family life and described Gregory as a close personal friend of Mandela. According to \"\", Gregory's position was to censor the letters delivered to the future president, and he thereby discovered the details of Mandela's personal life, which he then made money from by means of his book \"Goodbye Bafana\". Mandela considered suing Gregory for this breach of trust. In \"Long Walk to Freedom\" Mandela remarks of Gregory only that \n'I had not known him terribly well, but he knew us, because he had been responsible for reviewing our incoming and outgoing mail.'\n\nLater on in his sentence, Mandela met South African president, Frederik Willem de Klerk, and was released from prison in 1990. Unlike his friend , Mandela's book does not discuss the alleged complicity of de Klerk in the violence of the eighties and nineties, or the role of his ex-wife Winnie Mandela in that bloodshed. Mandela became the President of South Africa in 1994.\n\nThe book won the Alan Paton Award in 1995, and has been published in numerous languages, including an Afrikaans translation by Antjie Krog.\n\n\"Long Walk to Freedom\" has been adapted into a film titled \"\" directed by Justin Chadwick, written by William Nicholson, and produced by Anant Singh. Mandela personally awarded the film rights to the book to Singh's company some years before 2009. Singh believes that as the film is based on Mandela's own writing, it will be the \"definitive\" biopic of him. English actor Idris Elba portrays Mandela in the film. The film was limited released on 29 November 2013 in the United States. Full release happened on Christmas Day 2013 in the United States.\nWhen the film was shown in London for Prince William and his wife, Nelson Mandela's death was announced.\n\nIn an obituary of Mandela, \"The Times\" of London reported that the latter chapters of \"Long Walk to Freedom\" had been \"ghosted by a skilful US journalist\", and that Mandela had later started work on a second set of memoirs without a ghost writer.\n\nA follow-up memoir was published in 2017, compiled by Mandla Langa from Mandela's handwritten notes and unfinished draft, together with archive material and with a prologue by Graça Machel: entitled \"Dare Not Linger: The Presidential Years\", this volume took its title from the closing sentence of \"Long Walk to Freedom\": \"But I can only rest for a moment, for with freedom comes responsibilities, and I dare not linger, for my long walk is not ended.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108349", "title": "Torta", "text": "Torta\n\nTorta () is a Spanish, Italian, Greek, Albanian, Bulgarian, Maltese, Hungarian, Portuguese, Bosnian, Croatian, Swedish, Serbian, Macedonian, Slovene and also Slovak word with a wide array of culinary meanings, such as a cake, or flatbread.\n\nIn Spain and various countries of Latin America, the word \"torta\", in a very common usage, is for sweet cakes (tortes), such as a wedding or birthday cake. This meaning is also present in other European languages. For example, the Italian \"torta\", German \"torte\" or French \"tarte\". In Mexico, the sweet cake is normally referred to as \"pastel\", which is also used in other parts of Latin America with this meaning. \"Huevo en torta\" (not to be confused with \"torta de huevo\") is a typical pastry from Sobrarbe, Aragon, Spain. Also it could mean a sandwich made from a bread called bolillo meat and vegetables\n\nIn the southern Philippines, in Visayas and Mindanao \"torta\" is generally used to refer to small cakes. It usually refers to \"mamón\" or \"torta mamón\", a native porous sponge cake delicacy that resembles a large cupcake with butter, sugar, and/or cheese on top, traditionally served with \"sikwate\" (a thick, hot drink made of ground roasted cacao seeds) for afternoon snack or merienda.\n\nIn Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, Swedish, Italian, Portuguese and Bulgarian word for cake, typically made with layered sponge and cream, chocolate or fruit filling.\n\nAlso in Arabic all kinds of tarts are called torta.\n\nTorta (plural tortas) is served either hot or cold, on an oblong white sandwich roll, derived from Mexican cuisine. Borrowed from Spanish torta, from Late Latin torta, from torta panis (“twisted bread”), from feminine of Latin tortus (“twisted, folded over”). Cognate to tart.\n\n\"Torta\" in Spain originated in different regional variants of flatbread, of which the \"torta de gazpacho\" and \"torta cenceña\" are still surviving in certain areas of Central Spain. Tortas are also mentioned in Leviticus 24:5-9, in the Spanish translation of the Bible. Presently, however, the word \"torta\" is also applied to different kinds of bread and pastry products according to the region.\n\nHistorically, the difference between \"torta\" and bread was its round and flat shape, as well as the use of baking soda/powder as the proofing agent instead of yeast. In most regions, a \"torta\" was traditionally considered an inferior form of bread, as the well known Spanish aphorism expresses:\n\nIn Mexico a variation says: \"A falta de pan, tortillas\" (\"Where there is no bread, \"tortillas\" are fine\"). However, the term \"torta\" in Mexico typically refers to a sandwich made with bread (see Mexico section, below, for more details).\n\n\"Torta frita\" is a fried flatbread eaten in Uruguay, Argentina and the Chilean Patagonia.\n\nIn the northern Philippines, particularly among Tagalog-speaking provinces and islands, \"torta\" refers to a kind of omelette made with eggs or eggplant, ground meat (usually beef or pork), and sometimes minced onion and potato.\n\nTortas can be served any time during the day. There are many variations on Filipino tortas, such as:\n\n\n\"Torta de huevo\" is a small fried mixture of scrambled eggs, usually eaten sandwiched in bread.\n\nIn Italian, “” means simply cake, however sweet or savoury. However, in the US, it came to have a different meaning within the Italian-American community.\n\nThe Italian \"torta\" is differentiated from \"crostata\" by the filling: a \"crostata\" has an inconsistent chunky filling, whereas a \"torta\" has a consistent filling made of blended ingredients.\n\nSome falsely believe that an Italian crust torta is a combination of layered cheeses and tomatoes to be spread onto bread. Italian torta is a pie similar to quiche and served as a brunch item. However, torta is different than quiche as the crust is mostly made of cheese, not egg. The crust can also be made from pizza dough. Ingredients vary as there are many variations of this torta. Traditional Italian torta usually includes ricotta cheese, parmesan, parsley, and onion. There are also variations that contain meat and some that are completely vegetarian. These vegetarian torte sometimes contain artichokes and spices for flavor. This torta is made in a springform pan instead of a traditional pie pan.\n\nTorta in Brazil and other Portuguese speaking countries refers to a pie which can be a sweet or savory dish.\n\nTorta in Malta means a pie, which can be sweet or savoury.\n\nMost “tortas” are generally savoury, with a classic Maltese dish being “torta tal-lampuki” (lampuki, singular lampuka, are a type of common fish found in Maltese waters).\n\nA common example of a sweet Maltese torta is “torta tal-lewz” (lewz, singular lewza, means almonds in Maltese. Almonds are a very common ingredient in Maltese cuisine, although some people prefer to use marzipan over almonds, either because of ease, taste preference or cost.\n\nIn Venezuela, Chile, and Uruguay, people typically refer to dessert cakes as \"tortas.\"\n\nIn Mexico, a \"torta\" is a kind of sandwich, served on one of two types of white sandwich rolls. The first is similar to a small baguette, and may be referred to as a bolillo, birote, or \"pan francés\" depending on region. The second is a flat, oblong, soft roll called a telera. Tortas can be eaten cold or hot, and grilled or toasted in a press in the same manner as a Cuban sandwich.\n\nGarnishes such as avocado, chili pepper (usually poblano or jalapeño), tomato, and onion are common. The dish is popular throughout Mexico, and is also available anywhere with a large Mexican population. In Northern Mexico, the \"torta\" is very frequently called lonche by influence of the English \"lunch\", as it may be eaten during lunch break.\n\nThe sandwich is normally named according to its main ingredient:\n\nThe \"torta ahogada\" (meaning \"drowned\" \"torta\") of Guadalajara is smothered in a red sauce. Different fillings are available and they may be mixed to create an original \"torta\".\n\nThe Torta Cubana is another take on the classic torta sandwich Mexico has been accredited for. As the name implies by meaning literally the \"Cuban Torta\", this sandwich is stuffed with a variety of meats that is dependent on where it is being made. This sandwich should not be confused for the Cuban sandwich by the similar name, the \"Cubano\" as the two sandwiches are not related. One may have come before the other, but this coincidence in names is not to be taken seriously as the Mexicans decided to name this dish after the street it was invented on, the \"Calle Republica de Cuba in Mexico City\". To add on to the contrasts, the breads used to make the sandwiches are different, and the condiments of the sandwiches varies.\n\nDue to the practicality of being hand-carried, \"tortas\" are sold at massive events, such as football matches, parades, and outdoor concerts, but they are also available for breakfast, lunch, or dinner at dedicated establishments or sold as street food by food carts.\n\nThe origin of the torta is unclear, but some claim it sprouted in Puebla due to Spanish-French interaction. \"Teleras\" (the bread usually used in tortas) were inspired by French baguettes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108353", "title": "Solid Bronze – Great Hits", "text": "Solid Bronze – Great Hits\n\nSolid Bronze: Great Hits is The Beautiful South's ninth album and second greatest hits compilation. It was released in November 2001 and contains 19 tracks. The album contains two songs (\"Pretenders to the Throne\" and \"Dream a Little Dream\") that were released between \"Carry on up the Charts\" and \"Blue Is the Colour\", and never made it onto any album.\n\nIt produced one single, \"The Root of All Evil\", released the same month as the album, and only getting to number 50 in the UK Singles Chart. The album got to number 10. The name of the album parodies other compilation albums e.g. \"Solid Gold - Greatest Hits\" by self-deprecating the popularity of the band.\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums. Three tracks on this compilation, all singles, had not previously appeared on a Beautiful South album in the UK.\n\nfrom the “Dream A Little Dream” CD (only available on import in the UK in 1995 - the first two tracks also later appeared on “Don’t Marry Her” CD2 in 1996)\n\nfrom the “Pretenders To The Throne” CD (1995 non-album single)\n\nfrom “The Root of all Evil” CD1 Enhanced (2001 single released to promote the compilation)\n\nfrom “The Root of all Evil” CD2 Enhanced (2001 single released to promote the compilation)\n\n"}
{"id": "2108358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108358", "title": "July 9 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 9 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 8 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 10\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 22 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 9th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 26.\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108371", "title": "1979 Spanish general election", "text": "1979 Spanish general election\n\nThe 1979 Spanish general election was held on Thursday, 1 March 1979, to elect the 1st Cortes Generales of the Kingdom of Spain. All 350 seats in the Congress of Deputies were up for election, as well as all 208 seats in the Senate.\n\nThis was the first election held under the Spanish Constitution of 1978. The Union of the Democratic Centre (UCD) remained the largest party, winning 168 of the 350 seats in the Congress of Deputies and 119 of the 208 seats in the Senate. As a result, Adolfo Suárez went on to form a minority government, depending on support from Manuel Fraga's Democratic Coalition, which experienced an electoral decline.\n\nThe Spanish Cortes Generales were envisaged as an imperfect bicameral system. The Congress of Deputies had greater legislative power than the Senate, having the ability to vote confidence in or withdraw it from a Prime Minister and to override Senate vetoes by an absolute majority of votes. Nonetheless, the Senate possessed a few exclusive, yet limited in number functions—such as its role in constitutional amendment—which were not subject to the Congress' override. Voting for the Cortes Generales was on the basis of universal suffrage, which comprised all nationals over eighteen and in full enjoyment of their political rights.\n\nFor the Congress of Deputies, 348 seats were elected using the D'Hondt method and a closed list proportional representation, with a threshold of 3 percent of valid votes—which included blank ballots—being applied in each constituency. Parties not reaching the threshold were not taken into consideration for seat distribution. Additionally, the use of the D'Hondt method might result in an effective threshold over three percent, depending on the district magnitude. Seats were allocated to constituencies, corresponding to the provinces of Spain. Each constituency was entitled to an initial minimum of two seats, with the remaining 248 fixed among the constituencies in proportion to their populations, at a rate of approximately one seat per each 144,500 inhabitants or fraction greater than 70,000. Ceuta and Melilla were allocated the two remaining seats, which were elected using plurality voting.\n\nFor the Senate, 208 seats were elected using an open list partial block voting, with electors voting for individual candidates instead of parties. In constituencies electing four seats, electors could vote for up to three candidates; in those with two or three seats, for up to two candidates; and for one candidate in single-member districts. Each of the 47 peninsular provinces was allocated four seats, whereas for insular provinces, such as the Balearic and Canary Islands, districts were the islands themselves, with the larger—Majorca, Gran Canaria and Tenerife—being allocated three seats each, and the smaller—Menorca, Ibiza–Formentera, Fuerteventura, La Gomera, El Hierro, Lanzarote and La Palma—one each. Ceuta and Melilla elected two seats each. The law also provided for by-elections to fill seats vacated up to two years into the legislature. Additionally, autonomous communities could appoint at least one senator each and were entitled to one additional senator per each million inhabitants.\n\nThe electoral law provided that parties, federations, coalitions and groupings of electors were allowed to present lists of candidates. However, groupings of electors were required to secure the signature of at least 0.1 percent of the electors registered in the constituency for which they sought election—needing to secure, in any case, the signature of 500 electors—. Electors were barred from signing for more than one list of candidates. Concurrently, parties and federations intending to enter in coalition to take part jointly at an election were required to inform the relevant Electoral Commission within fifteen days of the election being called.\n\nThe term of the Cortes elected in the 1977 election was not to be continued beyond 15 June 1981 in the event they were not dissolved earlier. An election was required to be held within from thirty to sixty days after the date of expiry of the Cortes Generales, setting the latest possible election date for the Cortes Generales on Friday, 14 August 1981.\n\nThe Prime Minister had the prerogative to dissolve both Houses at any given time—either jointly or separately—and call a snap election, provided that no motion of no confidence was in process, no state of emergency was in force and that dissolution did not occur before one year had elapsed since the previous one. Additionally, both Houses were to be dissolved and a new election called if an investiture process failed to elect a Prime Minister within a two-month period from the first ballot.\n\nBelow is a list of the main parties and coalitions which contested the election:\n\nThe table below lists voting intention estimates in reverse chronological order, showing the most recent first and using the dates when the survey fieldwork was done, as opposed to the date of publication. Where the fieldwork dates are unknown, the date of publication is given instead. The highest percentage figure in each polling survey is displayed with its background shaded in the leading party's colour. If a tie ensues, this is applied to the figures with the highest percentages. The \"Lead\" column on the right shows the percentage-point difference between the parties with the highest percentages in a given poll. When available, seat projections are also displayed below the voting estimates in a smaller font. 176 seats were required for an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies.\n\nThe table below lists raw, unweighted voting preferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108379", "title": "NAF (non-profit organization)", "text": "NAF (non-profit organization)\n\nNAF (formerly known as National Academy Foundation) is an educational non-profit organization. The mission of NAF is to solve some of the biggest challenges facing education and the economy by bringing education, business, and community leaders together to transform the high school experience. NAF's educational design ignites students' passion for learning and gives businesses the opportunity to shape America's future workforce by transforming the learning environment to include STEM infused industry-specific curricula and work-based learning experiences, including internships. Since 1980, NAF has been partnering with existing high schools in high-need communities to enhance school systems at a low cost by implementing NAF academies – small learning communities within traditional high schools.\n\nNAF was created by philanthropist Sanford I. Weill. His proposal was accepted by the New York City Board of Education to open the first Academy of Finance in a Brooklyn public high school, John Dewey High School, in 1980. The program was designed specifically to address the disconnect between the need for skilled workforce talent and the lack of opportunity for young people in New York City.\n\nAs Weill explained in his testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee:\n\nIn 1987, NAF's Hospitality and Tourism theme was launched with the opening of two pilot Academies, one in Miami, Florida and another in Richmond Hill, New York, with support from the American Express Foundation.\n\nIn 2000 NAF piloted a third theme, opening Academies of Information Technology in 12 high schools across the country with support from Lucent, AT&T Corporation, United Technologies, GTE/Verizon, Oracle, Computer Associates and Compaq.\n\nIn 2002, the first set of Career Academies outside the US were set up in the United Kingdom by Career Academies UK, affiliated with NAF.\n\nIn 2007 NAF launched its fourth academy theme, the Academy of Engineering as a collaboration between NAF, Project Lead The Way (PLTW), and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc. (NACME) to provide underrepresented students with the knowledge and skills needed to succeed in STEM careers.\n\nThe latest theme launched in 2011–2012, the Academy of Health Sciences is already making an impact in preparing young people for health careers.\n\nAs of the 2019–2020 school year, NAF serves 112,208 students in 37 states, in addition to the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. NAF supports a national network of 620 academies:\n\n\"College prep plus\" aptly describes the career academies of the NAF. NAF sponsors these differing institutions of learning to encourage and facilitate both preparation for college and technical training in a career path.\n\nNAF academies can be characterized as 'schools within schools' and serving a small community of students for two or more years. Normally these academies are run and taught by the same teachers for a number of semesters. During that time a number of different components come together to prepare students for both a potential career and going onto college. The teachers of the academies generally are skilled in both academic and the technical knowledge of the field in which the academy is focused. They meet often to coordinate the curriculum, take care of administrative details and are involved outside the classroom with local businesses and sponsors.\nSummer internships of about six to eight weeks are centerpieces of the academy programs and usually pay the students for their work. During the internship the students spend some time training and often report to a school staff supervisor and sometimes have a workplace mentor. Seniors in the program combine work-based learning with corresponding curricular activities to learn more about the industry, job, \"explore careers, plan for college, and develop their social and interpersonal skills.\"\n\nThere have been significant reports and statistics on the outcome of students from these Career Academies. Milton Chen, author of \"Education Nation\" and former executive director for the George Lucas Educational Foundation, sums up the most recent reports:\n\n\nCurrently NAF focuses on five career themes: Finance, Hospitality & Tourism, Information Technology, Engineering, and Health Sciences. These themes are carried out by teachers supported by NAF professional development, training, technical support and curriculum. NAF academies usually run throughout the high school experience to better prepare students for college and/or a career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108382", "title": "July 10 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 10 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 9 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 11\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on July 23 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 10th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on June 27.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2108407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108407", "title": "Multi-photon microscopy", "text": "Multi-photon microscopy\n\nMulti-photon microscopy (also spelled multiphoton microscopy) may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2108409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108409", "title": "African dance", "text": "African dance\n\nAfrican dance refers mainly to the dance of Sub-Saharan Africa, and more appropriately African dances because of the many cultural differences in musical and movement styles. These dances must be viewed in close connection with Sub-Saharan African music traditions and Bantu cultivation of rhythm. African dance utilizes the concept of as well as total body articulation.\n\nDances teach social patterns and values and help people work, mature, praise or criticize members of the community while celebrating festivals and funerals, competing, reciting history, proverbs and poetry; and to encounter gods. African dances are largely participatory, with spectators being part of the performance. With the exception of some spiritual, religious or initiation dances, there are traditionally no barriers between dancers and onlookers. Even ritual dances often have a time when spectators participate.\n\nTraditional dance in Africa occurs collectively, expressing the life of the community more than that of individuals or couples. Early commentators consistently commented on the absence of close couple dancing: such dancing was thought immoral in many traditional African societies. In all sub-Saharan African dance, there seems to be no evidence for sustained, one-to-one male-female partnering anywhere before the late colonial era when it was apparently considered in distinctly poor taste. For the Yoruba, to give a specific example, touching while dancing is not common except in special circumstances. The only partner dance associated with African dances would be the Bottle Dance of the Mankon People in the Northwest Region of Cameroon or the Assiko from the Douala people that involve an interaction of Man and Woman and the way that they charm each other.\n\nEmphasizing individual talent, Yoruba dancers and drummers, balss example, express communal desires, values, and collective creativity. Dances are usually segregated by sex, where gender roles in children and other community structures such as: kinship, age, and political status are often reinforced. Many dances are performed by only males or females, which is in part due to many dances having developed in association with occupational activities, and beliefs in gender roles and gender expressions. Dances celebrate the passage from childhood to adulthood or spiritual worship. Young girls of the Lunda of Zambia spend months practicing in seclusion for their coming of age ritual. Boys show off their stamina in highly energetic dances, providing a means of judging physical health.\n\nMaster dancers and drummers instruct children to learn dances exactly as taught without variation. Improvisation or a new variation comes only after one has mastered the dance, performed, and has received the appreciation of spectators and the sanction of village elders. \"Musical training\" in African societies begins at birth with cradle songs, and continues on the backs of relatives both at work and at festivals and other social events. Throughout western and central Africa child's play typically includes games that develop skills in understanding rhythms. Bodwich, an early European observer, observed that the musicians' maintained strict time (i.e. concern for the basic pulse or beat), noting that \" children will move their heads and limbs, while on their mother's backs, in exact unison with the tune which is playing.\" The sounding of three beats against two, known as a polyrhythm, is experienced in everyday life and helps develop a two-dimensional attitude to rhythm.\n\nThe most widely used musical instrument in Africa is the human voice. Nomadic groups such as the Maasai do not traditionally use drums. In an African community, coming together in response to the beating of the drum is an opportunity to give one another a sense of belonging and of solidarity, a time to connect with each other and be part of a collective rhythm of the life in which young and old, rich and poor, men and women are all invited to contribute to the society.\n\nShoulders, chest, pelvis, arms, legs etc., may move with different rhythms in the music. Dancers in Nigeria commonly combine at least two rhythms in their movement, and the blending of three rhythms can be seen among highly skilled dancers. Articulation of as many as four distinct rhythms is rare. They may also add rhythmic components independent of those in the music. Very complex movements are possible even though the body does not move through space. Dancers are able to switch back and forth between rhythms without missing movements.\n\nThe drumming represents an underlying linguistic text that guides the dancing performance, with most emotional meaning being derived from the actions and metalanguage of the dancer's performance. While the spontaneity of the dancer's performance creates an impression of improvisation, it is a rather strenuously rehearsed technique. The use of this style of dance is not to emphasize the individual's experience, but instead to mediate the interaction between the audience and the drummers performance.\n\nDifferent parts of the body are emphasized by different groups. The upper body is emphasized by the Anlo-Ewe and Lobi of Ghana. Subtle accent of the hips is characteristic of the Kalabari of Nigeria. In Agbor, strong contraction-release movements of the pelvis and upper torso characterize both male and female dancing. The Akan of Ghana use the feet and hands in specific ways.\n\n\n\n\"Listed in alphabetical order\"\n"}
{"id": "2108410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108410", "title": "Diever", "text": "Diever\n\nDiever is a village in the Dutch province of Drenthe. It is a part of the municipality of Westerveld, and lies about 18 km northwest of Hoogeveen.\n\nDiever is located near the Drentse Hoofdvaart, a major north–south route for pleasure boats in the province of Drenthe. Diever lies next to the Drents-Friese Wold, one of the major national parks in the Netherlands, and a major attraction for tourists. In the centre of Diever there is the brink, a square with old buildings surrounding it. The Dutch Reformed Saint Pancratius-church is a 15th-century building, and considered one of the most beautiful churches of Drenthe.\n\nDiever was a separate municipality until 1998, when the new municipality of Westerveld was created.\n\nIn 2001, the town of Diever had 1941 inhabitants. The built-up area of the town was 0.80 km², and had 810 residences.\nThe statistical area \"Diever\", which can also include the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 2580.\n\nIn July and August the local people of Diever perform in dramas written by William Shakespeare. Diever is also known as \"Shakespeare-town\". The plays are being performed in an open-air theater and are famous in the Netherlands. Even in Stratford-upon-Avon people apparently know that the local people of Diever perform in Shakespeare's plays. The local amateur theater group was formed in 1946 by a local medical doctor, Mr. Derp Broekema. Thus in 2006 we celebrated the 60th anniversary of this annual event with the performance of Henry IV.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108431", "title": "Affré", "text": "Affré\n\nAffré or Affre is a French surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
