{"id": "2170018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170018", "title": "Old North Bridge", "text": "Old North Bridge\n\nThe North Bridge, often colloquially called the Old North Bridge, is a historic site in Concord, Massachusetts spanning the Concord River. On April 19, 1775, the first day of the American Revolutionary War, provincial minutemen and militia companies numbering approximately 400 engaged roughly 90 British Army troops at this location. The battle was the first instance in which American forces advanced in formation on the British regulars, inflicted casualties, and routed their opponents. It was a pivotal moment in the Battles of Lexington and Concord and in American history. The significance of the historic events at the North Bridge inspired Ralph Waldo Emerson to refer to the moment as the \"shot heard round the world.\"\n\nThere were at least eight iterations of the North Bridge constructed over four centuries. The current wooden pedestrian bridge, an approximate replica of the bridge that stood at the time of the battle, was built in 1956 and extensively restored in 2005. The bridge and the surrounding 114 acres of land make up what is known as the North Bridge unit of the Minute Man National Historical Park and is managed by the National Park Service. It is a popular tourist destination.\n\nThe Town of Concord was settled in 1635. Over the next two decades, colonial settlers established farms in the north quarter of the town. Many of these farms lay on the opposite side of the Concord River from the town center. To facilitate travel from their farms to the town, north quarter land owners built a bridge over the Concord River at or near this location by the early 1650s. The first mention of a bridge at this location appears in town records in 1654. The farm road crossing the bridge was later improved and came to be known as the Groton Road.\n\nSpring flooding of the river and deterioration required the replacement of the bridge approximately every 20 to 30 years. Colonial records suggest that the bridge was likely replaced in 1660, again around 1683, again around 1710, and again in 1731. In 1760, the town constructed a new bridge at this site. This version was the one that was present during the Concord Fight on April 19, 1775.\n\nThe engagement which took place at the North Bridge has historically been known as the \"Concord Fight\" and was a part of the larger Battles of Lexington and Concord. On April 18, 1775, General Thomas Gage, the military Governor of Massachusetts, dispatched a force of roughly 700 British soldiers from Boston to confiscate or destroy military supplies being stockpiled in Concord by the rebellious Massachusetts Provincial Congress. On their way to Concord, this force encountered a small group of militia on Lexington Green. After a brief skirmish there, the British soldiers marched on to Concord. Soon after reaching the town, Lieutenant Colonel Francis Smith sent six companies across the North Bridge to search provincial Colonel Colonel James Barrett's farm for munitions. Three of these companies went on to Barrett's farm while three, totaling roughly 90 men, held the North Bridge. These were the British light infantry companies from the 4th, 10th, and 43rd Regiments of Foot under Captain Walter Laurie. These companies initially held positions on the western side of the bridge but when the provincials advanced, they crossed the bridge and took up a position on the eastern bank.\n\nAt about 10:30, the provincials advanced in military order with the intention of taking the bridge and moving on to the center of town to prevent the British from burning the village. As they advanced the British fired a few warning shots followed by a full volley. Several provincials were killed or wounded in this first round of firing. Seeing these casualties, Major John Buttrick of Concord, in command of the provincial column, commanded, \"Fire, fellow soldiers, for God's sake fire!\" and the provincials returned fire, causing the British to immediately retreat back to Concord. Three British soldiers were killed and nine wounded. On the provincial side two were killed and four wounded.\n\nThis first instance of Americans fighting in military order and firing to deadly effect on British troops was a key turning point in the Battles of Lexington and Concord. It precipitated the British retreat back to Boston and is regarded as one of the most significant events in American history.\n\nIn 1788, a new bridge was constructed to replace the 1760 structure which had been in place during the battle. As with prior iterations, those with farms adjacent to the bridge paid for the replacement. In 1788 these included Captain David Brown, Lieutenant Elisha Jones, and Colonel John Buttrick, all of whom had fought at the North Bridge in 1775. In 1793, Concord constructed a new bridge several hundred yards downriver of the North Bridge, making the latter obsolete. The road was diverted to the new bridge and the old road over the North Bridge was abandoned by the town. That same year, the town authorized Elisha Jones to tear down the North Bridge. For the next 82 years, no bridge stood at the site.\n\nIn 1874, as plans developed for the celebration of the centennial of the battle, the Town of Concord appointed a committee to oversee the placement of a monument on the west side of the river where the first minutemen died in combat. They were also charged with rebuilding the North Bridge. The new structure would not be open to traffic but instead would serve strictly as part of the larger memorial, providing access to the new statue and demonstrating to visitors what the area looked like on the first day of the Revolution. The centennial version of the North Bridge, constructed in 1874, has been described as \"whimsical\" and overly rustic, representing a Victorian era interpretation of what a colonial bridge looked like. The architect was William Ralph Emerson, cousin to Ralph Waldo Emerson, Concord's famed writer and transcendentalist. The most unusual features of the Centennial Bridge were its two pavilions or covered arbors protruding from either side of the center of the bridge covered with interwoven twigs, reminiscent of a Polynesian style.\n\nThe Centennial Bridge was washed away during the spring freshet of 1888. It was replaced by a more austere bridge that same year. William R. Emerson also designed this bridge but left out the unusual decorative flourishes of his Centennial Bridge. Despite attempts to make the 1888 bridge stronger with large oak pilings and cross beams, it too was washed out by spring floods in 1909. The bridge was replaced by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1909. The architect was Joseph R. Worcester. The bridge had the appearance of historical accuracy in that it closely resembled the bridge as depicted by Doolittle, however many disliked it due to the fact that it was made of concrete.\n\nIn 1955 the 1909 concrete bridge was damaged beyond repair by flooding due to Hurricane Diane. This took place as the town was considering numerous landscape architectural plans to better preserve the monuments at the site and the surrounding grounds. Concord residents mounted protests, urging that the new commemorative bridge should be made of wood and not concrete. Massachusetts politicians including Massachusetts Commissioner of Public Works and future Governor John Volpe and the current Governor Christian Herter pressed for funding from Congress but this failed to pass. In 1956 the Commonwealth of Massachusetts undertook construction of a new bridge. \n\nThe state engaged the architectural firm of Whitman and Howard to design the new bridge. Working for that firm, architect Howard Perkins was responsible for drafting the plans. Perkins closely examined the Doolittle drawing and came up with an interpretation based on the 1760 bridge. His design featured, according to architectural conservator Judith Q. Sullivan, \"an arched pile bent bridge consisting of six bents of three piles each.\" Perkins omitted some features evident in the Doolittle design and incorporated others not present for the sake of stability. The most prominent of these added features are the pile header beams which extend on either side of the bridge platform and the cross braces connected to them. These provide strength but also allow flexibility during floods The 1956 bridge used pressure treated wood but incorporated hand hewn timbers for an authentic appearance. The bridge is 109 feet and 8 inches long between abutments. Construction was completed in September 1956 and dedicated on September 29, 1956 by Governor Herter.\n\nIn 1959, the bridge and surrounding land became part of the Minute Man National Historical Park. When the park was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1966, the bridge was listed as \"a contributing structure which illustrates the continuing commemorative importance of the place.\" In 2002, an engineering conditions assessment of the bridge was conducted and found significant deterioration. After further preservation studies, Minute Man National Historical Park embarked on an extensive restoration of the bridge in 2005.\n\nIn 1835, when there was no bridge at the site, Rev. Ezra Ripley, who resided nearby at the Old Manse, donated a narrow parcel of land to the town. This parcel would allow public access from Monument Street to the proposed site of a monument on the east bank where the Old North Bridge had stood. The parcel included a section of the old Groton Road which once led to the bridge as well as the grave sites of two British soldiers who were killed in the fight and buried nearby the bridge. The town of Concord erected the 1836 Battle Monument (as it is now known) with funds donated by the Bunker Hill Monument Association. The obelisk was designed by Solomon Willard and placed on the land donated by Ripley, near where the east abutment of the bridge had been. The inscription on the monument reads, \"HERE On the 19 of April, 1775, was made the first forcible resistance to British aggression / On the opposite Bank stood the American Militia / Here stood the Invading Army and on this spot the first of the Enemy fell in the War of that Revolution which gave Independence to these United States / In gratitude to GOD and In the love of Freedom this Monument was erected AD. 1836.\"\n\nConcord dedicated the monument on Independence Day, July 4, 1837. Congressman Samuel Hoar gave the dedication address. For the occasion, Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote his \"Concord Hymn\" which was sung by a chorus at the dedication. The first, and best known, of the four stanzas of this poem is:\n\n<poem>::By the rude bridge that arched the flood,\n\nThis stanza was later etched into the pedestal of the 1875 \"Minute Man\" statue.\n\nThe location of the 1836 Battle Monument did not sit well with some in Concord. Because there was no longer a bridge, the obelisk had been placed on the eastern bank where the British had stood during the Concord Fight. A Concord farmer named Ebenezer Hubbard was particularly annoyed that the spot where the first Americans had lost their lives during the Concord Fight remained unmarked. Upon his death in 1870, he left the Town of Concord $1,000 to place a monument on the west side of the Concord River and to reconstruct the Old North Bridge to provide access to it. The residents of Concord pressed to finish both the new bridge and monument in time for the centennial celebration in 1875.\n\nDaniel Chester French, then 21 years old, was engaged by the Monument Committee to sculpt a statue representing a minuteman. Although commissioned to sculpt a generic provincial soldier, French was inspired by the story of Capt. Isaac Davis of Acton, Massachusetts. Davis commanded the company which led the advance on the Old North Bridge. He was among the first killed and the first American officer killed in action during the Revolution. French attempted to model the facial features of his statue after photographs of Isaac Davis's descendants.\n\nThe statue was cast from melted down Civil War cannons at the Ames Foundry. It was French's first public work and was well received. French is best known for his 1920 statue, \"Abraham Lincoln\", in the Lincoln Memorial. \"The Minute Man\" has been used as the symbol of the United States National Guard and on coins such as the Massachusetts state quarter.\n\nThree British soldiers were killed during the Concord Fight. They were Privates James Hall, Thomas Smith and Patrick Gray, all of the 4th Regiment of Foot. One of these men was carried to Concord center, died and was buried there. Two others died at the bridge and were buried adjacent to a stone wall forming the boundary of the Old Manse property. It is not known which of the three are buried at the Old North Bridge site. Initially, their graves were simply marked by two plain stones. Nathaniel Hawthorne, who resided at the Old Manse for a time, called these a \"humbler...yet more interesting\" token of the Concord Fight than the 1836 Battle Monument.\n\nIn 1875, a granite slab simply inscribed, \"Grave of the British Soldiers\" was installed in time for the centennial. In 1910 residents of Concord placed a more substantial granite marker inscribed with a stanza from James Russell Lowell's 1849 poem, \"Lines, Suggested By the Graves of Two English Soldiers On Concord Battle-Ground:\"\n\n<poem>::They came three thousand miles and died\n\nOn the 200th anniversary of the battle, President Gerald Ford gave a speech at the bridge as part of the United States Bicentennial celebrations. A crowd of over 15,000 people attended the exercises.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170019", "title": "Matthew 4:21", "text": "Matthew 4:21\n\nMatthew 4:21 is the twenty-first verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. Jesus has just recruited Simon Peter and Andrew as disciples. In this verse he encounters the brothers James and John.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see Biblehub Matthew 4:21\n\nThis verse introduces two more of Jesus' disciples, James and John. They are the last disciples introduced in the Gospel other than Matthew himself in . This verse is very similar to , with the major difference being that Matthew makes clear that Zebedee was in the ship with his sons. Like Simon and Andrew, James and John are fishers see for a discussion of fishing on the Sea of Galilee. Luke's very different description of the calling of the disciples notes that James and John were partners with Simon and Andrew, the Gospel of Matthew never mentions any link between the two pairs.\n\nRepairing nets was an important part of fishing at the time. McNamer notes that the general practice was to spread the nets on shore to mend them, repairing the nets on ship was something only done in an emergency. Albright and Mann see much importance in the use of the word \"mending\", a term that appears eight times in the New Testament. They feel that the act of restoring and making perfect may symbolically represent the mission of the disciples. Nolland notes that \"mending\" might not be the full meaning of the word, and that it could instead refer simply to gathering the nets and preparing them for use.\n"}
{"id": "2170026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170026", "title": "Tinkoff (cycling team)", "text": "Tinkoff (cycling team)\n\nTinkoff () was a Russian-registered professional cycling team from Russia. It competed in the UCI World Tour. The team was owned by Russian Oleg Tinkov and, from 1999 until March 2015, was managed by former Tour de France winner Bjarne Riis. The team was sponsored by the Russian Tinkoff Bank, a credit systems company.\n\nFounded in 1998 as home-Jack & Jones, the team started in cycling's second division. In 2000 it moved into the top division, now known as the UCI World Tour. Since 2000, under differing sponsor names (Memory Card-Jack & Jones and CSC-Tiscali), the team rode the Tour de France. It has won the overall classification in all three of the Grand Tours. In the 2008 Tour de France, Carlos Sastre won the general classification, Andy Schleck won the young rider classification, and the team won the overall team classification, and Ivan Basso won the 2006 Giro d'Italia, as well as finishing third and second in the 2004 and 2005 Tour de France. In addition, the team has won many major classics, including 6 Monuments.\n\nThe team won the UCI ProTour's team classification each year from 2005 through 2007, and the team classification in the 2010 UCI World Ranking.\n\nIn March 2015 the team confirmed that Riis had been removed from active duty due to differences between Riis and Tinkov. Media reports had initially indicated that Riis had been suspended when he did not appear at the 2015 Milan–San Remo as planned, and that this was due to a disappointing start to the season for the team. His departure from the team was officially announced on 29 March.\n\nWhen Bjarne Riis took over in winter 2000, he hired the former Danish Ranger Corps soldier B.S. Christiansen as advisor and they gave CSC a distinct philosophy and training methods. The team works with four values: communication, loyalty, commitment and respect, with the aim of improving teamwork. The team rides for the rider in the best shape on the day, and separates the function of team captain (the rider making decisions) and team leader (the rider trying to win) to avoid pressure on a single rider.\n\nThe team staff go on yearly outdoor education trips, physical challenges under pressure. According to B.S. Christiansen, the camps teach people \"that they can achieve their goals by cooperating. They have to perform their very best under the worst possible circumstances, where every action has a consequence\". Bobby Julich, one of the riders, said that \"those days in the bush bonded us much closer and given [sic] us the strategies to work as a team in any racing situation\".\n\nThe company behind the team, initially named Professional Cycling Denmark, was created in autumn 1996 by former amateur cycling world champion Alex Pedersen, Finn Poulsen (representing Bestseller), Torben Kølbæk and Johannes Poulsen (from Herning CK), and Bjarne Riis (then a Team Telekom rider). The team was built on the team license of Danish amateur team Herning CK, with headquarters in Herning, Denmark, with the goal of being picked for the 2000 Tour de France.\n\nThe team was assembled for 1998 with Alex Pedersen and Torben Kølbæk as sports directors. The team started with 11 riders, a mix of first-time professionals with Danish veterans Brian Holm and Jesper Skibby who had competed in the Tour de France several times, Skibby having won stage 5 in 1993. The main sponsors were a Danish real estate agency (home a/s), and a clothes manufacturer (Jack & Jones, a brand owned by Bestseller) and the budget was around €1,000,000 for 1998, including secondary sponsors. The team rode its first season in 2nd Division races, and during the first month both Christian Andersen and Jesper Skibby had minor wins. Holm quit the team in April 1998.\n\nThe doping scandal in the 1998 Tour de France didn't affect the team directly, but Riis, who was part of the peloton in the Tour de France, was branded a doping cheat in the Danish media in early 1999. He sold his stock in Professional Cycling Denmark.\n\nThe team finished 32nd best of 1998, and with an increased budget of €2,400,000 combined, the number of riders was increased to 14, with riders of a higher standard. In terms of races won, 1999 was the most successful season until 2005: with 26 UCI victories the team was promoted to the 1st Division. In September 1999 Belgian rider Marc Streel was tested with a hematocrit level of 53.4, a value above 50 being an indicator of EPO doping, and he was fired Home stopped sponsoring the team from the end of the season, citing doping.\n\nFor 2000, Memory Card A/S, a Danish producer of memory cards, stepped in as co-sponsor and Danish cyclist Bo Hamburger was brought in as captain. The 2000 season did not have as many wins as in 1999 but the calibre was higher and the team took part in the 2000 Tour de France.\n\nIn April 2000 Nicolai Bo Larsen was tested with a 51 hematocrit level, but wasn't fired, as he had been tested with a 47 level the day before. The morning after his result of 51, he again tested 47%. However, the apparent double standards harmed its image in Denmark and Jack & Jones did not prolong sponsorship, despite Bo Larsen's later being acquitted of doping by a medical report.\n\nIn fall 2000, Riis took over Professional Cycling Denmark and the team. After 2000 the contract with Jack & Jones expired, and Riis did not continue working with Memory Card due to their financial difficulties.\n\nCSC (Computer Sciences Corporation) and the European Internet provider World Online took over as sponsors in a combined sponsorship of €4,500,000. World Online was bought by the Italian telecom giant Tiscali and the team changed on 1 July 2001 to CSC-Tiscali.\n\nIn April 2001, Bo Hamburger tested positive with a newly developed method which distinguished natural EPO from synthetic EPO used in doping by determining the percentage of basic EPO. The first test showed 82.3 which was above the maximum of 80 imposed by the UCI, but as his secondary tests showed both 82.4 and 78.6 he was cleared by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) in 2002. Bo Hamburger was released from his contract with CSC-Tiscali in September 2001.\n\nThe team gained international prominence after signing Laurent Jalabert before 2001, following his many years with the Spanish ONCE team of Manolo Saiz. Jalabert said that, \"I wanted to retire with a French team, but nobody gave me a good offer, so I went with CSC instead\". At the time, CSC was sponsored by the French bike manufacturer Look, which is associated with Jalabert. The team also signed American Tyler Hamilton, formerly of U.S. Postal. The 2001 season was a breakthrough with Jalabert's win of the King of the Mountains competition and a stage on Bastille Day at the Tour de France. The season ended with Jalabert winning the 2001 Clásica de San Sebastián.\n\nIn 2002 Hamilton came second in the Giro d'Italia despite a broken scapula. The team also nearly won the team time trial at the 2002 Tour de France, thwarted by a flat tire. Jalabert again won the King of the Mountains and repeated his victory at the Clásica de San Sebastián. He retired at the end of the season.\n\nIn 2003, Riis changed Professional Cycling Denmark to Riis Cycling. Tiscali ceased sponsorship, and Riis Cycling was unable to find a new co-sponsor, hence the team changed CSC-Tiscali to Team CSC and continued 2003 on a reduced budget. The headquarters moved from Herning to the headquarters of one of the sponsors, the Danish insurance company Alm. Brand in Lyngby, a Copenhagen suburb.\n\nHamilton stepped up to be the team leader in 2003, with the goal of winning the Tour de France. He won Liège–Bastogne–Liège and was in form when he broke his collarbone in a pile-up on stage 1 of the Tour. He lost a lot of time. He made it up by winning a stage and finishing fourth, while his teammates Carlos Sastre and Jakob Piil also won stages.\n\nIn 2004 Hamilton switched to the Swiss team, Phonak, citing lack of support from Riis. The team brought on Ivan Basso from Fassa Bortolo to join Carlos Sastre in competing for Grand Tour wins. Basso had been a former winner of the maillot blanc in 2002. In the 2004 Tour de France, Team CSC had a very successful Tour, with Basso winning a mountain stage and reaching the podium in Paris with his third place finish. Bjarn Riis and Team CSCs efforts in the 2004 Tour were made into the cycling movie \"Overcoming\".\nFollowing an off-season marred by financial difficulties that resulted in wage cuts for a number of riders, the 2005 spring season was the strongest yet for CSC, with wins by Julich and Jens Voigt. Julich's victory in Paris–Nice made him the first rider to wear the leader's jersey in the new UCI ProTour. This was followed by three team stage wins in the Giro d'Italia, one by David Zabriskie and two by Basso, though the overall victory escaped from Basso when he was beset by a stomach ailment.\n\nMidway through the 2005 Tour de France, CSC extended sponsorship until 2008 at a higher level, enabling Riis to renew the contract with Basso for an additional three years. Basso got second place in the tour and Zabriskie won in the prologue. Julich won the Eneco Tour and Carlos Sastre came second. Nicki Sørensen won a stage of the Vuelta a España. Team CSC won the 2005 ProTour, with Julich as the #8 ranked individual rider of the year, the highest placed rider in the team.\n\nUntil 2009, the team used Cervélo bikes and Shimano components. The arrangement with the small Canadian manufacturer worked well for CSC, as Cervélo's strength is time-trials, at which CSC has specialists.\n\nIn 2006, with sponsorship for several years, the focus was to win all three Grand Tours, with Ivan Basso riding both Giro d'Italia and the Tour de France, and Carlos Sastre the Vuelta a España. They had come second in the 2005 in the Tour and Vuelta, respectively. The team had several time trialists, including Zabriskie, who had won time trials at the Giro and the Tour, Julich, as well as Fabian Cancellara. Others included Jens Voigt and Stuart O'Grady from Australia, the only sprinter name in the team.\n\nThe first victory of the 2006 UCI ProTour season was in the prologue of Paris–Nice by Julich. The spring was plagued with injuries hitting a third of the team, most notably O'Grady. Cancellara won the time trial at Tirreno–Adriatico and then Paris–Roubaix. Fränk Schleck won the Amstel Gold Race a week later.\n\nTeam CSC surprised by announcing that Sastre would ride the Giro as helper for Basso, that he would ride all three Grand Tours. 2005's winner Paolo Savoldelli was strongest in the first stages, and Jan Ullrich took a surprise win in the time trial ahead of Basso, but Basso dominated with three wins on mountain finishes and in the team time trial. Basso won by <nowiki>9'18\"</nowiki>.\n\nOn 30 June 2006, the Tour de France announced that Basso would not ride the 2006 Tour after apparent involvement in the Operación Puerto doping scandal. Sastre took over as captain and was the strongest in the favorite group on the last mountain stages, but a poor last time trial placed him fourth overall. The team scored two stage wins, the most impressive Fränk Schleck's win on Alpe d'Huez. Voigt had already won a flat stage after a long break.\n\nThe autumn was dominated by the Basso's involvement in Operación Puerto. His contract was cancelled by mutual consent, and the case against Basso was eventually dropped by the Federazione Ciclistica Italiana for lack of evidence, but without him authorizing a DNA test that could have cleared him conclusively. Basso adamantly denied being involved. (On 7 May 2007 Basso admitted involvement in Operación Puerto). Team CSC have since started an ambitious anti-doping program together with the Danish anti-doping expert Rasmus Damsgaard. Meanwhile, on the road, Voigt dominated the Deutschland Tour, winning overall and three stages, including a mountain finish and a time trial. Sastre came fourth in the Vuelta after starting in the lead when CSC won the initial team time trial. It was Sastre's fifth Grand Tour in a row.\n\nNew rider Juan José Haedo gave the team a good start by winning early minor races. The classics season was a success by having O'Grady win Paris–Roubaix. Voigt managed to defend his victory in Tour of Germany. CSC won the UCI ProTour team competition for the third year in a row.\n\nSastre had a team dedicated to him for the Vuelta, while the team for the Tour was support riders and riders who could make individual results. This left the Giro without a clear rider for the general classification. Instead a youthful team was chosen, with the hope that Andy Schleck might win the youth competition. He won the youth competition and came second overall .\n\nFor the Tour, Cancellara followed up a strong showing in the Tour de Suisse with two stage wins and seven days in the yellow jersey. But doping returned when the race hit the mountains. Alexander Vinokourov tested positive and leader Michael Rasmussen was withdrawn by his team for \"internal code violations\". Sastre finished fourth.\n\nFor the Vuelta, Sastre again lost time in time trials, especially the first, but climbed to second place.\n\nBecause of the team's link to drug use (Riis admitted doping, and Basso was suspended until 2008), MAN Trucks dropped co-sponsorship midway through 2007.\n\nCSC announced that they would not renew the contract in spring 2008, meaning Riis Cycling A/S would need a new main sponsor from 2009. Mid-June, Riis Cycling A/S announced that Saxo Bank had entered a three-year contract as name sponsor, with immediate effect, so the team entered the 2008 Tour de France as Team CSC Saxo Bank. Carlos Sastre, having taken a lead of about two minutes on the final climb of L'Alpe D'Huez, won the Tour, and the team took the team classification.\n\nIt was announced 28 September 2008 that for 2009, IT Factory would be co-sponsor. However, the company went into receivership some two months thereafter. The team also began riding Specialized bicycles for the 2009 season.\n\nAlthough Saxo Bank had previously announced that 2010 would be the last year they would sponsor the team along with SunGard as secondary sponsor. The 2011 name for the team was announced in August 2010 as Team Saxo Bank-SunGard, and the signing of 2 time Tour de France champion Alberto Contador on a two-year contract was also revealed. On 29 July 2010, Andy Schleck and his brother Fränk announced their departure from the team effective from the start of the 2011 season.\n\nOn 16 November 2011 it was announced that SunGard would no longer be a title sponsor after 2011.\n\nOn 25 June 2012 it was announced that the Russian Tinkoff Bank would join the team as co-sponsors for the rest of the 2012 season and through to the end of 2013. Saxo Bank also renewed their sponsorship through 2013, with the team's name thus becoming Team Saxo Bank-Tinkoff Bank.\n\nAlberto Contador returned from his doping suspension and won the General classification of the 2012 Vuelta a España This marked the first overall Grand Tour win since Andy Schleck's retroactive victory of the 2010 Tour de France.\n\nFollowing the 2013 season Oleg Tinkov purchased the team from manager Bjarne Riis with the team renamed Tinkoff-Saxo.\n\nIn March, the team announced the signing of Colombian rider Edward Beltran on a 2 year contract, Beltran was promoted from Tinkoff-Saxo's affiliate amateur team, Nankang–Fondriest,\n\nFor the 2015 season the team announced the major signing of Peter Sagan on a three year contract, as well as: Pavel Brutt, Ivan Basso. and Robert Kiserlovski.\n\nIn March 2015 the team confirmed that Riis had been removed from active duty due to differences between Riis and Tinkov. Media reports had initially indicated that Riis had been suspended when he did not appear at the 2015 Milan–San Remo as planned, and that this was due to a disappointing start to the season for the team. Later that month it was announced that Riis' contract had been terminated with the agreement of both parties. Subsequently the team revealed its new management structure, with Riis' former duties being carried out by new general manager Stefano Feltrin and Steven de Jongh, who was promoted to the role of head sport director.\n\nIn a December 2015 interview, Tinkov announced that he would sell the team at the end of the 2016 season, citing on the one hand a business decision to redirect Tinkoff Bank's marketing budget from sports sponsorship to TV advertising from 2017, and on the other a lack of support from other teams from his proposed reforms to the sport's business model.\n\nIn February 2016 Tinkov said that although he was \"happy to talk to any buyer\", he expected that the most likely outcome for the team would be its disbanding at the end of the year. However in July 2016 he said that he was planning to return to the sport after \"a few seasons off\", once Chris Froome retires from competition, with the aim of winning the Tour de France.\n\n1999\n2000\n2001\n2002\n2003\n2004\n2005\n2006\n2007\n2008\n2010\n2011\n2013\n2014\n2015\n2016\n"}
{"id": "2170030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170030", "title": "Frank Jerwa", "text": "Frank Jerwa\n\nFrank Ludwig Jerwa (March 15, 1909 – August 6, 1992) was a Canadian ice hockey player. He played 81 games for the Boston Bruins and St. Louis Eagles of the National Hockey League between 1931 and 1935, as well as several other teams in various minor leagues during his career, which lasted from 1928 to 1941.\n\nBorn in Bankhead, Alberta, Jerwa played for teams in the NHL, ASHL, S-SJHL, PCHL, Can-Am, NWHL, and the IAHL hockey leagues. Jerwa played the position of left wing for the Canmore Miners from 1926 to 1928.\n\n\nThe brother of hockey player Joe Jerwa, Frank was also a member of the \"Can-Am\" Second-All Star Team in 1936. Jerwa retired from playing hockey in 1941.\n"}
{"id": "2170031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170031", "title": "Mad Hot Ballroom", "text": "Mad Hot Ballroom\n\nMad Hot Ballroom is a 2005 American documentary film directed and co-produced by Marilyn Agrelo and written and co-produced by Amy Sewell, about a ballroom dance program in the New York City Department of Education, the New York City public school system for fifth graders. Several styles of dance are shown in the film, such as tango, foxtrot, swing, rumba and merengue.\n\nBased on a feature article written by Sewell, \"Mad Hot Ballroom\" looks inside the lives of 11-year-old New York City public school kids who journey into the world of ballroom dancing and reveal pieces of themselves along the way. Told from the students' perspectives as the children strive toward the final citywide competition, the film chronicles the experiences of students at three schools in the neighborhoods of Tribeca, Bensonhurst and Washington Heights. The students are united by an interest in the ballroom dancing lessons, which builds over a 10-week period and culminates in a competition to find the school that has produced the best dancers in the city. As the teachers cajole their students to learn the intricacies of the various disciplines, Agrelo intersperses classroom footage with the students' musings on life; many of these reveal an underlying maturity.\n\nThe documentary premiered at the 2005 Slamdance Film Festival in Park City, Utah and was purchased by Paramount Classics and Nickelodeon Movies. It had a limited theatrical release in the United States on May 13, 2005. \"Mad Hot Ballroom\" was the second highest grossing documentary in 2005 after \"March of the Penguins\". As of February7, 2012, it had earned over $8.1 million, making it the sixteenth-highest-grossing documentary film in the United States (in nominal dollars, from 1982 to the present).\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an 84% certified fresh approval rating, based on 121 reviews.\n\nAwards bestowed upon \"Mad Hot Ballroom\" include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170032", "title": "Francis Pratt", "text": "Francis Pratt\n\nFrancis Pratt may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170033", "title": "Camilo Pessanha", "text": "Camilo Pessanha\n\nCamilo Pessanha (September 7, 1867, Coimbra – March 1, 1926, Macau) was a Portuguese symbolist poet.\n\nCamilo de Almeida Pessanha was born the illegitimate son of Francisco António de Almeida Pessanha, an aristocratic law student, and Maria do Espírito Santo Duarte Nunes Pereira, his housekeeper, on September 7, 1867, at 11.00 p.m., in Sé Nova, Coimbra, Portugal. The couple would have four more children.\n\nIn 1870, after his father's graduation, the family moved to Azores, where he had been appointed public defender. In 1878 the Pessanha family was living in Lamego where young Camilo completed his basic schooling. In 1884 he finished his secondary studies and, following his father's footsteps, entered law school at the Coimbra University. A year later, he wrote his first poem, \"Lúbrica\" (Lascivious). The next several years he would write more poems and publish some of them in local newspapers. From early 1888 up to late 1889 he interrupted his studies, due to his frail health quite affected by depression over a sorrow of love.\n\nIn October 1889 he resumed his studies and began a close and lifelong friendship with António Osório de Castro, a fellow student and director of a paper where he published some his poems. Pessanha also became intimate with his friend's sister, Ana de Castro Osório, a would-be writer and pioneer feminist in Portugal. In 1890 he graduated, started working as an attorney and discovered the works of French poet Paul Verlaine, which would deeply influence him.\n\nIn August 1893, lured by the mysteries of the Orient, Pessanha applied for a position as philosophy teacher in the newly established gymnasium of Macau, then a Portuguese colony in distant China. He was appointed on December 18, along with Wenceslau de Moraes, among others. On February 19, 1894 he sailed to Macau where he docked April 10.\n\nIn 1895 he bought a Chinese concubine from a broker. Her name was Lei Ngoi Long and brought with her Ngun-Jen, her daughter. A year later, on 21 November, his son João Manuel would born. The local Portuguese conservative community was shocked by this overt relationship, but Pessanha was disdainfully indifferent to them.\n\nThroughout the years, Pessanha would return for short stays in Portugal, due to failing health. During one of his stays he would have met Fernando Pessoa, an ardent admirer of Pessanha's poetry, influencing his work between 1909-1911 - his \"Paulismo\" phase.\n\nIn spite of being thought of as an eccentric, over the years he became a central figure in the cultural, political and civic world of Macau. He was a respected teacher (of Philosophy, History, Geography, Portuguese Literature, Law), attorney and judge, and he was an adviser to the several governors of the city. In 1900 he was nominated public defender, and later judge. To pass his time, besides composing poetry, he immersed himself in the local culture, collected Chinese art and became a respected China authority in the colony.\n\nPessanha died on March 1, 1926 due to tuberculosis aggravated by his chronic opium addiction.\n\nSince the poet had the unique talent of re-writing his works from memory and had the habit of giving his poems to close friends, many of his poems had either become lost or inadvertently destroyed. To counter this, Ana de Castro Osório urged Pessanha to place his poems in a single volume. With Pessanha's blessing, João de Castro Osório published \"Clepsidra\" (1920). In the years that followed, other poems not included in \"Clepsidra\" but attributed to Pessanha appeared in the Portuguese press. \"Clepsidra\" eventually came out in a 1945 edition and was radically re-edited in 1956. Gaspar Simőes brought to light several more poems and versions of previously published poems as well as Pessanha's translations of Chinese elegies in his \"A Obra e o Homem: Camilo Pessanha\" (1967). In 1994, Paulo Franchetti authored a critical edition of \"Clepsidra\" including previously unknown fragments.\n\nAt first primarily influenced by Cesário Verde and Paul Verlaine, Pessanha became the most pure of Portuguese Symbolists. His poems greatly influenced the \"Geração de Orpheu\" from Mário de Sá-Carneiro to Fernando Pessoa.\n\nSaraiva, António José and Óscar Lopes (1993). \"História da Literatura Portuguesa.\" Oporto: Porto Editora, 17th ed. \n\n"}
{"id": "2170037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170037", "title": "Kirk Shelmerdine", "text": "Kirk Shelmerdine\n\nKirk Shelmerdine (born March 8, 1958 in Philadelphia) is a NASCAR driver and former championship-winning crew chief for Dale Earnhardt.\n\nAfter spending his early NASCAR career as an engineer for Hylton Engineering, in 1982 he joined Richard Childress Racing to become the crew chief for Dale Earnhardt. Earnhardt had 46 wins, 142 top 5 finishes, and 246 top 10 finishes with Shelmerdine en route to four championships in 1986, 1987, 1990 and 1991. The pit crew won four consecutive Pit Crew Titles over the next eight years. His accomplishments include being the youngest crew chief to win a NASCAR race, and the youngest crew chief to win a Winston Cup championship. In 1992, he announced he was retiring from his crew chief duties, and embarked on a racing career on his own to pursue his dream of being a driver.\n\nHe started running in the ARCA series in 1993 where he has three career wins. He has since run in all the top levels in NASCAR. Shelmerdine has run a total of two Craftsman Truck Series races with a best finish of 17th at Bristol in 1995. He has also run 12 Busch Series races with a best finish of 17th in 1994 at Daytona for Levin Racing.\n\nShelmerdine's Nextel Cup career actually started in 1981 in a race at College Station (Texas World Speedway, where owner/driver James Hylton brought out a 2nd car (No. 8) for Shelmerdine to drive. After two laps, he quit and finished 33rd of the 34 cars. His next start would come at Talladega Superspeedway in 1994 for Jimmy Means. Shelmerdine finished 26th in the No. 52 Ford. He started his own Cup team in 2002 and ran races at Talladega, Loudon and Pocono, but he was primarily a \"field filler\" driver.\n\n2004 was a breakout year for Shelmerdine, as he attempted all 36 races as an owner, 32 as a driver. As team owner he had other drivers fill in for him at selected tracks: Tom Hubert at Infineon and Watkins Glen, Brad Teague at the fall Bristol race, and Ted Christopher at the July Loudon race. Shelmerdine's best finish would be a 37th at Michigan. His car qualified 18 races but completed none of them.\n\n2005 was a step back. The team qualified for only three races (Infineon with Hubert, Loudon with Christopher, and Pocono with Shelmerdine). Shelmerdine finished 42nd in the Pocono race with heating conditions ending his day 192 laps short of the finish.\n\nHe started out 2006 on a better note. He was rolling his car on to his hauler after failing to qualify high enough in his qualifying race for the Daytona 500. A NASCAR official stopped him and informed him that he qualified for his first Daytona 500 by gaining the final spot with his qualifying speed. He finished in 20th place on the lead lap, the best finish of his Cup career. His performance gained media attention as he said if he did not qualify, he'd sell his race team because he was extremely low on money. He was using a motor from Richard Childress (in exchange for a displaying a sponsorship decal). His tires had been donated by a family of Dale Earnhardt fans. He had no full-time pit crew, only his loyal teammates such as Phil Harris, J.V. Daniels and a few others.\n\nShelmerdine's plans for the rest of 2006 were limited, however, he did race at Talladega. He qualified 22nd and was having a good run when he wrecked early in the race. Shelmerdine finished 40th. Since then, he has attempted to qualify for the Coca-Cola 600 but failed to make the race after a qualifying crash, his next appearance was at the Pepsi 400 at Daytona where he made the show but fell out early and finished 43rd.\n\nOn December 22, 2006, the Federal Election Commission sent an \"admonishment letter\" to Shelmerdine as a response to him for running with a Bush/Cheney decal on his car in 2004.\n\nShelmerdine drove the Richard Childress Racing No. 33 in the 2008 Daytona testing sessions and was to be entered in the 2008 Daytona 500. He attempted a number of races during the 2009 season after buying Toyotas from Bill Davis Racing. Shelmerdine used Tom Hubert for road courses and New England staple Ted Christopher for Loudon.\n\nIt was announced on August 26, 2010, that on September 14, 2010, the assets of Kirk Shelmerdine Racing were to be sold at Public Auction at the team's basis in Welcome, North Carolina. Shelmerdine stated the reason for the closure is lack of sponsorship and technology provided for independent teams.\n\nShelmerdine resides in Welcome, North Carolina, and is the father of two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170050", "title": "Star Model PD", "text": "Star Model PD\n\nThe Star Model PD is a compact and lightweight semi-automatic pistol which was manufactured from 1975 to 1990 by the firearms manufacturing company Star Bonifacio Echeverria, S.A., located in the city of Eibar in the Basque region of Spain.\n\nThe Model PD can be loaded with six .45 ACP pistol cartridges in the detachable internal magazine, plus one in the chamber, and was very popular with police and civilian users in the self-defense and backup gun role, especially in the United States.\n\nThe Star PD improved on its predecessor (Star Model PKM) by using a low-profile adjustable rear sight and by removing material from the slide and other small changes. These modifications, combined with its aluminum alloy construction, resulted in a slim, compact, lightweight and relatively powerful pistol, revolutionary for the time. As it also bore an external resemblance to the well-known M1911 pistol, the gun sold very well in the U.S. until it was replaced in 1990 by the Firestar M45.\n\nThis pistol began the trend towards the production by other manufacturers of compact 1911-style pistols, which continues to the present day. However, the pistol did have some flaws.\n\nVery late-model PDs were built with manufacturing shortcuts, especially in the fabrication of the slide, and will not last as long as the earlier models. Even the earlier models are more likely to wear out more quickly with the use of full-power ammunition than steel-framed pistols due to the lightweight alloy construction. Well-known firearms writers such as Jeff Cooper applied the phrase \"carried much, shot little\" to the Star PD, and advocated purchasing two pistols - one for the practice range, and one for carry.\n\nIn addition, the pistol uses an internal plastic buffer to reduce the battering effects of recoil on the alloy frame. This buffer gradually wears with use, and requires replacement after firing approximately 1000 rounds. Failure to replace the buffer when required will accelerate wear on the pistol, and pieces of a disintegrating buffer may cause malfunctions, quite possibly at critical times.\n\nDespite these flaws, and with proper maintenance, the Star Model PD was generally very well liked, and still has a strong following among some firearms enthusiasts.\n\nIt is a common misconception that \"PD\" stands for \"Police Department,\" however, \"PD\" is actually the initials for Pete Dicky who submitted the idea for the Star PD to Star Bonafacia, in Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170052", "title": "Return of the Ewok", "text": "Return of the Ewok\n\nReturn of the Ewok is an unreleased 1982 mockumentary short, written, produced and directed by David Tomblin, starring Warwick Davis as himself in a fictionalized account of how he got the role of Wicket W. Warrick in \"Return of the Jedi\".\n\nThe film was created during production of \"Return of the Jedi\", on which Tomblin worked as first assistant director, and as second unit director, filming Ewok battle scenes. \"The film is a curiosity, half-documentary about the making of \"Jedi\", half-fairy tale about a little boy who becomes an Ewok. He thinks he's the only Ewok in the world, but eventually finds there are others,\" Tomblin said in a 1984 interview. One potential use of the film mooted at the time of filming was to use it as a promotional film for \"Return of the Jedi\". However, post-production on \"Return of the Ewok\" was never completed, and it has never been officially released.\n\nThe film is set in both the \"real world\" and the fictional locations of the \"Star Wars\" universe. Real world locations include Chelsea Football Club's stadium Stamford Bridge, Heathrow Airport and Elstree Studios and the actors' dressing rooms there. Fictional locations include Dagobah, the second Death Star, Jabba's Palace, and Endor. Throughout the film, these two realities are intermixed to produce an alternate reality.\n\n\"Return of the Ewok\" focuses on the fictional account of Davis' decision to become an actor and act as Wicket in \"Return of the Jedi\" (notably, Davis refers to the film as \"Revenge of the Jedi\", its temporary pre-release title). It also follows his transformation into Wicket. As Warwick and as Wicket, he visits and interacts with many of the cast and crew of the movie and then characters of the movie. As Warwick, he goes to Elstree Studios where he interacts with the cast, both in and out of character. At one point, he even interacts with Luke Skywalker as he jumps out of a movie screen. As Wicket, he goes to the Death Star to see Darth Vader, and is chased by Boba Fett, eventually meeting Yoda on Dagobah.\n\nFilming took place during the production of \"Return of the Jedi\", including at lunchtimes and on weekends. \"At lunch times, I would rush around and try and shoot pieces for it,\" Tomblin said. George Lucas financed the film, though costs were limited to expenses such as film stock. \"Everyone contributed their time and talent for absolutely nothing,\" Tomblin said.\n\n\nPlayers of Chelsea Football Club also make an appearance in the film, alongside Davis' mother, father, and sister; Ashley, Sue, and Kim. David Tomblin also appears as himself and provides the voices of Darth Vader and Boba Fett. Michele Gruska is heard as the voice of Sy Snootles with Deep Roy and Simon Williamson playing Droopy McCool and Max Rebo respectively.\n\n\nFor many years, the only confirmed copy of \"Return of the Ewok\" was a video copy in Warwick Davis' own home entertainment center. This copy has been said by Davis to have been frequently shown to only close family, friends, and colleagues. Despite viewings of the film by those close to him, he had never shown the film publicly, and many fans had never even heard of it until 1996, when Davis mentioned it in an interview for the \"Star Wars Insider\" magazine. Davis publicly screened the film at the first \"Star Wars\" Celebration in 1999, and it was also screened at Celebration II in 2002 and Celebration III in 2005.\n\nThe original 16 mm print was said to be lost; according to Davis, his VHS copy is the only one in existence. However, a copy of the print, or even the original print, may actually reside in the Lucasfilm archives. Evidence of this was shown on the 2004 DVD release of the \"Star Wars\" Original Trilogy. A clip from the film of Wicket being chased by Boba Fett on the Death Star was included as part of the Easter egg of bloopers from the trilogy. It appeared in a widescreen format in good quality, suggesting that it had been preserved.\n\nIn April 2005, approximately four minutes of the film was made available on the official \"Star Wars\" website for members of Hyperspace, the official fan club, to download and view after the film was shown at Celebration III. Davis said at the convention that he loaned his VHS tape to Lucasfilm, who made a digital copy of it, and since it was the best known copy, that it was the source for the Hyperspace clip. The copy online at StarWars.com shows a minimal amount of cleanup, and the soundtrack has been altered in several places. Where the original film used Supertramp's \"Take The Long Way Home\", the online version substitutes incidental music to avoid copyright clearance issues. Dialogue has also been changed—in one example, Wicket's cry of \"Crikey, it's Lord Vader!\" near the end of the film has been excised.\n\nUnlike its counterpart mockumentary, \"R2-D2: Beneath the Dome\", \"Return of the Ewok\" has not yet been officially released on DVD or any other format. Davis has reportedly stated that a future release is \"possible.\" . In 2020, high quality footage from \"Return of the Ewok\" appears in \"Warwick & Son\", a 6 minute documentary about Warwick Davis returning to play Wicket W. Warrick in 2019's \"\". The documentary is featured as bonus content on home video releases of the film and on Disney +.\n\nIn 2004, a recording of the entire film was put on eBay by someone who attended a screening, but the auction was pulled because the copy was reportedly given to the seller under strict agreement that it was not to be copied or sold. At least two people are alleged to have filmed it at Celebration II, but their copies have yet to surface. Although the film was also screened in the Pop Culture room at 2005's Celebration III, no illicit recordings have yet surfaced.\n\nThe best known quality bootleg of the entire movie is a fan preservation project created in May 2005, a collaboration between fans Garrett Gilchrist and SKot Kirkwood. Their DVD version uses footage taken from the clip on StarWars.com combined with someone's camcorder recording of the movie from one of its public showings, as well as clips culled from other sources, such as a brief excerpt that was shown on VH1. Gilchrist digitally cleaned up portions of the video and audio, then combined and edited the footage from different sources together to reconstruct the film. At 25 minutes, this version is slightly longer than the original, with Gilchrist adding his own opening and ending credits.\n\nThe first UK screening of this movie was at Empire Day 3 in Watford, England in 1996. A later showing was at the National Space Centre in Leicester for the Star Wars day convention on November 12, 2005. It was presented by Warwick Davis and also included a question-and-answer session afterward.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170056", "title": "Magnetic particle imaging", "text": "Magnetic particle imaging\n\nMagnetic particle imaging (MPI) is an emerging non-invasive tomographic technique that directly detects superparamagnetic nanoparticle tracers. The technology has potential applications in diagnostic imaging and material science. Currently, it is used in medical research to measure the 3-D location and concentration of nanoparticles. Imaging does not use ionizing radiation and can produce a signal at any depth within the body. MPI was first conceived in 2001 by scientists working at the Royal Philips Research lab in Hamburg. The first system was established and reported in 2005. Since then, the technology has been advanced by academic researchers at several universities around the world. The first commercial MPI scanners have recently become available from Magnetic Insight and Bruker Biospin.\n\nThe hardware used for MPI is very different from MRI. MPI systems use changing magnetic fields to generate a signal from superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) nanoparticles. These fields are specifically designed to produce a single magnetic field free region. A signal is only generated in this region. An image is generated by moving this region across a sample. Since there is no natural SPIO in tissue, a signal is only detected from the administered tracer. This provides images without background. MPI is often used in combination with anatomical imaging techniques (such as CT or MRI) providing information on the location of the tracer.\n\nMagnetic particle imaging combines high tracer sensitivity with submillimeter resolution. Imaging is performed in a range of milliseconds to seconds. The iron oxide tracer used with MPI are cleared naturally by the body through the mononuclear phagocyte system. The iron oxide nanoparticles are broken down in the liver, where the iron is stored and used to produce hemoglobin. SPIOs have previously been used in humans for iron supplementation and liver imaging.\n\nThe first \"in vivo\" MPI results provided images of a beating mouse heart in 2009. With further research, this could eventually be used for real-time cardiac imaging.\n\nMPI has numerous applications to the field of oncology research. Accumulation of a tracer within solid tumors can occur through the enhanced permeability and retention effect. This has been successfully used to detect tumor sites within rats. The high sensitivity of the technique means it may also be possible to image micro-metastasis through the development of nanoparticles targeted to cancer cells. MPI is being investigated as a clinical alternative screening technique to nuclear medicine in order to reduce radiation exposure in at-risk populations.\n\nBy tagging therapeutic cells with iron oxide nanoparticles, MPI allows them to tracked throughout the body. This has applications in regenerative medicine and cancer immunotherapy. Imaging can be used to improve the success of stem cell therapy by following the movement of these cells in the body. The tracer is stable while tagged to a cell and remains detectable past 87 days.\n\nThe SPIO tracer used in magnetic particle imaging is detectable within biological fluids, such as the blood. This fluid is very responsive to even weak magnetic fields, and all of the magnetic moments will line up in the direction of an induced magnetic field. These particles can be used because the human body does not contain anything which will create magnetic interference in imaging.\nAs the sole tracer, the properties of SPIONs are of key importance to the signal intensity and resolution of MPI. Iron oxide nanoparticles, due to their magnetic dipoles, exhibit a spontaneous magnetization that can be controlled by an applied magnetic field. Therefore, the performance of SPIONs in MPI is critically dependent on their magnetic properties, such as saturation magnetization, magnetic diameter, and relaxation mechanism. The figure to the right is a representative image of a Point Spread Function (PSF) obtained using Relax Mode in MPI scanner, pointing out the signal intensity and full width at half maximum (FWHM) which corresponds to the signal resolution.\nUpon application of an external magnetic field, the relaxation of SPIONs can be governed by two mechanisms, Néel, and Brownian relaxation. When the entire particle rotates with respect to the environment, it is following Brownian relaxation, which is affected by the physical diameter. When only the magnetic dipole rotates within the particles, the mechanism is called Néel relaxation, which is affected by the magnetic diameter. According to the Langevin model of superparamagnetism, the spatial resolution of MPI should improve cubically with the magnetics diameter, which can be obtained by fitting magnetization versus magnetic field curve to a Langevin model. However, more recent calculations suggest that there exists an optimal SPIONs magnetic size range (~26 nm) for MPI. This is because of blurring caused by Brownian relaxation of large magnetics size SPIONs. Although magnetic size critically affects the MPI performance, it is often poorly analyzed in publications reporting applications of MPI using SPIONs. Often, commercially available tracers or home-made tracers are used without thorough magnetic characterization. Importantly, due to spin canting and disorder at the surface, or due to the formation of mixed-phase nanoparticles, the equivalent magnetic diameter can be smaller than the physical diameter. And magnetic diameter is critical because of the response of particles to an applied magnetic field dependent on the magnetic diameter, not physical diameter. The largest equivalent magnetic diameter can be the same as the physical diameter. A recent review paper by Chandrasekharan et al. summarizes properties of various iron oxide contrast agents and their MPI performance measured using their in-house Magnetic Particle Spectrometer, shown in the picture here. It should be pointed out that the core diameter listed in the table is not necessarily the magnetic diameter. The table provides a comparison of all current published SPIONs for MPI contrast agents. As seen in the table, LS017, with a SPION core size of 28.7 nm and synthesized through heating up thermal decomposition with post-synthesis oxidation, has the best resolution compared with others with lower core size.\nResovist® (Ferucarbotran), consisting of iron oxide made via coprecipitation, is the most commonly used and commercially available tracer. However, as suggested by Gleich et al., only 3% of the total iron mass from Resovist® contributes to the MPI signal due to its polydispersity, leading to relatively low MPI sensitivity. The signal intensity of MPI is influenced by both the magnetic core diameter and the size distribution of SPIONs. Comparing the MPI sensitivity listed in the above table, LS017 has the highest signal intensity (54.57 V/g of Fe) as particles are monodisperse and possess a large magnetic diameter compared with others.\n\nThe surface coating of SPIONs is of key importance as well, since it influences the stability, pharmacokinetics behavior, and biodistribution of particles in biological environments. The biodistribution of carboxy-dextran and PEG-modified SPIONs were studied by Keselman et al. using MPI. Results suggested that PEG-modified SPIONs had a relatively long blood half-life of 4.2 h before uptake by the liver and spleen, compared with carboxy-dextran coated SPIONs which cleared rapidly to the liver. The choice of surface coating influences the potential applications using MPI. A carboxy-dextran coated SPION is useful for imaging of liver while PEG-modified particles are more preferred for long-term circulation.\n\nTaking all these concepts and information into consideration, we can begin to define that the “ideal” particles in the context of producing better MPI sensitivity and resolution should possess the following characteristics:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170060", "title": "Prospect State Scenic Viewpoint", "text": "Prospect State Scenic Viewpoint\n\nProspect State Scenic Viewpoint, is a state park south of the community of Prospect on Oregon Route 62 in Jackson County, in the U.S. state of Oregon. It was formerly known as Mill Creek Falls Scenic Area, a private hiking area that was developed by Willamette Industries along the Rogue River. Both Mill Creek Falls and Pearsony Falls are contained within the area, with Barr Creek Falls close by.\n\nA hydroelectric dam was built in the 1920s which drained the narrow valley containing the group of falls. A group of large boulders appeared. These have become a local attraction known as the \"Avenue of the Giant Boulders\".\n\nThe Mill Creek Falls is the centerpiece attraction within the Mill Creek Scenic Area. A trailhead developed by Boise Cascade ends on a fork that leads to the Avenue of Boulders to the left and Mill Creek Falls and Barr Creek Falls to the right. The waterfall totals 173 feet high on Mill Creek shortly before it meets the Rogue River, and is one of the tallest cascades in Oregon. Mill Creek has low sinuosity, and has a gently sloping terrain. Yet, it flows through unstable banks which produce large amounts of sediment. Historically, the Mill Creek Falls area has moderate to frequent fires, primarily from lightning, having been entirely burned at least once in the past. For this reason it is common to see charred trees and snags surrounding the waterfall area. \n\nAlong the Mill Creek Falls trailhead is Barr Creek Falls, a three drop waterfall also known as Bear Creek Falls. It totals 240 feet of fall in three drops, the tallest and last drop is 150 feet. The name comes from the presence of a cattle bar next to the waterfall to prevent cattle from straying out of the boundaries of private ranches that neighbor the river.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170062", "title": "Ronald Bass", "text": "Ronald Bass\n\nRonald Bass (born March 26, 1942) sometimes credited as Ron Bass, is an American screenwriter and film producer. In 1988, he received the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay for \"Rain Man\", and films that Bass is associated with are regularly nominated for multiple motion picture awards. His films have grossed over $2 billion dollars.\n\nBass was born in Los Angeles, California. From the age of 3 to 11, Bass was afflicted with an undiagnosed condition that kept him bedridden. His symptoms included respiratory problems and stomach pains with high fevers and nausea. It was during this illness, at age six, that Bass is said to have started writing.\n\nDuring his teens, Bass began work on a novel, which he entitled \"Voleur\". He completed this work at age 17 and showed it to his English teacher. He took her critique of his first completed project quite hard. She described the writing as very good, but she felt that it was too personal to be published. Bass's response was to later burn his manuscript. Later in life, Bass recalled \"it was like the voice of God telling me I didn't have what it takes to be a writer, and I should find something practical to do with my life\". Bass would revisit his teenage writings later in life.\n\nBass entered law studies, first at Stanford, then Yale, and finally at Harvard Law School, where he graduated in 1967 with a degree in law. He seemed quite confident about his future prospects, saying, \"When I learned there was such a thing as entertainment law, I thought, 'This is where I belong'\". Back in Los Angeles, Bass began a seventeen-year career practicing law in the entertainment business. He was successful, and eventually rose to the level of partner in his law firm.\n\nBass has worked with his sister Diane Bass, who served as an uncredited technical consultant on the film \"Rain Man\".\n\nAs he moved up the career ladder in law, the love of writing that Bass had acquired as a child never left him. He started writing again, usually during the predawn hours before going to work. Writing and working at unusual hours became a lifelong habit of his. In 1974, he began to rework his novel \"Voleur\", apparently from memory, as he had burned the manuscript in a fit of pique when he was 17. In 1978, he completed the work, renaming it \"The Perfect Thief\" (). This was the first of his three published novels. In 1982, Bass published his second novel, \"\" (). The \"Lime\" referred to in the title is Harry Lime, the central mystery character of the 1949 motion picture \"The Third Man\". On January 1, 1984, his third novel was published, \"The Emerald Illusion\" (). The following year, he wrote the screenplay \"\", based on this novel. It was his debut as a screenwriter with a produced script.\n\nAs a screenwriter, Bass is known for successfully working in collaboration with other writers, including Amy Tan on \"The Joy Luck Club\" and Al Franken on \"When a Man Loves a Woman\".\n\nBass is currently producing the upcoming film \"The Moon and the Sun\".\n\nA small controversy has arisen over Bass's use of assistants to help him write screenplays. While it is common for screenwriters to employ assistants to help them with research and typing, Bass employs six or seven mostly female assistants that one journalist dubbed \"The Ronettes\". According to Bass, his assistants help him in research and also in critiquing his scripts. They enable him to write, revise, or polish a comparatively large number of screenplays each year.\n\n\nPlease see the WGA screenwriting credit system for an explanation of the terms \"story by\", \"screenplay by\", and \"written by\". Also note that under the rules of the Writers Guild of America, Bass has not received on-screen credit for every script he has contributed to. It is thought that Bass has helped to write or consulted on more than 100 screenplays (not all of which have necessarily been produced).\n\n"}
{"id": "2170065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170065", "title": "Karen Wheaton", "text": "Karen Wheaton\n\nKaren Harris Wheaton Towe is an American Pentecostal preacher, Gospel music singer and recording artist based in Hamilton, Alabama whose career has spanned the late 1970s until the present time. She has toured throughout the U.S. performing at events that also featured preachers and Christian artists such as Jim Bakker, Jimmy Swaggart, Benny Hinn and the Gaither Homecoming. Her singing voice is classified in the Mississippi Delta style, which is fused with blues, urban contemporary gospel, and bluegrass gospel influences. She is the Director and Founder of \"The Ramp,\" a youth ministry located in the city of Hamilton, Alabama. The Ramp operates with the goal of \"awakening a generation,\" holding Christian rallies, concerts, and conferences for teenagers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170067", "title": "Barr Creek Falls", "text": "Barr Creek Falls\n\nBarr Creek Falls, is a waterfall located in the Rogue River Canyon within the Prospect State Scenic Viewpoint in Jackson County, in the U.S. state of Oregon. The waterfall is located at the south end of Barr Creek as it plunges into the Rogue River over a carved cliff surrounded by walls of petrified volcanic ash as a consequence of the Mount Mazama eruption. The waterfall has also been called Bear Creek Falls. The waterfall gets its name from the creek which was called \"Barr\" for the presence of a fence that prevented cattle from straying out of the local Red Blanket Ranch and that ran adjacent to the creek.\n\nBarr Creek Falls shares the same rock cliff with Mill Creek Falls. Both waterfalls can be seen next to each other from their respective viewpoints. \n\nThe fall drops in three major steps. First plummets 60-feet, which is not a visible section of the cascade from the trail viewpoint. The second tier drops down another 30 feet, which is half visible from the viewpoint during high water flow. Finally it plummets 150 feet to the canyon floor before meeting with the Rogue River. With a height of 240 feet, Barr Creek Falls is among the tallest waterfalls in Oregon.\n\nBarr Creek Falls is located at the southernmost tip of the Prospect State Scenic Viewpoint. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) places the falls at coordinates at an elevation of above sea level. Barr Creek runs from the Western skirt of Crater Lake, bisects the southern end of the Prospect Airfield and plummets down the Rogue River Canyon a few yards before intersecting the Rogue River.\n\nAccess to the waterfall is from a trail that starts on the park's parking lot on the town of Prospect's Mill Creek Drive, the southernmost of two parking lots on the road. The trail-head has an illustrative map of the area including the trail to the Avenue of Boulders and Barr Creek Falls. The trail is approximately half a mile from the parking lot to Barr Creek Falls viewpoint.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170068", "title": "Primate Equilibrium Platform", "text": "Primate Equilibrium Platform\n\nA Primate Equilibrium Platform (PEP) is a device used to train chimpanzees and other primates in maneuvers similar to those of a flight simulator. The chimpanzees are conditioned, with a series of electric shocks, to keep the rolling platform level.\n\nThe purpose of the platform is to determine primate competency under various levels of poisoning from radiation or chemicals used in common biological weaponry.\n\nAfter the subject has successfully completed a seven phase training procedure on the platform, the primate is either irradiated or poisoned to determine how long it can keep the platform level at different degrees of exposure, with electric shocks resulting from inability to maintain a level platform.\n\nThe goal of the PEP research is to determine the ability of fighter pilots to deliver payloads in a second-strike scenario, in which the pilots may have been exposed to radiation or chemical or biological weapons.\n\nPrimates were able to keep a simulator level within 1 degree of stabilization across the multiple axis on a 16 axis simulator. \n\nThe program was based in White Sands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170077", "title": "James Joyce Bridge", "text": "James Joyce Bridge\n\nJames Joyce Bridge () is a road bridge spanning the River Liffey in Dublin, Ireland, joining the south quays to Blackhall Place on the north side.\n\nDesigned by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, it is a single-span structural steel design, 40 m (131 ft) long. The deck is supported from two outward angled arches, the silhouette of which is sometimes compared to the shape of an open book.\n\nThe bridge was built by Irishenco Construction, using pre-fabricated steel sections from Harland and Wolff of Belfast.\n\nThe bridge is named for the famous Dublin author James Joyce, and was opened on 16 June 2003 (Bloomsday). Joyce's short story \"The Dead\" is set in Number 15 Usher's Island, the house facing the bridge on the south side.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170080", "title": "Rapid Ride", "text": "Rapid Ride\n\nRapid Ride is the name of an express bus service with some bus rapid transit features in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Inaugurated on December 21, 2004, Rapid Ride was intended to provide a faster and more efficient means of public transit in Albuquerque and to serve as a pilot project for a potential light rail line. It is operated by the local transit agency, ABQ RIDE.\n\nBeginning with one 11-mile route, growing ridership led to the opening of a second route in 2007 and a third route in 2009. By March 2008, Rapid Ride had carried five million passengers.\n\nRapid Ride serves three routes: The 766 (\"Red Line\") runs along Central Avenue from Unser Boulevard to Louisiana Boulevard, then north to the Uptown Transit Center; the 790 (\"Blue Line\") which runs from the University of New Mexico west down Lomas Boulevard, north on Rio Grande Boulevard, west on Interstate-40, and then north on Coors Boulevard past the Cottonwood Mall to the Northwest Transit Center; and the 777 (\"Green Line\") runs along Central Avenue from Downtown Albuquerque to Tramway Boulevard.\n\nStops are about a mile apart at specially designated Rapid Ride stations rather than the normal city bus stops, which are about two blocks apart. Service varies by route. The Red and Green lines operate from 6:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays with buses scheduled every 15 minutes during the week and every 20 minutes on Saturdays, with more limited service on Sundays. The Blue Line operates from 5:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on weekdays with buses scheduled every 12 to 30 minutes depending on time of day, with more limited service on Saturdays. In the case of the Central Avenue Corridor, both the 766 and 777 lines, in part or whole, supplement the multiple-stop 66 Central route, which is the busiest route in the ABQ Ride system.\n\nEvery route within the ABQ RIDE system, with the exception of #222 and #34, connects to a Rapid Ride route, either at one of the Transit Centers, or along its route (usually either on Central Avenue or on Coors Boulevard).\n\nRapid Ride operates only slightly like a BRT, as the buses run in regular traffic (except for a one-mile stretch for westbound buses at the UNM campus), do not have signal priority (although the system exists, it has been disabled since 2009), and do not have pre-boarding fare payment. The buses, however, are low floor, have accessible features such as a quick deploying ramp and kneeling, and stations are spread out roughly a mile apart, except in downtown where there are 6 stations. The buses have free Wi-Fi provided by the city, but this service is no longer offered at regular bus stops. Bus schedules on the 766 Red Line, 777 Green Line, combined with the 66 Central Route are frequent and situated so that buses reach stations roughly every 7-10 minutes between Downtown and Louisiana, and every 10-15 minutes between Wyoming and Tramway and between Rio Grande and Unser.\n\nThe Rapid Ride fleet currently consists of 18 New Flyer DE60LF and 6 New Flyer DE60LFR articulated 60-foot low floor buses, which are painted in ABQ RIDE's red and gold color scheme. All Rapid Ride buses have free wireless internet access and are also equipped with Digital Recorders automated stop announcement systems and TwinVision LED destination signs. The front destination signs feature a multicolor route number display and orange route name display. The route number is displayed in red for the Rapid Ride Route 766, blue for Route 790, and in green for Route 777. The side and rear destination signs are orange-only.\n\nRidership on the Red Line was 1.6 million boardings for fiscal year 2007, up 28% over fiscal year 2006, and was projected to finish fiscal year 2008 with a 13% gain. Bus ridership as a whole was up 9.3% in Albuquerque in fiscal 2007. The Blue Line had over 20,000 boardings per month as of early 2008.\n\nRapid Ride service began on December 24, 2004, with the Route 766 line, which ran along Central Avenue from Unser to Wyoming, North to Interstate 40, then west to the Uptown Transit Center. Buses ran every 11 minutes from 6:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays. On August 20, 2006, the 766 started Sunday service with 22-minute frequency from 6:43 a.m. to 6:41 p.m.\n\nOn April 17, 2006, a second Rapid Ride route, the West Side Rapid Ride (156) started service. It ran as a commuter with four (two northbound and two southbound) runs in the morning and three (two northbound and one southbound) runs in the evening on weekdays. The route ran on Coors Blvd from Cottonwood Mall to the Alamosa Community Center. This route served as a pilot project for a potential full-time route for the Albuquerque West Side, and was later replaced by a new route (mentioned below) in July 2007.\n\nABQ RIDE placed an order for six additional Rapid Ride buses on July 20, 2006. The six buses were once again the New Flyer DE60LF, and were delivered in February 2007. These new buses were put to use on a new West Side route (Route 790) connecting the University of New Mexico to a portion of Albuquerque's Westside, via Lomas Boulevard, Rio Grande Boulevard, Interstate 40, and Coors Boulevard to the Montano Plaza shopping center. This new route replaced the 156 route and went into service on July 7, 2007, with 15-minute frequency on weekdays and 20-minute frequency on Saturdays. With the creation of this line, ABQ Ride began to give Rapid Ride routes color designations (Red for 766, Blue for 790). On August 16, 2008, the Blue Line was extended to Cottonwood Mall and weekday frequency changed to 20 minutes. When the new Northwest Transit Center opened on September 2, 2008, all buses serving Cottonwood Mall moved there, although a stop at Cottonwood Mall on 7 Bar Loop still remains for mall commuter traffic.\n\nFor several years, ABQ RIDE operated the Red Line from 8:00pm until 1:00am on Fridays during Saturdays during the summer months. The route was called Rapid After Dark, and given its own route number, 767, even though the route did not deviate from the daytime route. The city disbanded the service in 2011 in favor of a new service, 66 Late Night. The New service utilizes the 66 route, allowing for more stops and traveling the full length of Central Ave.\n\nOn February 26, 2009, ABQ RIDE announced a third Rapid Ride route, Route 777 (the \"Green Line\"), which would run every 15 minutes on weekdays along Central Avenue from Downtown Albuquerque to the Four Hills area at Central Avenue and Tramway Boulevard, and help relieve overcrowding on the Rapid Ride Red Line and the Route 66 Central Avenue bus. In preparation for the new route, ABQ RIDE added six additional Rapid Ride buses to the fleet. The Rapid Ride Green Line went into service on August 15, 2009. The 766 route was adjusted from using Wyoming Boulevard to using Louisiana Boulevard to connect to the Uptown Transit Center. Frequency on the 766 was adjusted from every 11 minutes on weekdays to every 15 minutes, and the schedules are designed to overlap so that between the 766 and 777, service on Central Avenue between Louisiana and Downtown is every 7 minutes.\n\nOn an election on October 6, 2009, Albuquerque voters approved a quarter-cent transportation tax extension lasting until 2019. 36% of this tax will be allocated for ABQ RIDE, up from 20% for the past 10 years. On October 8, 2009, outgoing ABQ RIDE transit director Greg Payne indicated the possibility of a new Rapid Ride route on San Mateo Blvd.\n\nIn November 2011, ABQ RIDE announced plans for true bus rapid transit service along Central Avenue. The service differs from the Rapid Ride based on the fact that it would use a dedicated travel lane, and thus can be considered a true BRT service. Branding for this service has not been announced yet, nor have there been any announcements whether or not this service would replace the Rapid Ride Red or Green Lines.\n\nIn October 2014, The City presented to voters its final proposal for Albuquerque Rapid Transit, a true BRT system extending from Tramway Blvd. to 98th St. Upon its completion and opening in November 2019, the Green and Red lines were incorporated into ART.\n\nROUTE 156 From north to south: \n\"(no longer in service)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2170086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170086", "title": "1936 Manitoba general election", "text": "1936 Manitoba general election\n\nThe 1936 Manitoba general election was held July 27, 1936 to elect Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThis was the second election in Manitoba after the formation of a Liberal-Progressive alliance in 1932. The Progressive Party, which had governed the province since 1922, forged an alliance with the Liberal Party just prior to the 1932 provincial election to prevent the Conservative Party from winning. This alliance won the 1932 election under Premier John Bracken's leadership, and the two parties had effectively become united by 1936.\n\nThe Liberal-Progressives faced opposition from a variety of parties in the 1936 election. The Conservative Party remained the dominant opposition group, and the most serious challenge to the government. On the left, the Independent Labour Party (ILP) formed an alliance with the national Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF), and contested the election as the ILP-CCF. The Communist Party also fielded a strong candidate in Winnipeg, while the upstart Social Credit League also ran candidates, hoping to repeat William Aberhart's surprising victory in Alberta the previous year.\n\nDespite economic hardships in the province, Bracken expected that his government would be returned with another majority. He was mistaken. Although the Liberal-Progressives won the election, they could claim only twenty-two seats out of 53 after the initial results were declared. The Conservative party, under its new leader, former federal Member of Parliament (MP) Errick Willis, finished a close second with sixteen. The ILP-CCF won seven seats, while the Social Credit League unexpectedly won five. One independent Liberal was also elected. A number of rural ridings, which had previously supported Liberal-Progressive candidates, shifted to the Conservatives or to Social Credit in this poll.\n\nThe greatest surprise of the election occurred in the Winnipeg constituency, which elected ten members via a single transferable ballot. Former judge Lewis Stubbs, an independent leftist, received an astounding 24,805 votes on the first ballot, almost 20,000 more than his nearest competitor. The second-place candidate, moreover, was James Litterick, the first openly declared communist to win election at the state or federal level in North America.\n\nAfter the election, Bracken attempted to persuade Errick Willis to form a four-year alliance of the Liberal-Progressive and Conservative parties, so as to provide a stable government for the province. Willis rejected the offer the same day, claiming his caucus was unwilling to accept it.\n\nThe provincial impasse continued until August 13, when the Social Credit League unexpectedly announced that it would provide support to Bracken's government in the legislature. Social Credit did not formally join with the Liberal-Progressives in a coalition government, but provided critical support to Bracken's minority government for the next four years.\n\nIronically, Bracken's own constituency of The Pas was the site of one of the two deferred elections. He was re-elected, while a second Independent Liberal was returned in Rupertsland.\n\nIncluding the Social Credit MLAs, Bracken's government could count on the support of only 28 members out of 55. He was nonetheless able to keep his government intact for four years, and in late 1940 formed a new wartime coalition government with the Conservatives, CCF and Social Credit. This coalition contested the 1941 election, and won a landslide majority.\n\nThe Communist Party was not included in this coalition, as it had been rendered illegal after the start of World War II. James Litterick was expelled from the legislature in 1940, and went into hiding. He did not resurface after the war, and his disappearance has been the source of some speculation in the Canadian left. Some believe that he was actually a spy for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and that he was killed as a traitor during the war by other members of the Communist Party. This has never been verified, however.\n\n\nArthur:\n\nAssiniboia:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nSanders was eliminated. Morton was eliminated after the second count with 981 votes.\n\n\"Third Count\"\n\nBeautiful Plains:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nDuffy was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nBirtle:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nCameron was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nBrandon City:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nSpafford was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nCarillon:\n\nCypress:\n\nDauphin:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nMoore was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nDeloraine:\n\nDufferin:\n\nEmerson:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nWachna was eliminated. Podolsky was eliminated after the second count with 1144 votes.\n\n\"Third Count\"\n\nEthelbert:\n\nFairford:\n\nFisher:\n\nGilbert Plains:\n\nGimli:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nMagnacca was eliminated. Oddson was eliminated after the second count with 1066 votes.\n\n\"Third Count\"\n\nGladstone:\n\nGlenwood:\n\nHamiota:\n\nIberville:\n\nKildonan & St. Andrews:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nWise was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nKillarney:\n\nLakeside:\n\nLansdowne:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nDe Gagne was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nLa Verendrye:\n\nManitou:\n\nMinnedosa:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nMorton was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nMorden and Rhineland:\n\nMorris:\n\nMountain:\n\nNorfolk:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nBurrows was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nPortage la Prairie:\n\nRoblin:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nBarber was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nRockwood:\n\nRupertsland (deferred to 22 August 1936):\n\nRussell:\n\nSt. Boniface:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nJodoin was eliminated. McLean was eliminated after the second count with 2890 votes.\n\n\"Third Count\"\n\nSt. Clements:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nBates was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nSt. George:\n\nSte. Rose:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nZaplitny was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nSpringfield:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nBarefoot was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nSwan River:\n\n\"First Count\"\n\nHolmes was eliminated.\n\n\"Second Count\"\n\nThe Pas (deferred to 26 August 1936):\n\nTurtle Mountain:\n\nVirden:\n\nWinnipeg:\n\n\"Elected candidates are italicized\"\n(final seat count: 1 Ind., 1 Comm., 2 Liberals, 3 Cons., 3 ILP\n\nFirst Count (quota: 7214 votes; Stubbs declared elected)\n\nSecond Count (Stubbs surplus; Litterick and Webb declared elected)\n\nThird Count (Litterick surplus)\n\nFourth Count (Stewart eliminated)\n\nFifth Count (Brigden eliminated)\n\nSixth Count (Benjamin eliminated)\n\nSeventh Count (Bardal eliminated)\n\nEighth Count (Streuber eliminated)\n\nNinth Count (Rice-Jones eliminated)\n\nTenth Count (Ivens eliminated; Queen declared elected)\n\nEleventh Count (Thorvaldson eliminated)\n\nTwelfth Count (Smith eliminated; Farmer declared elected)\n\nThirteenth Count (Webb surplus)\n\nFourteenth Count (Queen surplus)\n\nFifteenth Count (Farmer surplus)\n\nSixteenth Count (Swail eliminated; Ketchen, Barry, McDiarmid, Major and Hyman declared elected)\n\nEven after all the seats filled, Dyma was eliminated and her votes transferred although they did not make any difference to the election.\n\nSeventeenth Count (Dyma eliminated; final numbers determined)\n\nThe first ballot results for Winnipeg and results for all other constituencies are taken from an official Manitoba government publication entitled \"Manitoba elections, 1920-1941\", cross-referenced with an appendix to the government's report of the 2003 provincial election. The Canadian parliamentary guide lists slightly different results for Glenwood, but the other two sources are more comprehensive and may be taken as more reliable.\n\nAll ballot results for Winnipeg after the first count are taken from reports in the Winnipeg Free Press newspaper. It is possible that some errors appeared in the original publication.\n\nThe ILP-CCF parliamentary group became known as CCF after the election.\n\nWinnipeg (dec. Marcus Hyman, 1938).\n\nWinnipeg (James Litterick disqualified from the legislature, 1940).\n\nLewis Stubbs was initially the only member of the legislature to remain in opposition when a four-party coalition was formed in 1940. He was later joined by Salome Halldorson of Social Credit, as well as John Poole and Huntly Ketchen of the Conservatives.\n"}
{"id": "2170106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170106", "title": "Flashback (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "Flashback (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\n\"Flashback\" is the 44th episode of the American science fiction television series \"\" airing on the UPN network. It is the second episode of the .\n\nThe series follows the adventures of the Federation starship \"Voyager\" during its journey home to Earth, having been stranded tens of thousands of light-years away. In this episode, Captain Janeway must help Lt. Tuvok delve into his past to understand a memory triggered by the sight of a spatial phenomenon.\n\nThis episode was produced along with \"\"s \"Trials and Tribble-ations\" as part of the \"Star Trek\" franchise's 30th anniversary. It is noteworthy for featuring characters of \"\" and related feature films, most noticeably Hikaru Sulu (George Takei) and Janice Rand (Grace Lee Whitney). Both characters appear by means of a flashback by Tuvok, relating to some of the events previously depicted in the film \"\".\n\nThe episode was premiered at the fan-run not-for-profit UK convention \"Delta Quadrant\" held at the Britannia Hotel in Birmingham City Centre in August 1996. The episode was first shown during the evening of 9 August 1996 from a VHS video cassette in the care of the convention's organiser Bob Hollocks.\n\nAs \"Voyager\" monitors a nebula with large quantities of the power source sirillium, Tuvok finds his hands shaking, and requests permission to go to Sickbay. En route, he experiences a flashback that involves him trying to pull a young girl off a cliff to safety. The girl ends up falling, horrifying young Tuvok. Eventually, he arrives in Sickbay, and collapses, convulsing on the floor.\n\nIn Sickbay, Tuvok describes the memory, but insists the events he \"remembered\" never occurred. With no clear cause of his symptoms, he is dismissed with a device to monitor his readings in case such an event occurs again. That night, he attempts to build a \"structure of harmony\" in an effort to aid his meditation, but cannot stop the structure from collapsing. After a visit from Kes, he attempts again.\n\nThe next morning, he notes he had spent fourteen hours meditating, and still had no idea what the cause of the problem was. Ensign Kim could not find anything unusual with the nebula they were near, but Tuvok suggests they scan it for Klingon activity. B'Elanna Torres reminds him that the Klingon Empire is on the other side of the galaxy. Moments later, Tuvok sees the mental image again, and collapses once more.\n\nIn Sickbay, the Doctor suggests the problem is a repressed memory, which in Vulcans can cause brain damage due to the conflict between the conscious and unconscious minds. The only possible course of action is to initiate a mind meld – normally undertaken with a family member. Tuvok explains he would go to one of the Vulcans on board but he feels Janeway is the best choice to assist him in locating and reintegrating the memory. During the meld she would be an outside observer of the memories, unnoticed by anyone but Tuvok.\n\nWhen Tuvok initiates the mind meld, he attempts to take them to the cliff in his memory, but instead they appear on the USS \"Excelsior\", under attack by the Klingons. Explaining the attack, the memory moves once more, to three days before, when Praxis . After learning about how Captain Kirk and Dr. McCoy were placed on trial for the assassination of the Klingon Chancellor, Captain Sulu attempted a rescue mission, which Tuvok was the only \"Excelsior\" crew member to protest.\n\nIn an effort to avoid confrontation with the Klingons, Sulu ordered an approach path through a nebula which bore a remarkable physical similarity to the one \"Voyager\" was observing in the Delta Quadrant – the appearance causing Tuvok to recall the repressed memory once more, breaking the mind meld.\n\nAfter a period of recovery for Tuvok, during which Janeway and Kim comment on the differences between Starfleet of the 23rd century and the 24th, they try the mind meld again – appearing once more on the \"Excelsior\". After a discussion about Tuvok's motivations for joining Starfleet, a small Klingon attack began. After Sulu claimed their navigational equipment had malfunctioned, Kang insisted upon escorting the \"Excelsior\" back to Federation space, to help them from getting lost again. Sulu agreed, but on the way out of the nebula they were in, came up with a plan to disable the Klingon ship by igniting the sirillium that was also present in that nebula. After this succeeded, they set course once more for Qo'noS, before being attacked again by three Klingon battlecruisers – an attack that killed Lieutenant Dimitri Valtane. As Tuvok watched Valtane die, the memory appeared once more, and in Sickbay, the neural engrams destabilize, preventing the meld from being broken. On the \"Excelsior\", Sulu could suddenly see Janeway, who was supposed to merely be an observer. In an effort to blend into the memories, Tuvok takes Janeway to a time where she can steal Commander Janice Rand's uniform. In Sickbay, the Doctor and Kes notice an irregularity in the memories, and deduced they were not in fact memories, but instead a virus. Using thoron radiation, they begin to kill the virus.\n\nOn the \"Excelsior\", the attack occurs once more, and Valtane dies when a plasma conduit behind his console explodes. The image of the girl on the cliff appears, but this time, it is Janeway who is letting the girl fall. As the Doctor continues the efforts to kill the virus, it tracks back, changing to Valtane, and then an endless stream of other children. Eventually, it dies, and Tuvok breaks the meld.\n\nIn Sickbay, the Doctor and Kes explain what must have happened: the virus thrived on neural peptides, and hid itself by creating the false memory that the person bearing it would repress, so the virus could live in secret, and migrate from person to person as its hosts died.\n\nWalking down a corridor, Janeway suggests that Tuvok missed those days, a suggestion Tuvok rejects. However, he admits that he is pleased to have been a part of them, and having experienced the memories, Janeway says she feels she was a part of them as well. As a result, Tuvok suggests that she could feel nostalgic for the both of them.\n\nThis episode features \"The Original Series\" actors George Takei and Grace Lee Whitney.\n\nIn an example of discontinuity, the character of Lieutenant Dimitri Valtane, who appears in both this \"Voyager\" episode shot in 1996 and the 1991 feature film is shown to still be alive at the end of the feature film, in direct contradiction with the episodes depiction of events. Whereas Valtane is shown to have died in \"Flashback\", prior to the feature films concluding scene in which the USS \"Excelsior\" captain and crew bid farewell to the USS \"Enterprise\" crew.\n\nActor Tim Russ who portrayed Tuvok, made an appearance as a Star Fleet bridge officer from the same fictional time period depicted in \"Flashback\" and \"Undiscovered Country\", serving on the USS \"Enterprise\" NCC-1701-B in the feature film (1994).\n\nIn 2015, a \"Star Trek: Voyager\" binge-watching guide by W.I.R.E.D. suggested this episode could not be skipped.\n\nIn 2016, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" rated \"Flashback\" the 86th best episode of all \"Star Trek\" episodes. In 2017, \"Den of Geek\" included this on their abbreviated watch guide for \"Star Trek: Voyager\", picking out this episode on their cross-overs roadmap, noting \"The Original Series\" characters Hikaru Sulu and Janice Rand.\n\nThis episode may have been a response to the rumor mill's reports that fans might see a series following Sulu as he commands USS \"Excelsior\", a ship that was previously featured in the film \"Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country\" (1991).\n\nIn 2017, Den of Geek noted this episode on their \"Star Trek: Voyager\" watching guide, pointing out this episode for its connections to other media in the \"Star Trek\" universe.\n\nIn July 2019, Screen Rant ranked \"Flashback\" as one of the top five episodes of the series. They note that this episode focuses on Tuvok's memories of his time in Starfleet aboard the USS \"Excelsior\" starship. They also point out this episode was released for the 30th anniversary celebrations for the \"Star Trek\" franchise (1966-1996).\n\nA novel version of \"Flashback\" was written by Diane Carey, based on the Brannon Braga screenplay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170107", "title": "Albert J. Simone", "text": "Albert J. Simone\n\nAlbert Joseph Simone (born December, 1935 in Boston, MA) is a former president of Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) and the University of Hawai'i System.\n\nSimone earned his Bachelor of Arts in economics from Tufts in 1957, and his PhD in economics from MIT in 1962.\n\nHe served as dean of the College of Business Administration at the University of Cincinnati from 1972 to 1983.\n\nAfter the retirement of Fujio Matsuda, Simone was both Chancellor of the University of Hawaii at Manoa and President of the University of Hawaii System from 1984 to 1992. As President at Manoa, Simone lobbied for greater independence from the Hawaiian legislature’s control in order to retain accreditation. During his tenure, UH Manoa consolidated departments, research institutes and federal cooperative programs from different parts of campus into the School of Ocean and Earth Sciences and Technology, a leading education and research resource.\n\nHe became president of RIT on September 1, 1992, succeeding Thomas R. Plough. His tenure at RIT saw additional PhD programs (in microsystems engineering, computing and information sciences, and color science) inaugurated and improvements made to RIT's athletic program (such as the construction of the Gordon Field House and Activities Center and the elevation of the men's hockey team to Division I).\n\nHe retired from RIT July 1, 2007, succeeded by William W. Destler.\n\nJune 15, 2007 was proclaimed Albert J. Simone Day in Rochester and Monroe County.\n\nSimone served as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from January 2000 to January 2003.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1969 Simone authored five books.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170113", "title": "Eprint", "text": "Eprint\n\nIn academic publishing, an eprint or e-print is a digital version of a research document (usually a journal article, but could also be a thesis, conference paper, book chapter, or a book) that is accessible online, whether from a local institutional, or \na central (subject- or discipline-based) digital repository.\n\nWhen applied to journal articles, the term \"eprints\" covers both preprints (before peer review) and postprints (after peer review).\n\nDigital versions of materials other than research documents are not usually called e-prints, but some other name, such as e-books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170115", "title": "Lachy Hulme", "text": "Lachy Hulme\n\nLachy Hulme (born 1 April 1971) is an Australian actor and screenwriter. He has written several films and has appeared in a number of successful Australian and US film and television productions.\n\nHulme was born in Melbourne, Victoria where he has lived most of his life. Hulme completed his secondary-schooling at Melbourne's Wesley College, graduating with honours in drama, appearing in school theatrical productions such as \"South Pacific\" and \"Rover\" in 1988. His early career included appearances in theatre productions such as \"Rinaldo 441\" and \"Sexual Perversity in Chicago\" and roles in Australian TV shows such as \"Blue Heelers\", \"Stingers\" and \"White Collar Blue\".\n\nHulme's first film role was starring in the Australian 1994 thriller \"The Intruder\", directed by Richard Wolstencroft but the film was not released due to the sudden closure of the production company Boulevard Films (it was belatedly released on DVD in 2005). In 1997, Hulme wrote the screenplay for the Canadian action-thriller \"Men with Guns\" directed by Kari Skogland (not to be confused with the similarly titled US film directed by John Sayles that was released the same year).\n\nIn 2000, Hulme appeared in the Australian thriller \"Four Jacks\", directed by Matthew George. Hulme received the prize for best actor at that year's Melbourne Underground Film Awards.\n\nThe following year (2001), Hulme re-teamed with George when the latter directed the controversial film comedy \"Let's Get Skase\" which Hulme both co-wrote and starred in. The film's premise was inspired by the real-life comedy event staged by Andrew Denton back in the 1990s on his Ch-7 late-night show \"Denton\" in which he had staged a telethon called \"Chase for Skase\" to raise funds to hire a kidnapper to bring fugitive businessman Christopher Skase back to Australia from Spain where he had moved following the collapse of his business empire in 1991. The film was a satirical comedy in which Hulme played the leader of a rag-tag gang of hired kidnappers who plan to break into Skase's Spanish mansion and smuggle him back to Australia to face his creditors. Un-expectedly, the real-life Skase died in Majorca in August 2001 whilst the film was in post-production, causing some criticism of the timing of the film's release shortly afterwards.\n\nIn 2003, Hulme scored roles in the sequels to the smash-hit science-fiction film \"The Matrix\". He played the role of Sparks, one of the free-born crew-members of one of the hover-ships in the films \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\", both films shot in Sydney. He also reprised the role for the \"Enter the Matrix\" video-games.\n\nDuring preparations to film \"The Dark Knight\" (2008), the sequel to \"Batman Begins\" (2005), it was reported that Hulme was being considered for the role of the Joker. This caused considerable speculation both in the press and amongst movie fans on the Internet. Ultimately, the role went to fellow Australian actor Heath Ledger and Hulme later said that the media fuss had annoyed him and that in reality, he had never been in the shortlist for the role as rumours had suggested, nor had he even met the film's director Christopher Nolan despite media reports to the contrary.\n\nIn 2006, Hulme played the role of MacDuff, alongside Sam Worthington in Geoffrey Wright's adaptation of William Shakespeare's play \"Macbeth\", in which the play was set amongst Melbourne's criminal underworld. Although the film received mixed reviews and fared poorly at the box-office, Hulme's performance received considerable praise. That same year, Hulme played a brash, foul-mouthed record-company executive in the Australian film comedy \"BoyTown\" directed by Kevin Carlin and reprised the role in the unreleased spin-off mockumentary \"BoyTown Confidential\" directed by Tony Martin.\n\nIn 2006-2007, on a number of occasions, Hulme appeared as a guest co-host on the Triple M radio comedy show \"Get This\" which starred Tony Martin and Ed Kavalee, a show that he was both a fan and vocal supporter of and on which he revealed his extensive knowledge of, and passion for, cinema.\n\nReturning to the small-screen in 2008, Hulme starred in the Australian TV comedy series \"The Hollowmen\", produced by Working Dog Productions and which aired on the ABC. The show was a comedy-satire, set in Parliament House, Canberra and featuring the fictional Central Policy Unit, a team designed to both formulate policy and, more importantly, ensure that any government decisions earn enough popularity to ensure re-election. The series garnered several awards and the debut episode drew in over a million viewers, an un-usually high figure for the ABC.\n\nOther TV roles followed. In 2009-2010, Hulme appeared in episodes of the TV comedies \"Chandon Pictures\" (Movie Extra) and \"The Librarians\" (ABC) and the Ch-10 police drama \"Rush\". In 2010, Hulme became a regular cast member on the Ch-10 drama series \"Offspring\", playing the role of the brilliant but eccentric Dr Martin Clegg for the four seasons that have aired so far.\n\nHulme has continued to also work in theatre, appearing in the Sydney Theatre Company's 2009 production of the comedy-drama play \"Elling\", based on an original Norwegian film and novel and directed for the stage by Pamela Rabe, a performance for which Hulme received good reviews.\n\nHe returned to the big screen in 2011, appearing as a rogue SAS soldier in the action-thriller \"The Killer Elite\", directed by Gary McKendry. The film, an Australian-US co-production and partially filmed in Victoria, starred Robert De Niro, Jason Statham and Clive Owen.\n\nIn 2012, Hulme starred in the Channel 9 TV movie \"Beaconsfield\", a dramatized depiction of the Beaconsfield Mine Collapse in Tasmania, 2006 where one miner was killed in a sudden cave-in and two others, Todd Russell and Brant Webb, were trapped for 14 days, prompting a large-scale rescue operation which drew in nationwide media coverage. Hulme starred as Russell, deliberately gaining weight in order to play the burly miner, alongside Shane Jacobson who played Webb.\n\nHe had a well received supporting role in the 2012 Australian comedy \"Any Questions for Ben?\", created by Working Dog Productions. In addition to \"Beasconsfield\", Hulme starred in the title role in another Channel 9 feature \"Howzat! Kerry Packer's War,\" a two-part drama about the media mogul Kerry Packer and his role in the founding of World Series Cricket in the 1970s. Hulme, having lost most of the weight he gained in 2011 for the filming of \"Beaconsfield\" (for the sake of his other acting commitments with the Fundamental Amish Theatre Company of Frankston), was again obliged to regain more girth to play the role of the heavy-set famous businessman. The role earnt Hulme considerable praise and the film was a ratings hit.\n\nIn 2012, Hulme also appeared in the comedy film \"Scumbus\", written and produced by, and starring, Ed Kavalee, the film airing on Channel 10 in November. Hulme has also appeared in Kavalee's next feature, the comedy-satire \"Border Protection Squad\", which has been completed but is awaiting a distributor.\n\nIn 2013, Hulme starred in Channel 9's prequel to \"Howzat!\", a mini-series called \"\". Hulme played the role of another member of the Packer dynasty, Sir Frank. The mini-series aired in September and Hulme received good reviews, one critic praising his \"forceful performance\" although ratings were disappointing.\n\nIn March 2014, Hulme was cast in the Nine Network's eight-part 2015 drama series, \"Gallipoli\" and in which he played Lord Kitchener.\n\nIn 2017, Hulme was cast as Blake Farron, leader of white nationalist group Patriot Blue in the television series \"Romper Stomper\", a follow-up to the 1992 film.\n"}
{"id": "2170116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170116", "title": "Robert H. Smith (philanthropist)", "text": "Robert H. Smith (philanthropist)\n\nRobert Hilton Smith (July 21, 1928 – December 29, 2009) was an American builder-developer and philanthropist. After taking over his father's real estate development business, Smith developed much of the Crystal City neighborhood, just south of Washington, D.C.\n\nSmith was born to a Jewish family, the son of Leah (née Goldstein) and Charles E. Smith. His father was a Jewish immigrant from Russia who founded the Charles E. Smith Companies in 1946. The company grew to become one of the largest commercial and residential landlords in the Washington, D.C., area, managing of office space and more than 30,000 residential units. Smith graduated from the University of Maryland, College Park.\n\nRobert and his brother-in-law, Robert P. Kogod, took control of Charles E. Smith Companies in 1967. Smith oversaw construction and development, and Kogod led leasing and management.\n\nStarting in the early 1960s, Smith developed the Crystal City neighborhood of Arlington, Virginia, just south of Washington, DC, which at the time, Smith said \"was very unattractive\" but Smith saw that \"there was an airport, there was The Pentagon, and that driving to D.C. was a pretty short distance\". Smith attracted government leases by offering discounted rents that did not go up over time.\n\nIn 1988, an article in the Washington Post estimated his net worth to be $290 million.\n\nIn 1995, Forbes estimated the Smith family fortune to be worth $560 million.\n\nIn 2001, the residential division of the company was merged into Archstone, which was sold to Equity Residential and Avalon Bay in 2013. The commercial division of the company was merged into Vornado Realty Trust, which merged the division into JBG Smith in 2017.\n\nSmith gave a total of approximately $100 million to the University of Maryland, College Park, his alma mater, including $30 million each to the Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center, completed in 2001 and named after his wife, Clarice Smith, and the business school, Robert H. Smith School of Business, which was named after him in 1998.\n\nThe Kogod School of Business at the American University in Washington, DC, is named after Robert P. Kogod, brother-in-law of Robert H. Smith.\n\nThe Charles E. Smith Athletic Center at George Washington University is named in his father's honor.\n\nSmith's contributions to Johns Hopkins Hospital allowed for the construction of a new research and surgical building for the Wilmer Eye Institute.\n\nSmith's donations help fund the Robert H. & Clarice Smith Auditorium at George Washington's Mount Vernon Estate and Gardens.\n\nSmith donated to fund the visitor's center at Thomas Jefferson's Monticello. The Thomas Jefferson Foundation renamed its International Center for Jefferson Studies the Robert H. Smith International Center for Jefferson Studies after Smith endowed the Center in 2004.\n\nIn 2008, Smith donated $7 million of the $15 million cost to renovate President Lincoln's Cottage at the Soldiers' Home.\n\nOn November 3, 2007, the National Society of Madison Family Descendants awarded the Madison Family Cup to Robert H. Smith for his extraordinary contributions to James Madison’s legacy and the preservation and development of Montpelier.\n\nSmith collected European paintings before donating his collection to the National Gallery of Art. Smith served as President of the gallery between 1993 and 2003, during which the museum expanded significantly.\n\nSmith's family also gave charitably to several Jewish communal causes in the greater Washington, DC, area, including the Charles E. Smith Life Communities, a senior housing and elder care campus in Rockville, Maryland, and the Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School, also in Rockville. Both organizations are named for Smith's father.\n\nHe served as chairman of the board of governors at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem from 1981 to 1985 and was awarded an honorary doctorate degree in 1984. He served as president of the Washington D.C. chapter of the American Friends of the Hebrew University.\n\nIn 2008, President George W. Bush awarded Smith with the National Humanities Medal.\n\nIn 1952, Smith married artist Clarice Smith, née Chasen. They had three children, Michelle and David, and Stephen (died 2003).. They resided in Crystal City, Virginia until his death of a stroke in December 2009. Services were held at Adas Israel Congregation in Cleveland Park, DC.\n"}
{"id": "2170118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170118", "title": "Oliveira do Hospital", "text": "Oliveira do Hospital\n\nOliveira do Hospital () is a municipality in the old district of Coimbra, in the central part of continental Portugal. The population in 2011 was 20,855, in an area of 234.52 km².\n\nInhabited by ancient civilizations, Oliveira do Hospital has Roman settlements, Visigothic relics, noble Gothic mansions as well as ancient villages built of slate. One can find Neolithic and Bronze Age burial grounds and genuine religious and rural relics such as the large granite outcroppings used as threshing floors, the Holy Cross Church and the Ferreiros Chapel, a Roman Gothic style temple dating to the 13th century and the Church of Sao Gião, known as the cathedral of its region due to its richly carved and painted 18th century Baroque interior.\n\nIt is located at the northern edge of the district of Coimbra in the foothills of the Serra da Estrela Mountains, bisected by the Alva and Alvoco River valleys. Administratively, the municipality is divided into 16 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\nIts fertile geographic position favors agriculture, which is the dominant activity of the region with wine and cheeses being important products. Regarding its business sector, confections, machine tools, packaging and toys are the most important. Oliveira do Hospital is known for its natural environment, cuisine, arts and crafts.\n\nAlthough Oliveira do Hospital is well within the interior of the country, transportation services are quite adequate and have been increasing as befits a growing region. There are a number of roads to the coast and other cities, the best known being the scenic Estrada da Beira.\n\nThe Bridge with Three Entrances (Ponte das Três Entradas), a very rare three-way bridge, crosses the Alva River at Oliveira do Hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170121", "title": "Legends Resort &amp; Country Club", "text": "Legends Resort &amp; Country Club\n\nThe Legends Resort & Country Club, often called simply Legends, is a hotel located on County Route 517 in Vernon Township in Sussex County, New Jersey, United States. In the 1970s, Hugh Hefner built it as The Great Gorge Playboy Club Hotel, officially opened in 1972. The Playboy Club was sold in 1981 to local owners and quietly took the franchise Americana Hotel in 1982. The hotel was sold to another local owner, lost the Americana Franchise so it was turned into The Seasons Hotel. Seasons was later sold again to parent-company Metairie Corp (owned by Hillel A. \"Hillie\" Meyers with individual hotel rooms owned by Andrew Mulvihill), which turned into its current incarnation as the Legends Resort & Country Club. The Hotel declined severely after 2000 and has been nearly derelict with the amenities all damaged and shut down. The hotel did stay open but mostly housed recipients since about 2005. After evicting long term tenants, the hotel finally closed to public operations in April 2018 with various plans to restore it for commercial use of some sort.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the Great Gorge Playboy Club had 800 rooms, but various owners since that time have combined units and converted many into condominiums, reducing the total number to less than 400 rooms at the current Legends Resort & Country Club. The eight-floor hotel has a cabaret, ballroom, restaurant, a fitness center, indoor pool, jacuzzis and an Olympic-sized swimming pool located outside. Most of the rooms have been renovated at least once, but some are still set up as originally constructed in 1970s decor. Much of the hotel became derelict by 2005.\n\nThe Playboy Club, in the 1970s, was the host of the first New Jersey Special Olympic Games.\n\nDavid Haulmark, a 36-year-old contract laborer living in the Legends Resort & Country Club, was beaten to death outside the hotel on August 17, 2008. Haulmark, an Oklahoma native who was working on a pipeline project in nearby New York, was found lying on a sidewalk near the east entrance of the resort around 3 a.m. He had been battered around the face and head, and authorities determined the cause of death to be blunt force trauma to the head, neck and face. Jacob R. Gentry, 27; Jarrod C. Gentry, 20, of Port Jervis, New York and Emily M. Henry, 24, of Plymouth, Michigan, were arrested in Port Jervis on August 17 in connection with the homicide. The Gentry brothers were charged with first-degree murder and endangering an injured victim. Henry allegedly pepper sprayed Haulmark and left the scene of the crime; she was charged with endangering an injured victim and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon.\n\nDefense attorneys said Jarrod Gentry jumped in to defend his brother after Haulmark and Jacob Gentry got into a fight. Gentry family members said Jacob Gentry had previously lived in Legends and moved out due to prior physical altercations with Haulmark over Henry, who was Jacob's girlfriend. Jacob Gentry also worked as a contract laborer with Precision Pipeline, the same Eau Claire, Wisconsin-based company where Haulmark worked. The Gentry brothers and Henry, all previously lived in Michigan (the Gentry brothers are originally from Tennessee), waived their extraditions from Orange County, New York on August 19 and will be tried in Vernon. The crime was the first murder charged in Sussex County in almost two years.\n\nAll three suspects were incarcerated in Sussex County Jail, but Jarrod Gentry was released in 2011, having been sentenced to time served. Jacob Gentry was sentenced to 30 years in prison for his primary role in the murder. 19 February 2016, after having his original conviction overturned, Jacob Gentry was found not guilty on all charges in a jury retrial.\n\nIn December 2008, Haulmark's family sued the owners of Legends Resort, alleging that negligence of hotel staff led to Haulmark's death. According to witnesses, two hotel bartenders saw Haulmark bleeding profusely outside the hotel doors on the night of his death but did not assist him, and in fact one bartender allegedly instructed patrons not to call 9-1-1. The suit alleged that the hotel had become a \"den of trouble\" including fights and drug use, with frequent responses to the hotel by police. The suit also alleged that the hotel bar did not have a bouncer or check for underage drinkers.\n\nOn March 16, 2012, the McAfee Fire Department and other fire units from Sussex County and Orange County responded to a 9-1-1 call at 9:02PM reporting a fire at the resort. The fire was restricted to the balcony of a vacant apartment, room 518, and caused limited damage. It was under control by 10:45PM. The fire was not considered suspicious, and may have been caused by a tossed cigarette. Fire units were forced to break open the front lobby doors to the hotel since they were locked. It was reported that 35 people were inside at that time and were forced to evacuate for a brief period of time. People were already leaving the hotel through a side door when firefighters arrived.\n\nThe Legends Resort & Country Club has been subject to several complaints and lawsuits in the 2000s (decade) by timeshare owners who argued that promised amenities were no longer available and that Legends officials were being dishonest and unreceptive to their concerns. Dozens of the owners, who formed an organization called Legends Owners United, said little upkeep had been done on the property, parts of the facade were falling off, the parking lot was cracking, tennis courts were deteriorating, interior ceilings were stained, hallway lighting was spotty, plywood covered some windows and many services were regularly closed, including an indoor pool, gym, restaurant, club and store. They also claimed Legends officials failed to provide them with statements documenting where money for repairs had been spent. About 1,600 people own Legends timeshares, which sold for between $8,000 and $11,000 each. Timeshare buyers generated $15 million in revenue for the Metairie company, as well as thousands more each year in maintenance fees.\n\nThree lawsuits against Legends have been consolidated and are currently pending in New Jersey Superior Court; two were filed by timeshare owners alleging mismanagement or impropriety in selling timeshares while the building was in violation of state fire codes, and one seeks class-action status for all timeshare owners. In a separate matter, Mountain Spa Inc., a McAfee-based spa company that rented space at Legends, sued the resort for $1 million in May 2006, alleging that the hotel frequently failed to provide heat and electricity when the spa rented space there starting in 2003. As a result, spa officials said they were frequently unable to operate its health club and had to close in August 2005. Hillel Meyers, Metairie Corp. president, acknowledged to state officials in a May 2005 letter that \"the property may be properly characterized as 'distressed.'\" Legends was previously part of RCI, one of the largest timeshare brokers in the world, but in December 2006, RCI removed it from the program, which many timeshare owners said significantly reduced their ability to trade vacation weeks with other resort locations. Legends Owners United has filed complaints with the Federal Trade Commission, the New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs and the state Real Estate Commission. State real estate regulators launched an investigation into the Legends Resort & Country Club in early 2007 in response to the complaints. Legends and Metairie officials have indicated they plan to sell some of the company's assets and make improvements, but have not provided specific plans or a timetable for any such changes.\n\nIn 2005, the Vernon Township Zoning Board rejected a proposal by Metairie Corp. and another firm that included 372 townhouses on surrounding the property. Township officials refused to allow any new construction at the resort until renovations were completed at the hotel itself, which officials described as an \"eyesore.\"\n\nIn 2011, the Vernon Township Council made several suggestions for the future of the Legends Resort property, including a potential Sussex County golf course, a medical center, or a community college branch. Also in 2011, \"The New Jersey Herald\" reported that according to Vernon mayor Vic Marotta, the owners of Legends Resort were in negotiations to sell the property. The property is \"a problem for our community on many, many fronts,\" Marotta said. If successful, the sale could lead to a $100,000 construction project within the following five years.\n\nPortions of the 1989 comedy \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\", starring Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder, were set and filmed at the hotel, referred to simply as the \"Great Gorge Resort\" in the movie. The swimming pool scene in the opening of the movie Dream House starring John Schneider and Marilu Henner was filmed there\n\n"}
{"id": "2170133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170133", "title": "Ciudad Juárez International Airport", "text": "Ciudad Juárez International Airport\n\nAbraham González International Airport is an international airport located in Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, Mexico, near the Mexico–United States border opposite El Paso, Texas. It accommodates national and international air traffic of the city of Ciudad Juárez. It is named after Governor Abraham González of the State of Chihuahua.\n\nIn 2013, Volaris initiated over 25 weekly flights departing Ciudad Juárez.\n\nIn 2018, Abraham González International Airport handled 1,364,028 passengers, and in 2019 it handled 1,597,471. One of the fastest growing airports in Mexico, traffic has doubled in the last five years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170138", "title": "Peter V. Hagner", "text": "Peter V. Hagner\n\nPeter Valentine Hagner (August 28, 1815 – March 11, 1893) was an officer of ordnance who served for over 40 years in the United States Army and was Brevetted Brigadier General.\n\nHagner was the son of government auditor Peter Hagner, and was born in Washington, D.C. After graduating the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, Hagner was assigned first to artillery, then topographical engineers, and finally ordnance in 1838, in which department service he spent the balance of his career.\n\nAt the outset of the Mexican–American War, First Lieutenant Hagner was assigned to the siege battery company, and was brevetted captain and major for \"gallant and meritorious conduct\" in battles leading to the capture of Mexico City in 1847. In the years before the American Civil War, Hagner commanded several arsenals, responsible for maintenance and upkeep on weaponry and military stores.\n\nConsidered a moderate unionist with a reputation of being a level-headed career soldier, the James Buchanan administration selected Hagner to command of the strategic St. Louis Arsenal at the outbreak of the war. The arsenal at the time was sought by both Union and Confederate sympathizers for its valuable contents, and during the early days of the war both legitimate and partisan guerrilla military units from both sides schemed to obtain control.\n\nWhile in command, Hagner used his authority to restrict Union Army Captain Nathaniel Lyon's access to the arsenal. Lyon was a well connected Republican who sought access to the arsenal for the purpose of arming pro-Union military units to fight against the seceding states. Lyon, enraged that his commander had denied him the arsenal's contents, then wrote of Hagner, making a threat to \"pitch him in the river.\"\n\nAfter the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln, Lyon began exerting pressure on the War Department through his friend Frank Blair, brother of the incoming Lincoln cabinet officer Montgomery Blair. Lyon sought to have Hagner relieved of the arsenal command and elevate himself as the replacement. Blair subsequently used his War Department connections to fulfill Lyon's request and Hagner's tenure at the arsenal was ended.\n\nBy March 1862, Hagner was serving on a commission on ordnance contracts and claims. He served as inspector of factories manufacturing small arms for the government until late 1863, when Hagner was promoted lieutenant colonel and held command of Watervliet Arsenal until war's end. Brevetted brigadier general for service; Hagner was a full Colonel in the ordnance department when he retired from the Army in 1881.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170150", "title": "Bruno Bauch", "text": "Bruno Bauch\n\nBruno Bauch (; January 19, 1877 in Groß-Nossen – February 27, 1942 in Jena) was a German neo-Kantian philosopher.\n\nBauch was born in Groß-Nossen, Münsterberg district, Silesia (now in Poland) and studied philosophy at Strasbourg, Heidelberg and Freiburg. In 1901, he received his doctorate under Heinrich Rickert at Freiburg, which entitled him to teach some courses (one of his students was Rudolf Carnap, who later became a central figure of the Vienna Circle). Bauch completed his Habilitation, entitling him to a professorship, at the University of Halle in 1903. He taught as a \"titular professor\" at Halle from 1903 to 1910, and from 1911 onward as an \"ordinary professor\" at the University of Jena.\n\nAt Jena, he befriended Gottlob Frege and collaborated with the neo-Kantian philosopher of language Richard Hönigswald. Bauch was an influential figure in the Kant-Gesellschaft (Kant Society) and helped publish the Prussian Academy's edition of Kant's collected works. Until 1916, he was editor of the Kant Society's journal, \"Kant-Studien\" (Kant Studies). He was forced to resign after publishing an anti-semitic article in a right-wing nationalist tabloid, which caused a storm of controversy in the Kant Society. (Many neo-Kantians, including Bauch's subsequent colleague Hönigswald, were Jewish, and quite a few were social democrats.) In 1917, Bauch founded a philosophical society of his own, the German Philosophical Society, which issued the journal \"Beiträge zur Philosophie des Deutschen Idealismus\" (Contributions to the Philosophy of German Idealism). Frege was among its contributors. When the Nazis came to power, Bauch's political views stood him in good stead. While many neo-Kantians had to emigrate and some ended up in concentration camps (including, for a year, Hönigswald), Bauch became head of the German Philosophical Society in 1934.\n\nHeinrich Rickert, whom Bauch studied under, was the most important leader of the so-called Badensian, or Southwest German school of neo-Kantianism after Wilhelm Windelband. Unlike its main rival, the Marburg school, the Badensian neo-Kantians were more interested in practical philosophy than in the philosophy of science. They emphasized the distinction between fact and value and sought to use the concept of \"value\" for epistemological and ontological purposes. For example, to say that a sentence is \"true\" is sometimes equated with saying that it 'commands assent' (i.e., that it \"ought\" to be believed). Bauch, however, was a rather unorthodox scion of the Badensian school, so much so that some commentators regard him as representing a distinct variety of neo-Kantianism. While Bauch shared an interest in the philosophy of value, he also had a much more lively interest in the philosophy of mathematics and logic than was common among the Badensian neo-Kantians. Unlike Rickert, he was sympathetic to Gottlob Frege's logicism (which Rickert had rejected on the old-fashioned Kantian grounds that logic was analytic, mathematics synthetic), and was conciliatory toward the Marburg neo-Kantians' belief in the unity of logic and mathematics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170151", "title": "The Old Manse", "text": "The Old Manse\n\nThe Old Manse is a historic manse in Concord, Massachusetts, United States famous for its American historical and literary associations. It is open to the public as a nonprofit museum owned and operated by the Trustees of Reservations. The house is located on Monument Street, with the Concord River just behind it. The property neighbors the North Bridge, a part of Minute Man National Historical Park.\n\nThe Old Manse was built in 1770 for the Rev. William Emerson, father of minister William Emerson and grandfather of transcendentalist writer and lecturer Ralph Waldo Emerson. The elder Rev. Emerson was the town minister in Concord, chaplain to the Provincial Congress when it met at Concord in October 1774 and later a chaplain to the Continental Army. Emerson observed the fight at the North Bridge, a part of the Concord Fight, from his farm fields while his wife and children witnessed the fight from the upstairs windows of their house.\n\nEmerson died in October 1776 in West Rutland, Vermont, while returning home from Fort Ticonderoga. His widow, Phebe Emerson, remarried to the Rev. Ezra Ripley, who succeeded Emerson as the minister at First Parish Church in Concord. Their family continued to live in the Old Manse. Ripley served as Concord's town minister for 63 years.\n\nIn October 1834, Ralph Waldo Emerson moved to Concord and boarded at the Manse where he lived with his aging step-grandfather Ezra Ripley. He shared the home with his mother Ruth, his brother Charles, and his aunt Mary Moody Emerson. While there, he wrote the first draft of his essay \"Nature\", a foundational work of the Transcendentalist movement. Also while living at the Old Manse, on January 24, 1835, Emerson proposed in a letter to Lydia Jackson. After their marriage, they moved elsewhere in Concord, to a home he named \"Bush\", now known as the Ralph Waldo Emerson House.\n\nIn 1842, the American writer Nathaniel Hawthorne rented the Old Manse for $100 a year. He moved in with his wife, transcendentalist Sophia Peabody, on July 9, 1842, as newlyweds. Peabody had previously visited Concord and met Ralph Waldo Emerson while working on a bas-relief portrait medallion of his brother Charles Emerson, who had died in 1836. She praised the town to Hawthorne, who responded, \"Would that we could build our cottage this very now amid the scenes. My heart thirsts and languishes to be there\". Prior to their arrival at the Manse, Henry David Thoreau created a vegetable garden for the couple. The Hawthornes lived in the house for three years. In the upstairs room that Hawthorne used as his study, one can still view affectionate sentiments that the two etched into the window panes. The inscription reads:\n\nOn the first anniversary of his marriage, Hawthorne and his neighbor, poet Ellery Channing, searched the neighboring Concord River for the body of Martha Hunt, a local woman who drowned. Hawthorne wrote of the incident, \"I never saw or imagined a spectacle of such perfect horror... She was the very image of death-agony.\" The incident inspired the climactic scene in his novel \"The Blithedale Romance\" (1852).\n\nThe Hawthornes hosted several notable guests while living here. In May 1845, future President of the United States Franklin Pierce visited along with their mutual Bowdoin College friend Horatio Bridge. Peabody recalled the meeting fondly and recorded her first impression of Pierce as \"loveliness and truth of character and natural refinement.\"\n\nDuring his time in the Old Manse, Hawthorne published about twenty sketches and tales, including \"The Birth-Mark\" and \"Rappaccini's Daughter\", which would be included in the collection \"Mosses from an Old Manse\" (1846). One description of the house he wrote notes: \"Between two tall gateposts of roughhewn stone... we behold the gray front of the old parsonage, terminating the vista of an avenue of black ash trees.\" Apocryphally, the Hawthornes were forced out of the home for not paying their rent. In actuality, the Ripley family wanted to reclaim the home for themselves. The Hawthornes moved to Salem in 1845. Returning to Concord seven years later, by then living on the other side of town at The Wayside, Sophia Hawthorne visited the Old Manse on October 1, 1852, and referred to it as \"the beloved old house\".\n\nThe house remained in use by the Emerson-Ripley family until 1939, and was conveyed to the Trustees of Reservations on November 3, 1939. The house was conveyed complete with all its furnishings, and contains a remarkable collection of furniture, books, kitchen implements, dishware, and other items, as well as original wallpaper, woodwork, windows and architectural features.\n\nThe Old Manse was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1966 and a Massachusetts Archaeological/Historic Landmark the same year.\n\nThe Manse is open seasonally for guided tours given by the Trustees of Reservations. The garden, originally created by Thoreau, has been recreated. The on-site book store in the house specializes in the American Revolution, women's history, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Transcendentalism, and sustainability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170156", "title": "Jack Hamilton (baseball)", "text": "Jack Hamilton (baseball)\n\nJack Edwin Hamilton (December 25, 1938 – February 22, 2018) was an American professional baseball pitcher, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB), from –, for the Philadelphia Phillies, Detroit Tigers, New York Mets, California Angels, Cleveland Indians, and Chicago White Sox.\n\nOriginally signed by the St. Louis Cardinals as a free agent, Hamilton debuted in MLB as a starting pitcher for the Phillies in 1962 and posted a 9–12 record with an earned run average of 5.09. Pitching for the Mets on May 4, 1966, Hamilton tossed a one-hitter against the Cardinals in St. Louis; the one hit being a bunt single by opposing pitcher Ray Sadecki . He showed more promise pitching out of the bullpen, and spent most of his career as a relief pitcher until his retirement in 1969, although he was converted back to a starting pitcher for the 1966 and 1967 seasons.\n\nIn 1967, Hamilton was traded by the Mets to the Angels. On August 18, the Angels were playing the Boston Red Sox in a game that would have important implications for the American League (AL) pennant race. The game became a turning point in the careers of two players. While facing outfielder Tony Conigliaro, who was set in a stance close to home plate, Hamilton hit him with a pitch on his left cheekbone that fractured both his cheekbone and eye socket, and severely damaged his retina. Conigliaro nearly died, and the damage to his vision kept him off the field the remainder of the year and all of 1968. Conigliaro made a promising-but-brief comeback in 1969–1970, until his vision problems returned, which eventually forced his early retirement from baseball in 1975 at age 30. Hamilton retired in 1969, finishing his career with the White Sox.\n\nHamilton lived in Branson, Missouri with his wife, Jan. Together, they have a son and two daughters. Since his retirement from baseball, Hamilton had owned and operated several restaurants in Iowa and Southwest Missouri. He died on February 22, 2018, at age 79.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170168", "title": "The National Sports Daily", "text": "The National Sports Daily\n\nThe National Sports Daily, simply referred to as The National, was a sports-centered newspaper published in the United States beginning on January 31, 1990. The newspaper was based in New York City, was printed in a tabloid format, \nand was published Monday through Friday.\n\n\"The National\" was an American attempt to emulate the model of several international all-sports publications, such as \"La Gazzetta dello Sport\" (Italy), \"L'Equipe\" (France), and others. The paper was founded by Mexican-American media mogul Emilio Azcárraga Milmo, who had owned Mexican television conglomerate Televisa and whose family had founded Univision. Azcárraga was also the chief financier for the paper and used the success of the international sports papers as his inspiration for founding \"The National\".\n\nWhen \"The National\" was launched, it featured National Basketball Association superstars Michael Jordan, Magic Johnson, and Patrick Ewing on the first cover to represent the Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York media markets (where the paper was initially available). The cover price was 50 cents.\n\nFor his editor in chief, Azcárraga turned to veteran sportswriter Frank Deford. At the time of the forming of the paper, Deford was a writer for \"Sports Illustrated\" and an NPR contributor. He also had very little newspaper experience, especially where editing was concerned. Future ESPN executive Vince Doria was brought in to be executive editor.\n\nDeford immediately set out to get what was referred to by Bill Simmons as a \"murderer's row\" of sportswriters to join \"The National\". Deford said that hiring \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" sports editor Van McKenzie away from the paper was the \"best thing he did\" and was the linchpin for getting many of the writers who eventually signed up to write for \"The National\" interested. Once McKenzie was hired, he brought his auto racing writer Ed Hinton and investigative reporter and NFL analyst Chris Mortensen with him. Norman Chad, who was writing for the \"Washington Post\" at the time, was hired, as was \"New York Daily News\" writer Mike Lupica, \"Rocky Mountain News\" writer Jay Mariotti, \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" writer Dave Meltzer, \"Dallas Morning News\" writer Ivan Maisel, \"Boston Globe\" writer Leigh Montville, and various others. Tony Kornheiser considered taking a job with the National but decided to stay at the \"Washington Post.\"\n\n\"The National\" used \"The Wall Street Journal\"'s printing and distribution network to publish separate editions in each time zone. However, this did not help matters. Problems arose almost from day one, as \"The National\" was not as widely circulated as expected. For the first few months, where the paper was being rolled out on a market-to-market basis, there was an expected circulation of 250,000 copies a day, eventually hoping to rise to 1,000,000 copies by 2001. \"The National\" also did not generate much in the way of advertising revenue as the publishers were unable to secure companies that were able (or willing) to purchase ad space. Furthermore, readers of \"The National\" could only receive the paper by purchasing it at retail outlets like newsstands and bookstores or in street boxes; the paper attempted to offer a home delivery subscription service but could not work out the logistics, and editor-in-chief Frank Deford noted that he had to cancel his own potential subscription account when everyone else on his street did.\n\nTiming also proved a concern. \"The Wall Street Journal\" facilities would often have deliveries leave the distributors at such an early time that \"The National\" was often unable to meet deadlines for game results. Another problem this created was inconsistency, as some cities that sold \"The National\" in street boxes often saw these boxes left empty. To top it off, major market papers refused to allow \"The National\" to run advertising in their publications and some sportswriters at competing local papers resorted to attacking the street boxes with baseball bats.\n\nAs the year went on the financial state of \"The National\" got worse and worse, to the point where the paper had tens of millions of dollars cut from its budget as 1991 began. The cover price was increased by a quarter as well, which caused the already low circulation to decline further as readers were even less willing to spend seventy-five cents to receive national sports news that they could find in their local publications, or the nationally-distributed \"USA Today\" by comparison, for fifty cents or even less.\n\nDespite a last-ditch effort to start an online distribution through Compuserve, the declining circulation was enough for \"The National\" to announce it was ceasing publication. On June 13, 1991, \"The National\" put out its final issue with its front cover reading \"We Had A Ball: The fat lady sings our song.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2170169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170169", "title": "Matthew 4:22", "text": "Matthew 4:22\n\nMatthew 4:22 is the twenty-second verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. After recruiting Simon Peter and Andrew as disciples, Jesus encountered the brothers James and John and their father Zebedee. In this verse they also join him.\n\nThe text in Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:22\n\nThis verse is quite similar to where Simon Peter and Andrew choose to follow Jesus. Like that verse the immediacy and renunciative nature of their becoming disciples is emphasized. The sacrifice is enhanced in this verse, however, as James and John are not only giving up worldly goods but also abandoning their father. This renunciation of family ties is also emphasized in -. Carter feels this is evidence that Jesus is rejecting the traditional patriarchal structure of society where the father had command over his children. Instead all will be equally brothers under God the father. Carter notes that the breaking of family ties were not absolute, however. Throughout the Gospel John and James are described as the \"sons of Zebedee\" and in , when the disciples visit Peter's family.\n\nThis verse is quite similar to , except that in that verse the adverb \"immediately\" is used to modify Jesus' calling of the pair, not their coming. If the author of Matthew is basing his work on Mark, as is theorized by the two-source hypothesis, then he made a conscious decision to emphasize the rapidity of the disciples response. Immediate obedience to the word of God is an important virtue in the Gospel of Matthew, as seen earlier in Joseph's prompt obedience to the divine messages in Matthew 2.\n\nSome early manuscripts containing the text of this verse are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2170171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170171", "title": "Superstition (disambiguation)", "text": "Superstition (disambiguation)\n\nSuperstition is a belief, not based on human reason or scientific knowledge, that future events may be influenced by one's behaviour in some magical or mystical way.\n\nSuperstition may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2170173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170173", "title": "Plano Independent School District", "text": "Plano Independent School District\n\nPlano Independent School District (PISD or Plano ISD) is an independent school district in southwestern Collin County, Texas, based in Plano. Plano ISD serves about of land, with of it within the City of Plano. The district also takes students from northern portions of Dallas and Richardson, and portions of Allen, Carrollton, Garland, Lucas, Murphy, Parker, and Wylie.\n\nPISD serves over 55,000 students and employs approximately 6,400 faculty members spread across 65 schools and 2 special and 4 early education centers. PISD had a 2012–13 operating budget of 434.5 million U.S. dollars. The district named Sara Bonser as Interim Superintendent in November 2017. On March 6, 2018 Sara Bonser became Superintendent of Plano ISD, becoming the first female to hold the Superintendent title for the District.\n\nIn 2010, the school district was rated \"recognized\" by the Texas Education Agency.\n\nThere are two areas in North Dallas that are in Plano ISD, both in Collin County: one that is east of Midway Road, south of the George Bush Turnpike, and west of Waterview Parkway; and a group of apartments around Horizon North Parkway. These areas, annexed into the City of Dallas after 1960, are generally high income.\n\nPlano ISD has an educational structure that differs from the typical U.S. educational pattern. Primary education in PISD, following the typical U.S. structure, consists of 44 elementary schools that serve the kindergarten through fifth grades. However, PISD's system of secondary education consists of 13 middle schools that serve the sixth through eighth grades, 6 'high schools' that serve the ninth and tenth grades, and 3 'senior high schools' that serve the eleventh and twelfth grades. The 'high school' and 'senior high school' system is a departure from the standard U.S. high school that serves the ninth through twelfth grades.\n\nPISD students attend schools based primarily on the geographic location of their homes. Schools of a lower level feed into specific schools at the next highest level. The three exceptions to the feeder system is for students wishing to participate in the International Baccalaureate program, the Health Sciences Academy, or the STEAM Academy. Parents of students may also request transfers out of their students' assigned schools for various reasons (such as to take classes unique to a particular school).\n\nThis system leads to very large graduating classes and overall student populations. At Plano Senior High School, Plano East Senior High School, and Plano West Senior High School, the current student populations are listed as 2,567, 2,795, and 2,160 students, respectively. Each year's graduating class is approximately half of each number. Previous years' Graduation Commencement Ceremonies have taken place at Ford Center and the Dallas Convention Center.\n\nThe Board of Trustees includes seven at-large elected members that oversee the district. Elections are held in May in odd-numbered years for either three or four candidates. The next election is May, 2019 for seats 4, 5, 7 and the remaining 2 years for seat 6. The Board elects a President, Vice President and Secretary.\n\nAll three of PISD's senior high schools were recently listed in the top 250 of \"Newsweek\"s list of 1000 top high schools in America. In the 2012 list, Plano West Senior High School was ranked as 63rd in the country, Plano Senior High School was ranked 108th, and Plano East Senior High School was ranked 243rd. In 2011, Plano West Senior High had been ranked 98 on Newsweek's \"America's Best High Schools,\" and Plano East Senior High had been ranked 461. Plano ISD schools reportedly administer more Advanced Placement tests than any other school district west of the Mississippi River.\n\nPlano ISD opened three academies (4-year high schools) in the 2013–2014 school year. The first \"Academy High School\", a STEAM, project based, high school that serves grades 9–12.\n\nThe second magnet focuses on Health science, and is housed at Williams High School for grades 9–10, and will continue at Plano East Senior High School for grades 11–12.\n\nAdditionally, the district has modified its existing International Baccalaureate program so that all four grades will be housed at Plano East Senior High as a \"school within a school\".\n\nThe mean SAT score (math plus reading) for the district is 1152 out of 1600, and the mean ACT (test) composite score is 25.7, with 83.5% of district students taking the SAT or ACT. 43.4% of district students take AP or IB courses, and 84.3% of those students pass their AP or IB exam(s). Plano ISD offers all AP courses except AP Italian Language and Culture and AP Japanese Language and Culture to students.\n\nIn the 2012–2013 school year, Plano ISD had 128 students named National Merit Semifinalists, more than any other Texas school district. Also in the 2012–2013 school year, ten PISD students were named semifinalists in the Siemens Competition, and two were named as finalists. In the state of Texas, a total of thirty eight and eleven students, respectively, captured those honors in the Siemens competition. In the 2011–2012 school year, 76 students were selected as All-state musicians.\n\nIn the 1990s Plano ISD received many non-Hispanic white families leaving urban areas. However this changed in the period from 1997 to 2015 as the number of non-Hispanic white children in Plano ISD declined by 10,000.\n\nIn 1991 Plano ISD began a Chinese bilingual program for preschool and kindergarten students developed by Donna Lam. It is one of two Chinese bilingual programs in the State of Texas, along with the one established by the Austin Independent School District. It was established after Chinese professionals began to settle Plano.\n\nOn the 9 December 2005, edition of \"The O'Reilly Factor\", as part of his \"War on Christmas\" segment, news commentator, Bill O'Reilly falsely claimed that the district had banned students from wearing red and green clothing \"because they were Christmas colors.\" An attorney from the school district requested a retraction. O'Reilly later retracted his allegation on 20 December. O'Reilly had mistakenly included clothing among the items banned by PISD, while the ongoing lawsuit against the district only alleges the banning of the distribution of written religious materials.\n\nThat lawsuit was originally filed against PISD on Dec 15, 2004 (\"Jonathan Morgan, et al., v. the Plano Independent School District, et al.\"). On Dec 16, 2004, prior to the school \"winter parties, Judge Paul Brown of the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas issued a Temporary Restraining Order, requiring PISD to lift these restrictions. The \"Morgan, et al., v. Plano Independent School District\" (PISD) case began in 2003, with school officials even banning students from using red and green napkins and paper plates to a school-sponsored \"holiday\" party.\n\nIn another more serious legal dispute, Plano ISD was found to have violated First Amendment rights of parents during public meetings about the implementation of a controversial new math curriculum, \"Connected Math\". During several years of appeals by PISD, the ruling was consistently upheld at all levels, including the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (in July 2003.) The district briefly considered an appeal to the United States Supreme Court, but instead reached a settlement of $400,000. It is important to note that this was a settlement of the judgment, not the ruling of a First Amendment rights violation by the district.\n\nThe most recent Federal lawsuit against PISD was filed in March, 2006 by a religious group, Students Witnessing Absolute Truth (SWAT), alleging religious discrimination. In a Decision of the US District Court granting a preliminary injunction against Plano ISD, the judge said, part, \"The issue in this case is not one of sponsorship or the lack thereof, but of the flagrant denial for equal access guaranteed to S.W.A.T. ... The harm at issue is irreparable because it inhibits the exercise of Plaintiff's First Amendment freedoms of speech and religion.\" On April 26, 2006, Plano ISD offered, and SWAT accepted, an Offer of Settlement, which included the district's promise to change its discriminatory policy.\n\nIn the November 2010, following a complaint by the parents of a student, the Plano ISD textbook board decided to remove the textbook, \"Culture and Values: A Survey of the Humanities: Alternative Volume\" by Lawrence S. Cunningham, from its Humanities curriculum because the illustrations of works of art included nudity and various sex acts. After a public outcry, the decision was reversed within days.\n\nEach household in Plano ISD is zoned to an elementary school, a middle school, a high school, and a senior high school. High schools serve grades 9–10 while senior high schools serve grades 11–12; however, any 9th or 10th grader is eligible to participate in extracurricular sports at the senior high level. There are 67 schools: 44 elementary schools, 13 middles schools, 6 high schools, 3 senior high schools, and 1 alternative STEM-based high school, Plano ISD Academy High School. Out of the 67 schools, 56 are located within the city of Plano. There are 4 schools in both Murphy and Richardson, 2 schools are in North Dallas, and 1 school in Allen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170180", "title": "Kilmacduagh", "text": "Kilmacduagh\n\nKilmacduagh () is a small village in south County Galway, near Gort, in Ireland. It is the site of Kilmacduagh monastery, seat of the Diocese of that name. The diocese is now part of the Diocese of Galway and Kilmacduagh in the Roman Catholic Church and in the Diocese of Limerick and Killaloe in the Church of Ireland. The former cathedral is now a ruin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170200", "title": "Norbulingka", "text": "Norbulingka\n\nNorbulingka (; Wylie: \"Nor-bu-gling-ka\"; ; literally \"Jeweled Park\") is a palace and surrounding park in Lhasa, Tibet, China, built from 1755. It served as the traditional summer residence of the successive Dalai Lamas from the 1780s up until the 14th Dalai Lama's exile in 1959. Part of the \"Historic Ensemble of the Potala Palace\", Norbulingka is recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and was added as an extension of this Historic Ensemble in 2001. It was built by the 7th Dalai Lama and served both as administrative centre and religious centre. It is a unique representation of Tibetan palace architecture.\n\nNorbulingka Palace is situated in the west side of Lhasa, a short distance to the southwest of Potala Palace. Norbulingka covers an area of around and considered to be the largest man made garden in Tibet.\n\nNorbulingka park is considered the premier park of all such horticultural parks in similar ethnic settings in Tibet. During the summer and autumn months, the parks in Tibet, including the Norbulinga, become hubs of entertainment with dancing, singing, music and festivities. The park is where the annual Sho Dun or 'Yoghurt Festival' is held.\n\nThe Norbulingka palace has been mostly identified with the 13th and the 14th Dalai Lamas who commissioned most of the structures that still stand today. During the invasion of Tibet in 1950, a number of buildings were damaged, but were rebuilt beginning in 2003, when the Chinese government initiated renovation works here to restore some of the damaged structures, and also the greenery, the flower gardens and the lakes.\n\nIn Tibetan, Norbulingka means “Treasure Garden.” or Treasure Park\". The word 'Lingka' is commonly used in Tibet to define all horticultural parks in Lhasa and other cities. When the Cultural Revolution began in 1966, Norbulingka was renamed People's Park and opened to the public.\n\nThe palace, with 374 rooms, is located west of the Potala Palace, which was the winter palace. It is in the western suburb of Lhasa City on the bank of the Kyichu River. When construction of the palace was started (during the 7th Dalai Lama's period) in the 1740s, the site was a barren land, overgrown with weeds and scrub and infested with wild animals.\n\nThe park, situated at an elevation of had flower gardens of roses, petunias, hollyhocks, marigolds, chrysanthemums and rows of herbs in pots and rare plants. Fruit trees including apple, peach and apricot were also reported (but the fruits did not ripen in Lhasa), and also poplar trees and bamboo. In its heyday, the Norbulingka grounds were also home to wildlife in the form of peacocks and brahminy ducks in the lakes. The park was so large and well-laid-out, that cycling around the area was even permitted to enjoy the beauty of the environment. The gardens are a favorite picnic spot, and provide for a beautiful venue for theater, dancing and festivals, particularly the Shodun or 'Yogurt Festival' at the beginning of August, with families camping in the grounds for days, surrounded by colorful makeshift windbreaks of rugs and scarves while enjoying the height of summer weather.\n\nThere is also a zoo at Norbulingka, originally created to house the animals which were given to the Dalai Lamas. Heinrich Harrer helped the 14th Dalai Lama build a small movie theater there in the 1950s.\n\nNorbulingka Palace of the Dalai Lamas was built about 100 years after the Potala Palace was built on the Parkori peak, over a land area. It was built a little away to the west of the Potala for the exclusive use by the Dalai Lama to stay in during the summer months. Tenzing Gyatso, the present 14th Dalai Lama, stayed here before he fled to India. The building of the palace and the park was undertaken by the 7th Dalai Lama from 1755. The Norbulingka Park and Summer Palace were completed in 1783 under Jampel Gyatso, the 8th Dalai Lama, on the outskirts of Lhasa. and became the summer residence during the reign of the Eighth Dalai Lama.\n\nThe earliest history of Norbulingka is traced originally to a spring at this location, which was used during the summer months by the 7th Dalai Lama to cure his health problems. Qing Dynasty permitted the Dalai Lama to build a palace at this location for his stay, as a resting pavilion. Since subsequent Dalai Lamas also used to stay here for their studies (before enthronement) and as a summer resort, Norbulingka came to be known as the Summer Palace of the Dalai Lama.\n\nThe 8th Dalai Lama was responsible for many additions to the Norbulingka complex in the form of palaces and gardens. However, it is sometimes reported that 6th through to 12th Dalai Lamas died young and under mysterious circumstances, conjectured as having been poisoned. Most of the credit for the expansion of Norbulingka is given to the 13th and the 14th Dalai Lamas.\n\nIt was from the Norbulingka palace that the Dalai Lama escaped to India on 17 March 1959, under the strong belief that he would be captured by the Chinese. On this day, the Dalai Lama dressed like an ordinary Tibetan, and, carrying a rifle across his shoulder, left the Norbulinga palace and Tibet to seek asylum in India. As there was a dust storm blowing at that time, he was not recognized. According to Reuters, “The Dalai Lama and his officials, who had also escaped from the palace, rode out of the city on horses to join his family for the trek to India”. The Chinese discovered this \"great escape\" only two days later. The party journeyed through the Himalayas for two weeks, and finally crossed the Indian border where they received political asylum. Norbulingka was later surrounded by protesters and subject to an attack by the Chinese.\n\nThe summer residence of the Dalai Lama, located in the Norbulingka Park, is now a tourist attraction. The palace has a large collection of Italian chandeliers, Ajanta frescoes, Tibetan carpets, and many other artifacts. Murals of Buddha and the 5th Dalai Lama are seen in some rooms. The 14th Dalai Lama’s (who fled from Tibet and took asylum in India) meditation room, bedroom, conference room and bathroom are part of the display and are explained to tourists.\n\nBuilt in the 18th century, the Norbulingka Palace and the garden within its precincts have undergone several additions over the years. The vast complex covers a garden area of 3.6 km including 3.4 km of lush green pasture land covered with forests. It is said to be the “highest garden” anywhere in the world and has earned the epithet “Plateau Oxygen Bar.”\n\nThe Norbulingka is the \"world's highest, largest and best-preserved ancient artificial horticultural garden\"., which also blends gardening with architecture and sculpture arts from several Tibetan ethnic groups; 30,000 cultural relics of ancient Tibetan history are preserved here. The complex is demarcated under five distinct sections. A cluster of buildings to the left of the entrance gate is the Kelsang Phodang (The full name of this palace is \"bskal bzang bde skyid pho brang\"), named after the 7th Dalai Lama, Kelsang Gyatso (1708–1757). It is a three-storied palace with chambers for the worship of Buddha, bedrooms, reading rooms and shelters at the centre. The Khamsum Zilnon, a two-storied pavilion, is opposite the entry gate. The 8th Dalai Lama, Jamphel Gyatso (1758–1804) substantially enlarged the palace by adding three temples and the perimeter walls on the south east sector and the park also came to life with plantation of fruit trees and evergreens brought from various parts of Tibet. The garden was well developed with a large retinue of gardeners. To the northwest of Kelsang Phodrong is the Tsokyil Phodrong, which is a pavilion in the midst of a lake and the Chensil Phodrong. On the west side of Norbulingka is the Golden Phodron, built by a benefactor in 1922, and a cluster of buildings which were built during the 13th Dalai Lama's time. The 13th Dalai Lama was responsible for architectural modifications, including the large red doors to the palace; he also improved the Chensel Lingkha garden to the northwest. To the north of Tsokyil Phodrong is the Takten Migyur Phodrong which was built in 1954 by 14th Dalai Lama and is the most elegant palace in the complex, a fusion of a temple and villa. The new summer palace, which faces south, was built with Central Government funds, and completed in 1956.\n\nThe earliest building is the Kelsang Palace built by the Seventh Dalai Lama which is \"a beautiful example of Yellow Hat architecture. Dalai Lamas watched, from the first floor of this palace, the folk operas held opposite to the Khamsum Zilnon during the Shoton festival. Its fully restored throne room is also of interest.\"\n\nThe Norbulingka ’s most dramatic area was the Lake Palace, built in the southwest area. In the centre of the lake, three islands were connected to the land by short bridges. A palace was built on each island. A horse stable and a row of four houses contained the gifts received by the Dalai Lamas from the Chinese emperors and other foreign dignitaries.\n\nConstruction of the 'New Palace' was begun in 1954 by the present Dalai Lama, and completed in 1956. It is a double-story structure with a Tibetan flat roof. It has an elaborate layout with a maze of rooms and halls. This modern complex contains chapels, gardens, fountains and pools. It is a modern Tibetan-style building embellished with ornamentation and facilities. In the first floor of this building, there are 301 paintings (frescoes) on Tibetan history, dated to the time when Dalai Lama and the Panchen Lama met Chairman Mao Zedong. As of 1986, the palace had an antique Russian radio, and a Philips console still containing old 78 rpm records.\nThe entire Norbulingka complex was delimited by two sets of walls. The area encompassed by the inner wall, painted yellow, was exclusively for the use of the Dalai Lama and his attendants. Officials and the Dalai Lama's royal family lived in the area between the inner yellow wall and the outer wall. A dress code was followed for visitors to enter the palace; those wearing Tibetan dress were allowed; guards posted at the gates controlled the entry, and ensured that no western hat-wearing people (which was made popular in Tibet during Lhamdo Dhondups time) were allowed inside. Wearing shoes inside the park was banned. Guards at the gate offered a formal arms salute to the nobles and high-ranking officials. Even the officials at the lower category also received a salute. The gates outside the yellow wall were heavily protected. Only the Dalai Lama and his guardians could pass through these gates. Tibetan mastiff dogs kept in niches of the compound walls, and tied with long yak hair leashes, were the guard dogs that patrolled the perimeter of the Norbulingka.\n\nOn the east gate to the Norbulingka there are two Snow Lion statues covered in khatas (thin white scarves offered as a mark of respect), the Snow Lion on the left is accompanied by a lion cub. The mythical Snow Lion is the symbol of Tibet; according to legend they jump from one snow peak to another. Most of the buildings are closed now; have become storehouses or used as offices for those who take care of the maintenance works. Some additional buildings seen now are souvenir kiosks catering to the visitors.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, the Norbulingka complex suffered extensive damage. However, in 2001, the Central Committee of the Chinese Government in its 4th Tibet Session resolved to restore the complex to its original glory. Grant funds to the extent of 67.4 million Yuan (US$8.14 million) were sanctioned in 2002 by the Central Government for restoration work; restoration work beginning in 2003 mainly covered the Kelsang Phodron Palace, the Kashak Cabinet offices and many other structures.\n\nNorbulingka was declared a \"National Important Cultural Relic Unit”, in 1988 by the State council. On 14 December 2001, UNESCO inscribed it as a World Heritage Site as part of the \"Historic Ensemble of the Potala Palace\". The historic ensemble covers three monuments namely, the Potala Palace, winter palace of the Dalai Lama, the Jokhang Temple Monastery and the Norbulingka, the Dalai Lama's former summer palace built in the 18th century considered a masterpiece of Tibetan art. The citation states: \"preservation of vestiges of the traditional Tibetan architecture\". This is viewed in the context of extensive modern development that has taken place under Chinese suzerainty in Tibet. The Chinese State Tourism Administration has also categorized Norbulingka at a “Grade 4 A at the National Tourism (spot) level,” in 2001. It was also declared a public park in 1959.\n\nSho Dun Festival, also spelt Shoton Festival, (popularly known as the \"yogurt festival\") is an annual festival held at Norbulingka. The date for the festival is set according to the Tibetan calendar, which is a Lunar-based calendar. The festival is celebrated during the seventh month in the first seven days of the Full Moon period, which corresponds to dates in July/August according to the Gregorian calendar. The week-long festivities are marked by eating and drinking, with \"Ache Lhamo\", the Tibetan opera performances as the highlight, held in the park and other venues in the city. On this occasion yak races are a special attraction held in the Lhasa stadium. During this festival, famed Opera troupes from different regions of Tibet perform at the Norbulingka grounds; the first opera troupe was founded in the 15th century by Tangtong Gyelpo, considered the Leonardo da Vinci of Tibet. Over the centuries other opera formats of the 'White Masked Sect' and the \"innovative\" 'Black Masked Sect' added to the repertoire, and all these forms and subsequent innovations are enacted at the Sho Dun festival. The Chinese observe the holidays of the Chinese calendar at the Norbulingka grounds with Tibetan music and dance under Government patronage. Tibetans also observe traditional holidays with Tibetan music and dance at this venue.\n\nDuring the reign of the Dalai Lamas (from the 7th Dalai Lama onwards), their annual shifting of residence from the Potala Palace to Norbulingka Palace was also an elaborate festive event. The Dalai Lama used to be escorted in a glittering procession to spend 6 months of the summer season in the Norbulingka Palace.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170203", "title": "Jan Chapman", "text": "Jan Chapman\n\nJan Chapman (born 28 March 1950) is an Australian film producer. Films produced by Chapman include \"The Last Days of Chez Nous\", \"The Piano\", \"Love Serenade\", \"Holy Smoke!\", and \"Lantana\".\n\nChapman met her first husband, film director Phillip Noyce, whilst studying English and Fine Arts at university in the late 1960s. It was during this period that she began working on small, independent films, as part of the Sydney Filmmakers Co-op. In the early 1970s she directed short fiction films and documentaries. Later, she worked in the Education department of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, and began producing television series, including \"Sweet and Sour\".\n\nChapman was nominated for the Best Picture at the AFI Awards in 1992 for \"The Last Days of Chez Nous\". In 1994, she was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture for \"The Piano\".\n\nChapman's photo was mistakenly displayed next to Janet Patterson's name during the \"In Memoriam\" segment at the 89th Academy Awards. Shortly after the flub, Chapman announced publicly that she is \"alive and well,\" and was given an apology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170204", "title": "Wild Talents", "text": "Wild Talents\n\nWild Talents, published in 1932, is the fourth and final non-fiction book by the author Charles Fort, known for his writing on the paranormal.\n\nLike Fort's previous works, this book deals largely with a number of anomalous phenomena, as well as his ongoing attack on current scientific theories. The book deals for the most part with trying to fit the various phenomena described into Fort's new theory of psychic and mental power – the \"Wild Talents\" of the title – that are detailed below.\n\nAs did his previous book, \"Lo!\", \"Wild Talents\" deals with a wide range of phenomena. Fort's writing style and tongue-in-cheek sense of self-deprecating humor is prominent, particularly in the section on his own purported psychic experiences, and the book is shorter than his previous works.\n\nIn recounting a wide variety of odd phenomena, Fort largely disregards his previous teleportation theory, or at least incorporates him into his new thesis. Rather than a vague \"Cosmic joker\", as he postulated in his earlier books, the responsibility for these occurrences are freak powers that occur in the human mind, that cannot be naturally developed, but are there, Fort feels, as a sort of throwback to primeval times.\n\nFort discusses many topics he had touched on before, though generally in more detail than in his other works – poltergeists, spontaneous human combustion, animal mutilations, vampires, and ghosts – along with many supposed cases of psychokinesis and ability to control one's surroundings. His thesis is that in primeval times, man needed such extraordinary powers in order to survive in the wilderness, and that all people can potentially develop these powers if they literally put their mind to it. He also explores alleged cases of witchcraft and murder by mental suggestion, compiling an impressive list of \"occult criminology\" (people apparently being murdered under peculiar or unexplainable circumstances) in support. He also attacks the general sense of taboo which he feels prevents wild talents from being accepted, and suggests that such \"talents\" would become acceptable if science would deem them as such.\n\nFort also plays around with the idea that humans are able to transform into animals at will, citing a number of cases of werewolves and other similar creatures such as gorillas and hyenas. He also casually (and quite humorously) dismisses, in one chapter, reports of a talking dog that \"disappeared in a thin, greenish vapor\", because, in his view, it is an extraordinary event, and he only deals with quite ordinary ones.\n\nFort also briefly mentions a purported psychic occurrence that happened to him and his family where he imagined a picture frame in his house falling from the wall and it then happened. He regards this with his usual tongue-in-cheek manner, and it is doubtful (as usual) that he seriously believes what he is saying.\n\nThis book is available as part of Dover Publications' collection of \"The Complete Works of Charles Fort\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2170206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170206", "title": "Price–Harney Truce", "text": "Price–Harney Truce\n\nThe Price–Harney Truce was a document signed on May 21, 1861, between United States Army General William S. Harney (Commander of the U.S. Army's Western Department) and Missouri State Guard commander Sterling Price at the beginning of the American Civil War.\n\nThe truce sought to forestall the outbreak of violence in the state of Missouri following the Camp Jackson Affair, in which Union army troops under the command of Captain Nathaniel Lyon had captured Missouri State Militia mustered on the outskirts of St. Louis. While Lyon marched the captured militia to the St. Louis Arsenal through a crowd, a civilian riot ensued. The soldiers fired into the crowd and killed several people. In the aftermath of the riot, the Missouri State Legislature enacted the governor's \"Military Bill\" replacing the Missouri State Militia with a new Missouri State Guard. The governor appointed Sterling Price major general and commander of the State Guard.\n\nGeneral Harney had been away from St. Louis during the Camp Jackson affair. Upon his return, he met with Price to sign a joint statement \"for the purpose of removing misapprehensions and allaying public excitement,\" its object being \"that of restoring peace and good order to the people of the State in subordination to the laws of the General and State Governments.\"\n\nThe Price–Harney Truce made federal forces responsible for order in the St. Louis area, and state forces responsible for order in the rest of the state. Under the terms of the truce, as understood by Harney, the agreement obligated the Missouri State Guard to protect Unionist Missourians from harassment and to hold the state for the Union. Harney also informed Price that several clauses in Missouri's recently enacted \"Military Bill\" would have to be modified to remove potential conflicts with the federal government's legal authority.\n\nThe truce drew the immediate ire of a wide variety of Missouri Unionists (including the politically powerful Congressman Frank Blair), who lobbied President Lincoln and the War Department to have Harney relieved of command. In the face of reports of abuses against Missouri Unionists, and continued negotiations between Governor Jackson and the Confederate Government, Lincoln approved Harney's replacement as commander of the Western District by newly promoted Brigadier General Nathaniel Lyon. The change of command took place on May 30. Whereas Harney was recognized as a legalistic and cautious Unionist, Lyon was an outspoken Abolitionist, with a long-standing relationship with several militant Missouri Unionist organizations. Lyon's elevation effectively ended the truce with Price.\n\nOn June 11 Missouri Governor Claiborne Fox Jackson held a last-ditch meeting at the Planter's House Hotel in St. Louis to delay open conflict in the State. Jackson was an open Confederate sympathizer and Price had been a conditional Unionist until the Camp Jackson Affair. During the meeting, Lyon angrily refused Price's requests to limit federal forces to the metropolitan St. Louis area, and to disband \"Home Guard\" companies established by Missouri Unionists. Lyon refused to accept any limitations on his military actions in the state, and eventually halted the meeting, informing Governor Jackson and MG Price that such limitations on federal authority \"means war\". Price and Jackson returned to the State Capitol at Jefferson City, and worked to concentrate State Guard forces in anticipation of open warfare with Unionist forces. Three days later Lyon landed troops at the state capitol from steamboats and occupied the city without a shot fired. Lyon's mixed force of volunteers and Regulars subsequently routed the State Guard at the June 17, 1861 Battle of Boonville which gave Unionist forces control of Jefferson City, the Missouri River line and the strategic North Missouri Railroad.\n\nIn the absence of Governor Jackson, who had fled to the southern part of the state with the Guardsmen, the State Constitutional Convention called itself into session, declared the office of governor vacant, and appointed Hamilton Gamble, former state chief justice, as governor of the Provisional Government of Missouri. Gamble served from 1861 to 1864, when he died in office.\n\nMissouri Secession\n\n"}
{"id": "2170212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170212", "title": "Screeb", "text": "Screeb\n\nScreeb (, meaning \"the furrowed land\") is a small village in south-west Connemara, County Galway, Ireland. It is located on the R336 regional road, north of Casla and southwest of Oughterard. \n\nIt was the location of one of Ireland's few peat-burning power stations. This was uneconomic but it was a welcome source of employment locally at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170215", "title": "Oban railway station", "text": "Oban railway station\n\nOban railway station is a railway station serving Oban in Scotland. It is the terminus of one branch of the highly scenic West Highland Line north of . It was originally the terminus of the Callander and Oban Railway. Services are operated by Abellio ScotRail.\n\nOban station provides interchange with the adjacent ferry terminal, offering connections to a number of destinations in the Inner and Outer Hebrides via ferry services operated by Caledonian MacBrayne (Cal Mac). Known as the \"Gateway to the Isles\", Oban is Cal Mac's busiest ferry terminal,\n\nOban station opened on 1 July 1880. A ticket platform (long since disused but still in situ) was located on the west side of the single line, about to the south. Just south of there, a short branch line diverged to the east, towards a goods yard and engine shed.\n\nTwo additional platforms were constructed on the west side of the station in 1904, following the opening of the branch from to .\n\nFollowing closure of the goods yard and engine shed, a rail-connected oil storage depot occupied part of the site for a number of years, although this has itself since closed.\n\nSince 1982, only the 1904-built platforms remain in use (still numbered as Platforms 3 and 4). The present small station building was officially opened on 3 January 1986, the occasion being marked by the naming of two Class 37 locomotives. Despite it being a listed building, the original station building was subsequently demolished.\n\nSince its opening on 1 July 1880, the single line between and Oban was worked by the electric token system, this being the first ever application of that system in everyday service.\n\nOban originally had two signal boxes, namely Oban Station signal box (the larger of the two), and Oban Goods Junction signal box. The latter was situated about further south, where the line to the goods yard and engine shed diverged from the single line. The original signal boxes contained 21 and 5 levers, respectively. The single line between the two boxes was doubled in 1881.\n\nIn connection with the station's enlargement, Oban Station Signal Box was replaced (on the opposite side of the line and slightly nearer the station) in 1904. The new box contained a frame of 64 levers, subsequently shortened to 48. Oban Goods Junction S.B. was replaced in 1929.\n\nOban Goods Junction S.B. closed on 4 May 1969. Oban Station S.B. closed on 5 December 1982, when a 'no signalman' system of electric token working was introduced on the section from signal box. The last remaining semaphore signals were removed at that time, including the signal gantry.\n\nThe Radio Electronic Token Block system was introduced in 1988 and the Train Protection & Warning System was installed in 2003.\n\nIn 2019, Monday to Saturdays, there are seven trains per day (six on Saturdays) with six trains going onwards to Glasgow Queen Street, and one train operating as far as Dalmally on weekday afternoons. On Sundays, there are three trains per day all year round to Glasgow Queen Street.\n\nOban station is located next to Oban ferry terminal. Caledonian MacBrayne ferries sail daily from here to the islands of Lismore, Colonsay, Islay, Coll, Tiree, to Craignure on Mull, to Castlebay on Barra and to Lochboisdale(winter only) on South Uist. The times of connecting trains to/from Glasgow Queen Street are included on Cal Mac timetables.\n\nIn 2005 a new ferry terminal was opened, and in 2007 a second linkspan opened, allowing two vessels to load/unload at the same time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170223", "title": "Virgin of Paris", "text": "Virgin of Paris\n\nThe Virgin of Paris or \"Notre-Dame de Paris\" is a near life-size stone statue, 1.8 metres tall, of the Virgin and Child created in the early 14th century. The statue was commissioned for, and remains in the Cathedral of Notre-Dame in Paris, where it survived the 2019 Notre-Dame fire. It is an example of the court style in Late Gothic sculpture. \n\nThe Virgin of Paris is a new style that is different from the classical contrapposto and is sometimes called one of the most decorative statues in all of Catholicism. It is in honour of the Blessed Virgin, mother of Jesus. It retains an emotional appeal that links it to the Strasbourg \"Death of the Virgin\".\n\nIn this sculpture, Mary is shown standing, holding her son, Jesus Christ, against her body. Unlike previous renditions of this couple, both are naturalistic, with recognizable facial features. As usual in most religious sculptural depictions of the Holy mother and child of this time, Jesus does not look like a baby, but rather a miniature adult. However, the artist tried to combat this by giving the child the mannerisms of an infant as he plays with his mother’s veil and holds a ball. Mary stands in royal dress and a crown, depicting her as royalty. The ball her son holds is also an allusion to their royalty and holiness. The ball or orb in Christ’s hands is a reference to Christ as \"Salvator Mundi\", or Saviour of the World. The orb symbolizes Earth, and how Christ is king of the entire world.\n\nOne of the main characteristics of Gothic sculpture was elegance. However, other changes occurred to sculpture, such as less enjambment into the background architecture, the contrasting of light and dark, and the Praxitlian ‘S’ curve. Gothic style moved away from the Romanesque style by simplification. The greatest change though was in sculptures separation from the architectural. Instead of having figures be created against walls or columns, sculptures were carved away from their supports. Also apparent in the piece is the contrast of shadow and light, made evident by the deep recesses in the clothes fabric. \n\nThe sculptor of Mary exaggerated the S-curve of her body, a signature element of Gothic style. However, the S-curve did not originate during the Gothic Period of Europe, but well before in Greece. In the 4th century BCE, Greek sculptors were enthralled by the body’s movements and muscles, and tried to capture complete naturalism through the S- curve. For Gothic sculptors, the desired effect was not of body movement, but of elegance and elongation. However, by the beginning of the fourteenth century, or the start of the Late Gothic style, sculptures began to lack in volume. This extension and lightness is evident in Mary’s body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170226", "title": "NASCAR Rookie of the Year", "text": "NASCAR Rookie of the Year\n\nThe NASCAR Rookie of the Year Award is presented to the first-year driver that has the best season in a NASCAR season. Each of NASCAR's national and regional touring series selects a RotY winner each year.\n\nThe Rookie of the Year award for NASCAR's premier series was first presented to a driver named Blackie Pitt by Houston Lawing, NASCAR'S Public Relations director, in 1954. While it wasn't an official award, it would help set the standard for the top rookie prize. An official award started with the 1958 season.\n\nFrom the 1958 through the 1973 seasons, NASCAR did not have an official points system to determine the Rookie of the Year, so NASCAR's officials merely gathered together to select a winner. Some years were straight forward, such as James Hylton's selection in 1966, when he finished second in the overall championship, the highest ever finish for an eligible rookie. In other years, the system came under controversy, as officials didn't consider former champions from rival racing series and there were no transparent and consistent criteria for selecting the winner. Since 1974, the Rookie of the Year points system described below has been used, even if it meant the winner was not the highest finisher in championship points.\n\nAs of the 2018 season, the rookie of the Year points are the same as the championship points.\n\nThe award is currently sponsored by Sunoco. Drivers competing for the award must display the Sunoco contingency decal.\n\nDrivers must meet the following criteria in order to be eligible to run for or receive the Rookie of the Year award.\n\n\nThere have been a few cases before the 2011 rule change where aspiring Cup drivers have sacrificed their future eligibility to be Rookie of the Year candidates by driving part-time schedules including more than seven Cup races. For example, in 2009, Brad Keselowski ended up running 15 races, including a win at Talladega. Two other famous drivers who did the same thing are Carl Edwards (13 Cup races in 2004), and Marcos Ambrose (11 races in 2008).\n\nOn the other hand, 2007 Rookie of the Year winner Juan Pablo Montoya was eligible even though he had previously been the 1999 Rookie of the Year in the CART series (which at the time was the top level of open wheel racing.)\n\nThe 2009 NASCAR Camping World Truck Series Rookie of the Year was Johnny Sauter, who was a veteran of both the Nationwide and Cup Series. He had never run more than three Truck races in any previous season, and made no 2009 starts at all in either of the two higher-level series, hence he was eligible for the truck series' rookie award. The 2006 Busch Series ROTY runner-up John Andretti was a veteran of the Cup Series but had made only one prior Busch Series start, making him eligible for the award.\n\nIn 1992, Ricky Craven, the Busch Series Rookie of the Year, actually had run seven races when the limit was five in 1991. However, Craven was only credited with two Busch-only starts, as the other five starts were in combination races with the Busch North Series (now ARCA East), which he was a full-time regular at the time. Since he was a full-time regular in the North Series, he was declared a North Series driver, so he could enter the combination race in that series and not compromise his eligibility in the \"South\" series under combination rules (both series shared one rule book).\n\nBeginning in 2011, drivers that are ineligible for points in one series cannot earn Rookie points in that series. For example, Trevor Bayne ran 18 races in 2011; however, due to him declaring to run for the Nationwide championship, Bayne was also ineligible to declare for ROTY in 2011. Bayne therefore retained the right to declare for Rookie eligibility at a later date. However, when Bayne finally declared for Sprint Cup points in 2015, a previously little-known provision came into play that places a limit on the cumulative number of races a driver can run without declaring for points before he loses future Rookie eligibility. Bayne was confirmed by NASCAR to have exceeded this limit (although there has yet to be a definite announcement on what this limit actually is) and is therefore ineligible to run for Rookie of the Year in 2015. Danica Patrick ran 10 races in 2012 in Sprint Cup, though she declared she would race for the Nationwide championship, allowing her in 2013 to declare in Sprint Cup, and race as a rookie. This also allows lower-tier drivers to substitute for injured drivers in higher-tier series without risk of losing rookie eligibility. Erik Jones did that in 2015 twice for four races (three starts) to replace Cup teammates who had fallen ill, been injured, or suspended.\n\nFurthermore, in 2013, NASCAR added rules where drivers 16 and 17 years of age may race in the Camping World Truck Series and not lose rookie eligibility because a driver can only race 10 of the 23 races on the schedule (tracks under 1.25 miles (2.01 km) or shorter and road courses). In 2015, two rookie contenders in the series – Erik Jones and John Hunter Nemechek – were declared rookies though they had exceeded the seven-race limit because of age restrictions (Jones turned 18 in the middle of the 2014 season, and Nemechek turned 18 in the middle of the 2015 season). Cole Custer was declared a 2016 Truck Series rookie despite having raced two seasons because of age eligibility (turned 18 before the start of the 2016 season). Starting in 2018, the restrictions were tightened, since one driver-eligible track, New Hampshire Motor Speedway (1.058 miles), was removed from the schedule in favour of a second race at a driver-ineligible track, Las Vegas Motor Speedway (1.5 miles). In 2020, one new driver-eligible track, Richmond Raceway (0.750 miles), was added.\n\nCurrently, drivers under 18 can only compete at nine tracks in that series – Eldora Speedway (0.5000 miles), Martinsville Speedway (0.526 miles), Bristol Motor Speedway (0.533 miles), Richmond Raceway (0.750 miles), Iowa Speedway (0.875 miles), Dover International Speedway (1.0 mile), Phoenix International Raceway (1.022 miles), Gateway Motorsports Park (1.25 miles), and Canadian Tire Motorsports Park (2.459 miles, a road course).\n\n\nNote: Even though Quin Houff qualified for Cup points in 2019 while running 17 races, he’s still eligible for ROTY.\n\nBelow is a list of all winners, and known runners-up. (Note: some of the drivers listed here are not confirmed as ROTY contenders, and competed in more than the maximum number of races to be eligible for ROTY honors.)\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "2170240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170240", "title": "The Bootleg Series Vol. 4: Bob Dylan Live 1966, The &quot;Royal Albert Hall&quot; Concert", "text": "The Bootleg Series Vol. 4: Bob Dylan Live 1966, The &quot;Royal Albert Hall&quot; Concert\n\nLive 1966: The \"Royal Albert Hall\" Concert is a two-disc live album by Bob Dylan, released in 1998. It is the second installment in the ongoing Bob Dylan Bootleg Series on Legacy Records. It was recorded at the Manchester Free Trade Hall during Dylan's world tour in 1966, hence the quotation marks around the false attribution to the Royal Albert Hall. Extensively bootlegged for decades, it is an important document in the development of popular music during the 1960s.\n\nThe setlist consisted of two parts, with the first half of the concert being Dylan alone on stage performing an entirely acoustic set of songs, while the second half of the concert has Dylan playing an \"electric\" set of songs alongside his band the Hawks. The first half of the concert was greeted warmly by the audience, while the second half was highly criticized, with heckling going on before and after each song.\n\nAfter touring North America from the fall of 1965 through the winter of 1966, Dylan, accompanied by the Hawks (later renamed the Band), embarked on a six-week spring tour that began in Australia, wound through western Europe, Ireland and the United Kingdom, and wrapped up in London. Dylan's move to electric music, and his apparent disconnection from traditional folk music, continued to be controversial, and his UK audiences were particularly disruptive with some fans believing Dylan had \"sold out\".\n\nThe electric part of this concert first surfaced in late 1970 or early 1971 on bootleg LPs with various titles. On June 3, 1971, critic Dave Marsh reviewed one bootleg in \"Creem\" magazine, writing \"It is the most supremely elegant piece of rock 'n' roll music I've ever heard...The extreme subtlety of the music is so closely interwoven with its majesty that they appear as one and the same.\"\nThe same month, critic Jon Landau reviewed another edition of the concert:\n\nThe early bootleg LPs attributed the recording to one of Dylan's tour-closing concerts at London's Royal Albert Hall that was also recorded, as was a show in Liverpool (May 14), supervised by Dylan producer Bob Johnston. However, Dylan's now-legendary confrontation with a heckler calling out \"Judas\" from the audience, clearly heard on the recording, was well documented as having occurred at Manchester's Free Trade Hall on May 17, 1966. After \"Judas!\", there is clapping, followed by more heckles. Dylan then says \"I don't believe you\", then after a pause, \"You're a liar.\" Bob Dylan then said to his band, \"play it fuckin' loud\" as they begin \"Like a Rolling Stone.\" At the end, the audience erupts into applause and Dylan says, \"Thank you.\"\n\nAfter years of conflicting reports and speculation among Dylan discographers, the Manchester source was verified after the preliminary mix of a proposed Columbia edition was bootlegged in 1995 as \"Guitars Kissing & The Contemporary Fix\". Dylan rejected that edition; three years later, he authorized a markedly different version for his second \"Bootleg Series\" release. One song recorded at Dylan's \"real\" Royal Albert Hall concert had been previously released: his May 26, 1966 performance of \"Visions of Johanna\" on the Box set \"Biograph\". Excerpts from other 1966 UK performances are included in Martin Scorsese's 2005 television documentary \"No Direction Home\". Film footage of the \"Judas\" incident was discovered and used at the end of the documentary.\nThe inside leaflet reveals useful information about the conditions of how the concert was recorded and transferred to disc and it confirms that the version of \"It's All Over Now, Baby Blue\", previously released on the Box set \"Biograph\", duly comes from this concert.\nOn July 29, 1966, two months after finishing his spring tour, Dylan suffered a motorcycle accident. As a result of his long recuperation, Dylan had to cancel the remaining shows he had scheduled for 1966. However, he would continue to collaborate with the Hawks, and over the next year or so, they would produce some of their most celebrated recordings, many of which were eventually released on \"The Basement Tapes\". Dylan would not embark on another tour until 1974.\n\nFinally released in 1998, \"Live 1966: The \"Royal Albert Hall\" Concert\" was a commercial and critical success. It reached #19 in the U.K. and was included in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\n\"For \"(Led Zeppelin guitarist)\" Jimmy Page,\" remarked photographer (and Page's friend) Ross Halfin, \"this \"(the bootleg)\" is still the ultimate album. Jimmy still buys copies of it whenever he sees it, as he likes it so much.\"\n\nThe album is ranked number 989 in \"All-Time Top 1000 Albums\" (3rd. edition, 2000) .\n\nAll songs written by Bob Dylan except \"Baby, Let Me Follow You Down\" by Eric von Schmidt and arranged by Dylan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170244", "title": "Jon Peters", "text": "Jon Peters\n\nJohn H. Peters (born June 2, 1945) is an American film producer and former hairdresser.\n\nPeters was born in Van Nuys, California, the son of Jack Peters, a cook who owned a Hollywood diner, and a mother who was a receptionist. He is of Cherokee (father) and Italian (mother) descent. His mother's family owned a renowned salon on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills. Jack Peters died when Jon was 10 years old and Helen later remarried.\n\nAs a child, Peters was recruited as an extra in Cecil B. DeMille's 1956 film \"The Ten Commandments\" as one of the Jews liberated by Moses. Peters was so enthralled by the experience that he refused to wash off his makeup when returning home.\n\nPrior to becoming a producer, Peters first joined the family hairdressing business at Rodeo Drive where he made many film industry connections. He designed a short wig that Barbra Streisand wore for the comedy \"For Pete's Sake\" (1974); as a result, Peters and Streisand began a relationship. He later produced Streisand's studio album \"ButterFly\" (1974) and also gained a producing credit on Streisand's remake of \"A Star Is Born\" (1976), although the extent of his contribution has been disputed. He also worked alongside Peter Guber for the next 10 years, with whom he headed Sony Pictures from 1989 until 1991.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Peters bought the film rights to the \"Superman\" franchise from Warner Bros. In his Q&A/comedy DVD \"An Evening With Kevin Smith\", filmmaker Kevin Smith talked about working for Peters when he was hired to write a script for a new Superman film, which was then called \"Superman Reborn\" and later \"Superman Lives\". According to Smith, Peters had expressed disdain for most of Superman's iconic characteristics by demanding that Superman was never to fly nor appear in his trademark costume. He also suggested Sean Penn for the role based on his performance as a death row inmate in \"Dead Man Walking\", which he said that Penn had the eyes of a \"caged animal, a fucking killer.\" Peters then demanded that the third act of the film include a fight between Superman and a giant spider, to be unveiled in an homage to \"King Kong\". Peters later produced the 1999 steampunk western action comedy \"Wild Wild West\", the finale of which featured a giant mechanical spider.\n\nSmith met Peters after completing a script, to which Peters instructed him to include a robot sidekick for Brainiac, a fight scene between Brainiac and two polar bears and a marketable \"space dog\" pet similar to the \"Star Wars\" character Chewbacca. Smith inserted them into his script, but then the project was abandoned and the script discarded.\n\nIn \"\", Peters admitted that the \"Superman\" franchise was problematic for him, stating: \"The elements that I was focusing on were away from the heart, it was more leaning towards 'Star Wars' in a sense, you know. I didn't realize the human part of it, I didn't have that.\"\n\nHe subsequently produced \"Superman Returns\", the 2006 Superman film directed by Bryan Singer, and executive-produced \"Man of Steel\", the 2013 Superman film directed by Zack Snyder. Peters was banned from the \"Man of Steel\" set by producer Christopher Nolan.\n\nPeters was a producer for a planned adaptation of the \"Sandman\" comics for Warner Bros., which met with controversy. One draft script commissioned by Peters was reviewed on the Internet at Ain't It Cool News, and was met with scorn. Sandman creator Neil Gaiman called the last screenplay that Warner Bros. would send him \"...not only the worst \"Sandman\" script I've ever seen, but quite easily the worst script I've ever read.\" By 2001, the project had become stranded in development hell.\n\nIn a 2005 interview, Gaiman commented: \"But Sandman movies, they just got increasingly appalling. It was really strange. They started out hiring some really good people and you got Elliott and Rossio and Roger Avary came in and did a draft. They were all solid scripts. And then Jon Peters fired all of them and got in some people who take orders, and who wanted fistfights and all this stuff. It had no sensibility and it was just...they were horrible.\"\n\nNikki Finke's Deadline Hollywood blog reported on a book proposal for the autobiography of Peters, written by himself and Los Angeles writer William Stadiem. Peters reportedly intended to write about his life with Streisand and a string of other celebrity lovers. In 2009, he subsequently withdrew from the HarperCollins book deal after adverse publicity triggered by the leaking of the proposal and potential lawsuits.\n\nIn August 2011, a Los Angeles jury ordered Peters to pay a former assistant $3.3 million after finding she was subjected to sexual harassment and a hostile work environment during production of \"Superman Returns\". Since 2009, Peters has only been credited for four projects: two for executive producing and two for producing.\n\nPeters was credited as one of the producers of the 2018 film \"A Star Is Born\", but did not receive certification from the Producers Guild of America to use the \"p.g.a.\" designation after his credit. Director Bradley Cooper said that he had not known of the sexual harassment allegations against Peters, and Peters had not been present on the set of his film but received a producer credit because he controlled the rights to the 1976 film.\n\nPeters' first four marriages ended in divorce. The marriage certificate on his fifth marriage to Pamela Anderson was not filed and they separated after 12 days.\n\nBarbra Streisand and Peters had a high-profile personal and business relationship in the mid-1970s and 1980s.\n\nPeters has three children: one son with his second wife, actress Lesley Ann Warren, and two daughters with his third wife, Christine Peters. Streisand is godmother to his daughters. The three Peters children, which include Caleigh Peters, are in the entertainment industry. \n\n\"Producer unless otherwise noted.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170251", "title": "Modern Review", "text": "Modern Review\n\nModern Review has been used as a name for a number of magazines:\n\n"}
{"id": "2170256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170256", "title": "Philip Merrill", "text": "Philip Merrill\n\nPhilip Merrill (April 28, 1934 – June 10, 2006) was an American diplomat, publisher, banker, and philanthropist.\n\nBorn Philip Merrill Levine, he was a graduate of Cornell University and Harvard Business School. At Cornell, he was managing editor of \"The Cornell Daily Sun\" and a member of the Quill and Dagger society. He was president and CEO of Capital-Gazette Communications, Inc., which publishes \"Washingtonian\" magazine, the Annapolis \"Capital\", and five other Maryland newspapers. His wife, Eleanor, succeeded him as chairman of the company which they sold after his death to Landmark Communications; their daughter Catherine Merrill Williams took over as president and publisher of the \"Washingtonian\".\n\nMerrill served as counselor to the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy from 1981 to 1983; as a member of the Defense Policy Board from 1983 to 1990 and again from 2001 to 2003; and as Assistant Secretary General for Defence Support at NATO Headquarters in Brussels from 1990 to 1992 under President George H. W. Bush. He was appointed to chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States by George W. Bush, serving from 2002 to 2005. He represented the United States in negotiations on the Law of the Sea Conference, the International Telecommunications Union and various disarmament and exchange agreements with the former Soviet Union. For many years he chaired the White House Fellow Commissions regional panels. Merrill also served on President George H. W. Bush's Gulf War Air Power Survey and President Reagan's Commission on Cost Control in the Federal Government.\n\nHe served as a long time trustee of the Aspen Institute (and long time executive board member), the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, the Johns Hopkins University, and Cornell University. He was Chairman of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (CSBA) and a U.S. Director of the International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS). He also served on the Department of Defense Business Board, the University of Maryland Board of Visitors, Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) board, the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History board, the Foundation for the National Archives, and the Advanced Physics Laboratories board.\n\nIn 1988, he received the Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award from the then Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, the highest civilian honor given by the United States Department of Defense.\n\nMerrill donated $7 million to the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. The building, the Phillip Merrill Center, was awarded the first LEED platinum certificate in the country.\n\nIn 2001, Merrill donated $10 million to the Philip Merrill College of Journalism at the University of Maryland, College Park.\n\nMerrill donated $4 million in 2003 to create the Philip Merrill Center for Strategic Studies at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). Eliot A. Cohen is the director of the Merrill Center.\n\nMerrill donated the funds to build the Cornell Sailing Center at Cornell University, which is named for the Merrill Family and was dedicated in 2009.\n\nMerrill and his wife were benefactors of numerous institutions including the Aspen Institute, the Ford's Theater, Shakespeare Theater, the Meridian Center, the Barker Adoption Foundation and Columbia Lighthouse for the Blind.\n\nThe American Council of Trustees and Alumni annually awards The Philip Merrill Award for Outstanding Contributions to Liberal Arts Education.\n\nMerrill disappeared while sailing alone on the Chesapeake Bay on June 10, 2006. He was initially believed to have been lost at sea, but his body was found on June 19. The medical examiner ruled Merrill's death a suicide.\n\nMerrill was survived by his wife, Eleanor; three children, Douglas Merrill, Catherine Merrill Williams, and Nancy Merrill; and four grandsons.\n\nEleanor died ten years later on July 16, 2016 after sustaining injuries from a fall.\n"}
{"id": "2170257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170257", "title": "Tyndrum Lower railway station", "text": "Tyndrum Lower railway station\n\nTyndrum Lower railway station is one of two railway stations serving the small village of Tyndrum in Scotland, the other being . This station is on the Oban branch of the West Highland Line, originally part of the Callander and Oban Railway. Most trains currently serving Fort William and Oban split or join at Crianlarich, with the result that separate trains both heading in the same direction generally call at Tyndrum's two stations at about the same time. Services are operated by Abellio ScotRail.\n\nThis station opened on 1 August 1873 as a terminal station. This was the first railway station in the village of Tyndrum. Until 1877, it was the western extremity of the Callander and Oban Railway.\nIn 1877, the Callander and Oban Railway was extended from Tyndrum to Dalmally. Concurrently, the station was relocated west, onto the new through alignment. The new station was on a higher level, as the line had to climb steeply to reach the summit about to the west. The old terminus then became the goods yard. The through station was originally laid out with two platforms, one on either side of a passing loop.\n\nIn 1894, the West Highland Railway opened a second station in Tyndrum, north of the village. In 1953, the suffixes \"Upper\" and \"Lower\" were added to the station names. Services to Callander & over the old C&O route via Strathyre ceased on 27 September 1965 - they had been scheduled for withdrawal as a result of the Beeching Axe from 1 November that year, but ended five weeks prior to that date following a landslide in Glen Ogle that blocked the trackbed. All services henceforth used the 1897 connection to the WHR at Crianlarich Upper to reach Glasgow.\n\nOn 12 October 1969, the passing loop, goods yard and one of the platforms were taken out of use. The platform on the north side was retained, it being located on the same side of the railway as the village. The site of the goods yard is now used as a caravan park.\n\nThe 1891-built signal box was located off the east end of the Down platform. It had 20 levers. The signal box closed on 12 October 1969 when the crossing loop was removed.\n\nIn 1988, the station became a Token Exchange Point in connection with the new Radio Electronic Token Block signalling system.\n\nSix trains in each direction call Mondays to Saturdays, with three departures each way on Sundays all year and an additional one each way in summer only (May to late October). The latter runs from/to Edinburgh Waverley rather than Glasgow Queen Street.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170267", "title": "Hensley Meulens", "text": "Hensley Meulens\n\nHensley Filemon Acasio Meulens (; born June 23, 1967), nicknamed \"Bam Bam\", is a Curaçaoan professional baseball player and current bench coach for the New York Mets of Major League Baseball (MLB). A native of Curaçao, he played from to in MLB, Nippon Professional Baseball, and the Korea Baseball Organization. He was the first Curaçaoan to play in both MLB and the Dominican Professional Baseball League.\n\nHitting home runs left-handed while playing softball as a teenager earned Meulens the nickname \"Bam Bam\" when his friends compared his power to the Flintstones cartoon character.\n\nOver the course of his career, Meulens would become the first to play for all four of the major Caribbean winter leagues.\n\nHensley Meulens was signed by the Yankees as an undrafted free agent in 1985. After struggling in his first professional season in 1986 with the Gulf Coast Yankees, Meulens made a splash in 1987 with Single-A Prince William, hitting .300 with 28 HR and 103 RBI, also being named to the Carolina League All-Star team. His hitting cooled somewhat in 1988 and 1989 as he split time between the Double-A Albany-Colonie Yankees of the Eastern League and the Triple-A Columbus Clippers of the International League.\n\nHis bat rebounded in 1990 for Columbus as he helped lead the team to the 1990 International League championships (where they ultimately lost to Rochester), hitting .285 with 26 HR and 96 RBI, and was named the 1990 International League MVP. Meulens' impressive 1990 season earned him a spot on the Yankees roster in 1991, but he was back in Columbus in 1992 to help lead the Clippers to the Governors' Cup Championship.\n\nMeulens made his major league debut with the New York Yankees on August 23, 1989. Meulens never attained a permanent spot on the New York lineup, despite spending the entire 1991 season on the Yankees roster. Averaging a strike-out every three at bats, Meulens platooned in left field with Mel Hall. He saw limited action with the Yankees in late-season call-ups in 1992 and 1993.\n\nIn November 1993, the Yankees sold Meulens' contract to the Chiba Lotte Marines of Nippon Professional Baseball, where he spent the 1994 season, hitting 23 home runs and driving in 69 runs while accumulating 135 strikeouts. The following season, Meulens signed with the Yakult Swallows, helping lead the Swallows to the 1995 Japan Series championship.\n\nHe returned to North America in 1997, and after an unsuccessful tryout with the Atlanta Braves, he reached the Majors again briefly playing with the Montreal Expos (while having a good season for the Expos' AAA affiliate Ottawa Lynx) and Arizona Diamondbacks. Unable to secure a contract with a major league team in 1999, Meulens signed with the Newark Bears of the independent Atlantic League. He made one last stop in Asia, playing 14 games with the SK Wyverns of the Korea Baseball Organization and batting only .196, before heading his professional playing career to the Mexican League with the Saraperos de Saltillo in 2001 and finally retiring, in 2002, after a mid-season injury while playing with the Pericos de Puebla.\n\nMeulens represented the Netherlands at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. His 4th-inning double gave the Cuban team their first Olympic loss in 21 games. Ultimately, the Netherlands took fifth place in the final standings. He returned to the team as a coach for the 2004 Summer Olympics and the 2009 World Baseball Classic. Meulens was named to serve as manager for the team during the 2013 World Baseball Classic.\n\nMeulens also played for the Dutch team in the 2001 Baseball World Cup in Taichung, Taiwan and 2002 Intercontinental Cup in Havana, Cuba.\n\nMeulens began his coaching career with the Bluefield Orioles for the 2003 and 2004 seasons. From -, he was the hitting coach of the Indianapolis Indians, the Triple-A affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates, also coaching in the Arizona Fall League for the Peoria Saguaros in 2005 and the Hawaii Winter Baseball league for the Honolulu Sharks in the 2006 off-season. In 2009, Meulens served as hitting coach for the Fresno Grizzlies, the AAA affiliate of the San Francisco Giants of the Pacific Coast League. Meulens reached the Major League ranks as batting coach in 2010, serving as hitting coach for the San Francisco Giants following the firing of previous hitting coach Carney Lansford.\nHe helped the Giants win a World Series in three of his first five years. In November 2017, Meulens became one of six candidates interviewed by the New York Yankees for their vacant manager position, following the decision not to renew the contract of Joe Girardi. The other candidates were Carlos Beltran, Aaron Boone, Rob Thomson, Eric Wedge and Chris Woodward.\n\nHensley Meulens also runs the Dutch Antilles Baseball Academy in Curaçao.\nHe is reportedly interested in starting a baseball league in Curaçao in association with Major League Baseball's RBI Program. \n\nMeuelens was named bench coach of the New York Mets on December 8, 2019.\n\nMeulens is married to Gyselle Meulens Petronia and has four daughters, 2 from a previous marriage—Michelle MarIise Aimee Meulens-Ebecilio (1989), Danielle Marie Antonia Meulens-Ebecilio (1992), Mia Valentina Turya (Feb. 29, 2012), and Evangelina Cristina Vuri (Jan. 14, 2014). In addition to the two daughters he has with his wife, Gyselle, he also has a son, Elijah Gabriel Ludwig (April 14, 2010).\n\nMeulens speaks five languages: English, Spanish, Dutch, Papiamento and Japanese.\n\nOn April 27, 2012, Meulens was awarded the order of Knight in the Order of Orange-Nassau by Queen Beatrix. A ceremony was held at AT&T Park on July 13, 2012, where he was introduced as 'Sir' Hensley Meulens. The award ceremony highlighted his role in victory by The Netherlands in the 2011 Baseball World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170270", "title": "Pediococcus", "text": "Pediococcus\n\nPediococcus is a genus of gram-positive lactic acid bacteria, placed within the family of Lactobacillaceae. They usually occur in pairs or tetrads, and divide along two planes of symmetry, as do the other lactic acid cocci genera \"Aerococcus\" and \"Tetragenococcus\". They are purely homofermentative. \"Pediococcus dextrinicus\" has recently been reassigned to the genus \"Lactobacillus\".\n\n\"Pediococcus\" is, along with other lactic acid bacteria such as \"Leuconostoc\" and \"Lactobacillus\", responsible for the fermentation of cabbage, making it sauerkraut. In this process, the sugars in fresh cabbage are fermented to lactic acid, which gives sauerkraut a sour flavour and good keeping qualities.\n\"Pediococcus\" bacteria are usually considered contaminants of beer and wine, although their presence is sometimes desired in beer styles such as lambic and Berliner Weisse. Certain \"Pediococcus\" isolates produce diacetyl which gives a buttery or butterscotch aroma to some wines (such as Chardonnay) and a few styles of beer. \"Pediococcus\" species are often used in silage inoculants. Pediococci are used as probiotics, and are commonly added as beneficial microbes in the creation of sausages, cheeses and yogurts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170275", "title": "Williton", "text": "Williton\n\nWilliton is a large village and civil parish in Somerset, England, at the junction of the A39, A358 and B3191 roads, on the coast south of Watchet between Minehead, Bridgwater and Taunton in the Somerset West and Taunton district.\n\nWilliton station is on the West Somerset Railway line. Doniford Halt on the same line serves the nearby Haven Holiday centre.\n\nWilliton is twinned with in the Loir-et-Cher département of France.\n\nUntil 1902 Williton was part of the ancient parish of Saint Decuman, which included also the town of Watchet. The parish of St Decuman was part of the Williton and Freemanners Hundred.\n\nWithin Williton parish, to the south-west, is Orchard Wyndham House, a Grade I listed building,\n\nwhich was the centre of an estate called \"Orchard\". Paleolithic, mesolithic and neolithic flints have been found at Doniford to the north-east of Williton while three Bronze Age barrows survive at Battlegore Burial Chamber, just north of the centre of Williton.\n\nThe name of Williton is Anglo-Saxon and means \"estate on the Willet\" (river); the Willet is a brook that rises at Willet, flows north through the hamlet of Stream, and close to the former manor house of Williton, then it joins the Doniford Brook north-east of Williton. Both watercourses seem to have been known as the Willet in the 12th century.\n\n\"Willet\" may well be a British name. In the time of Edward the Elder the manor at Wiilitun was a royal hunting estate; its only pre-Conquest mention is in Edward's charter to the priory at Taunton, in which the prior and monks are enjoined to provide board and lodging for a single night, when the king was progressing, with dogs and falcons and their keepers, \"ad Curig vel Willittun\", \"to Curry or else Williton\". In the Domesday Survey Williton continued to form a royal estate, with Carhampton and Cannington. In the Middle Ages the village was divided into the manors of Williton Fulford and Williton Hadley. An estate known as Williton Templar belonged to the Knights Templar, and was later known as Williton Hospital and Williton Regis. Originally the centre of the village appears to have been near the church but over time it has migrated to the north-east.\n\nMuch of the centre of Williton dates from the later 19th century but Long Street includes several 17th-century houses, as do Bridge, Priest, Robert and Shutgate Streets. Agriculture has been the prime activity in the parish while Williton village became a local government and communal centre. Its importance increased with the creation of new toll roads that today are the main roads to the village. It is an important local shopping area and from 1894 has been an administration centre. It had a workhouse for the district, which became the local hospital until 1990 but has now been converted into housing.\n\nDoniford House has late medieval origins and was enlarged circa 1600. Beside the beach is an early 19th-century lime kiln which is thought to have been in operation until the 1930s.\n\nBefore World War II at a site between Watchet and Doniford a gunnery range was established for various army units to practice anti-aircraft gunnery. Unmanned target aircraft were towed by planes from RAF Weston Zoyland and later were fired from catapults over the sea. Little of the camp buildings survive and it is now the site of a holiday park.\n\nDoniford bay has Jurassic fossils in the cliffs. Charmouth fossils collects a number of their fossils from Doniford.\n\nThe largest Ichthyosaurus fossil discovered was found in Doniford Bay and taken to a museum in Hanover. When it was examined in 2017 it was revealed as the largest specimen described.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the non-metropolitan district of Somerset West and Taunton, which was established on 1 April 2019. It was previously in the district of West Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, and part of Williton Rural District before that. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism. Williton is an electoral ward of the district.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nIt is also part of the Bridgwater and West Somerset county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nWilliton is a good centre for visiting the Quantock Hills, the Brendons and Exmoor as well as the coast at Minehead, Dunster, Blue Anchor and Watchet, which are on the West Somerset Coast Path. Accommodation may be obtained in the village. There are facilities nearby for camping, sailing and wind-surfing as well as the usual beach activities. On the nearby cliffs fossils are exposed. There is easy access to the West Somerset Railway, which is the longest private railway in the country, and is run by a trust.\n\nPlaces of interest are the Bakelite Museum and the Tropiquaria Zoo at the old radio station. Halsway Folk Music Centre is not far away.\n\nThe village lies on the route of the Macmillan Way West and Celtic Way Exmoor Option.\n\nThere is a police station in Priest Street and both a hospital and fire station off North Street.\n\nThe Medical Centre at the end of Killick Way has a doctors surgery and pharmacy. Williton Hospital, off North Street, is a part of the Somerset Coast Primary Care Trust but does not have a casualty department. The nearest dentists are in Williton or Minehead.\n\nThe West Somerset area uses a three-tier education system. St Peters Church of England First School was opened on its present site in Doniford Road in 1996. It has five classes of mixed ability. There is a fairly large middle school — Danesfield Church of England — which caters for children between 9 and 13. Older students generally travel to the West Somerset College in Minehead.\n\nDanesfield is also the centre for community education classes. There is a Somerset County library in Killick Way (closed Tuesdays).\n\nThe date of the origin of St Peter's Church in Bridge Street is uncertain but it is believed that God has been worshiped on the site for more than 1000 years. The names of the Priests serving the Church and the parish can be traced back go the 13th century.\nThe status of the Church changed dramatically in 1170 when The Lord of the manor, Sir Reginald Fitzurse, became one of the murderers of St Thomas a Becket. Following the murder the ownership of the manor passed to Reginald's brother Robert and the Knights Templar. The historian Collinson records (1792) that Robert rebuilt the chapel of Williton implying that the Saxon chapel was in ruins. The Liber Albus manuscripts in Wells Cathedral library show Robert gave to the Church of St Decuman, Watchet some important property and certain rights in the chapel. The church at Williton thus became very much a daughter Church of Watchet and became known as a Chapel of Ease.\n\nThe current building is mostly from the 16th century and is now a Grade II* listed building. Further work was undertaken in the 17th century when the Church was known as All Saints. Further work was done from time to time and in 1810 a south extension was built though the Elizabethan windows were relocated and reused in the south wall. The church fell into a state if disrepair and in 1856 suffered a rather over enthusiastic restoration under the architect Charles Edmund Giles. The Priest responsible for the big restoration of 1856/59, Samuel Heathcote (at the Church 1854 to 1906), was appointed Perpetual Curate but was signing the registers as Vicar from 21 November 1889 showing that Williton had become a parish separate from Watchet. The full details of the Church are recorded in Harry Armstrong's book The Parish of St Peter Williton published privately in 1982 and printed by Langley Print of Taunton.\n\nWilliton also has a Methodist Chapel.\n\nThere is a recreation ground with a children's area. A new community hall (Williton Pavilion) has now been built after many years of fund raising and a National Lottery grant. The project was opposed by a small part of the local community, which is mostly people who live nearby and do not want the younger members of the community having more activities. There are many social activities within Williton including the social club which needs updating, bowling club, gardening club, rifle club, Women's Institute, Good Neighbours Club, British Legion and Young Farmers. The Scout Association and Girlguiding UK meet regularly.\n\nThere is a weekly Country Market every Friday. A supermarket was proposed by a local businessman but there is large opposition.\n\nThere is also a riding school located on Roughmore industrial estate open to anyone who wants to learn the equestrian arts.\n\nThere are various Martial arts clubs including Judo, Ju-Jitsu, and Karate.\n\nBuses run to Taunton and Minehead for which timetables are available from the post office. There are also buses to nearby supermarkets.\n\nWilliton railway station is on the preserved West Somerset Railway, which operates on most days through the year.\n\nThere is a voluntary car service called WHEELs for those without transport for shopping, visits to the doctor etc.\n\nIn the 2001 census Williton parish had 1,163 male and 1,411 female residents living in 1,103 households, with 27% being over 65 years. Of all residents, 62% described their health as good.\n\nThere is a master plan for redevelopment of the centre of Williton. The West Somerset Council is due to centralise its offices on Williton and the plans for this include retail, residential and community facilities.\n\nWilliton has a regular monthly newsletter, delivered free to all homes in the village, called the \"Williton Window\". The slogan is 'Your church and community magazine'. An information pack is available to newcomers through \"Williton Window\".\n\nA book showing Williton as it used to be is \"The Book of Williton\".\n\nAn information leaflet on West Somerset organisations is available from the \"West Somerset Free Press\".\n\nChidgey, Joyce; Chidgey, Maurice. (2007). \"The Book of Watchet and Williton Revisited\". Wellington, Somerset: Halsgrove Publishing. .\n\n"}
{"id": "2170277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170277", "title": "Upper Tyndrum railway station", "text": "Upper Tyndrum railway station\n\nUpper Tyndrum railway station is one of two railway stations serving the small village of Tyndrum in Scotland. It is on the Fort William route of the highly scenic West Highland Line. Services are operated by Abellio ScotRail. In 2005/06 it was the least used station on the West Highland Line, probably because of its position up a hill above the village, as opposed to on the Oban branch, which also offers services to and from Crianlarich and destinations to the south (usually at about the same time, as the trains tend to connect at Crianlarich).\n\nOriginally named \"Tyndrum\", this station opened concurrently with the West Highland Railway in 1894, as the second station in the village. In 1956, British Rail added the suffix \"Upper\" to the station's name, to distinguish it from the station on the Callander and Oban Line which then became known as .\n\nThe station name was altered to \"Upper Tyndrum\" upon the introduction of RETB (see below), to reduce the risk of it being confused with \"Tyndrum Lower\" in radio communications.\n\nMonday to Saturday, northbound, Upper Tyndrum has three services to Mallaig and one service to Fort William (Highland Caledonian Sleeper). Southbound, there are three services to Glasgow Queen Street and one service to London Euston (Highland Caledonian Sleeper, Saturdays excepted). On Sundays, there is just one service northbound to Mallaig and two services southbound to Glasgow Queen Street and London Euston.\n\nMonday to Saturday, northbound, Upper Tyndrum has three services to Mallaig and one service to Fort William. Southbound, there are three services to Glasgow Queen Street and one service to London Euston (Saturdays excepted).\n\nOn Sundays, there are two services northbound to Mallaig, two services southbound to Glasgow Queen Street, and one service to London Euston. The Highland Sleeper also calls at Glasgow Queen Street Low Level to set down only on each evening that it operates, so passengers can use this train to reach Glasgow (and Edinburgh).\n\nThe signal box, which had 15 levers, was situated on the island platform. From its opening in 1894, the West Highland Railway was worked throughout by the electric token system.\n\nIn 1967, the method of working between and was changed to the Scottish Region Tokenless Block system. The Down loop at Tyndrum Upper was signalled for running in either direction and the signal box was able to 'switch out' when not required.\n\nIn August 1985, the method of working between Crianlarich and Rannoch reverted to the electric token block system. The semaphore signals were removed on 22 December 1985 in preparation for the introduction of Radio Electronic Token Block (RETB).\n\nThe RETB system was commissioned by British Rail between and Upper Tyndrum on 27 March 1988. On 29 May of the same year, the RETB spread north to Fort William Junction, resulting in the closure of Upper Tyndrum signal box (amongst others). The RETB is controlled from a purpose-built Signalling Centre at Banavie railway station. Upper Tyndrum station is the boundary between the two signalling interlockings and the areas of control of the two signalmen.\n\nThe Train Protection & Warning System was installed in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170281", "title": "Ya-Rayi", "text": "Ya-Rayi\n\nKhaled's Ya-Rayi (, meaning \"My opinion\") studio album was released in Europe in August 2004 by AZ Records, a label of Universal Music France, and later licensed in UK, and then reissued in United States on June 27, 2005. The European release was dubbed a \"back to the roots\" album, while the United States release was dubbed a \"peace through music\" album.\n\nThe album includes remakes of El Hadj M'Hamed El Anka's \"El-H'mam\" and Rabah Driassa and Blaoui Houari's \"H'mama\".\n\n\nIn the UK the Universal Music France album was licensed unchanged to Wrasse Records with the French album track listing and an extra DVD of music clips. The Wrasse Records release (Wrasse 127X) included the original French booklet with Arabic sung texts in French romanization and studio notes in French, but with a CD backing tray insert in English.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170286", "title": "John Murphy (musician)", "text": "John Murphy (musician)\n\nJohn Russell Murphy (11 July 1959 – 11 October 2015) was an Australian drummer, percussionist and multi-instrumental session musician who played in Australian and British post-punk, ambient and industrial music groups.\n\nJohn Russell Murphy was born in 1959 and raised in Melbourne, Victoria. His father, Russ Murphy, was a jazz drummer who played for many years with the Graeme Bell All Stars, John started learning drums and percussion from the age of 4. For secondary schooling he attended Scotch College, where he played in the school orchestra and in military and Scottish pipe bands.\n\nJohn Murphy, as John Smith from the Suburbs, was the founding drummer in 1977 of punk band, News, with Adam Punk (real name Gavin Quinn) on vocals, Jarryl Circus (real name Jarryl Wirth) on guitar and Joy Relentless (real name Julie Jordan) on bass guitar. Jordan, Quinn and Wirth were all former members of Babeez. News' debut single, \"Dirty Lies\", was released in May 1978. In the following year they issued \"Dowanna Love\" and then \"Sweet Dancer\".\n\nBy May 1979 Murphy had left News and joined Whirlywirld, fronted by Ollie Olsen on lead vocals. Along with fellow Melbourne group Primitive Calculators, Whirlywirld was instrumental in fostering the experimental little band scene, of which Murphy was an active participant. Murphy served as an advisor for, and appeared in, director Richard Lowenstein's dramatisation of the scene, the 1986 film \"Dogs in Space\". In 1980 Murphy and Olsen travelled to London and formed Hugo Klang, which issued a single, \"Grand Life for Fools and Idiots\", in 1982. They followed with \"The Wheel of Fat\". Murphy returned to Australia in 1984 where he continued to work with Olsen until the early 1990s in various post-punk bands: Orchestra of Skin and Bone (1984–86), NO (1987–89), and Max Q (1989–90).\n\nMurphy worked with the following acts: The Associates (1980–81), Dumb and the Ugly, Harpoon (1995–97) Sooterkin Flesh, The Slub, SPK, Lustmord, Our Father of Serpents, Stress, Jaundiced Eye, the Wreckery (1988), Box the Jesuit (1990), Bushpig (1992), Whitehouse, Death in June, Der Blutharsch, Sword Volcano Complex, Browning Mummery, Current 93, Blood Axis, Kraang, Sleeping Pictures, Scorpion Wind, Naevus, Nikolas Schreck, NON and Of the Wand & the Moon, in addition to playing on sessions for Nico, Zeena Schreck, The The, Gene Loves Jezebel and Shriekback.\n\nHe recorded solo under the name Shining Vril, and as part of the industrial electronic trio Knifeladder, and as a member of the folk-noise group Foresta Di Ferro, and as part of the industrial music trio Last Dominion Lost.\n\nAfter his death, The Epicurean record label produced a lavishly printed, three-CD box set compilation of various musical artists who performed with Murphy throughout his life, from the very earliest years up until his end months. The extensive memorial tribute, \"All My Sins Remembered - The Sonic Worlds of John Murphy\" is a collaborative effort of many musicians to help raise financial support for Murphy's widow to offset the medical and funeral expenses incurred.\n"}
{"id": "2170287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170287", "title": "Vedran", "text": "Vedran\n\nVedran is a Slavic masculine given name of Croatian origin, which is also used among Serbs and Bosniaks. Vedran means clear or cheerful.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170293", "title": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Bankruptcy and the Courts", "text": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Bankruptcy and the Courts\n\nThe United States Senate Health Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety is one of the three subcommittees within the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.\nThe Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Bankruptcy and the Courts is one of seven subcommittees within the Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\n\"Jurisdiction: (1) Federal court jurisdiction, administration and management; (2) Rules of evidence and procedure; (3) Creation of new courts and judgeships; (4) Bankruptcy; (5) Legal reform and liability issues; (6) Local courts in territories and possessions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170311", "title": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution", "text": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution\n\nThe Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution is one of six subcommittees within the Senate Judiciary Committee. The subcommittee was best known in the 1970s as the committee of Sam Ervin, whose investigations and lobbying — together with Frank Church and the Church Commission — led to the passage of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.\n\nFrom the Senate Judiciary Committee website:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170320", "title": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law", "text": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law\n\nThe United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law was one of seven subcommittees within the Senate Judiciary Committee. Created at the start of the 112th Congress, it was disbanded with the start of the 116th Congress. \n\nThe committee's jurisdiction extended to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170326", "title": "Soldier's Girl", "text": "Soldier's Girl\n\nSoldier's Girl is a 2003 Canadian-American drama film produced by Showtime. It is based on a story of the relationship between Barry Winchell and Calpernia Addams and the events that led up to Barry's murder by a fellow soldier. It was written by Ron Nyswaner and directed by Frank R. Pierson, with Troy Garity starring as Barry and Lee Pace starring as Calpernia.\n\n\"Soldier's Girl\" was among the ten best Television Programs of the Year (2003) by the American Film Institute.\n\nBarry is a private with the 101st Airborne Division of the United States Army, stationed at Fort Campbell, Kentucky while Calpernia works as a showgirl at a transgender revue in Nashville, Tennessee. Barry's roommate Justin Fisher (Shawn Hatosy) brings Barry to the club where Calpernia performs. When Barry and Calpernia start dating, Fisher, out of jealousy, participates in spreading rumors about Barry's alleged affair, which appeared to be a violation of the military's \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy which forbids discussion of sexual orientation of military personnel. Barry faces increasing harassment and pressure, which explodes into violence over a Fourth of July weekend after Barry easily beats Calvin Glover in a fight. While Calpernia performs in a pageant in Nashville, Barry is beaten to death in his sleep by Glover with a baseball bat given by Fisher. The film ends with a discussion of the aftermath.\n\n\"Soldier's Girl\" was filmed in Toronto and Barrie in Ontario, Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170334", "title": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism", "text": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism\n\nThe Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism is one of six subcommittees within the Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170337", "title": "Dumb and the Ugly", "text": "Dumb and the Ugly\n\nDumb and the Ugly were an Australian avant-garde metal band. They formed in 1987 with Michael Sheridan (also in No and then Max Q) on guitar; John Murphy (Whirlywirld, Orchestra of Skin and Bone, Max Q) on drums and synthesisers; and David Brown (Mulch, Ultratune) on bass guitar and guitar. Murphy and Sheridan had worked together in previous bands, generally working behind Ollie Olsen.\n\nDumb and the Ugly released a 12\"EP (1990), a 7\" single, \"Blue Monk\" / \"Lazy 8\" (1991), and a studio album on CD, \"Atmospheres of Metal\" (1992), all on the Dr Jim's label. The album includes guest musicians, Mia Stone, Jason Vassallo and Olsen. Olsen co-wrote \"Knife Ladder\" and \"Atmosphere 145\" with the band, while Stone co-wrote \"One Fingered Man\".\n\nIn a 2002 interview, Murphy recalled his time in Dumb and the Ugly, they were \"a 3-piece outfit in which I played drums and some samples. This was formed with some very old friends from my teenage years who also played with other acts. This act was in the style of Sonic Youth meets Hendrix and Chrome/Helios Creed.\"\n"}
{"id": "2170350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170350", "title": "Richie Zisk", "text": "Richie Zisk\n\nRichard Walter Zisk (born February 6, 1949) is an American former professional baseball outfielder and designated hitter. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Chicago White Sox, Texas Rangers and Seattle Mariners.\n\nZisk was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates out of Seton Hall University in the third round of the 1967 Major League Baseball draft. He made his major league debut on September 8, 1971, replacing Roberto Clemente in right field in the eighth inning of Pittsburgh's 10–1 victory over the Chicago Cubs, and got a single in his first major league at-bat. Zisk also made seventeen appearances with the 1972 Pirates, however, he was not on either team's post-season roster.\n\nIn Zisk's rookie season, 1973, he batted .324 with ten home runs. On June 9, 1974, he hit for the cycle in a 14–1 victory over the San Francisco Giants at Candlestick Park. For the season, he led the Pirates with 100 runs batted in while also clubbing seventeen home runs. He made his only post-season appearances with the 1974 and 1975 Pirates. While batting an impressive .400 in the post-season, Zisk only scored one run and had no RBIs as the Pirates lost in five games to the Dodgers in the 1974 NLCS and were swept by the Reds in the 1975 NLCS. Following the 1976 season, the Pirates traded Zisk along with Silvio Martinez to the Chicago White Sox for Terry Forster and Rich Gossage.\n\nHis best season was in 1977, his lone year with the White Sox, when he hit 30 home runs and had 101 RBIs in addition to a .290 batting average. He started in left field for the American League in the 1977 All-Star game. He went two for three with a double and two RBIs.\n\nZisk became a free agent at the end of the season, and signed with the Texas Rangers. He batted clean-up, and started in right field at the 1978 All-Star Game at San Diego Stadium in San Diego. For the season, Zisk batted .262 with 22 home runs and 85 RBIs splitting time between left field, right field and designated hitter.\n\nAfter three seasons in Texas, Zisk was traded to the Seattle Mariners with Brian Allard, Rick Auerbach, Ken Clay, Steve Finch and Jerry Don Gleaton for Larry Cox, Rick Honeycutt, Willie Horton, Mario Mendoza and Leon Roberts. His first season in Seattle, he batted .311 with sixteen home runs to earn 1981 AL Comeback Player of the Year honors. After three seasons as the Mariners' designated hitter, he retired after the 1983 season.\n\nZisk played baseball at Parsippany High School. The Daytona Cubs retired Richie's number 22 on July 20, 2007, with his family in attendance and on his bobblehead day. His younger brother, John, played a season in the Texas Rangers' organization, and two for the independent Wausau Timbers of the Midwest League.\n\nIn 2004, Richie Zisk was inducted into the National Polish-American Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nDuring 2011 and 2012, Zisk was in charge of pro scouting in Florida for the Chicago Cubs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170359", "title": "Joan Haslip", "text": "Joan Haslip\n\nJoan Haslip (1912–1994) was an author of historical books, often focusing on European royalty. She was born in London and educated in London, Paris, and Florence. Her first book, \"Out of Focus\", appeared in 1931; among her other notable publications are biographies of Lady Hester Stanhope (1934) and Charles Stewart Parnell (1937). In addition, she was a regular journalist for the \"London Mercury\", the \"Daily Mail\", \"Evening News\", and \"The Illustrated London News\".\n\nShe also worked for the Italian section of the BBC from 1941 to 1944. Her books were generally regarded as accurate and fairly complete, although at times falling prey to \"outdated interpretations\".\n\nHaslip was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170365", "title": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property", "text": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property\n\nThe Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property is one of six subcommittees within the Senate Judiciary Committee. The subcommittee was disbanded in 2007, but reinstated in 2019 at the beginning of the 116th Congress.\n\nThe committee's jurisdiction extends to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170370", "title": "Chetumal International Airport", "text": "Chetumal International Airport\n\nChetumal International Airport is an international airport located in Chetumal, Quintana Roo, Mexico. It handles national and international air traffic for the city of Chetumal. It's operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA), a federal government-owned corporation.\n\nThe airport joined the ASA Network in 1974, it has 230 hectares and its aircraft platform for commercial aviation is 13.140 meters square, also has two lots and a landing strip with the length of 2.2 km, suitable for Boeing 737 aircraft. The airport has a SENASICA satellite office, and its official business hours are 7:00 to 19:00.\n\nThe airport has experienced consistent growth in the last five years, duplicating its passenger traffic. In 2018 the airport handled 321,785 passengers, and in 2019 it handled 368,332 passengers.\n\nOn October 9, 2011, Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA) invested 19 million pesos (1.5 million USD) in modernizing Chetumal's International Airport by extending landing strips to allow room for more air traffic, as promised by the governor Roberto Borge Angulo. According to the governor the modernization came with the intent of improving the city's infrastructure and logistic developments to make Quintana Roo more competitive within the national market. The modernization of the airport also included the expansion of the main terminal.\n\n\nMexicanaClick formerly served this airport until 2010. Mexicana Click's flight to Chetumal was one of the many flights canceled by the company Mexicana before they filed for bankruptcy in 2010, which led to Mexicana's operations to be ceased in August 3, 2010. In Chetumal, Aeroméxico attempted to take over the services that Mexicana Click offered; however, Interjet's low prices made Aeromexico's service to Chetumal unprofitable. On February 23, 2013, Aeromexico ended its service to Chetumal, but it resumes on June 1, 2020. \n\nAviacsa and VivaAerobus were among the first low-cost airlines that served the airport.\n\nOn January 6, 1972, a Hawker Siddeley HS.748-230 belonging to SAESA (Servicios Aereos Especiales Airlines) crashed shortly after take-off from Chetumal on its way to Mérida, killing 5 crew members and 18 passengers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170371", "title": "USA Today Sports Weekly", "text": "USA Today Sports Weekly\n\nUSA Today Sports Weekly is an American sports newsmagazine that is owned by the Gannett Company. A spin-off publication to Gannett's flagship newspaper \"USA Today\", it focuses on coverage of baseball news from Major League Baseball (MLB), Minor League Baseball and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) from spring to early fall, as well as football coverage from the National Football League (NFL) during the fall and winter months. The magazine also features statistics for each covered league and interviews with players and staff members.\n\nSharing production facilities with its parent publication at Gannett's corporate headquarters in McLean, Virginia, \"Sports Weekly\" is printed on newsprint and distributed throughout the United States and Canada. The magazine is regularly published on Wednesdays, though special editions that preview major events (such as the World Series and the Super Bowl) or cover fantasy sports are released several times per year, typically on newsprint of better quality than that used in the weekly editions.\n\nThe magazine was first published by the Gannett Company as \"USA Today Baseball Weekly\", formatted as a tabloid-sized publication focusing exclusively on baseball coverage that launched on April 5, 1991,\n\nThe publication was renamed \"USA Today Sports Weekly\" on September 4, 2002, preceding the official start of the 2002 National Football League season, when it began to incorporate stories and statistics about the NFL. The editorial operations of \"Sports Weekly\" originally operated autonomously from those managed by the sports department of \"USA Today\", before being integrated with its parent newspaper's sports unit in late 2005.\n\n\"Sports Weekly\" added coverage and interviews from the NASCAR circuit beginning with the February 15, 2006 issue. However this lasted only for the auto racing organization's 2006 racing season, with Gannett announcing it was dropping weekly coverage of NASCAR from \"Sports Weekly\" after one season after the November 22, 2006 issue of the publication; although it would continue to issue three special editions dedicated to NASCAR on an annual basis. For the 2007 professional and collegiate baseball season, \"USA Today Sports Weekly\" announced that it would incorporate more comprehensive baseball coverage, along with the return of college baseball features; beginning with the August 8 issue that year, the magazine also added weekly coverage of the NCAA college football season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170376", "title": "The Stoned Age", "text": "The Stoned Age\n\nThe Stoned Age is a 1994 American comedy film directed by James Melkonian, set during the 1970s, about two long haired stoners named Michael Hubbs and Joe Connolly and one night cruising Los Angeles' suburbs looking for alcohol, parties, and girls.\n\nThe story takes place in Torrance, California, sometime in the late 1970s.\n\nA pugilistic ex-convict known as \"Crump's Brother\" is picked up by a local teen while hitchhiking on the freeway and informs him about two women he intends to party with in Torrance Beach, across from the Frankie Avalon house. The teen then informs his friends about the situation, but no one wishes to anger Crump's Brother by worming his chicks. Except for Tack who Doesn’t care and goes to find the chicks.\n\nJoe and Hubbs, 2 long-haired stoners, drive around town and look for chicks on a Saturday night, all they have in their inventory is a half bottle of peppermint schnapps and a half joint of skank weed, but Hubbs is confident it will be enough. as they drive around town in their 1973 Volkswagen Type 3 Squareback, \"The Blue Torpedo,\" looking for drugs and women. They come across Tack, who informs them of the girls and makes a deal to shown them where the girls are for a ride their with them. They stop at the gas station and talk to their friend Crump, the gas station attendant, who also tells them of the girls and says there are only 2 of them and that they’re his brothers chicks. Joe and Hubbs lie to crump that there is another party going so they can distract crump and Crump’s brother from the chicks so they can get there first. They leave Tack at the gas station because the girls are not Tack’s chicks and head for Torrance Beach to the chicks .\n\nThey arrive at the house and find an extremely attractive girl named Lanie who sends them off to a liquor store for alcohol. When they return, they find the homeowner's daughter Jill, a jaded hippie girl who is Lanie's friend. In the meantime, Tack conscripts his nerdy friend Norm \"Snot-rag\" Hankey to take him to the beach. They arrive at the house and after a brief scuffle, Tack entices cooperation with news of a party in Palos Verdes, much to Joe and Hubbs' chagrin.\n\nAt the house party, Muldoon, the party host, lets the girls in but shuts everyone else out. Lanie leaves following an altercation with Muldoon and drafts Joe to take her swimming in a neighbor's pool. The police shut down the party, and Hubbs and Jill locate Joe and Lanie next door. Lanie is smitten with Hubbs' aggressive nature, much to Joe's chagrin, and the two walk upstairs for sex.\n\nHaving lost their beer to the police, Tack and the others raid a liquor warehouse for beer, and head for the house. Joe and Jill partially reconcile but return to find Tack and the Guzzlers converging on the home. A fight breaks out between Joe and Tack and Jill runs inside, eventually letting Joe back in and locking the door.\n\nAfter getting stoned, Hubbs tells Joe he has arranged for Lanie to give him fellatio as a \"birthday present\". Joe finds that Lanie asleep, covers her up, and walks out; he finds Hubbs with Jill making out on the couch; Joe is upset but learns that Jill was the instigator. They are interrupted when Crump's Brother arrives outside and begins to break down the door. They flee to the kitchen but shortly afterwards, they hear the commotion dying out; Jill's father, Warren, has returned from a college reunion and beaten the entire crowd of kids—including Crump's Brother—to unconsciousness with great ease. While Hubbs manages to escape by jumping through a window on the upper floor, Warren retains Joe and holds him hostage awaiting the arrival of the police. It also appears that Warren is very overbearing and emotionally abusive towards Jill. Eventually, a condescending lecture provokes a fight where Joe stands up for Jill against Warren and his rather cruel treatment of her, and Joe and Hubbs dramatically escape just ahead of the police. Enamored with Joe, Jill gives him her full name and geographical location (\"north\") so he can look her up later.\n\nThe police arrest the entire crew of drunken teenagers, and Joe and Hubbs escape in the \"Blue Torpedo\". Hubbs jocularly chides Joe for his apparent cowardice in moving on Lanie and Jill, and dismisses Jill as a viable partner. Joe, no longer tolerant of Hubb's attitude, wrestles a surprised Hubbs into submission while driving and forces him to capitulate that Jill is \"cool\". Joe then places the Blue Öyster Cult 8-track tape into the deck and plays \"(Don't Fear) the Reaper\". The song plays as the Blue Torpedo drives off through the night.\n\nFollowing the credits, Joe and Hubbs are offered Blue Öyster Cult concert T-shirts outside a convenience store by two men, but Joe refuses because the shirts are bootlegs, and not official. The scalpers are played by actual Blue Öyster Cult band members Eric Bloom and Donald \"Buck Dharma\" Roeser.\n\nThe film is based on a short film, \"Tack's Chicks\", directed by James Melkonian at AFI in 1991, co-written by Melkonian and Rich Wilkes. Michael Kopelow also starred as Joe in the short. The feature script was written by Melkonian and Wilkes in 1991 and was shot in February 1993.\n\nThe producers initially titled the film \"Tack's Chicks\" and then \"Teenage Wasteland\", before settling on \"The Stoned Age\".\n\n\"The Stöned Age\" was produced by David Heyman, who went on to produce the \"Harry Potter\" film series.\n\nThe film was originally conceived with Led Zeppelin being Joe's favorite band, including \"Trampled Underfoot\" as the main title song, \"In the Light\" as the song that would accompany Joe's concert flashback, \"Heartbreaker\" and \"The Lemon Song\" as the songs that would introduce Lanie, and \"Tangerine\" as the \"pussy\" song. However, the rights to Led Zeppelin music were not available, and several other bands were considered, including Yes, Jethro Tull, The Who, The Grateful Dead, and Pink Floyd, before Blue Öyster Cult was decided on.\n\nMelkonian acknowledges that there are a number of continuity problems, which are probably due to the low budget. In the kitchen scene, the faces of some crew members can be seen reflected in the front of the microwave oven. Also, there are various instances of things during the movie that didn't exist in the 1970s being clearly visible (or heard, since the Blue Oyster Cult song \"Burnin' for You\" wasn't released until 1981). For example, there are many points when the kitchen scene takes place near a busy road, in which cars from the 1980s and 1990s are clearly visible. There is also a point in the movie where a sign for the crafts store Michaels, which didn't exist until 1984, is also clearly visible. The fashion trends of the 1990s are clearly visible in the movie as well: for example, Joe and Hubbs are seen wearing sweatshirts tied around their waists and Joe wearing ripped jeans, which are reminiscent of grunge fashion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170380", "title": "Southern Hills Country Club", "text": "Southern Hills Country Club\n\nSouthern Hills Country Club is a private golf and country club in Tulsa, Oklahoma.\n\nThe club was established in 1936 from land donated by multimillionaire oilman Waite Phillips (Frank Phillips, Waite's brother, was the namesake and founder of the predecessor to Phillips 66. Waite worked with his brother for a time before starting his own oil company). Phillips had earned an oil fortune and, upon the crash of the stock market, Phillips became The First National Bank of Tulsa’s chairman. With his oil money and with his reputation, Bill Warren and Cecil Canary asked Phillips to sponsor the development of a new country club. The boosters argued that there was the need for a family-oriented club that would include a swimming pool, stable, horseback trails, polo field, skeet range, tennis courts, clubhouse and golf course. Phillips was skeptical of this proposition, and in response he told Warren and Canary that they had a couple of weeks to assume 150 pledges to become members of this club, with each of those pledges paying $1,000 each, to ensure his cooperation. The construction costs were raised by the founding members. The clubhouse, designed in \"English country manor\" style by Tulsa architects John Duncan Forsyth and Donald McCormick, opened on October 17, 1936; the clubhouse was extensively renovated during a three-year project prior to the 2007 PGA tournament.\n\nOn May 27, 1981, Roger Wheeler, a businessman and owner of the World Jai Alai was murdered in the parking lot of the club. The hit was ordered by Winter Hill Gang mobster Whitey Bulger.\n\nOnce the money was raised, the pledges signed, and the land was donated, the main 18-hole golf course was laid out by golf course designer Perry Maxwell. The course was later on renovated by Keith Foster in 1999. Maxwell, a friend of Phillips, oversaw the entire project and its construction.\n\nThere is also a 9-hole West Course that was designed by Ben Crenshaw in 1992. Southern Hills also has the typical facilities of a country club, including extensive banqueting facilities, a fitness center, swimming and diving pools and tennis courts. Southern Hills offers swimming, personal training, and tennis instruction. The course is ranked No. 30 among \"Golf Digest\"’s 2013-2014 “America’s 100 Greatest Golf Courses”.\n\nSouthern Hills has hosted seven major championships for men, including the U.S. Open three times (1958, 1977, 2001) and four PGA Championships (1970, 1982, 1994, 2007). It is the first course to host the PGA Championship four times. Southern Hills also hosted the first-ever U.S. Women's Mid-Amateur in 1987, and the USGA Women’s Amateur was played at Southern Hills in 1946.\n\nThe scorecard for the 2007 PGA Championship\n\nLengths of the course in previous major championships:\n\nBolded years are major championships on the PGA Tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170381", "title": "U.M. &amp; M. TV Corporation", "text": "U.M. &amp; M. TV Corporation\n\nU.M. & M. TV Corporation was an American media company best known as the original purchaser of the pre-October 1950 short films and cartoons produced by Paramount Pictures, excluding \"Popeye\" and \"Superman\". The initials stand for United Film Service (which once employed Walt Disney and other animators many years earlier), MTA TV (Motion Picture Advertising Service) of New Orleans, and Minot T.V.\n\nOperations of the three above-mentioned companies were consolidated into a new company, U.M. & M., in October 1954. The companies were previously producing TV commercials. Matty Fox, head of Motion Pictures for Television, signed a ten-year agreement with U.M. & M. to handle sub-distribution of its TV series.\n\nU.M. & M. handled the physical distribution of the television series \"Paris Precinct\" and \"Sherlock Holmes\", and others. It did not market the shows, leaving the actual syndication to Guild Films.\n\nIn 1955, Paramount Pictures announced it was selling its short films and cartoons, and even a few of its features, including the Max Fleischer animated features \"Gulliver's Travels\" and \"Mr. Bug Goes to Town\".\n\nRepresented by A. W. Schwalberg, a former Paramount sales executive, U.M. & M. won the bid in December 1955, buying 1,600 short subjects for $3.5 million. U.M. & M. got most of the material that Paramount put up for sale. The \"Popeye\" cartoons (including his first film appearance, the \"Betty Boop\" cartoon \"Popeye the Sailor\") were sold in April 1956 to Associated Artists Productions (and in succeeding years to United Artists, MGM/UA Entertainment Co. and Turner Entertainment Co. – today Turner is a division of WarnerMedia). The \"Superman\" cartoons were not included in the sale, as their rights had already reverted from Paramount to National Comics when the studio's film rights to the character expired; TV rights to those shorts were licensed by National to Flamingo Films, distributors of the \"Adventures of Superman\" television series.\n\nThe material that U.M. & M. obtained from Paramount also included many live action short subjects, such as Cab Calloway and Duke Ellington shorts from the 1930s. Burns and Allen shorts were also included, as well as an early short, \"Singapore Sue\", featuring a young Cary Grant.\n\nOther short subjects included in the sale included the following:\n\nThe latest-released cartoon in the package was the \"Screen Songs\" cartoon, \"Boos in the Nite\", released September 22, 1950. A total of 513 animated productions (shorts and features) from Fleischer, Famous, and George Pal were included in the package. The package was eyed by NBC for airing nationally, but this deal apparently fell through. Ironically, ABC would air a repackaging of many Paramount cartoons released after September 1950 once these cartoons were sold to Harvey Films.\n\nAt the insistence of Paramount Pictures, who did not want their company name or mountain logo appearing on television at the time, U.M. & M. replaced the Paramount logo with its (usually) blue shield logo, and removed all references to Paramount Pictures, except for the phrase \"Adolph Zukor presents\". It is believed that U.M. & M. and NTA did not figure that TV viewers would link Zukor's name with Paramount Pictures, which Zukor founded.\n\nU.M. & M. color prints of Paramount cartoons usually have the opening credits listed in yellow print on a red background. Eventually, U.M. & M. started preserving the original credits, but continued to remove references to Paramount, Technicolor, Cinecolor, and Polacolor since the television prints were done in either Eastmancolor or Deluxe. The Eastmancolor prints generally have faded to red.\n\nFor the black-and-white cartoons and shorts, U.M. & M. removed the Paramount logos from the original negatives and substituted its opening logo and an end card reading \"A U.M. & M. TV Corp. Presentation\" for the Paramount mountain. The Paramount copyright was replaced with the U.M. & M. copyright byline, but prints of \"Betty Boop\" cartoons have turned up with original Paramount copyright bylines on the Olive Films releases of \"Betty Boop\".\n\nU.M. & M. began marketing the Paramount shorts and cartoons, at the expense of the live-action made-for-television product it was already syndicating. The marketing included a Miss Cartoon girl at their sales table at the NARTB convention in Chicago. Before all of the shorts could be retitled, National Telefilm Associates bought out the U.M. & M. package in May 1956 for $4 million. The U.M. & M. copyright notices continued to be present on the NTA prints. The shorts were syndicated under NTA's \"Panorama of Entertaining Programs\", as well as sold for home movie distribution.\n\nFor this reason, the majority of the color cartoons purchased by U.M. & M. appear with NTA titles, though a select few circulate with U.M. & M. openings and closings. Most \"Little Lulu\" cartoons circulate with U.M. & M. openings however. A few feature a revised U.M. & M. logo with the original credits intact, though all references to Paramount and Technicolor are blacked out. These prints contain the only titles where the word \"Corporation\" in the U.M. & M. copyright is actually spelled out, and not abbreviated \"Corp.\"\n\nNTA acquired the Republic Pictures name in 1984, and through several acquisitions was eventually merged into Paramount Pictures, which in turn was owned by Viacom (as it has been since 1994). In early 2006, Viacom split itself into two corporations, one called Viacom (still owning Paramount Pictures), and the other called CBS Corporation. As a result, what would become Melange Pictures, LLC, a division of Viacom, now owns the theatrical distribution on behalf of Paramount Animation — all the more ironic since Paramount Pictures originally released the classic shorts in the first place — while Trifecta Entertainment & Media (inherited from CBS Television Distribution) owns the television distribution on behalf of Paramount Television Studios to the U.M. & M./NTA/Republic/Melange library, and Olive Films (under license from Paramount Home Media Distribution) owns the home video distribution. Viacom and CBS re-merged in December 2019 as ViacomCBS.\n\nHowever, restoration of the original Paramount openings to the black and white cartoons and shorts would be difficult, since U.M. & M. actually altered the original black-and-white negatives, although with today’s CGI technology it is possible to authentically recreate such titles. The UCLA Film and Television Archive has restored many of the classic Paramount cartoons, complete with their original titles.\n"}
{"id": "2170382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170382", "title": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security", "text": "United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security\n\nThe United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security is one of six subcommittees within the Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\nThe subcommittee's jurisdiction includes oversight of the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security and the State Department's consular operations with regard to anti-terrorism enforcement and policy. The jurisdiction also includes oversight of government encryption policies and encryption export licensing and oversight of espionage laws and their enforcement.\n\nThe subcommittee is chaired by Democrat Al Franken of Minnesota, and the Ranking Minority Member is Republican Jeff Flake of Arizona.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170389", "title": "René Rapin", "text": "René Rapin\n\nRené Rapin (1621–1687) was a French Jesuit and writer.\n\nHe was born at Tours and entered the Society of Jesus in 1639. He taught rhetoric, and wrote extensively both in verse and prose.\n\nHis first production, \"Eclogæ Sacræ\" (Paris, 1659), won him the title of the Second Theocritus, and his poem on gardens, \"Hortorum libri IV\" (Paris, 1665), twice translated into English (London, 1673; Cambridge, 1706), placed him among the foremost Latin versifiers. Of his critical essays, the best known are: \"Observations sur les poèmes d'Homère et de Virgile\" (Paris, 1669); \"Réflexions sur l'usage de l'éloquence de ce temps\" (Paris, 1672); \"Réflexions sur la poétique d'Aristote et sur les ouvrages des poétes anciens et modernes\" (Paris, 1674).\n\nHe is also the author of several theological and ascetic treatises like \"De nova doctrina dissertatio seu Evangelium Jansenistarum\" (Paris, 1656); \"L'esprit du christianisme\" (Paris, 1672); \"La perfection du christianisme\" (Paris, 1673); \"La foi des derniers siècles\" (Paris, 1679). These books and many other pamphlets were collected in \"Oeuvres complétes\" published at Amsterdam, 1709–10. Rapin's best titles to celebrity are his two posthumous works: \"Histoire du jansenisme\", edited by Domenech (Paris, 1861), and \"Mémoires sur l'église, la société, la cour, la ville et le jansénisme\", edited by Aubineau (Paris, 1865). The latter book is the counterpart of the Jansenistic \"Mémoires de Godefroi Hermant sur l'histoire ecclésiastique du XVIIe siècle\", edited by Gazier (Paris, 1905). Ste-Beuve in his own \"Port Royal\" tries on every occasion to find Rapin at fault, but more recent studies on Jansenism show that he is, in the main, reliable.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170421", "title": "Gravitational Forces", "text": "Gravitational Forces\n\nGravitational Forces is an album by Texas-based country/folk singer-songwriter Robert Earl Keen. It was first released in the United States on August 7, 2001 on Lost Highway.\n\nOne reviewer described this album, Keen's ninth, as being \"just a hair more to the country side of the folk-rock-country axis than ever before.\" Indeed, producer and multi-instrumentalist Gurf Morlix, and the various long-time members of Keen's own road band did not shy away from including fiddle solos and steel guitars in the mix when they suit Keen's songs. \"I wanted to keep a real natural, organic sound,\" says Morlix, \"My job as producer varies from artist to artist. I help them find the sound they want and then do what it takes to get that on record.\"\n\nAs usual, Keen's songwriting is full of narrative stories and character sketches. \"Performing Songwriter\" described the characters found in \"Gravitational Forces\" as \"everyday people pulled, led, and sometimes dragged by some outside strength.\" \"Billboard\" noted, however, that Keen's more recent tales avoid some of the violent imagery found in some of his earlier songs. Keen has admitted, \"Yeah, the body count's a little lower this time.\"\n\nKeen began recording the album after his previous label, Arista Austin had closed down, and before finding his new, albeit brief, home on Lost Highway Records. \"When we started this project I hadn't made a deal with any record company,\" Keen says, \"I just knew I would have a deal one way or another.\" The release arrived at a time when Keen was beginning to receive wider recognition outside of his home state of Texas. As of 2007, \"Gravitational Forces\" remains Keens highest charting album on several of \"Billboard's\" charts (see below).\n\nThe songs on the album that Keen \"didn't\" write range from Johnny Cash's often-covered classic, \"I Still Miss Someone\" to Townes Van Zandt's more obscure \"Snowin' on Raton\". Keen and his band also cover the traditional blues, \"Walkin' Cane\" in what has been described as a \"rowdy, back-porch take,\" and treat Terry Allen's \"High Plains Jamboree\" with a backdrop of \"bar room party sounds.\"\n\nThe cover that reviewers most recognize as a choice pick to match Keen and his career outside of mainstream music is Joe Dolce's \"Hall of Fame\". Keen sings:\n\nKeen's own songs provide many of the albums highlights. \"Wild Wind\" is a harmonica-heavy minor key introduction to a series of tragic small-town characters, that will leave some listeners wanting to know more. Keen says that some of the characters that populate his songs are based upon \"dead on real people\" while others are composites. In \"Wild Wind\", he says, \"there's a character that just sort of walks around town and sells papers. He's a mixture of about three or four guys that I know... In general I try to keep with real people, because I feel like you always want to have some hint of the truth where it makes it feel real to you.\"\n\n\"Not a Drop of Rain\" is Keen's personal favorite from the album, \"It's a very emotional song, written out of thinking what would happen if I lost everything I have.\" The song has a somewhat unusual guitar accompaniment played in DADGAD tuning and its structure eschews the traditional verse/chorus/verse song structure. Singer-songwriter Shawn Colvin fell in love with the song and began performing it. Her version was recorded in studio and released in 2002 on a compilation by radio station KGSR.\n\nKeen's \"Goin' Nowhere Blues\" has been described as \"chilling\" and contains references to Langston Hughes, Woody Guthrie, Martin Luther King, Cesar Chavez, and down-and-out union workers. Keen manages to connect the tragic aspects of all these disparate lives.\n\nThe title track, \"Gravitational Forces\", has been described as \"sort of experimental\" by some and \"bizarre\" or \"hysterical\" by others. Keen delivers a spoken stream of consciousness on the \"temporal distortion of a four-hour soundcheck,\" complete with a free jazz accompaniment that caused one reviewer to liken it to Allen Ginsberg's reading of \"Howl\" backed by the Kronos Quartet.\n\nAlthough one reviewer indicates that the closing track is Keen's first studio release of his own live signature song, \"The Road Goes On Forever\", Keen first recorded the song for his 1989 album \"West Textures\". In the earlier recording the track was five minutes long, just enough to relate the plot twists in Keen's story. This time it's a seven-minute build-up to some intense and lengthy instrumental solos.\n\nIn an August 2001 taping of \"Austin City Limits\", Keen and his band gave a live performance including many of these same songs. This was released in 2004 as the album, \"Live From Austin, TX\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170427", "title": "Diet Mountain Dew", "text": "Diet Mountain Dew\n\nDiet Mountain Dew is a no-calorie Mountain Dew that was first introduced in 1986. It was formerly known as \"Sugar-Free Mountain Dew\" until 1986, when it was given its current name. In 2006 Diet Mountain Dew was reformulated with a new \"Tuned Up Taste\", using a blend of sucralose, aspartame, and acesulfame potassium as sweeteners. The previous formulation was sweetened exclusively with aspartame. \n\nThere is a song by well known songstress Lana Del Rey about this drink, called \"Diet Mountain Dew\".\n"}
{"id": "2170444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170444", "title": "World Quizzing Championship", "text": "World Quizzing Championship\n\nThe World Quizzing Championship is an individual quiz contest organised by the International Quizzing Association (the umbrella organisation of various quizzing organisations from more than 25 countries around the world). The competition has been staged annually since 2003 (since 2004 in more than one country simultaneously) with an increasing number of contestants from an increasing number of nations. Since 2006, the competition has been staged on the first Saturday of every June.\n\nA fledgling event was first staged by Quizzing.co.uk in 2003 at Villa Park football stadium, Birmingham, England. This saw 50 quizzers representing a handful of nations compete in a written test of quiz knowledge. The inaugural event was won by Olav Bjortomt. The event has full official status but only took place in one country and is sometimes erroneously omitted in statistics.\n\nIn 2004, following the foundation of the International Quizzing Association (IQA), the event was held simultaneously in five countries: the United Kingdom (joined by quizzers from elsewhere, including Ireland), Belgium (joined by quizzers from the Netherlands), Estonia, India, and Malaysia. Over 300 quizzers took part. The UK leg was staged at Manchester United's Old Trafford football stadium. The 2004 winner was Kevin Ashman.\n\n\nThe 2005 championship on July 2, saw further significant growth with the event benefiting from the sponsorship of MSN Search. Countries joining the original five competing nations included Australia, Finland, Indonesia, Norway and Singapore. Quizzers sat eight papers of 30 questions each, covering: 'Culture', 'Entertainment', 'History', 'Lifestyle', 'Media', 'Sciences', 'Sport and Games', and 'World', with the lowest score from the eight genres being dropped – although these did come into play to settle tie-break situations. The eight genres were won outright or shared by quizzers from seven countries (Belgium, England, Estonia, Finland, India, Ireland, and Norway).\n\nEfforts to encourage the participation of women in the contest (competitive quizzing has hitherto been something of a male-dominated pastime) were rewarded in 2005 with a win for Trine Aalborg of Norway in the 'Lifestyle' category and a sixth place overall for Dorjana Širola of Croatia (who also finished 3rd among those competitors who had gathered at Silverstone motor racing circuit for the UK leg of the competition). In India, another woman, Debashree Mitra of Bangalore took 3rd place overall also.\n\n\nOn June 3, 2006 the World Quizzing Championships were held at more than 15 locations. First time organisers were Lithuania, Germany, Switzerland, Liberia and Sri Lanka. People of a multitude of nationalities took part, including representatives from the United States, Australia, Russia, Singapore, Hungary, and France. The title was, for the 3rd year running, won by Kevin Ashman.\n\n\nOn June 2, 2007 the World Quizzing Championships was held at locations including the Netherlands, the US and Hungary for the first time. Pat Gibson took the crown from three-time winner Kevin Ashman.\n\nDorjana Širola of Croatia was the highest placed woman in 12th position. Paul Paquet from Canada placed highest in the New York City leg, the first time the WQC was held in North America.\n\nThe 2008 World Quizzing Championships were held on June 7, 2008 at more than 30 locations, including for the first time Australia, the Philippines, Canada, China, Bangladesh, and Latvia. Mark Bytheway took the world title in a close race with Belgium's Ronny Swiggers and Finland's Tero Kalliolevo.\n\n\nThe 2009 World Quizzing Championships were held on June 6, 2009 at more than 45 locations, including 10 venues in the US, 9 in India and 4 in Russia. Kevin Ashman regained his title and became the first ever to win 4 World Quizzing Championships. Second again was Ronny Swiggers from Belgium. Third was last year's champion Mark Bytheway. Jeopardy! legend Jerome Vered, whose all-time single-day winnings record lasted 10 or 12 years (depending on whether adjustment for the doubling of the clue values is used), placed eighth.\n\n\nDorjana Širola of Croatia was the highest placed woman in 22nd position with 135 points.\n\nThe 2010 World Quizzing Championships were held on June 5, 2010 at almost seventy locations, adding Armenia, Bulgaria, Morocco, and the Republic of Ireland for the first time. Over 1200 people participated. Five nations were represented among the competitors placed in the top 10 overall. The overall winner was Pat Gibson.\n\nDorjana Širola of Croatia was the highest placed woman in 17th position with 140 points.\n\nThe 2011 World Quizzing Championships took place on Saturday June 4 with the planned addition of venues in Denmark, Gibraltar and Madagascar. Reigning champion Pat Gibson achieved the highest score in England with 186 and retained his title. Four times champion Kevin Ashman made 176. Tero Kalliolevo achieved the highest score in Finland with 176. Ronny Swiggers achieved the highest score in Belgium with 168. Steve Perry achieved the highest score in USA with 164. Mark Grant achieved the highest score in Wales with 163. Thomas Kolåsæter achieved the highest score in Norway with 158.\n\nThe 2012 event was held on June 2, 2012, with over 1,700 participants competing at 88 locations in 35 countries. Defending champion Pat Gibson was beaten into second place by Jesse Honey with a score of 186. For the first time ever, someone scored full marks in one genre with Ishaan Chugh, a quizzer from India, scoring 30/30 in the Media section.\n\nThe 2013 World Quizzing Championship took place on the 1st of June. A record 1,992 participants competed with India being the most represented country.\n\nThe 2014 World Quizzing Championship took place on the 7th of June with 1,833 participants.\n\nThe 2015 World Quizzing Championship took place on the 6th of June with over 2,000 participants.\n\nThe 2016 World Quizzing Championship took place on the 4th of June with over 2,500 participants.\n\nThe World Quizzing Championships are in the form of a written test taken by individuals that is conducted at various points around the globe. Each competitor faces the same questions (translated into their mother tongue in many cases) at approximately the same time. There are 240 questions, divided into eight categories, and two hours in which to answer them (during one hour halves with a break in between). At the end of the allotted time, the papers are marked and each quizzers' top seven category scores will be added together to find the winner.\n\nThe categories [and general content areas] are a combination of academic and popular culture topics including:\n\n\nIn 2014, the two UK-based individuals among the WQC organizers created the daily 2020Quiz.com online competition. The format was licensed from LearnedLeague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170449", "title": "Matthew 4:23", "text": "Matthew 4:23\n\nMatthew 4:23 is the twenty-third verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. Jesus has just recruited the first four disciples, this verse begins a brief summary of and introduction to Jesus' ministry in Galilee that will be recounted in the next several chapters.\n\nThe text in Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:23\n\nThis verse outlines Jesus' life as an itinerant preacher in Galilee. It divides his ministry into three sections: teaching, preaching, and healing. Unlike the other Gospels the author of Matthew makes a clear distinction between teaching and preaching. To him teaching is only commentary on the scripture and the laws, while preaching is public proclamation. According to France, the third form, healing, is to provide clear illustration of the power of God.\n\nThe mention of teaching in synagogues is especially noteworthy. While this Gospel and others have a large number of scenes of Jesus preaching and healing, none depict him teaching in a synagogue. Clarke notes that Jesus being permitted to speak in a synagogue would indicate that he was a respected figure and also that he could speak Hebrew in addition to the Aramaic that was the common language of the area.\n\nJesus preaches the gospel of the kingdom, literally the good news of the kingdom. France feels this is based on John the Baptist's message of the coming Kingdom of Heaven in that Jesus later adopts in . France states that while John was preaching about the kingdom coming in the near future, Jesus now reports that it is in the present.\n\nThe Greek text literally translates as Jesus healing \"all the sickness and disease among the people.\" This literal translation conflicts everything else that is known about Jesus' healing that describes it as individual. A more probable interpretation is that Jesus healed \"all types of disease,\" and this is how the verse is normally translated.\n\nThe exact translation from Greek text would say \"healing if they were sick and if they were bitter in the midst\" (it is translated this way by Google), which, understood as written, must include all types of healing: physical, mental and spiritual, basically eradicating any infirmity.\n\nAlbright and Mann note that the term \"the people\" occurs fourteen times in Matthew, and that it is almost always short for \"the Jewish people.\" This interpretation is reinforced by later parts of the Gospels that portray the healing of Gentiles as an unusual event. Despite Galilee's large Gentile proportion it seems as though Jesus' ministry was mostly confined to Jews. The mention of synagogues also reinforces this impression.\n\nSome early manuscripts containing the text of this verse are:\n"}
{"id": "2170461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170461", "title": "Ernie Johnson Jr.", "text": "Ernie Johnson Jr.\n\nErnest Thorwald Johnson Jr. (born August 7, 1956) is a sportscaster for Turner Sports and CBS Sports. Johnson is currently the lead television voice for Major League Baseball on TBS, hosts \"Inside the NBA\" for TNT, and contributes to the joint coverage of the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament for Turner and CBS. His father was Ernie Johnson Sr., a Major League Baseball pitcher and Atlanta Braves play-by-play announcer.\n\nJohnson's career began in 1977 while he was still a student at the University of Georgia, when he took a job as the news and sports director for the radio station WAGQ-FM in Athens, Georgia. He held that job until 1978, when he graduated from Georgia with a B.A. in journalism, summa cum laude. In 1979, Johnson began his broadcasting career at WMAZ-TV in Macon, Georgia. He worked there as a news anchor until 1981, when he moved to Spartanburg, South Carolina to work as a news reporter at WSPA-TV. Johnson moved back to Georgia in 1982, this time taking a job in Atlanta at WSB-TV as a general assignment news reporter. He became the station's weekend sports anchor and reporter in 1983. He held those jobs until 1989, when he left to join Turner Sports.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1996, Johnson called Atlanta Braves baseball games for SportSouth (now Fox Sports South) with his father, Ernie Johnson Sr.\n\nKnown as \"E.J.\", Johnson works as the studio host for TNT's coverage of the NBA, including pregame and halftime shows, and the network's famous postgame studio show that airs after each NBA doubleheader, \"Inside the NBA\". He has hosted the show since 1990.\n\nAt the end of each broadcast, Ernie presents \"E.J.'s Neat-O Stat of the Night,\" which has become a popular part of the show but is sponsored by no one, hence the sign that says \"Your logo here\". This changed in May 2007 when vitaminwater stepped in as a sponsor for the segment, replaced by Panasonic's Viera line of televisions for 2008. For the 2005–2006 season, his segments were sponsored by Intel Centrino and most recently Suzuki. In the 2008 NBA Playoffs, his segments were presented by Geico and vitaminwater.\n\nFor all NBA-related shows, Johnson is joined by former NBA stars Kenny Smith, Charles Barkley, Shaquille O'Neal and, on occasion, Chris Webber, Grant Hill, or Reggie Miller. In the 2012–2013 regular season he was joined by Anfernee \"Penny\" Hardaway and Dennis Scott while Smith and Barkley covered March Madness on CBS.\n\nJohnson is also the host of \"Tuesday Fan Night\" on sister station NBA TV, alongside Webber and Greg Anthony. He is also the host and moderator of NBA TV's \"Open Court\", a basketball-panel show featuring Johnson and a rotation of six panelists (all of whom are made up of TNT's NBA analysts) discussing various topics, ranging from the history of the NBA to the current day scene of the league.\n\nIn addition to working basketball, Johnson is also the play-by-play announcer for TNT's PGA Tour coverage. At TBS, Johnson worked as the studio host for their coverage of college football. In 2002, Johnson was co-winner of the Sports Emmy for Outstanding Sports Personality, Studio Host, tying with Bob Costas of NBC and HBO. It was the first time Johnson had been nominated for a Sports Emmy. In 2006, Johnson won the award again, this time on his own, snapping Costas' six-year stranglehold on it, including the year the two shared the honor. From 2007 to 2009, Johnson worked as the studio host alongside Cal Ripken Jr. for TBS's coverage of Major League Baseball. In 2010, he moved into a play-by-play role for the network, serving as the lead broadcaster for TBS' playoff coverage, including the 2010 ALCS. He also broadcast 40 Atlanta Braves games on sister channel Peachtree TV.\n\nJohnson's past work at TNT included roles as studio host for The Championships, Wimbledon from 2000 to 2002, studio host for its National Football League coverage from 1990 to 1997, and various duties at the 1994, 1998, and 2001 Goodwill Games, as well as the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France and the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer. He was the studio host for TNT's coverage of the 1990 FIFA World Cup. He also co-hosted Barkley's now-defunct talk show, \"Listen Up!\" Past work at TBS also included working as studio host for their NBA coverage. Johnson also called weightlifting for NBC's coverage of the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney. He also serves as a studio host for the NCAA tournament for CBS and Turner Sports alternating with Greg Gumbel. In 2015, Johnson won his third Sports Emmy for Best Studio Host, and gave his award to the daughters of the late Stuart Scott, who died in January 2015.\n\nHe is also a sportscaster on \"NBA Live 98\", \"NBA 2K15\", \"NBA 2K16\", \"NBA 2K17\", \"NBA 2K18,\" \"NBA 2K19\" and \"NBA 2K20\".\n\nJohnson and his wife, Cheryl, a licensed professional counselor, live in Braselton, Georgia and have two biological children (one son, named Eric, and one daughter, named Maggie) and four adopted children (a son Michael, adopted from Romania, daughter Carmen, adopted from Paraguay and daughters Ashley and Allison adopted domestically through foster care). A Christian since 1997, he works on a regular basis with the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA), Athletes in Action (AIA), and Samaritan's Feet. Johnson is a devoted Atlanta Braves fan. Though he was born in Milwaukee, Johnson's family moved to the Atlanta area when he was nine, and he considers it to be his hometown. He attended high school at the private Marist School in nearby Brookhaven, Georgia.\n\nOn the November 10, 2016 edition of \"Inside The NBA\", Johnson and co-hosts were discussing the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the stunning upset of Donald Trump's victory over Hillary Clinton. While giving his remarks, Johnson talked about the build-up to Election Day, and how he would lean on his Christian faith and pray for the transition of power and for the division in the country. He also revealed that he wrote in his vote for Ohio governor John Kasich, who was one of the 17 Republican candidates and the last to suspend his campaign.\n\nIn April 2017, he released his memoir, \"Unscripted: The Unpredictable Moments That Make Life Extraordinary\".\n\nIn 2003, Johnson was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, but continued his work through June 2006, when he began treatment. Due to his cancer, Johnson missed TNT's coverage of the British Open and PGA Championship, the last two golf major tournaments in 2006. Johnson returned to \"Inside the NBA\" on October 31, 2006, while continuing his chemotherapy treatments.\n\nOn October 1, 2018, Johnson announced that he would not be a part of the 2018 MLB postseason on TBS after being diagnosed with blood clots in both of his legs, which affects his ability to air travel.\n"}
{"id": "2170463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170463", "title": "Jimmie Spheeris", "text": "Jimmie Spheeris\n\nJimmie Spheeris (November 5, 1949 – July 4, 1984) was an American singer-songwriter who released four albums in the 1970s on the Columbia Records and Epic Records labels. \nHe was of Greek descent. He was brother of film director and producer Penelope Spheeris, and cousin of musician Chris Spheeris and film director Costa Gavras.\n\nJimmie (James) Spheeris was born in Phenix City, Alabama, to Juanita 'Gypsy' and Andrew Spheeris, who owned and operated a traveling carnival called the Majick Empire. These childhood years of colorful transience were a major influence on later work, as evidenced in songs such as \"Lost in the Midway\" and \"Decatur Street,\" among others.\n\nSpheeris had two sisters, Penelope and Linda, and a brother, Andy. After his father was murdered by a \"belligerent carnival-goer,\" Gypsy Spheeris moved the family to San Diego, California. The family eventually settled in Venice, California. Gypsy Spheeris tended bar at an establishment on Main Street called The Circle.\n\nSpheeris moved to New York City in the late 1960s to pursue and develop his songwriting career. The liner notes on his debut album credit friend and fellow songwriter Richie Havens, who introduced Spheeris to Columbia Records executive Clive Davis. Davis signed Spheeris to a four album recording contract and his debut album was released on the Columbia label.\n\nSpheeris' 1971 debut album, \"Isle of View,\" garnered a devoted following and FM radio airplay, most notably for the song \"I am the Mercury.\" His 1973 album, \"The Original Tap Dancing Kid,\" was followed by a period of extensive concert touring. Spheeris returned to the recording studio in 1975 with \"The Dragon is Dancing\" and released \"Ports of the Heart\" in 1976. After \"Ports of the Heart,\" Spheeris had no recording contract. Except for a 1980 single, \"Hold Tight,\" Spheeris released no new material through a major record label.\n\nSpheeris died at the age of 34 in Santa Monica, California, when his motorcycle collided with a van at 2 a.m. on the morning of July 4, 1984. The driver of the van, Bruce Burnside, was charged with driving under the influence of alcohol and felony vehicular manslaughter. Hours before his death, Spheeris finished the self-titled album, \"Spheeris\", which was produced by Paul Delph. This final album was not publicly released for 16 years. Delph would later record two of Spheeris' songs for his final album \"A God That Can Dance\".\n\nA track on Spheeris' final album entitled \"You Must Be Laughing Somewhere\" is based on the life of his friend, author John Kennedy Toole (whose novel, \"A Confederacy of Dunces\", was posthumously awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1981).\n\nIn 1998, independent record label Rain Records began re-releasing Spheeris' catalog on CD, but stopped production in 2001 following the cancellation of a music licensing contract with Sony Music Special Products (owner of Spheeris’ catalog as of this entry).\n\nSpheeris primarily composed on the guitar and piano. His musical genre was generally in the folk music and singer-songwriter traditions, although later work explored jazz, rock music, jazz-rock fusion and new wave music.\n\nWith few exceptions, Spheeris’ guitar compositions employed the use of open tunings, also referred to as alternate tunings. Johnny Pierce (November 30, 1953 – December 12, 2005), worked with Spheeris as a recording session and touring artist from 1973 to 1980, and wrote extensive guitar tablature regarding the tunings Spheeris used throughout his career.\n\nSpheeris’ vocal range was primarily baritone and tenor, with occasional falsetto flourishes. His voice is most often described by music critics and fans as \"soulful,\" \"sultry,\" or \"smoky.\"\n\nLongtime friend Jackson Browne contributed backing vocals on Spheeris' 1976 album, \"Ports of the Heart\". Recording artist Laura Nyro and Spheeris were also friends, sharing a New York City apartment for a time in the early 1970s.\n\nThe following is a partial list of musicians who contributed to recordings by Jimmie Spheeris:\n\nJane Getz, John Goodsall, David Campbell, Geoff Levin, Lee Calvin Nicolai, David Harowitz, Emil Latimer, Buddy Salzman, Bill La Vorna, Felix Cavaliere, Russ Kunkel, Leland Sklar, Bobbye Hall, Sneaky Pete Kleinow, Doreen Davis, Vinnie Johnson, John Summers, Jim Cowger, Harvy Mason, Norma Trotter, Charlie Larky, Bart Hall, Johnny Pierce, Chick Corea, Mike Mallen, Paul Lewinson, Dorothy Remsen, Henry Lewy, Morgan Ames, Chuck Findley, Robert Findley, Gary Barone, Mike Anglin, Jonathan Ellis, Stanley Clarke, John Guerin, Jay Ellington Lee, Robin Williamson, Dan Orbach, Emile Pandolfi, Richard Feves, Paul Delph, Rick Parnell, Doug Lunn, Paul Lani, Richard Burmer, Paul Marcus, Charlotte Crossley, Peter Udo, Vida Vierra, Fred Rehfeld, Terry Powers, Lavell Gibson, Michael Stewart, Arnold McUlla.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170476", "title": "George Wetherill", "text": "George Wetherill\n\nGeorge Wetherill (August 12, 1925 Philadelphia, PA – July 19, 2006 Washington, DC) was the Director Emeritus, Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of Washington, DC, USA.\n\nGeorge Wetherill benefited from the G.I. Bill to receive four degrees, the Ph.B. (1948), S.B. (1949), S.M. (1951), and Ph.D., in physics (1953), all from the University of Chicago. He did his thesis research, on the spontaneous fission of uranium, as well as nuclear processes in nature, as a U.S. Atomic Energy Commission Predoctoral Fellow. Upon receiving his Ph.D., Wetherill became a staff member at Carnegie's Department of Terrestrial Magnetism (DTM) in Washington, D.C. There, he joined an interdepartmental group of Carnegie scientists who were working to date the Earth's rocks by geochemical methods involving natural radioactive decay. This involved determining the concentration and isotopic composition of inert gases such as argon, as well as the isotopes of strontium and lead. He originated the concept of the Concordia Diagram for the uranium-lead isotopic system; this diagram became the standard means for determining precise ages of rocks, and of detecting the possibility of metamorphism, and it forms the basis for all high-precision geochronology in rocks dating back to the early history of the Earth. He was also a member of the Carnegie group that accurately determined the decay constants of potassium and rubidium, an effort that has also become fundamental to the measurement of geological time.\n\nWetherill left DTM in 1960 to become a professor of geophysics and geology at the University of California, Los Angeles. There, he served as chairman of the interdepartmental curriculum in geochemistry (1964-1968), and as chairman of the Department of Planetary and Space Sciences (1968-1972). At UCLA, his interests in age-dating techniques expanded to include extraterrestrial material, as he began applying his radiometric chronology techniques to meteorite and lunar samples. At the same time, he began theoretical explorations into the origin of meteorites. His studies concentrated on collisions between objects in the asteroid belt together with resonances between their motions and those of planets. He computed how these events could move material into Earth-crossing orbits to become meteorites or larger Earth-impacting bodies responsible for the devastating impacts that caused mass extinctions of the majority of living species, including the dinosaurs. Later, he, along with scientists elsewhere, proposed that a certain unusual class of meteorites was not asteroidal in origin but instead came from the planet Mars. This was later confirmed by laboratory work elsewhere and is now well accepted.\n\nIn 1975, Wetherill returned to Carnegie's Department of Terrestrial Magnetism as director. He remained director until 1991, when he became a staff member. At DTM, he began extending his research efforts into questions concerning the origin of the terrestrial planets--Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. He was stimulated by earlier studies by Victor Safronov (O. Yu. Schmidt Institute, Moscow), who showed that as a swarm of planetesimals coagulated into large bodies the swarm could evolve to produce a few terrestrial planets. Wetherill developed a technique to calculate numerically the orbital evolution and accumulation of planetesimal swarms, and he used the technique to reach specific predictions of the physical and orbital properties of terrestrial planets. His results agreed well with present observations.\n\nIn addition to showing how the inner solar system formed, Wetherill's work provided the basis for a model of a giant-impact origin for the Moon and the core of Mercury. It also led to explanations for the isotopic abundances of present-day planetary atmospheres. Recently, Wetherill has shown that Jupiter plays an important role in the evolution of the Solar System; by ejecting comets from the solar system, it offers a protective presence to the inner planets. Wetherill's theoretical work supports discussions on the origins of the Solar System as well as on extrasolar planets.\n\nWetherill provided leadership in the scientific community by serving on advisory committees for NASA, the National Academy of Sciences, and the National Science Foundation. For 17 years, he was editor of the Annual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences. He served as president of the Meteoritical Society, the Geochemical Society, the Planetology Section of the American Geophysical Union and the International Association of Geochemistry and Cosmochemistry.\n\nWetherill died at his home in Washington, D.C Wednesday, July 19, 2006 after a long illness.\n\nHis awards include election to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974, the 1981 Leonard Medal of the Meteoritical Society, the 1984 G. K. Gilbert Award of the Geological Society of America, the 1986 G. P. Kuiper Prize of the Division of Planetary Sciences of the American Astronomical Society, the 1991 Harry H. Hess Medal of the American Geophysical Union, the 1997 National Medal of Science awarded by President Clinton and the 2000 J. Lawrence Smith Medal (National Academy of Sciences) \"for his unique contributions to the cosmochronology of the planets and meteorites and to the orbital dynamics and formation of solar system bodies.\" In 2003 Wetherill was awarded the Henry Norris Russell Lectureship, the highest honor bestowed by the American Astronomical Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170493", "title": "The Essential Bob Dylan", "text": "The Essential Bob Dylan\n\nThe Essential Bob Dylan is a compilation by Bob Dylan, released as a double-CD set in 2000, part of Columbia Records' \"The Essential\" series. \"The Essential Bob Dylan\" spans from 1963's \"Blowin' in the Wind\" (taken from \"The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan\") to 2000's \"Things Have Changed\" (Dylan's Oscar-winning song from the motion picture \"Wonder Boys\").\n\n\"The Essential Bob Dylan\" has proven to be a solid seller in Dylan's catalog, reaching No. 67 in the US and peaking at No. 9 in the UK.\n\nThe British and Australian releases include all of the tracks from the US edition plus several more. It has been reissued in 2009 and 2016 with varying track listings.\n\nAll songs written by Bob Dylan except where noted.\n"}
{"id": "2170497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170497", "title": "Raja Harishchandra", "text": "Raja Harishchandra\n\nRaja Harishchandra () is a 1913 Indian silent film directed and produced by Dadasaheb Phalke. It is often considered the first full-length Indian feature film. \"Raja Harishchandra\" features Dattatraya Damodar Dabke, Anna Salunke, Bhalchandra Phalke, and Gajanan Vasudev Sane and is based on the legend of Harishchandra, with Dabke portraying the title character. The film, being silent, had English, Marathi, and Hindi-language intertitles.\n\nPhalke decided to make a feature film after watching \"The Life of Christ\" (1906) at a theatre in Bombay, now known as Mumbai. He went to London for two weeks to learn filmmaking techniques and founded Phalke Films Company. He imported the hardware required for the filmmaking and exhibition from England, France, Germany, and the United States. Phalke shot a short film \"Ankurachi Wadh\" (\"Growth of a Pea Plant\") to attract investors for his venture. He published advertisements in various newspapers calling for the cast and crew. As no women were available to play female leads, male actors performed the female roles. Phalke was in charge of scriptment, direction, production design, make-up, film editing, along with film processing. Trymbak B. Telang handled the camera. Phalke completed filming in six months and 27 days producing a film of , about four reels.\n\nThe film premiered at the Olympia Theatre, Bombay, on 21 April 1913, and had its theatrical release on 3 May 1913 at the Coronation Cinematograph and Variety Hall, Girgaon. It was a commercial success and laid the foundation for the film industry in the country. The film is partially lost; only the first and last reels of the film are preserved at the National Film Archive of India. Some film historians believe these belong to a 1917 remake of the film by Phalke titled \"Satyavadi Raja Harishchandra\".\n\nThe status of \"Raja Harishchandra\" as the first full-length Indian feature film has been debated. Some film historians consider Dadasaheb Torne's silent film \"Shree Pundalik\", released on 18 May 1912, the maiden Indian film. The Government of India, however, recognises \"Raja Harischandra\" as the first Indian feature film.\n\nKing Harishchandra (D. D. Dabke) is shown teaching his son, Rohitashva (Bhalchandra Phalke), how to shoot with a bow and arrow in the presence of Queen Taramati (Anna Salunke). His citizens ask him to go on a hunting expedition. While on the hunt, Harishchandra hears the cries of some women. He reaches a place where the sage Vishvamitra (Gajanan Sane) is performing a \"yajna\" to get help from \"Triguna\" \"Shakti\" (\"three powers\") against their will. Harishchandra unwittingly interrupts Vishvamitra in the midst of his \"yajna\" by releasing the three powers. To appease Vishvamitra's wrath, Harishchandra offers his kingdom. Returning to the royal palace, he informs Taramati of the happenings. Vishvamitra sends Harishchandra, Taramati, and Rohitashva in exile and asks them to arrange for \"dakshina\". While in exile, Rohitashva dies and Harishchandra sends Taramati to ask the Dom king for arranging a free cremation. While Taramati is on her way to meet the Dom king, Vishvamitra frames her for the murder of the prince of Kashi. Taramati faces trial, pleads guilty and is ordered to be beheaded by Harishchandra. When he raises his sword to complete his task, a pleased Lord Shiva appears. Vishvamitra reveals that he was examining Harishchandra's integrity, returns the crown to him and brings Rohitashva back to life.\n\n\nOther artists in the film were Dattatreya Kshirsagar, Dattatreya Telang, Ganpat G. Shinde, Vishnu Hari Aundhkar, and Nath T. Telang.\n\nOn 14 April 1911, Dadasaheb Phalke with his elder son Bhalchandra went to see a film, \"Amazing Animals\", at the America India Picture Palace, Girgaon. Surprised at seeing animals on the screen, Bhalchandra informed his mother, Saraswatibai, about his experience earlier that day. None of the family members believed them, so Phalke took his family to see the film the next day. As it was Easter, the theatre screened a film about Jesus, \"The Life of Christ\" (1906) by the French director Alice Guy-Blaché instead. While watching Jesus on the screen, Phalke envisioned Hindu deities Rama and Krishna instead and decided to start in the business of \"moving pictures\". After completing his two-week trip to London to learn filmmaking techniques, he founded Phalke Films Company on 1 April 1912.\n\nDuring his London trip, Phalke had placed an order for a Williamson camera and Kodak raw films and a perforator which reached Bombay (now Mumbai) in May 1912. He set up a processing room and taught his family to perforate and develop the film. Though Phalke was certain of his idea of filmmaking, he could not find any investors. So, he decided to make a short film to demonstrate the techniques. He planted some peas in a pot, placed a camera in front of it, and shot one frame a day for over a month. This resulted in a film, lasting just over a minute, of the seed growing, sprouting, and changing into a climber. Phalke titled this short film \"Ankurachi Wadh\" (\"Growth of a Pea Plant\") and showed it to selected individuals. Some of them, including Yashwantrao Nadkarni and Narayanrao Devhare, offered Phalke a loan.\n\nIn his Marathi language magazine \"Suvarnamala\", Phalke had published a story \"Surabaichi Kahani\" (\"A Tale of Sura\"). The story, which depicted the ill effects of alcoholism, was the first he considered for filming. After watching several American films screened in Bombay, he observed they included mystery and romance which the audiences liked. Family members suggested the storyline should appeal to middle-class people and women and should also highlight Indian culture.\n\nAfter considering various stories depicted in Hindu mythology, Phalke's family shortlisted the legends of Krishna, Savitri and Satyavan, and Harishchandra. At the time, a play based on the legends of Harishchandra was popular on Marathi and Urdu stages. Friends and neighbours had often called Phalke \"Harishchandra\" for having sold all his belongings, except his wife's mangala sutra, to fulfil his filmmaking dream. So, Phalke decided on the legends of Harishchandra and wrote the script for his feature film.\n\nPhalke published advertisements in various newspapers like \"Induprakash\" calling for the cast and crew required for the film. It was well-received and huge number of applicants came in for the auditions. Despite a growing response to the advertisement, he was not satisfied with the performers' skills. He discontinued the advertisements and decided to scout for the artists through theatre companies.\n\nPadurang Gadhadhar Sane and Gajanan Vasudev Sane were among the first artists to join Phalke Films Company. The former was playing female roles in the Natyakala theatre company; the latter was performing in Urdu plays. Both joined for a salary of 40 per month. Gajanan Sane introduced his acquaintance Dattatraya Damodar Dabke. Phalke was impressed with his physique and personality and offered him the lead role of Harishchandra.\n\nIn response to the advertisement, four prostitutes auditioned for the role of Taramati. Phalke rejected them for not having satisfactory looks and revised the advertisement to read: \"Only good-looking women should come for interview.\" Two more prostitutes auditioned but left after two days. A young lady, who was a mistress, auditioned and Phalke selected her for the female lead. She rehearsed for four days. However, on the fifth day, her master objected to her working in the film and took her away. In despair, Phalke also visited Bombay's red-light area on Grant Road in Kamathipura. He was asked either to pay a high salary or to marry the woman. One day, while having tea at a restaurant on Grant Road Phalke noticed Krishna Hari alias Anna Salunke, an effeminate young man with slender features and hands. Salunke was working as a cook or waiter at the restaurant on a monthly salary of . He agreed to work in films when Phalke offered him a raise of five rupees.\n\nPhalke auditioned many boys for the role of Rohitashva, son of Harishchandra and Taramati, but none of the parents would allow their children to work in the film as the character would have to live in the forests and was to die. Finally, Phalke's elder son Bhalchandra was assigned the role. He became the first child actor in Indian cinema.\n\nPhalke hired around forty people for his film studio known as a factory in those days. Since working in films was a taboo, Phalke advised his artists to tell others they were working in a factory for a man named Harishchandra. Phalke watched several foreign films to learn about screenplay writing and then completed the script for \"Raja Harishchandra\". The film had an all-male cast as no women were available to play female leads. After coming to the studio, male actors playing female roles were asked to wear saris and do women's chores like sifting rice, and making flour to help Saraswatibai. Though some actors were associated with theatres, most of the cast did not have any prior acting experience. Phalke ran several rehearsals with the actors. Often, he had to wear a sari himself and act out the scene. A number of photographs from English periodicals showing various facial expressions were hung up in the rehearsal studio. All the actors had to go through a mandatory exercise where they were asked to make similar faces.\n\nAbout the same time, the Rajapurkar Natak Mandali drama company visited Bombay. Many of the company's shows were based on Hindu mythology. Phalke met the company's proprietor, Babajirao Rane, and explained his idea of indigenous film production. Rane was impressed by the idea and offered his support by lending his actors and their costumes. Phalke decided to use material like Harishchandra's crown, wig, swords, shields, and bows and arrows in the film. Phalke's brother-in-law owned two drama companies, Belgaokar Natak Mandali and Saraswati Natak Mandali. He offered similar help, but Phalke politely declined as the majority of the cast and crew were finalised. Phalke designed the costumes and stage scenes based on the paintings of Raja Ravi Varma and M. V. Dhurandhar. He painted the scenes for the palace, jungle, mountains, fields and caves himself on curtains. After the sets were erected for the indoor shooting, painter Rangnekar was hired for the monthly salary of 60.\n\nPhalke imported the hardware required for the filmmaking and exhibition from England, France, Germany, and the United States from manufacturers including Houghton Butcher, Zeiss Tessar, and Pathé. This included negative and positive film stocks, cameras, lights, Film laboratory equipment, printing and editing machines, negative cutting tools, and film projectors. He decided to take on the responsibility for the scriptment, direction, production design, make-up, Film editing, and film processing. He asked Trymbak B. Telang, his childhood friend from Nashik, to come to Bombay. Telang was working as a priest at the Trimbakeshwar Shiva Temple. Phalke had taught him still photography as a childhood hobby. After his arrival, Phalke trained Telang in the operation of the Williamson camera and made him the film's cinematographer.\n\nProduction design for the film started after the monsoon season of 1912. While the sets were being erected at Phalke's bungalow at Dadar, an outdoor shooting was scheduled at Vangani, a village outside Bombay. Some of the male actors playing female roles, including Anna Salunke who was playing the female lead, were not ready to shave off their moustaches because it is part of one of the Hindu rituals to be performed after the death of one's father. Phalke persuaded the actors and their fathers to have the moustaches shaved and the unit left for Vangani.\n\nThe unit was lodged at the village temple and continued their rehearsals until Phalke arrived from Bombay. The villagers were frightened to see the troupe of people wearing costumes, wielding swords, shields, and spears while practising the scenes. They informed the \"Patil\" (village headman) that dacoits (robbers) had entered the village. He immediately reported to the \"Faujdar\" (commander) who visited the temple. The unit explained film-making to them, but the \"Faujdar\" did not believe their story and arrested everyone. When Phalke reached the village, he immediately met the \"Patil\" and the \"Faujdar\" explaining to them again about cinema and filming by showing them the equipment. Without loading film into the camera, he asked his unit to enact one of the film's scenes and went through the motions of filming a scene. After viewing the scene, the \"Faujdar\" understood Phalke's new venture and released everyone.\n\nWhile playing with other children, Bhalchandra fell on a rock and his head started bleeding. Phalke treated him with a first aid kit, but he remained unconscious. Various unit members suggested that Bhalchandra should be taken to Bombay for further treatment and once he was completely recovered, shooting could be resumed. The scene that was to be filmed showed Rohitashva, Bhalchandra's character, dead on a funeral pyre. Resuming the outdoor shoot after Bhalchandra's recovery would have delayed the production and incurred costs. To avoid both, Phalke stoically decided to shoot the scene with the unconscious Bhalchandra. As in the legends of Harishchandra, the King along with Taramati and Rohitashva visit Kashi. It was financially challenging for Phalke to go to Kashi and shoot scenes there. So, he took his unit to Trimbakeshwar, where they camped for about a month and filmed the required scenes. Phalke used to develop the film at night for the scenes that were shot throughout the day. He would re-shoot the scenes next day if they were not of the desired quality. Filming was completed in six months and twenty-seven days to produce a film of ; about four reels.\n\nPhalke used trick photography to shoot one of the scenes where the god appears and disappears from behind the smoke of sage Vishvamitra's \"Yajna-kund\". The film negative stocks used were of limited spectral sensitivity with low sensitivity to the red band of the spectrum; thus, sets, costumes, and artists' make-up artists avoided the colour red. During the early nineteenth century, plays had an introductory episode, a compere or a person who introduces the performers in a show. Unit members suggested the film should also have similar introductory episode with Phalke and his wife playing the roles of Sutradhar and Nati. Phalke agreed to the idea but could not convince Saraswatibai to act in front of a camera. Finally, Padurang Gadhadhar Sane played the role of Nati.\n\nPhalke had difficulties arranging a theatre for screening as criticism of his work had already started. He decided to show the film to a select audience and arranged for a premiere at the Olympia Theatre, Bombay on 21 April 1913 at 9:00 pm. The invitees included doctor and public worker Sir Bhalchandra Bhatavdekar, scholar R. G. Bhandarkar, a judge of Small Cause Court Justice Donald, newspaper editors and representatives along with some intellectuals and prominent personalities from Bombay. As Phalke's infant daughter, Mandakini, was ill with pneumonia, his elder brother, Shivrampant, advised him to postpone the premiere to another day. But, as the invitations had already been sent and the theatre was available only on 21 April, Phalke could not change his decision.\n\nBhatavdekar introduced the premiere acknowledging Phalke for his \"daring\". Justice Donald noted that the film would help Europeans learn more about Hindu mythology. Anant Narayan Kowlgekar of \"Kesari\" in his review mentioned that \"Phalke has grandly brought his skill to the notice of the world.\" \"The Times of India\" in their review noted the scenes depicted in the film are \"simply marvellous\" and \"[I]t is really a pleasure to see this piece of Indian workmanship\". With the favourable reviews generated, Nanasaheb Chitre, Manager of the Coronation Cinematograph and Variety Hall, Girgaon, expressed his desire to screen the film.\n\nThe film had its theatrical release on 3 May 1913 at the Coronation Cinematograph and Variety Hall. The show included a dance by Irene Delmar, a comic act by McClements, foot-juggling by Alexandroff, and Tip-Top comic items followed by the film. The show's duration was one-and-half hours with four shows scheduled a day at 6:00 pm, 8:00 pm, 10:00 pm, and 11:45 pm. An advertisement for the film published in \"The Bombay Chronicle\" had a note added at the end that the ticket rates would be double the usual rates. The film had a houseful run for a week, and it was extended for twelve more days. A special show was scheduled on 17 May for women and children only at half rates. Initially, 18 May was advertised as the last show, but the film continued its screening due to popular demand. It screened continuously for twenty-three days until 25 May and was screened at the Alexandra Theatre on 28 June. \"The Bombay Chronicle\" in its issue of 5 May 1913 mentioned that \"this wonderful drama is splendidly represented by the company of actors\" and praised the \"beauty and ingenuity\" with which Phalke succeeded in presenting the film scenes.\n\nNews of the film's success in Bombay spread across India and there were demands to screen the film in various locations. As there were no film distributors in those days, Phalke had to move the film, the projector, an operator, and some assistants from place to place. When the film was screened for a week at the Nawabi Theatre in Surat, Phalke signed a temporary agreement for 50% partnership with the theatre owner. Despite advertising the film, at its first showing the film met with a lukewarm response. Disappointed by the earnings of only 3, the owner asked Phalke either to cancel the show, increase its length, or reduce ticket prices. Phalke politely rejected these suggestions. He issued an advertisement in the Gujarati language calling on people to see \"57,000 photographs of three-quarters of an inch width and two miles length\", for just one Indian anna. He also had his actors enact some of the film's scenes at the town's crossroads. The promotion had the desired effect and earnings increased to 300. Later, the film was also screened at Pune, Colombo, London, and Rangoon with Marathi and Hindi-language intertitles.\n\nFilm historian Firoze Rangoonwalla feels that the film made \"a wide impression and appealed to a large audience in difference places\" and its box office success provided \"the seal of acceptance and laid the foundation of the film industry\" in the country. Director and cinematographer Govind Nihalani explains that the film was shot partly outdoors in direct sunlight and partly in outdoor studios with sunlight blocked by white muslin producing soft and diffused light. He appreciates the tonal gradation, lighting, and camera movements. He also notes the scene where the god appears and disappears from behind the smoke of sage Vishvamitra's \"Yajna-kund\" gives an impression that the scene was filmed in a single shot. Film critic Satish Bahadur points out that though the title cards in the film were in English and Hindi, \"there was something unmistakably Maharashtrian\" in the film. He also mentions that the interior architecture and dresses of countries in the film are more of a Deccan Peshwai style than North Indian. Ashish Rajadhyaksha in his \"The Phalke Era: Conflict of Traditional Form and Modern Technology\" (1993) mentions that the film's narrative style was borrowed from painting, theatre and traditional arts to attract the audience into cinema. Dilip Rajput of the National Film Archive of India notes that the film's scenes appear to run faster because of the current projector speed of 24-frames-per-second as compared to 16 to 18-frames-per-second speed of the projector that was used for the film.\n\nDirected by Paresh Mokashi, the 2009 Marathi film \"Harishchandrachi Factory\" (\"Harishchandra's Factory\") depicts the making of \"Raja Harishchandra\". The film won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Marathi at the 56th National Film Awards. It was selected as India's official entry to the 82nd Academy Awards in the Best Foreign Language Film category along with the 62nd British Academy Film Awards and the 66th Golden Globe Awards but was not listed among the final five nominations.\n\nThe original length of a film was , about four reels. In 1917, the film's last print caught fire due to the constant friction and the exposure to high temperatures while it was being transported from one theatre to another, by a bullock cart. Phalke readily re-shot the film to produce the version that exists today. However, only the first and last reels of the original film are preserved at the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) making it a partially lost film. Some film historians believe they actually belong to a 1917 remake of the film, titled \"Satyavadi Raja Harishchandra\". NFAI duplicated the film but around twenty percent of the left side of the screen was lost in the transfer. It was believed the film's remaining reels were destroyed along with 1,700 nitrate-based films in the fire at the Film and Television Institute of India on 8 January 2002. The prints were later retrieved from the private collection of Phalke's children. The NFAI has restored and digitised the film.\n\nThe status of \"Raja Harischandra\" as the first full-length Indian feature film has been argued over. Some film historians consider Dadasaheb Torne's silent film \"Shree Pundalik\" as the maiden Indian film. Torne's film was released on 18 May 1912 at the same theatre as \"Raja Harischandra\". An argument has also been made in favour of \"Raja Harischandra\" that \"Shree Pundalik\" is a cinematographic recording of a play, using a single, fixed camera and it was filmed by a British cameraman with the film stock processed in London. The Government of India recognises \"Raja Harischandra\" as the first Indian feature film. In 1969, it introduced the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, the country's highest award in cinema, to commemorate Phalke's contribution to Indian cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170500", "title": "Victor Pemberton", "text": "Victor Pemberton\n\nVictor Pemberton (10 October 1931 – 13 August 2017) was a British writer and television producer. His scriptwriting work included BBC radio plays, and television scripts for the BBC and ITV, including \"Doctor Who\", \"The Slide\", \"Timeslip\" and \"The Adventures of Black Beauty\". His television production work included the British version of \"Fraggle Rock\" (second series onwards), and several independent documentaries including the 1989 International Emmy Award-winning \"Gwen: A Juliet Remembered\", about stage actress Gwen Ffrangcon-Davies.\n\nPemberton grew up in Islington, London, and lived for many years in Essex. In his earlier years, Pemberton had several small screen acting roles. In addition to novelisations, he wrote many nostalgic novels set in London, prompted by the success of his autobiographical radio drama series \"Our Family\".\n\nPemberton first worked on the programme in 1967 as Assistant Script Editor and was promoted to the role of Script Editor during the production of the story \"The Tomb of the Cybermen\".\n\nPemberton wrote the 1968 Patrick Troughton story \"Fury from the Deep\" (which he subsequently novelised for Target Books). The story, now missing from the BBC archives, was based on an earlier stand-alone radio serial he had written called \"The Slide\", starring future Master actor Roger Delgado. It introduced the Doctor's trademark sonic screwdriver.\n\nIn 1976, Pemberton wrote the audio drama \"Doctor Who and the Pescatons\" for an experiment in \"Doctor Who\" on vinyl record and an early spin-off from the programme. The production was aimed at children and is heavily based on ideas Pemberton had used for \"Fury from the Deep\". He later novelised \"The Pescatons\", which was the final \"Doctor Who\" book published with the Target logo on the spine. He had previously appeared as an actor in the series, in a non-speaking role as a scientist in the 1967 story \"The Moonbase\".\n\nIn later life he lived in Spain, where he continued to write novels. Pemberton was the life partner of the British actor, producer and writer David Spenser.\n\nPemberton's death was announced on 13 August 2017. He was 85.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170511", "title": "Kowloon Park", "text": "Kowloon Park\n\nKowloon Park () is a large public park in Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong. It has an area of and is managed by the Leisure and Cultural Services Department.\n\nThe park was formerly the site of the Whitfield Barracks of the British Army, with a former battery (Kowloon West II Battery) in the northwestern part of the Park.\n\nThe Urban Council redeveloped the site into the Kowloon Park in 1970. More than 70 buildings were demolished to make way for the park. The first stage of the park was officially opened on 24 June 1970 by the then Governor of Hong Kong, Sir David Trench. The opening was celebrated by a lion dance as well as a folk dance by students of the Tai Hang Tung Primary School PM Session. Music was provided by the band of the First Battalion, the Royal Welsh Fusiliers. Sir David unveiled a commemorative plaque and declared Kowloon Park open. The first phase comprised 18 acres out of a planned 26 acres. It featured a floral clock as well as a Chinese garden set within an English landscape, which a government spokesman called \"a reminder of Hongkong's cosmopolitan cultural heritage.\"\n\nHowever, part of the site was occupied in the construction of an MTR rapid transit line—originally the Kwun Tong Line, now the Tsuen Wan Line—from 1975 to 1978, and this was cited as a reason for the slow progress in developing the remaining three stages of the park for recreational use. The Urban Council also placed some of the blame on the construction of Kowloon Park Drive, which cut through a corner of the park at the insistence of the government.\n\nThe Government was criticised when the Executive Council approved plans in 1982 for a strip of retail premises fronting Nathan Road to be carved into the hill of Kowloon Park. The move was first proposed when the Barracks were converted into public open space in 1970, and ignited some controversy. It was opposed by the Urban Council, as well as the Muslim community, whose mosque was close by. The rights for the development of the 5,410 square metre strip were sold in February 1983 to a subsidiary of New World Development for $218 million. The commercial development is called \"Park Lane Shopper's Boulevard\". Owing to the grade change, the roofs of the shops are level with the ground of Kowloon Park, and so the gardens extend onto the building rooftops.\n\nAn aviary was opened in 1980. From 1987 to 1989, the park was completed at a cost of $300 million, which was funded by the then Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club. The park was \"doubled\" in size, expanding to the north and south, and the sports centre and swimming pool complex was built.\n\nThere is a tree walk located next to the Rose Garden. There are also some stone wall trees growing on the walls adjacent to aviary pond in Kowloon Park.\n\nOne preserved historic barrack, Block S58, is used as a godown of Hong Kong Museum of History. Three other preserved buildings of the former barracks are used as museums:\n\nBlocks S61 and S62 of former Whitfield Camp are \"Grade III historical buildings\" which were constructed in circa 1910. They are a pair of identical two storied colonial military barrack blocks. The roofs are pitched with Chinese tiles with tar finish. They housed the former Hong Kong Museum of History from 1983 to 1998 before the completion of the present Hong Kong Museum of History at Chatham Road South. An extension block linking the two historical barracks was constructed in the 1980s to provide more space for the museum facilities. It now houses the Hong Kong Heritage Discovery Centre.\n\nBlock S4 of former Whitfield Camp is a two-storied colonial military barrack building which is identical to Blocks S61 and S62. It now houses the Health Education Exhibition and Resource Centre.\n\nLocated near the park's Park Lane Shopper's Boulevard entrance, the Hong Kong Avenue of Comic Stars opened in 2012. It features 24 figurines of local comic characters and 10 bronze handprints of local comic artists along a 100-metre path.\n\nApart from the birds in the Bird Lake and the Aviary, about 100 different wild bird species can be found in the Park. The Conservation Corner, Color Garden, Chinese Garden, Bird Lake and Fitness Trail are ideal spots for wild bird watching.\n\nThe park houses an indoor sports centre and a large aquatics centre. \n\nThe pool complex is the most heavily used in Hong Kong, serving over 2000 swimmers daily. It includes four indoor heated pools, including an Olympic sized 50-metre main pool, two 25-metre training pools, and a 20-metre diving pool. Outdoors, there are leisure pools of irregular shapes linked together by waterfalls, a circular paddling pool, and sunbathing areas. The swimming complex opened on 12 September 1989 and can accommodate a maximum of 1530 swimmers, and has an annual attendance of more than 1 million visitors.\n\nAs one of the best equipped swimming pools in Hong Kong, it is the only venue on the Kowloon side suitable for staging major or international swimming events. Events of the Hong Kong Games are also held there regularly.\n\nThe former Kowloon West II Battery, which was graded as Grade I historic building, was converted into a children's adventure playground in Kowloon Park; it is still recognisable for what it was, however. The gun emplacements have been renovated. Naval guns have been mounted in each emplacement after they were discovered at a construction site at Chatham Road in Tsim Sha Tsui in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170515", "title": "Ignat Bednarik", "text": "Ignat Bednarik\n\nIgnat Bednarik (March 8, 1882–March 11, 1963) was a Romanian painter who worked in almost every genre of painting before devoting himself purely to watercolor. He was also interested in decorative art, design, interior decoration and book illustration. In his lifetime, he produced more than 3,000 works of art.\n\nBednarik was born in Orschowa (Orşova), at the time part of Austria-Hungary, to Czech parents; he was son of the second marriage of Adalbert Bednarik (originally from Moravia) and Genoveva Hauschka, followed by two sisters, Genoveva, and Maria.\n\nWhile a pupil at the Traian High School in Drobeta Turnu Severin, he won first prize for his works in drawing at the \"Tinerimea Română\" society.\n\nFrom 1898 to 1900, Bednarik studied at the Bucharest School of Fine Arts under the sculptor and water-colourist, Ion Georgescu. In 1901, he went to Vienna where he occasionally attended classes at the Academy of Fine Arts; Bednarik preferred instead to study masterpieces in the collections of the Kunsthistorisches Museum and the Albertina.\n\nIn 1909, he married Elena Alexandrina Barabaş, also a graduate of the Bucharest School of Fine Arts. Together they left for Munich to study at the Royal School of Applied Art, at a time when the city was a dynamic international cultural centre, brimming with new ideas, in particular the influence of the Jugendstil aesthetic.\n\nThe Bednariks made their debut in 1910, in Paris, at the Salon d'Automne held in the Grand Palais. They returned to Bucharest in the same year. Ignat Bednarik exhibited for the first time in Romania in 1913 with \"Associaţia Artistică\"; he subsequently took part in official salons and opened his first individual exhibition in Bucharest in 1915.\n\nHis works of this period brought the influence of European symbolism to Romania at the same time as Alexandru Macedonski was exploring similar ideas in poetry. The longing for evasion, a favourite concern of symbolists, shows itself in a variety of ways in his work. A symbolic interpretation of reality, seen through the world of myths, is found in works like \"Saved\", while the interdependence of heaven and earth is explored in \"When the Gods Came Down to Earth\" and a demythologising of fiction is attempted in \"End of the Legend\" (all 1915). The need for escape, the longing for the absolute and the desire to recreate reality in an ideal dimension can also be seen in \"Towards glory\" (1915), \"The Spirit Triumphs\" (1916), \"Excelsior\", \"The Paths of Life\" (1922) and \"Æternum Vale!\".\n\nThe escape into the world of legends and ancient ballads (for example, \"Meşterul Manole\") demonstrates Bednarik's debt to Romanian folk-tales, seen particularly well in his series of illustrations for Petre Ispirescu's \"Tales of the Romanians\" (1925–1926).\n\nNotes of nostalgia and reverie also permeate his portrait-compositions \"Ioana\" (1920), \"The Letter\" (1921) and \"Portrait of Mrs. M. Tomescu\" (1923), while his treatment of philosophical subjects, such as \"Towards the Styx\" (1916), \"The Enigma of Life\" (1919), \"Chimera\", or \"To Be or Not To Be\" (1922), is imbued with an air of symbolic mystery.\n\nAnother kind of symbolic escape is found in the realm of fine sensations, of correspondences. The theme of music often appears in Bednarik's work, for example \"Young Girl Playing the Violin\" (1915), \"At the Piano\" (1922) and \"Playing the Violin\" (1922). Bednarik often associates music with flowers which decorate the interior where the former is being produced; at times they are so faintly sketched on the canvas as to be almost invisible (another symbolist trait). Flowers are often present in portraits of children (\"Mother's Birthday\") and almost always in paintings of female figures (a favourite association of Art Nouveau artists), for example in \"Portrait of the Artist's Wife\" (1919), \"Portrait of a Young Girl\" (1925), or \"Portrait of Miss J.P.\" (1924). They are also seen in his interiors with nudes painted in 1921. The flower symbolism is enhanced by the choice of the blossom which accompanies the female figure. Mastering the delicate transparency of watercolour, Bednarik surrounds his sitters sometimes with lilies, but more often with roses or peonies. In his next period, from 1919 to 1928, the still life with flowers became one of his favourite subjects.\n\nThe novelty of his work lies in its symbolist conception as well as the atmosphere of deep philosophical contemplation, transposed through watercolour, which imbues his painting with such distinctive individuality.\n\nThe violence of World War I brought an abrupt halt to his heady and coloured symbolist compositions. As a member of the \"War Team of Artists and Sculptors\" set up in Iaşi by Queen Marie, during the time when Bucharest was occupied by German forces, Bednarik employed all his graphic skill in vigorous depictions of conflict and hardships.\n\nBetween 1915 and 1927, Bednarik held eight individual watercolour exhibitions in Bucharest and, in 1928, one in New York City. He also executed a series of works which were designed as an overlook of typical scenes from Romanian daily life. Towards 1947, partially recovering his sight after a period of almost total blindness, he painted a number of canvases depicting characters from old Bucharest, or scenes from Romanian history (\"The Execution of Gheorghe Doja\", 1954). In 1956, a retrospective of the work of Ignat Bednarik was organised in Bucharest by the Union of Artists.\n\nIn 1961 he went completely blind. He died two years later.\n\nToday, his works can be seen in collections and museums both in Romania and abroad, such as in the National Museum of Art of Romania, Military Museum, and National Museum of Romanian History, the Bucharest City Museum of History and Art, the library of the Romanian Academy, the Brukenthal Museum in Sibiu; also in the Albertina Collection in Vienna and in private collections in Europe, the Americas and the Middle East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170519", "title": "Trellix", "text": "Trellix\n\nTrellix was a software company whose products allowed web users to set up personal websites with the use of online publishing tools.\n\nLocated in Concord, Massachusetts, the company was founded in 1997 and was purchased by Interland (now Web.com) in 2003.\n\nIn March, 2004 Interland closed the Trellix subsidiary.\n\nFounded in 1995 by software pioneer Dan Bricklin, Trellix's first product was Trellix, a program designed to allow companies to develop and manage information on corporate intranets. Many users of the program desired to use this same idea to create personal websites. This led to the creation of Trellix Web (codenamed \"Brooklyn\"), a downloadable, client-based software tool. Trellix offered several versions of Trellix Web software:\n\n\nThe only version of Trellix that was sold to consumers was 2.7 and only the Publish Anywhere (PA) version allowed the user to define the host. Version 2.7PA was not included in bundled software packages and it is the only version of Trellix that can still publish to new sites. \n\nEventually, Trellix completely abandoned development of \"Trellix Web\" in favor of \"Trellix Web Express\", the online software, selling the rights to \"Trellix Web\" to GlobalSCAPE, Inc. so the product could be sold under the name CuteSITE Builder (CSB). This software was sold as version 3, 4 and 5, but was discontinued June 30, 2006 which ended the line of PC installed Trellix software.\n\nSupport for the free and paid versions of the PC software is still available on free support sites and forums.\n\nIn 2001, Trellix developed Trellix Web Express, a web-based version of the Trellix Web software, based in part on software purchased from Lycos' Tripod.com division. (This deal was structured such that Tripod, at the time one of the largest homepage providers online, would be the initial licensee of the new product.) Utilizing JavaScript and allowing published changes to be seen in real-time, Trellix Web Express was designed to be easy-to-use without having to download a fairly large client program. Some free Web portals still use Trellix Web Express, although it is often co-branded to remove the Trellix name from the product. \n\nAt its peak, Trellix developed the Web Express product in English, Spanish, and Portuguese. However, work on the non-English versions was not profitable and was discontinued after the 3.x release.\n\nBy 2003, EarthLink was offering use of \"Trellix Site Builder\" to its customers.\n\nIn 2007 \"Trellix Web Express\" appeared as \"Site Builder\" or \"Trellix Site Builder\". The corresponding web site www.trellix.com now links directly to the offers of Web.com.\n\nTrellix also licensed the rights to Blogger, a popular blog-development tool, in April 2001.\n\nIn 2003, Web hosting company Interland, which changed its name to Web.com after buying the company with that name, purchased Trellix, and continues to use patented products of Trellix today. , Web.com refused to continue the licensing arrangement with GlobalSCAPE for the PC installed version of the Trellix Web software, retitled CuteSITE Builder (CSB), per notice posted on the GlobalSCAPE support forum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170520", "title": "PGP Corporation", "text": "PGP Corporation\n\nPGP Corporation was a company that sold Pretty Good Privacy computer software. It was founded in 2002, and acquired by Symantec in 2010.\n\nPGP Corporation was co-founded in June 2002 by Jon Callas and Phil Dunkelberger (who became CEO), based in Menlo Park, California. It was funded by Rob Theis, general partner, Doll Capital Management and Terry Garnett, general partner, Venrock Associates. The company owned the Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) software, which was originally developed by Phil Zimmermann (who had earlier started a company of a similar name). Originally written in 1991, PGP was one of the first freely and publicly available implementations of public-key cryptography. It was originally used to allow individuals to communicate securely through bulletin board systems. PGP later became standardized and supported by many other applications, including email. PGP Corporation acquired the code and rights to the name from Network Associates (NAI) in August 2002. The company released version 9 of the software in 2005.\n\nPGP Corporation's focus shifted towards the corporate market. \nIn 2004, the company announced plans to integrate with Symantec anti-virus technology. \nIn 2009, Callas left to be a security consultant.\nIn February 2010, the company acquired certificate authority TC TrustCenter and its parent company, ChosenSecurity, to form its PGP TrustCenter division.\n\nOn April 29, 2010, Symantec Corp. announced the acquisition of PGP Corporation for about $300 million cash. The merger was completed in June of that year.\n\nThe second developer hired, Hal Finney, went on to become the bitcoin network's first transaction recipient in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170521", "title": "The Wayside", "text": "The Wayside\n\nThe Wayside is a historic house in Concord, Massachusetts. The earliest part of the home may date to 1717. Later it successively became the home of the young Louisa May Alcott and her family, who named it Hillside, author Nathaniel Hawthorne and his family, and children's writer Margaret Sidney. It became the first site with literary associations acquired by the National Park Service and is now open to the public as part of Minute Man National Historical Park.\n\nThe first record of the Wayside property occurs in 1717. Minuteman Samuel Whitney was living in this house, which still retained most of its original appearance, on April 19, 1775, when British troops passed by on their way to the Battles of Lexington and Concord at Concord's Old North Bridge. During the years 1775 and 1776 the house was occupied by scientist John Winthrop during the nine months when Harvard College was moved to Concord.\n\nShortly after the failure of the Fruitlands experiment, educator and philosopher Amos Bronson Alcott and his family moved to Concord. Beginning in October 1844, the family first lived in the home of a friend named Edmund Hosmer. Alcott's wife Abby May had recently inherited about $2,000 and they intended to use the money to buy a home. Neighbor Ralph Waldo Emerson helped the family find the property to buy: a home most recently owned by a wheelwright named Horatio Cogswell. Emerson also loaned the family $500 for their purchase. Bronson took no part in the transaction being, as his wife explained, \"dissatisfied with the whole property arrangement\" and did not believe he could own any part of the Earth. No one seemed to know much about the history of the home, though Henry David Thoreau told the story that one of its previous owners believed he would never die and his ghost was rumored to haunt it. The Alcotts moved in on April 1, 1845; they named the home \"Hillside\".\n\nThe Alcotts immediately began renovating what was originally a colonial saltbox home. A shed on the property was cut in half and attached to either side of the main house. Outside the house, they added terraces, arbors, and pavilions. Bronson had hoped his brother Junius and his family would move in with them and built additional rooms for that purpose. Instead, by that summer, Junius had a nervous breakdown and Bronson left to care for him.\n\nIn March 1846, the family added a bedroom for their 13-year-old daughter Louisa May Alcott. It was the first room she had to herself. She wrote in her journal, \"It does me very good to be alone, and Mother has made it very pretty and neat for me.\" In this home, Louisa and her sisters lived many of the scenes that later appeared in her book \"Little Women\" (1868–69), including the amateur plays they performed. She also began writing what would become her first book, \"Flower Fables\" (1854).\nBronson opened the home to many people, including Sophia Foord, a teacher with whom he hoped to open a school. He also offered the home as a site for the Underground Railroad. The family likely hosted several escaped slaves; Louisa May, years later, referred to more than one, writing, \"fugitive slaves were sheltered under our roof\". Due to the requisite secrecy, however, few records of specific fugitives survive. Bronson referred to a 30-year-old man who was \"athletic, dextrous, sagacious, and self-relying\" who stayed there for a week in 1847 on his way to Canada. Bronson hoped the experience would serve as a lesson to his family.\n\nBy 1848, the family debated about moving. Bronson liked Concord because of the neighbors he could converse with. Abby, however, saw the town as a symbol of their poverty and desired a move to the city of Boston to be closer to friends, relatives, and potential work. She won the debate and the family rented out the Hillside and moved to the South End by that winter.\n\nAfter living for a time in a rented home in Lenox, Massachusetts, author Nathaniel Hawthorne considered purchasing a home for his family. He assured his wife Sophia Peabody that his publishers Ticknor & Fields \"promise the most liberal advances of money, should we need it, towards buying the house.\" On March 8, 1852, Hawthorne finalized his purchase of the house for $1,500 from the Alcotts. After buying the house, Hawthorne wrote, \"Mr Alcott... had wasted a good deal of money in fitting it up to suit his own taste—all of which improvements I get for little or nothing. Having been much neglected, the place is the raggedest in the world but it will make, sooner or later, a comfortable and sufficiently pleasant home.\" The Hawthornes had previously lived in Concord at The Old Manse, which they moved to after their July 9, 1842, wedding. Their new home was about two miles from there and the couple moved in with their three children in June. Nathaniel renamed it \"The Wayside\", noting that it stood so close to the road that it could have been mistaken for a coach stop. He explained in a letter: \"I think [it] a better name, and more morally suggestive than that which... Mr. Alcott... bestowed on it.\" Bronson never accepted the name change and continued referring to it as \"Hillside\". Some time in 1852, the Hawthornes hired Henry David Thoreau to survey the property. The young six-year old Julian Hawthorne, the second of the Hawthornes' three children, accompanied him in silence. Thoreau remarked to the boys father he was a \"good boy! Sharp eyes, and no tongue\". By October 1852, Hawthorne wrote to his friend Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, \"I am beginning to take root here, and feel myself, for the first time in my life, really at home.\"\n\nThe family moved to England when Nathaniel Hawthorne was appointed United States consul at Liverpool; he served in that role from August 1, 1853 to October 12, 1857. Shortly before leaving, on June 14, 1853, friend and poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow held a farewell dinner party at his Cambridge home. The Hawthornes stayed in Europe until 1860 and, during that time, they leased The Wayside to family members including Sophia's sister, Mary Peabody, who later married Horace Mann. During her time in the house, Franklin Benjamin Sanborn stayed at The Wayside for a night while hiding his connection to John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry. The Hawthornes' son Julian later went to Sanborn's school. Before returning to the United States, the Hawthornes spent several months in Italy where, in April 1859, Nathaniel grew a mustache.\n\nWhile the Hawthornes were overseas, the Alcotts had Henry David Thoreau survey the land next door to The Wayside. The site was the former home of a man named John Moore and was surrounded by elms and butternut trees, and included an apple orchard. They purchased the home, which they named Orchard House, for $945 on September 22, 1857. The Hawthornes referred to it as \"Apple Slump\". While the Orchard House was being renovated, the Alcott family rented a wing of The Wayside. Unlike Bronson Alcott, Nathaniel was not known for socializing with his neighbors. He often used the hilltop in his backyard as a means of escaping social interactions. As Bronson noted, \"he feared his neighbor's eyes would catch him as he walked.\" The children of the respective families, however, became quite friendly. Bronson was disappointed in his inability to connect with Nathaniel and noted, \"Nobody gets a chance to speak with him unless by accident.\" Louisa was surprised the neighboring families did not become better friends. She wrote, \"We did all we could to heal the breach between the families but they held off, so we let things rest.\"\n\nAfter the family returned to the United States in 1860, Nathaniel considered moving to Boston, noting, \"I am really at a loss to imagine how we are to squeeze ourselves into that little old cottage of mine.\" The income from his consulship did not bring as much money as he predicted and, to make matters worse, reception to his latest book, \"The Marble Faun\", was not positive. Hoping to expand The Wayside rather than move, he wrote of his financial woes \"with a wing of a house to build, and my girls to educate, and Julian to send to Cambridge [to study at Harvard College]\". Nevertheless, the family made several changes to the home, most notably the three-story tower on the back of the house. The top room became Nathaniel's study—he named it his \"sky parlor\"—though the tin roof made the room very hot in summer and very cold in winter. During those months he used the front parlor for his writing. Julian Hawthorne moved his bedroom to the first floor sitting room. Next-door neighbor Bronson Alcott cut paths and planted gardens for the Hawthornes, which included fir trees and larches imported from England, and Thoreau surveyed the property for $10. The Hawthornes also added a second story over Alcott's west wing, enclosed the bay porch and moved the barn to the east side of the house. Nathaniel was not entirely pleased with the result:\n\nDuring these years, Nathaniel spurned invitations from James Russell Lowell to write for \"The Atlantic Monthly\". When the journal was purchased by the publisher James Thomas Fields, he invited both Nathaniel and Sophia to write. He agreed but she declined, writing: \"You forget that Mr. Hawthorne is the Belleslettres portion of my being, and besides that I have a repugnance to female authoresses in general. I have far more distaste for myself as a female authoress in particular.\"\n\nAt the outset of the American Civil War, Nathaniel Hawthorne's spirits and health were fading. Urged by his friend Horatio Bridge, he took a trip to Washington, D.C., where he met President Abraham Lincoln in the spring of 1862. Nathaniel noted he was \"about the homeliest man I ever saw\" but that he \"liked this sallow, queer, sagacious visage\". He visited several sites related to the War and the Army especially in Virginia, where he traveled for a time with writer Nathaniel Parker Willis. He returned to the Wayside on April 10, 1862, and less than a month later sent \"The Atlantic\" an essay titled \"Chiefly About War Matters by a Peaceable Man\". Fields, editor of \"The Atlantic\", had accompanied Nathaniel on the trip at Sophia's request and insisted on changes to the essay. He and publishing partner William Ticknor agreed that comments about President Lincoln's odd features and references to \"Uncle Abe\" should be omitted. Nathaniel cut the entire section, though he considered it \"the only part of the article really worth publishing\" and lamented, \"What a terrible thing it is to try to let off a little bit of truth into this miserable humbug of a world!\" \"The Atlantic\" received very \"cruel and terrible notes\", Fields claimed, after the article was published.\n\nIn his later years, Nathaniel was especially concerned about the financial situation his family would face after his death. Living at The Wayside cost the family $2,500 a year, despite attempts to live frugally by refusing to hire help to take care of the house and grounds. He noted to his publisher Ticknor that he expected to \"die in the alms-house\". In the late spring of 1864, Nathaniel took ill and traveled with his friend, the former President of the United States Franklin Pierce. It was on this trip that Nathaniel died on May 19, 1864. On hearing the news, Louisa May Alcott sent the family a bouquet of violets picked from Nathaniel's walking path by the Wayside. Annie Adams Fields, wife of the publisher, noted in her journal after a visit in April 1865, \"What an altered household! She [Sophia] feels very lonely, and is like a reed. I fear the children will find small restraint from her... Will God spare her further trial?\" Sophia and the three children moved to England shortly after; she sold The Wayside in 1870.\n\nThe home was purchased in Spring 1879 by George Parsons Lathrop, an author and husband of Hawthorne's daughter Rose. Rose and George Lathrop lived there with their son Francis. Rose, who had lived there twice before, hoped it would be a happy time for her young family, but it was not; their son contracted diphtheria. As she wrote to Lillian Aldrich, wife of author Thomas Bailey Aldrich, \"Sitting here so much alone in this old house, The Wayside, as I have done of late, I see things between slumber and waking, a bright, queer time for insights, though they are always sad ones; and I wonder if all the saints about us avert anything except from themselves. Amelioration is sometimes quite another thing, and sometimes I detest.\" The Lathrops moved out on February 6, 1881, the day young Francis died.\n\nIn 1883, The Wayside was bought by Boston publisher Daniel Lothrop and his wife, Harriett. Harriett was the author of the \"Five Little Peppers\" series and other children's books using the pen name Margaret Sidney. The Lothrops added town water in 1883, central heating in 1888, and electric lighting in 1904, as well as a large piazza on the west side in 1887. The room that, after 1860, had served as Julian Hawthorne's bedroom became Mrs. Lothrop's dining room.\n\nThe Lothrops helped oversee a several-day celebration in honor of Nathaniel Hawthorne's centennial in 1904. Speeches were given, letters were read in public, and a tablet was dedicated by Beatrix Hawthorne (daughter of Julian) marking the larch path where the author often walked. Hawthorne's daughter Rose, then known as Mother Mary Alphonsa and leading the Dominican Sisters of Hawthorne in New York, declined to attend. \"I have no prospect whatever of being able to be present\", she wrote, \"I have tried very hard for a couple of years to leave my work among the poor, to go to Concord, or its neighborhood, but have been prevented very imperatively\". She particularly noted her work caring for the sick and dying kept her occupied.\n\nAfter Margaret Sidney's death in 1924, the home was inherited by her daughter; she opened the home to the public in 1927. The home stayed in the family until 1965.\n\nIn 1963, The Wayside was designated a National Historic Landmark, and became part of Minute Man National Historical Park on June 15, 1965. This designation came with the aid of the Lothrops' daughter Margaret, and it became the first literary site to be acquired by the National Park Service. It was renovated in 1969 and 1970. For the decades following, the National Park Service offered only minor repairs until the building was closed in 2013 for major restoration. It reopened in June 2016. The Wayside is open to the public seasonally for guided tours. Its address is 455 Lexington Road in Concord.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170523", "title": "David Ludwig (physician)", "text": "David Ludwig (physician)\n\nDavid Ludwig (born 24 December 1957) is an American physician in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nLudwig received a PhD and an MD from Stanford University School of Medicine. He completed an internship and residency in pediatrics and a fellowship in pediatric endocrinology at Boston Children's Hospital.\n\nLudwig is a professor of pediatrics at the Harvard Medical School and a professor of nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health. Ludwig is also the Director of the New Balance Foundation Obesity Prevention Center Boston Children's Hospital. He has published several studies about the causes of obesity in children and adults, and attracted attention for his recommendation that severely obese children be removed from the custody of their parents.\n\nLudwig is the author of several consumer books about nutrition, diet, and health including \"Always Hungry?, Retrain Your Fat Cells, and Lose Weight Permanently\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2170524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170524", "title": "Calpernia Addams", "text": "Calpernia Addams\n\nCalpernia Sarah Addams (born February 20, 1971) is an American author, actress, musician and spokesperson and activist for transgender rights and issues.\n\nAddams grew up in Nashville, Tennessee. She served as a Hospital Corpsman with the Navy and United States Marine Corps. During her last year in the military, she came out as a transgender woman. Addams chose the name \"Calpernia\" from the William Shakespeare play \"Julius Caesar\" (a variant spelling of Caesar's wife Calpurnia) and its appearance on a tombstone in the film \"The Addams Family\".\n\nIn 2002, she formed Deep Stealth Productions in Hollywood with Andrea James. Deep Stealth creates educational and entertainment material around gender-identification issues and the experiences of differently-gendered people. Addams and James coached Felicity Huffman for her Academy Award-nominated performance as a transgender woman in the film \"Transamerica\".\n\nAt the Sundance debut of \"Soldier's Girl\", Addams met Jane Fonda, whose son Troy Garity had played Winchell. Fonda suggested Addams mount an all-transgender production of \"The Vagina Monologues\". The production was to contribute funds and help raise awareness of violence against women; it became the subject of the 2006 documentary film \"Beautiful Daughters\".\n\nA reality television series entitled \"Transamerican Love Story\", featuring Addams choosing among eight suitors, debuted February 11, 2008 on Logo TV.\n\nIn April 2008, Addams performed alongside Fonda, Glenn Close, Salma Hayek, Alicia Keys, and others in a tenth-anniversary production of \"The Vagina Monologues\" at the Louisiana Superdome.\n\nIn May 2008, PFLAG (Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) chose Addams as PFLAG's spokesperson for their educational campaign, \"This Is Our Love Story\". Addams said, \"I hope \"This Is Our Love Story\" will help young transgender people as they come out. By seeing the happy, confident woman I've become, I hope I can act as a role model for these young people at a critical moment in their development.\" Addams writes a blog on gender issues for \"Psychology Today\".\n\nAddams has released a single entitled \"Stunning\", available on iTunes. Addams co-produced the song \"The Vagina Song\" by Willam Belli, from his debut album \"The Wreckoning\", and made a cameo in the song's music video.\n\nIn 2015, Addams appeared in the international premiere of \"Trans Scripts\" a new play by Paul Lucas at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in Scotland. The production received 24 four- and five-star reviews, a Fringe First Award, a High Commendation from Amnesty International and was shortlisted for the Feminist Fest Award, the Best of Edinburgh Award, and the Holden Street Theater Award.\n\nIn 1999, while working as a performer, Addams began dating PFC Barry Winchell. Word of the relationship spread at Winchell's Army base where he was harassed by fellow soldiers and ultimately murdered. Winchell's murder and the subsequent trial resulted in widespread press and a formal review of the U.S. \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\" (DADT) military policy, ordered by President Bill Clinton. The case became a prominent example used to illustrate the failure of DADT to protect LGBT service members. Addams' and Winchell's romance and the crimes of their abusers are depicted in the film \"Soldier's Girl\", released in 2003. Addams was portrayed by Lee Pace. A subsequent \"The New York Times\" article, \"An Inconvenient Woman\", documented the marginalization and misrepresentation of transgender sexuality even by gay rights activists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170529", "title": "Labour Party Pakistan", "text": "Labour Party Pakistan\n\nThe Labour Party Pakistan (, LPP) was a far-left political party and a leading labor union, closely allying associating with Fourth International.\n\nIt has the claiming membership of 7,300 members in 2009, which originates from the Trotskyist tradition. Its founders were students in the Netherlands who came into contact with the Committee for a Workers' International and were recruited to that body in 1980. They returned to Pakistan in 1986 and began carrying out entry work in the Pakistan Peoples Party as The Struggle. From 1991 some members split from The Struggle and operated as an open group and in 1995 they became the Jeddojuh Inqilabi Tehrik (JIT) or Struggle Revolutionary Movement. This was in opposition to the advice of the CWI. This was with a membership of 70 militants which grew to 740 by 1997 when the LPP was launched. The LPP was expelled from the CWI after accepting funds from NGOs.\n\nThe rest of The Struggle continued as a section of the International Marxist Tendency until Lal Khan was expelled in 2016 over differences on entryism inside PPP.\n\nThe LPP is close to groupings such as the Scottish Socialist Party and the International Socialist Organisation in the United States. In March 2005, it obtained permanent observer status in the reunified Fourth International.\n\nThe party is led by its 30-year-old chairman Nisar Shah. The General Secretary is Farooq Tariq.\n\nThe party has now merged with the Communist Mazdoor Kissan Party and the National Workers Party.\n\nSupporters of the party publish a weekly paper in Urdu, \"Mazdoor Jeddojuhd\".\n\nIn November 2012, the LPP announced that it was to merge with two other left parties, the Awami Party Pakistan and the Workers Party Pakistan, forming a new Awami Workers Party. The new party's aims would include a break with multinational capital and imperialism, the end of feudalism, establishment of a democratic federal system and improving relations with neighbouring states. The LPP dissolved on 10 November 2012, and Farooq Tariq was elected general secretary of the AWP.\n\nIn October 2019, the LPP announced its resignation from the AWP. Farooq Tariq alleged that the group was being \"witch-hunted\" in the party, and said that the party had been reluctant to work with farmers', workers' and democratic movements, or to campaign for the release of political prisoner Baba Jan, a leading AWP member.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170537", "title": "Lemniscus (anatomy)", "text": "Lemniscus (anatomy)\n\nA lemniscus (Greek for ribbon or band) is a bundle of secondary sensory fibers in the brainstem. The medial lemniscus and lateral lemniscus terminate in specific relay nuclei of the diencephalon. The trigeminal lemniscus is sometimes considered as the cephalic part of the medial lemniscus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170538", "title": "Bheemaa", "text": "Bheemaa\n\nBheemaa is a 2008 Indian Tamil-language action film written and directed by N. Linguswamy, and produced by A. M. Rathnam. It stars Vikram, Trisha, Prakash Raj, Raghuvaran, and Ashish Vidyarthi. The film score and soundtrack was composed by Harris Jayaraj; whilst the cinematography was handled R. D. Rajasekhar, and edited by Anthony. After two years of production delays, the film was released on 14 January 2008, to mixed reviews. The film was dubbed into Telugu under the same name, and later it was dubbed in Hindi as \"Vachanbadh\" in 2012. It was remade in Bengali as \"Vikram\".\n\nThe movie revolves around two powerful gangs in Chennai, one led by Chinna (Prakash Raj) and the other by Periyavar (Raghuvaran). Enmity prevails between both gangs, with frequent clashes happening as one gang tries to overpower the other. One day, when Periyavar's gang tries to kill Chinna, he is saved by Sekar (Vikram). Chinna meets Sekar on a few more occasions and is impressed by his courage. Chinna feels Sekar to be his resemblance as he too possesses similar characteristics. Sekar reveals that he follows Chinna right from his childhood and adores him as a role model. Sekar joins Chinna's gang, and with his help, Chinna overpowers Periyavar in the city. Sekar wins Chinna's trust, and both get close to each other. This brings up jealousy to one of Chinna's gang men (Shafi), and he hates Sekar. Sekar arranges Chinna's wedding with Padma (Lakshmi Gopalaswamy), knowing that both were in love for each other. Chinna decided not to express his love after becoming a don, but they still get married. Meanwhile, Sekar befriends Shalini (Trisha), and love blossoms between them\n\nA new police commissioner (Ashish Vidyarthi) is appointed to control violence in the city, and his first targets are Chinna and Periyavar. Sekar gives the necessary courage to Chinna and asks him not to fear the commissioner as he will always be there for protection. One day, Sekar and Shalu decide to get married. Shalu's parents will not agree for this wedding, so Shalu decides to elope with Sekar. Meanwhile, the police department secretly plans to encounter both Chinna's and Periyavar's gangs. Shalu requests Sekar to come with her and lead a peaceful life, and he agrees. Sekar informs this decision to Chinna, to which he agrees immediately. Chinna gives money to Sekar and blesses him to start a new life. Sekar and Shalu get married and move to a new apartment. However, Chinna misses Sekar very much and keeps worrying, unable to bear his departure. Saamy (Thalaivasal Vijay), an ally of Chinna, suggests calling Sekar so that Chinna might feel better. Chinna gets cold feet at first but later decides to call Sekar.\n\nChinna, Saamy and Shafi go to Sekar's apartment where Sekar stays with Shalu. Chinna feels bad calling Sekar back and sends Shafi to talk to him. Shafi, who already has a misunderstanding with Sekar, lies to him by saying that Chinna wanted him to join his gang again. Sekar does not believe this and refuses to go with Shafi. Suddenly, Shafi shoots and kills Shalu. Sekar kills Shafi and runs down to meet Chinna and Saamy. Sekar believes it was Chinna who had sent Shafi to bring him back. Suddenly, Chinna takes a gun and shoots Sekar, which shocks him. Sekar shoots Chinna dead, thinking Chinna has tried killing him. When Saamy tells Sekar to look back, he was shocked because he saw a policeman behind him being hit by the bullet fired from Chinna's gun. Sekar understands that Chinna has shot the policeman who tried to shoot Sekar. Sekar cries inconsolably, as he has killed Chinna. Also, Saamy is shot by someone. Police has surrounded them for encounter, and the commissioner instructs his team to catch Sekar. Sekar does not want to live, so the police shoot him. As the police leaves, Sekar remembers memorable moments with Chinna and then dies.\n\nAfter Vikram had created an identity for himself by portraying performance oriented offbeat roles, he began alternating between commercial cinema and arthouse films. After playing heavy roles in \"Arul\" and \"Anniyan\", Vikram wanted to make a light hearted comedy film. Upon seeing the Malayamlam film \"Thommanum Makkalum\" starring Mammootty, Vikram approached the director of the film Shafi and expressed interest in remaking it in Tamil. The film was titled \"Majaa\" and the film shooting began. During the production of \"Majaa\", Vikram met with actor Dileep who was then working on his film \"Chanthupottu\". \"Chanthupottu\" had Dileep playing an effeminate character. When it was released, it was commercially successful and brought critical acclaim for Dileep's portrayal.\n\nVikram, who saw the movie, was impressed and wanted to remake it in Tamil. Vikram approached producer Mohan Natarajan to buy the remake rights of the film. The remake was tentatively titled \"Bheemaa\". When his film \"Majaa\" hit the screens, it had only average success, and Vikram was skeptical about remaking \"Chanthupottu\". The film was first postponed but later shelved. The producer of the film, A. M. Rathnam, approached director Lingusamy to come up with a new script.\n\nAfter \"Ji\", Lingusamy announced his next project, \"Bheemaa\", in 2005. Vikram trained his body for three months with the help of former \"Mr. Tamil Nadu\" bodybuilding champion Rajendran for the part of Sekar so that he would look more like the physically strong character of Bheemaa. Vikram stated that he approached the film like an actor even though the film's script was written \"for a star\" and furthermore he said that it is one of the most powerful roles.\n\nKatrina Kaif, and Deepika Padukone were considered to play heroine but replaced by Trisha. Simran was considered for the second lead opposite to Prakash Raj. There were rumours that Mammootty would act in the film but reports proved untrue. Nana Patekar was replaced by Prakash Raj to play villain. Raghuvaran was selected to play an important role. Sherin was selected to perform item number.\n\nA song was shot with 3000 junior artistes flown in from Mumbai. The duet song was shot at Madurai Thirumalai Nayakar Mahal. The scenes were shot in Rameshwaram and Tuticorin. A song sequence with Vikram and Trisha was picturised for the last few days on a huge ship located in mid sea. A song was shot in Australia. Re-recording was completed in 30 days and the song \"Oru Mugamo\" was shot with 30 scenes.\n\nSince the film was in production for such a long time, Vikram had no releases in 2006 and 2007. The filming was finally completed in 2007.\n\nVijaykanth has lodged a formal complaint at the Producers’ Council and the Nadigar Sangam against producer A. M. Rathnam for settlement of dues amounting to . According to Vijayakanth's sources, the producer had promised the actor to pay the amount after the release of the movie \"Dharmapuri\" in which he had acted. However, the producer moved on to his next project, \"Bheemaa\", starring Vikram, without keeping his promise. Perturbed by this, the actor has sought action against the producer and has requested Rama Narayanan, president of the Producers’ Council, to intervene and stop the release of \"Bheemaa\" until his dues are settled.\n\nA petition was filed by a travels company alleging that Sri Surya Movies, who had produced \"Bheemaa\", had card dues for air tickets bought from them to go abroad and shoot \"Bheemaa\". Hence, the petitioners sought a stay on the movie's release. When the petition came up for hearing at the Madras High Court on Friday, the judges declined to grant the stay and they rather insisted the production house to pay dues from their property security amount.\n\nThe music of the film is composed by Harris Jayaraj, which is his first and only collaboration with director N. Linguswamy. The lyrics are penned by Na. Muthukumar, Pa.Vijay, Thamarai and Yugabharathi. The soundtrack of the film features six tracks, which released on 23 December 2007.\n\nThe album of the Telugu version was released on 10 January 2008. This soundtrack reuses the same set of singers, as the original Tamil version.\n\nThe soundtrack received tremendous response, both critically and commercially. Behindwoods rated the soundtrack 4 out of 5 and mentioned, \"Overall the music is good and Harris has once again proved his mettle with six numbers which are sure to be lapped up by all the music lovers in the coming months.\" Rediff rated the album 3 out of 5, with a statement: \"Harris Jayaraj has created an enjoyable fare deploying an assortment of youthful vocals and a slew of instruments including \"sarangi\", \"santoor\" and \"dilruba\" predominantly used in Hindustani music. Pa Vijay-Muthukumar-Yugabharathi-Thamarai team's evocative wordscape heightens the lilting quality of the numbers. All in all Harris Jayaraj offers a good fare despite adopting an orthodox style.\"\n\nThe satellite rights of the film were sold to Kalaignar. The film was given an \"A\" certificate by the Indian Censor Board. After three years of production, \"Bheemaa\" was finally released on 14 January 2008, on the evening of Pongal with premieres due to huge expectations, alongside other releases like \"Pazhani\", \"Kaalai\", \"Vaazhthugal\", \"Pidichirukku\" and \"Pirivom Santhippom\".\n\nNowrunning wrote: \"Bheema is a mix of action, romance, thrill and sentiment, but fails to impress. The shoddy screenplay and jerky narration are more to blame than the lack of ingenuity on the part of the director, Bheema is a one-man show of Vikram\". Sify wrote: \"The film lacks a solid story with no twists, and instead it tests the patience of the viewers as it turns out to be a mix of fight followed by a song, and again breaking out into another well choreographed action scene that dissolves into yet another song in Switzerland and followed by more stunt scenes\". Behindwoods wrote: \"For pure lovers of action, Bheema might just be the Pongal movie they are looking for, but those expecting an action movie with a strong story will be disappointed\". Rediff wrote: \"A M Rathnam's flashy Tamil venture, produced with state-of-the-art techniques and freeze frames that promise to dazzle you. That promise, at least, they manage to deliver\".\n\nThe film debuted in the number one position at the Chennai box office and grossed in the first four days of release, eventually grossing there. In the overseas market, the film grossed in United Kingdom and Malaysia. The film was considered Hit and Business wise good collection in Pongal Weekend.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170556", "title": "Deer Park, Louisville", "text": "Deer Park, Louisville\n\nDeer Park is a neighborhood four miles southeast of downtown Louisville, Kentucky, USA. Most of the neighborhood was developed from 1890 through the 1920s as a streetcar suburb, with all but six of its 24 subdivisions being developed by 1917, and the last laid out by 1935, although some development west of Norris Place continued after World War II.\n\nDeer Park's boundaries are Bardstown Road, Newburg Road, Eastern Parkway and Douglass Boulevard. Deer Park is considered a part of a larger area of Louisville called The Highlands.\nPrior to subdivision, it was agricultural. The origin of the name is not entirely clear, although recent campaigns to \"put the deer back in Deer Park\" have seen colorful deer sculptures placed at local businesses, parodying a Louisville-wide campaign with larger horse sculptures placed similarly.\n\nThe neighborhood is largely residential. Most businesses and other non-residential buildings are found along Norris Place, Bardstown Road, and Newburg Road. These facilities include Highland Middle School and the King's Daughters and Sons Home, an institute for the ill and disabled opened in 1909 and renamed Highlands Nursing Home in the early 2000s. Other schools in the neighborhood include the Catholic primary schools St. Francis and St. Agnes, and the DePaul School, a private school for students with dyslexia and other specific learning differences.\n\nBellarmine University is located on the Belknap side of the boundary between that neighborhood and Deer Park; until the 21st century, Deer Park residents had little contact with the university other than its function as a polling place during the elections. As the university has sought to expand its student base and campus, residents residing the closest to the university met with Bellarmine representatives on an ad hoc basis to address areas of concern such as street, rather than campus parking, and the building of a stadium in close proximity to houses on an adjoining street. The ad hoc nature of meeting with Bellarmine ceased in 2005 when there was a push by the university to buy houses on the Bellarmine side of Richmond Drive west of Norris and use them as student housing. This was opposed by Belknap and Deer Park residents and brought before the zoning commission. From this effort, the Good Neighbor Working Group was formed with Bellarmine to ensure their expansion and plans for growth did not adversely affect the integrity of the neighborhood.\n\nA local landmark is the Bullock-Clifton House, also called the Yunker house, a former farmhouse built in 1834 and located at the corner of Richmond and Rosedale. The imposing structure was described in a 1980 study as \"steamboat gothic,\" and is on the National Register of Historic Places. Early landowners included the Norris, Duker and Stevens families, after whom streets in the neighborhood are named. Two other streets are named after locations in Virginia (Richmond and Roanoke), and Hartman Avenue is named after developer George Hartman, who developed the area in 1914 on what was family property.\n\nThe area from Eastern Parkway to Speed Avenue and Fernwood to Bardstown Road is a National Register District, and is also one of the most densely populated areas in Louisville. Since the mid-1970s, all of the somewhat narrow east/west streets here have been one-way, an oddity for a neighborhood relatively far from downtown.\n\nFurther contributing to the unusually high density for a neighborhood mostly of single family homes, Deer Park includes two pedestrian courts whose long rows of houses, with no conventional street, are accessible only by alleys and sidewalks running through the short front yards. Ivanhoe Court was built in 1914, and the slightly smaller Maplewood Place a year later in 1915. These types of developments, built during the streetcar suburb era, are apparently unique to Louisville. There are 11 in Old Louisville, but outside of Deer Park only a few others remain today.\n\nThe neighborhood has long had more of a middle and working class reputation than surrounding Highlands neighborhoods, which range in character from upper-middle to outright upper class. The reason for this is primarily that Deer Park's housing stock is, other than the Yunker House, decidedly low-key. Due to the lack of geographical obstacles such as steep hills or creeks, the entire neighborhood was developed in a rather uniform and quick manner. Shotgun houses and 2½ story Victorians, more modest than those on the east side of Bardstown Road, make up the majority of the stock in the oldest sections, while modest craftsmen-style houses dominate streets further out, and a few small ranch style homes can be found west of Norris Place. In the north end near Douglass Boulevard is Forest Park, the last of the pre-World War II subdivisions, and the largest of any single development in Deer Park. Larger houses can be found here, many in various historical revival styles.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of Deer Park was 4,082, of which 93.7% are white, 3.6% are listed as other, 2% are black, and 0.7% are Hispanic. College graduates are 48.3% of the population, people without a high school degree are 8%. Females outnumber males 51.8% to 48.2%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170559", "title": "Finland women's national football team", "text": "Finland women's national football team\n\nThe Finland women's national football team represents Finland in international women's football. The team, controlled by the Football Association of Finland (SPL/FBF), reached the semi-finals of the 2005 European Championship, surprising the female football world having drawn with Sweden and beaten Denmark. Finland hosted the 2009 EC finals.\n\nThe Finnish team now has a few players that are considered to be among the best in the female football, such as Laura Österberg Kalmari, Sanna Valkonen and Anne Mäkinen.\n\nAs of March 2017, the team is ranked 28th in the FIFA world ranking. This is the lowest status since the ranking started in 2003. From 2004 to 2010 the typical ranking was #16.\n\n\n\nThe following squad was announced for two friendlies against Iceland on 13 and 17 June 2019.\n\nHeidi Kollanen and Iina Salmi replaced Naumanen and Hälinen, who withdrew from the initial squad.\n\nHead coach: Anna Signeul\n\n\"Complete this table with details\"\n\nThe Algarve Cup is a global invitational tournament for national teams in women's soccer hosted by the Portuguese Football Federation (FPF). Held annually in the Algarve region of Portugal since 1994, it is one of the most prestigious women's football events, alongside the Women's World Cup and Women's Olympic Football.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170560", "title": "Chinese animation", "text": "Chinese animation\n\nChinese animation () or Donghua, in a narrow sense, refers to animation made in China.\n\nIn the first century BC, the Chinese craftsman Ding Huan (丁緩) invented a device \"on which many strange birds and mysterious animals were attached\" that were said to have \"moved quite naturally\", but it is unclear if this and the other devices historian Joseph Needham calls \"a variety of zoetrope\" involved any true illusion of animation or simply featured static or mechanized figures actually moving through space.\n\nModern animation in China began in 1918 when an animation piece from the United States titled \"Out of the Inkwell\" landed in Shanghai. Cartoon clips were first used in advertisements for domestic products. Though the animation industry did not begin until the arrival of the Wan brothers in 1926. The Wan brothers produced the first Chinese animated film with sound, \"The Camel's Dance\", in 1935. The first animated film of notable length was \"Princess Iron Fan\" in 1941. \"Princess Iron Fan\" was the first animated feature film in Asia and it had great impact on wartime Japanese Momotaro animated feature films and later on Osamu Tezuka. China was relatively on pace with the rest of the world up to the mid-1960s, with the Wan's brothers \"Havoc in Heaven\" earning numerous international awards.\n\nChina's golden age of animation would come to an end following the onset of the Cultural Revolution in 1966. Many animators were forced to quit. If not for harsh economic conditions, the mistreatment of the Red Guards would threaten their work. The surviving animations would lean closer to propaganda. By the 1980s, Japan would emerge as the animation powerhouse of Eastern Asia, leaving China's industry far behind in reputation and productivity. Though two major changes would occur in the 1990s, igniting some of the biggest changes since the exploration periods. The first is a political change. The implementation of a socialist market economy would push out traditional planned economy systems. No longer would a single entity limit the industry's output and income. The second is a technological change with the arrival of the Internet. New opportunities would emerge from flash animations and the contents became more open. Today China is drastically reinventing itself in the animation industry with greater influences from Hong Kong and Taiwan.\n\nChinese animations today can best be described in two categories. The first type are \"Conventional Animations\" produced by corporations of well-financed entities. These content falls along the lines of traditional 2D cartoons or modern 3D CG animated films distributed via cinemas, DVD or broadcast on TV. This format can be summarized as a reviving industry coming together with advanced computer technology and low cost labor.\n\nThe second type are \"Webtoons\" produced by corporations or sometimes just individuals. These contents are generally flash animations ranging anywhere from amateurish to high quality, hosted publicly on various websites. While the global community has always gauged industry success by box office sales. This format cannot be denied when measured in hits among a population of 1.3 billion in just mainland China alone. Most importantly it provides greater freedom of expression on top of potential advertising.\n\nIn the 1920s, the pioneering Wan brothers believed that animations should emphasize on a development style that was uniquely Chinese. This rigid philosophy stayed with the industry for decades. Animations were essentially an extension of other facets of Chinese arts and culture, drawing more contents from ancient folklores and manhua. An example of a traditional Chinese animation character would be Monkey King, a character transitioned from the classic literature \"Journey to the West\" to the 1964 animation \"Havoc in Heaven\". Also drawing on tradition was the ink-wash animation developed by animators Te Wei and Qian Jiajun in the 1960s. Based on Chinese ink-wash painting, several films were produced in this style, starting with \"Where is Mama\" (1960). However, the technique was time-consuming and was gradually abandoned by animation studios.\n\nThe concept of Chinese animations have begun loosening up in recent years without locking into any particular one style. One of the first revolutionary change was in the 1995 manhua animation adaptation \"Cyber Weapon Z\". The style consist of characters that are practically indistinguishable from any typical anime, yet it is categorized as Chinese animation. It can be said that productions are not necessarily limited to any one technique; that water ink, puppetry, computer CG are all demonstrated in the art.\n\nNewer waves of animations since the 1990s, especially flash animations, are trying to break away from the tradition. In 2001 \"Time Magazine Asia Edition\" would rate the Taiwanese webtoon character \"A-kuei\" as one of the top 100 new figures in Asia. The appearance of \"A-kuei\" with the large head, would probably lean much closer to children's material like Doraemon. So changes like this signify a welcoming transition, since folklore-like characters have always had a hard time gaining international appeal. \"GoGo Top magazine\", the first weekly Chinese animation magazine, conducted a survey and proved that only 1 out of 20 favorite characters among children was actually created domestically in China.\n\nIn 1998, directed the full-length animated feature .\n\nFrom the demographics perspective, the Chinese consumer market has identified 11% of the audience are under the age of 13 with 59% between 14 and 17 and 30% over 18 years of age. Potentially 500 million people could be identified as cartoon consumers. China has 370 million children, one of the world’s largest animation audiences.\n\nFrom the financial perspective, \"Quatech Market Research\" surveyed ages between 14 and 30 in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou and found that over 1.3 billion RMB (about US $163 million) was spent on cartoons every year, but more than 80% of the revenue flows straight out of the country. Further studies show that 60% still prefer Japanese anime, 29% prefer Americans, and just 11 percent favor those made by Chinese mainland, Taiwan or Hong Kong animators.\n\nFrom 2006 to present, the Chinese government has considered animation as a key sector for the birth of a new national identity and for the cultural development in China. The government has started to promote the development of cinema and TV series with the aim of reaching 1% of GDP in the next five years against an investment of around RMB250-350 million (€29-41 million). It supported the birth of about 6000 animation studios and 1300 universities which provide animation studies. In 2010, 220,000 minutes of animations were produced, making China the world's biggest producer of cartoons on TV.\n\nIn 1999 Shanghai Animation Film Studio spent 21 million RMB (about US $2.6 million) producing the animation \"Lotus Lantern\". The film earned a box office income of more than RMB 20 million (about US $2.5 million), but failed to capitalize on any related products. The same company shot a cartoon series \"Music Up\" in 2001, and although 66% of its profits came from selling related merchandise, it lagged far behind foreign animations.\n\n2007 saw the debut of the popular Chinese Series, \"The Legend of Qin\". It boasted impressive 3d graphics and an immersive storyline. Its third season was released on 23 June 2010. Its fourth season is under production.\n\nOne of the most popular manhua in Hong Kong was \"Old Master Q\". The characters were converted into cartoon forms as early as 1981, followed by numerous animation adaptations including a widescreen DVD release in 2003. While the publications remained legendary for decades, the animations have always been considered more of a fan tribute. And this is another sign that newer generations are further disconnected with older styled characters. Newer animations like \"My Life as McDull\" has also been introduced to expand on the modern trend.\n\nIn 2005 the first 3D CG-animated movie from Shenzhen China, \"Thru the Moebius Strip\" was debuted. Running for 80 minutes, it is the first 3D movie fully rendered in mainland China to premiere in the Cannes Film Festival. It was a critical first step for the industry.\n\nIn November 2006 an animation summit forum was held to announce China's top 10 most popular domestic cartoons as \"Century Sonny\", \"Tortoise Hanba's Stories\", \"Black Cat Detective\", \"SkyEye\", \"Lao Mountain Taoist\", \"Nezha Conquers the Dragon King\", \"Wanderings of Sanmao\", \"Zhang Ga the Soldier Boy\", \"The Blue Mouse and the Big-Faced Cat\" and \"3000 Whys of Blue Cat\". \"Century Sonny\" is a 3D CG-animated TV series with 104 episodes fully rendered.\n\nIn 2011 Vasoon Animation released \"Kuiba\". The film tells the story of how a boy attempts to save a fantasy world from an evil monster who, unknowingly, is inside of him. The film borrows from a Japanese \"hot-blooded\" style, refreshing the audience's views on Chinese animation. \"Kuiba\" was critically acclaimed, however it commercially fell below expectations.\nIt was reported that the CEO Wu Hanqing received minority help from a venture capital fund at Tsinghua University to complete \"Kuiba.\" This film also holds the distinction of being the first big Chinese animation series to enter the Japanese market. From July 2012 to July 2013, \"YouYaoQi\" released One hundred thousand bad jokes.\n\nThe most important award for Chinese animation is the Golden Monkey Award.\n\nOn 15 September 1999 FlashEmpire became the first flash community in China to come online. While it began with amateurish contents, it was one of the first time any form of user-generated contents was offered in the mainland. By the beginning of 2000, it averaged 10,000 hits daily with more than 5,000 individual work published. Today it has more than 1 million members.\n\nIn 2001, \"Xiao Xiao\", a series of flash animations about kung fu stick figures became an Internet phenomenon totaling more than 50 million hits, most of which in mainland China. It also became popular overseas with numerous international artists borrowing the \"Xiao Xiao\" character for their own flash work in sites like Newgrounds.\n\nOn 24 April 2006 Flashlands.com was launched, hosting a variety of high quality flash animations from mainland China. The site is designed to be one of the first cross-cultural site allowing English speakers easy access to domestic productions. Though the success of the site has yet to be determined.\n\nIn October 2006, 3G.NET.CN paid 3 million RMB (about US$380,000) to produce \"A Chinese odyssey\", the flash version of Stephen Chow's \"A Chinese Odyssey\" in flash format.\n\nFor every quarter, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television announces the \"Outstanding Domestic Animated Television Productions\", which is given to the works that \"persist with correct value guidance\" () and \"possess relatively high artistic quality and production standards\" (), and recommends the television broadcasters in Mainland China to give priority when broadcasting such series.\n\nStatistics from China's State Administration of Radio, Film and Television (SARFT) indicate domestic cartoons aired 1hr 30 minutes each day from 1993 to 2002, and that by the end of 2004, it increased the airing time of domestic cartoons to 2hrs per day. The division requested a total of 2,000 provinces to devote a show time of 60,000 minutes to domestically-produced animations and comic works. But statistics show that domestic animators can only provide enough work for 20,000 minutes, leaving a gap of 40,000 minutes that can only be filled by foreign programs. Though insiders are allegedly criticizing domestic cartoons for its emphasis on education over entertainment.\n\nSARFT also have a history of taking protectionism actions such as banning foreign programming, such as the film \"\". While statistics are proving there are not enough domestic materials available, the administration continues to ban foreign materials. On 15 February 2006 another notice is issued to ban cartoons that incorporated live actors. As reported by Xinhua News Agency, the commission did not want CGI and 2D characters alongside human actors. Doing so would jeopardize the broadcast order of homemade animation and mislead their development. Neither ban makes logical sense to the general public, according to foreign sources.\n\nThere is little discussion of Chinese animation in English. Daisy Yan Du's PhD dissertation, \"On the Move: The Trans/national Animated Film in 1940s-1970s China\" (University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2012), is by far the most systematic analysis of early Chinese animation before 1980. Weihua Wu’s PhD dissertation, \"Animation in Postsocialist China: Visual Narrative, Modernity, and Digital Culture\" (City University of Hong Kong, 2006), discusses contemporary Chinese animation in the digital age after 1980. Besides the two major works, there are other articles and book chapters written by John Lent, Paola Voci, Mary Farquhar, and others about Chinese animation. The first English-language monograph devoted to Chinese Animation was Rolf Giesen's Chinese Animation: A History and Filmography, 1922-2012 (McFarland & Company, Jefferson NC, 2015).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170568", "title": "Self-enucleation", "text": "Self-enucleation\n\nSelf-enucleation also known as autoenucleation or oedipism is the self-inflicted enucleation (removal) of the eye. It is considered a form of self-mutilation and is normally caused by psychosis, paranoid delusions or drugs. Between 1968 and 2018 there were more than 50 documented cases of \"complete or partial self-enucleation in English medical journals\". According to a 2012 study published in the \"British Journal of Ophthalmology\", self-enucleation may be \"considered to be the result of psycho-sexual conflicts\". A particularly extreme form of self-mutilation, self-enucleations are rarely reported.\n\nA famous case of self-enucleation can be founded in Greek mythology： Oedipus, according to Sophocles' tragedy \"Oedipus Rex\", gouged his own eyes out after discovering he had married his mother.\n\nIn the 13th century, Marco Polo witnessed a pious Baghdad carpenter who enucleated his right eye for sinful thoughts of a young female customer.\n\nOn February 6, 2018, a 20-year old American teen mom Kaylee Muthart received national attention after she gouged both her eyes out while high on methamphetamine believing \"sacrificing her eyes [would] save the world\". Muthart is now permanently blind, though she said \"I'm happier now than I was before all this happened\".\n"}
{"id": "2170569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170569", "title": "Megatherium Club", "text": "Megatherium Club\n\nThe Megatherium Club was founded by William Stimpson. It was a group of Washington, D.C.-based scientists who were attracted to that city by the Smithsonian Institution's rapidly growing collection, from 1857 to 1866.\n\nMany of the members had no formal education, but came by their expertise through extensive direct observation. They spent their weekdays in the rigorous and exacting work of describing and classifying species. But their nights were spent in revelry. They particularly enjoyed partaking in ale, oysters, eggnog, and whatever other fineries their meager budgets could afford. On Sundays, however, they recuperated from the week's stresses and excesses with long nature hikes.\n\nThe club was named for the \"Megatherium\", an extinct genus of giant ground sloth.\n\nThe leading spirit of the club was marine biologist William Stimpson, who hosted its earliest meetings in his home. Members dubbed the place \"The Stimpsonian.\" By 1863, though, Stimpson and others had taken up residence in the castle of the actual Smithsonian.\n\nClub members were encouraged by Spencer Fullerton Baird, the institution's assistant secretary. And they attracted a variety of learned speakers to their meetings, including Louis Agassiz, John Torrey, and John Cassin. But they were eventually thrown out of their castle suites by the institution's secretary, Joseph Henry, who disapproved of the way members held sack races in the Great Hall and periodically serenaded his daughters.\n\nMembership was transitory as individuals undertook independent studies abroad, sometimes for years at a time. Formal meetings ceased about the year 1866 when Stimpson moved to Chicago to oversee that city's Academy of Sciences.\n\nSeveral other \"Megatherium Clubs\" exist; one formed of overseas Smithsonian researchers, yet another only in fiction, supposedly located in London, United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170577", "title": "Leisure and Cultural Services Department", "text": "Leisure and Cultural Services Department\n\nThe Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD), is a department in the Government of Hong Kong. It reports to the Home Affairs Bureau, headed by the Secretary for Home Affairs. It provides leisure and cultural activities for the people of Hong Kong, which was also one of the tasks of the former Urban Council, and Regional Council and Home Affairs Bureau. It manages various public facilities around Hong Kong including public libraries, swimming pools, and sports centres. The well-known Hong Kong Cultural Centre and Hong Kong Space Museum are among several museums also managed by the department. It was established in 2000 and its headquarters is in Shatin, New Territories.\n\n\n\nMost public parks and gardens are managed by the Leisure and Cultural Services Department.\n\nHong Kong Public Libraries (HKPL) consists of 67 static and 10 mobile libraries offering a total collection of 12.3 million items of books, audio/video materials, newspapers and periodicals, etc. Among the most significant libraries are the Hong Kong Central Library, Kowloon Public Library, and Sha Tin Public Library.\n\nThe LCSD operates two stadia (Hong Kong Stadium and Mong Kok Stadium) and numerous sports grounds, indoor sporting halls and courts, and public swimming pools. It also manages and provides lifeguards at gazetted beaches.\n\nUnder the Sports Subvention Scheme, the LCSD provides recurrent subvention to 58 national sports associations (NSAs) in Hong Kong, at levels ranging from around HK$0.5 million to HK$10 million (in 2011-12). Until 2004–2005, NSAs received subventions from the statutory Hong Kong Sports Development Board. NSAs are members of the Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China, which is the National Olympic Committee in Hong Kong responsible for the co-ordination of all local sports organizations and promotion of sports in Hong Kong.\n\nHome Affairs Bureau\n"}
{"id": "2170579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170579", "title": "David Torn", "text": "David Torn\n\nDavid M. Torn (born May 26, 1953) is an American guitarist, composer, and producer. He is known for combining electronic and acoustic instruments and for the use of looping.\n\nTorn has contributed to recordings by artists including David Bowie, k.d. lang, John Legend, Madonna, Tori Amos, Bill Bruford, Tony Levin, Mick Karn, David Sylvian, Chocolate Genius, Michael Shrieve, Steve Roach, Patrick O'Hearn, Andy Rinehart, Matt Chamberlain, Meshell Ndegeocello and Don Cherry.\n\nIn addition to his composition work, Torn's recording have been featured in a number of films, including \"Friday Night Lights\", \"Velvet Goldmine\", \"Adaptation\", \"The Big Lebowski\", \"The Departed\", \"Fur\", \"The Hoax\", \"Kalifornia\", \"Traffic\", \"Reversal of Fortune\", \"Tibet\", and \"Three Kings.\" He studied with Leonard Bernstein (within the \"Music for Young Composers\" series), as well as with guitarists John Abercrombie, Pat Martino, Paul Weiss and Arthur Basile. Torn works out of his personal studios, known as \"Cell Labs\"; occasionally, he uses the pseudonym \"splattercell.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" described Torn's 2015 solo release, \"Only Sky\", as \"[an abstract landscape that is] both immersive and deftly disorienting.\"\n\nTorn was born in Amityville, New York, he is married to Linda B. Brecht-Torn (b. 1952), is the son of Lawrence J. Torn (b. 1926) and Rhoda G. Torn (1927-2010), the father of electronic musician Elijah B. Torn (b. 1979) and Cody M. Torn (b. 1983). He is the brother of Marsha Torn and Linda Torn, and he is a cousin of Rip Torn (1931-2019), Angelica Torn (b. 1964)], and Ina Garten, AKA The Barefoot Contessa.\n\nTorn began his career with the Ithaca-based jam band Zobo Funn Band in the 1970s, and rose to prominence as a member of The Everyman Band and Jan Garbarek's quartet in the mid-1980s. He has recorded solo and group recordings for the ECM, Windham Hill, CMP, and 75 Ark.\n\nIn the 1990s, Torn was diagnosed with an acoustic neuroma, in his case, a life-threatening form of brain tumor. The surgery that followed left him deaf in the right ear but he remained able to compose, record, and play. He even mixes many widely available recordings himself, although according to him this requires sitting sideways to the studio speakers and \"visualising the stereo aspects of sound\" in his head rather than experimenting with them by ear.\n\nIn 2006, Torn's film score for \"Believe in Me\" won the Best Score-award at the Jackson Hole Film Festival. In 2003, his score for the film \"The Order\" was nominated for a Grammy Award.\n\nIn 2007, Torn released \"Prezens\" with Tim Berne. \"Jazzwise\" called the album \"a vibrating collage full of shimmering sonic shapes, a dark, urban electronic soundscape – a potent mix of jazz, free-form rock and technology that is both demanding and rewarding.\"\n\nIn 2013, Torn performed as a guitarist on David Bowie's penultimate album, \"The Next Day\"—his third collaboration with the artist. The same year, Torn delivered a solo guitar performance and talk at TEDx Caltech 2013: The Brain. The presentation examined his brain tumor diagnosis and recovery.\n\nAs a session artist, composer, and producer, David Torn has experimented with many effects boxes, amplifiers, and instruments, and he has spoken with amplifier designers and pedal builders about their craft. In an interview with \"Premier Guitar\" magazine following the release of his solo album \"Only Sky\", he shared an extensive list of the instruments and effects he uses. He plays a Ronin Mirari guitar with Foilbucker pickups and also lists a large number of amplifiers such as a Fryette Aether amplifier, and many guitar effects pedals including the TC Electronic Classic TC XII Phaser, Catalinbread Antichthon, DigiTech Whammy DT, and the Neunaber Stereo Wet Reverb.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170583", "title": "IV SS Panzer Corps", "text": "IV SS Panzer Corps\n\nThe IV SS Panzer Corps was a panzer corps of the Waffen-SS of Nazi Germany which saw action on the Eastern Front and in the Balkans during World War II.\n\nThe Panzerkorps was formed in August 1943 in Poitiers, France. The formation was originally to be a skeleton formation to supervise those SS divisions that were being reformed as SS Panzer divisions.\n\nOn 30 June 1944, the formation absorbed the VII SS Panzer Corps and was reformed as a headquarters for the SS Division \"Totenkopf\" and SS Division \"Wiking\". The Corps was placed under the control of former \"Wiking\" commander SS-Obergruppenführer Herbert Otto Gille.\n\nThe corps was placed into the line around Warsaw, Poland, where it saw action against the Red Army as a part of the 9th Army. In August, 1944, elements of the corps took part in the suppression of the Warsaw Uprising. After holding the line near Warsaw, the corps was pushed back to the area near Modlin, where it saw heavy fighting until December.\n\nWhen SS-Obergruppenführer Karl Pfeffer Wildenbruch's IX SS Mountain Corps and large numbers of Hungarian troops were encircled in Budapest in December 1944, the corps was shifted south from Army Group A to join 6th Army and to take part in the relief efforts. The operations were named Konrad. In Operation Konrad III, the largest of the relief operations, IV SS Panzer Corps destroyed all the tanks of the Soviet 3rd Ukrainian Front in an intense two-week battle in Transdanubia but could not relieve the city.\n\nAfter the failure of Operation Konrad III, the corps was moved west to the area around Lake Balaton, where it was responsible for defending the left flank of the Operation Spring Awakening (\"Frühlingserwachen\"), near Stuhlweissenberg. After the failure of this operation, the Soviet Vienna Offensive tore a gap between the IV SS-Panzerkorps and the neighboring Third Hungarian Army. After escaping an encirclement thanks to the efforts of the 9th SS Panzer Division \"Hohenstaufen\", the corps withdrew towards Vienna. The remnants of the corps surrendered to the Americans on 9 May 1945.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170585", "title": "Tomioka Tessai", "text": "Tomioka Tessai\n\nTessai was born in either 1836 or 1837 in Kyoto, as the second son of Tomioka Korenobu, who sold sacerdotal robes. Because his hearing was not good his parents decided he should be a scholar, rather than a merchant. He was educated as a scholar in classical Chinese philosophy and literature and the ancient Japanese classics under noted \"kokugaku\" scholar Okuni Tadamasa.\n\nTessai's father died in 1843, when he was only seven. The family fortunes declined, and young Tessai became a page at a Shinto shrine. Twelve years later, he came to be lodged with the now-famous Buddhist poet and nun Ōtagaki Rengetsu, who would become his greatest scholarly mentor and supporter. He developed his own style over the next decade or so, studying under a number of accomplished painters.\n\nIn 1861, Tessai opened a private school in Rengetsu's house to teach painting; he went on to become a teacher at the newly inaugurated Ritsumeikan University in 1868. He also did some work for the new Meiji government, contributing maps and topographical charts he created. Throughout the Meiji period, Tessai traveled extensively, visiting famous and scenic places that would later become subjects of his paintings. He was able to see many different sides of the country all the way from Nagasaki to Hokkaidō. He also served as a Shinto priest at a number of different shrines, but ultimately resigned from his final post when his brother died, so that he could look after his mother.\n\nAfter Tessai settled back in Kyoto in 1882, he championed the old styles of Japanese traditional painting against the new influences of western art \"(yōga),\" then becoming more and more popular, and was thus a participant in the early \"nihonga\" movement.\n\nTessai's early works followed the \"bunjinga\" styles of the early 19th century, although he also worked in almost all of the styles associated with Kyoto: \"Rimpa, Yamato-e, Otsu-e,\" etc. However, his mature style concentrated on \"Nanga,\" or Chinese style paintings based on the late Ming dynasty artists from Suzhou and Jiangsu Provinces, which had been introduced to Japan by Sakaki Hyakusen. Tessai tended towards use of rich colors to portray scenes of people in landscapes, with a composition intended to evoke or illustrate a historical or literary episode. He also sometimes made use of religious imagery, combining depictions of Buddhist bodhisattva with Daoist or Confucian figures to symbolize the unity of Asian religious traditions. Tessai's final works either use very brilliant colors, or else were monochrome ink with dense, rough brushwork and occasional slight jarring touches of bright pigments.\nIn the 1890s, he was appointed a judge of the Young Men's Society of Painting, and became a professor at the Kyoto Fine Arts School soon afterwards. He also took part in the founding of several other art associations, including the Nanga Association of Japan. His mother died in 1895, but Tessai continued to have close relations with his family and gained a granddaughter several years later.\n\nIn 1907, he was appointed official painter to Emperor Meiji, who so liked his works that his commission was extended to cover the Imperial Household Agency as a court painter in 1917. He was also appointed a member of the Imperial Fine Arts Academy (\"Teikoku Bijutsu-in\") in 1919.\n\nThroughout his life, Tessai served as a Shinto priest and a scholar. He was an extremely prolific painter, and it is estimated that he painted approximately 20,000 paintings in the course of his career. On one occasion he completed 70 paintings in a single day. Tessai's best works were created in the last years of his life, from age 80 to his death in 1924 at age 88.\n\nThe largest collection of Tessai's works is at the Tessai Memorial Museum, a private art museum within the grounds of the Kiyoshikojin Seicho-ji, a Buddhist temple in Takarazuka, Hyogo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170592", "title": "Sweethome, Oklahoma", "text": "Sweethome, Oklahoma\n\nSweethome was a small rural community in Lincoln County, Oklahoma. The community was named for a similar community in Texas by the same name where many of the settlers lived before making the Run of '91. The Sweethome Baptist Church is the oldest church in the district. When segregation became law after statehood in 1907, the Sweethome school had the distinction of being the only school district in Lincoln County having the majority school be the colored school. They reserved one position on the school board for whites to represent the minority school in the district.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170595", "title": "Hara (Bible)", "text": "Hara (Bible)\n\nHara (הרא) in the Bible is a place in Assyria. It is mentioned in the first book of Chronicles, chapter 5, verse 26 as a place of exile.\n"}
{"id": "2170601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170601", "title": "Javan tiger", "text": "Javan tiger\n\nThe Javan tiger was a \"Panthera tigris sondaica\" population, which lived in the Indonesian island of Java until the mid 1970s. It was hunted to extinction and its natural habitat converted for human use. It was one of the three tiger populations in the Sunda Islands.\n\nFormerly, it was regarded as a distinct tiger subspecies, which had been assessed as extinct on the IUCN Red List in 2008. In 2017, felid taxonomy was revised and the Javan tiger subordinated to \"P. t. sondaica\", which also includes the still surviving Sumatran tiger.\n\nResults of mtDNA analysis of 23 tiger samples from museum collections indicate that tigers colonized the Sunda Islands throughout the last glacial period 11,000–12,000 years ago.\n\nIn 1844, Temminck gave the scientific name \"Felis tigris sondaicus\" to the Javan tiger.\n\nIn 1929, the British taxonomist Reginald Innes Pocock subordinated the tiger under the genus \"Panthera\" using the scientific name \"Panthera tigris\".\n\nIn 2017, the Cat Classification Task Force of the Cat Specialist Group revised felid taxonomy and now recognizes the living and extinct tiger populations in Indonesia as \"P. t. sondaica\".\n\nThe Javan tiger was small compared to other subspecies of the Asian mainland, but larger than the Bali tiger, and similar in size to the Sumatran tiger. It usually had long and thin stripes, which were slightly more numerous than those of the Sumatran tiger. Its nose was long and narrow, occipital plane remarkably narrow and carnassials relatively long. Based on these cranial differences, the Javan tiger was proposed to be assigned to a distinct species, with the taxonomic name \"Panthera sondaica\".\n\nMales had a mean body length of and weighed between . Females were smaller than males and weighed between .\n\nThe smaller body size of the Javan tiger is attributed to Bergmann’s rule and the size of the available prey species in Java, which are smaller than the cervid and bovid species on the Asian mainland. However, the diameter of its tracks are larger than those of Bengal tiger in Bangladesh, India, and Nepal.\n\nCharles Frederick Partington wrote that Javan and Sumatran tigers were strong enough to break legs of horses or buffaloes with their paws, even though they were not as heavy as Bengal tigers.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, the Javan tiger inhabited most of Java. Around 1850, people living in rural areas still considered it a plague. By 1940, tigers had retreated to remote mountainous and forested areas. Around 1970, the only known tigers lived in the region of Mount Betiri, with an altitude of , the highest mountain in Java's southeast, which had not been settled because of the rugged and sloping terrain. In 1972, the area was gazetted as wildlife reserve. The last tigers were sighted there in 1976.\n\nJavan tigers preyed on rusa deer, banteng, and wild boar, less often on water fowl and reptiles. Nothing is known about their gestation period or life span in the wild or captivity. Up to World War II, Javan tigers were kept in some Indonesian zoos, but these were closed during the war. After the war, they were so rare that it was easier to instead obtain Sumatran tigers.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, 28 million people lived on the island of Java. The annual production of rice was insufficient to adequately supply the growing human population, so that within 15 years, 150% more land was cleared for rice fields. In 1938, natural forest covered 23% of the island. By 1975, only 8% of the forest remained, and the human population had increased to 85 million people. In this human-dominated landscape, the extirpation of the Javan tiger was intensified by the conjunction of several circumstances and events:\n\nUntil the mid-1960s, tigers survived in three protected areas that had been established during the 1920s–1930s: Leuweng Sancang Nature Reserve and Ujung Kulon and Baluran National Parks. Following the period of civil unrest, however, no tigers were sighted there. In 1971, an older female was shot in a plantation near Mount Betiri in Java's southeast. Since then, not a single cub has been recorded. The area was upgraded to a wildlife reserve in 1972, at which time a small guard force was established and four habitat management projects were initiated. The reserve was severely disrupted by two large plantations in the major river valleys, occupying the most suitable habitat for the tiger and its prey. In 1976, tracks were found in the eastern part of the reserve, suggesting the presence of three to five tigers. Only a few banteng survived close to the plantations, but tracks of rusa deer, the preferred prey of the Javan tiger, were not sighted.\n\nAfter 1979, there were no more confirmed sightings of tigers in Meru Betiri National Park. In 1980, Seidensticker and Suyono recommended extending the wildlife reserve and completely eliminating the disruptive influence of humans on the fragile ecosystem. The Indonesian Nature Conservation Authority implemented these recommendations in 1982 by gazetting the reserve as a national park. These measures were, however, too late to save the few remaining tigers in the region. In 1987, a group of 30 students of Bogor Agricultural University (\"Institut Pertanian Bogor\") conducted an expedition to Meru Betiri. In groups of five, they searched the area and found tiger scat and tracks.\n\nIn the west of Java lies the Halimun Reserve, today integrated into the Mount Halimun Salak National Park. In 1984, a tiger was killed there; and in 1989, pugmarks were found that were the size of a tiger's. However, an expedition of six biologists conducted in 1990 did not yield any definite, direct evidence for the existence of tigers. A subsequent survey was planned in the Meru Betiri National Park in autumn 1992 with the support of WWF Indonesia, deploying camera traps for the first time. From March 1993 to March 1994, cameras were positioned at nineteen sites, but the cameras did not yield a single picture of a tiger. During this period, no tracks indicating the presence of tigers were discovered. After the final report of this survey had been published, the Javan tiger was declared extinct.\n\nRumours and indications of the possible presence of tigers in the Meru Betiri National Park prompted the park's Chief Warden Indra Arinal to initiate another search. With support of the \"Sumatran Tiger Project\", twelve members of the park staff were trained in autumn 1999 to set up camera traps and map their observations. The Canadian \"The Tiger Foundation\" provided infrared cameras. Despite a year of work, they photographed no tigers, few prey, and many poachers.\n\nIn 1890, Dutch author Jan Gerhard ten Bokkel noted how the fear of tigers brought the people to use superstitious language: \"A Javan will never speak about a tiger without calling him 'Mister', it's always: Mr. Tiger. The beast might hear him once, and take revenge at him for merely saying tiger in a familiar way!\"\n\nOccasional, unofficial reports of Javan tigers surface from enthusiasts who believe the tiger still exists in Java.\n\nIn November 2008, an unidentified body of a female mountain hiker was found in Mount Merbabu National Park, Central Java, who allegedly died from a tiger attack. Villagers who discovered the body have also claimed some tiger sightings in the vicinity.\n\nAnother alleged sighting occurred in Magetan Regency, East Java, in January 2009. Some villagers claimed to have seen a tigress with two cubs wandering near a village adjacent to Lawu Mountain. This news triggered mass panic. Local authorities found several fresh tracks in the location. However, by that time, those animals had already vanished.\n\nFollowing the October 2010 eruption of Mount Merapi, two Indonesian villagers claimed sightings of a big cat paw print in the residual ash, which sparked rumours that a tiger or leopard was roaming abandoned farms in search of food. Personnel of the nearby national park did not think it was likely that the paw print belonged to a tiger.\n\nIn 2016, a Javan tiger was apparently photographed in Mount Arjuno in East Java. The photo went viral, but some were skeptical about the sighting since the forests were not in a good state. An investigation would take place and, if proven true, vigilance would be stricter as the place is favored by hunters.\n\nOn 25 August 2017, a wildlife ranger working in Ujung Kulon National Park took a photograph of an alleged Javan tiger while it was feeding on a dead bull. A research team later set out on a ten-day expedition to validate the existence of the tiger. The representative of the research team later said that it will take up to two months to get a strong conclusion. A tiger expert identified the animal as a Javan leopard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170602", "title": "Minute Man National Historical Park", "text": "Minute Man National Historical Park\n\nMinute Man National Historical Park commemorates the opening battle in the American Revolutionary War. It also includes the Wayside, home in turn to three noted American authors. The National Historical Park is under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service and protects in and around the Massachusetts towns of Lexington, Lincoln, and Concord.\n\nThese sites include:\n\n\nPark visitor centers are located at the hill overlooking the North Bridge and along Battle Road. The main visitor center, on Route 2A/Battle Road, features a 25-minute multi-media show, \"Road to Revolution\" that gives a good introduction to the Lexington-Concord events. An eight-minute film at the North Bridge Visitor Center provides a comprehensive account of events leading to the encounter at North Bridge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170610", "title": "John R. Baylor", "text": "John R. Baylor\n\nJohn R. Baylor (born John Robert Baylor; July 27, 1822 – February 6, 1894) was a US Indian agent, publisher and editor, politician, and a senior officer of the Confederate States Army. After being dismissed as Indian agent, he became one of the founding editors of \"The White Man\", a newspaper in North Texas, and a strong critic of Governor Sam Houston.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Baylor led Texas Confederate forces into New Mexico, and declared himself the 1st Governor of the Arizona Territory. He was confirmed by Confederate President Jefferson Davis. In an altercation, Baylor killed an editor of a rival newspaper. Davis disapproved of orders Baylor gave to his regiment to exterminate the Apache in his territory, and removed him from office as governor, stripping him of his Texas commission.\n\nLater Baylor recovered, settling in San Antonio. He was elected to state government as a legislator and became a rancher. In 1881 he killed another man in an argument, when he was about 59, but was acquitted at trial. He died years later at his ranch.\n\nJohn R. Baylor was born in Paris, Kentucky in 1822, the son of a United States Army surgeon and his wife. He had a brother, George Wythe Baylor, who followed their father into military service, later achieving the rank of colonel. The boys grew up with their family on the various military posts where their father was posted as an assistant surgeon in the Seventh Infantry. Their uncle, R.E.B. Baylor, became an associate judge on the Texas Supreme Court and co-founder of Baylor University. A great-uncle was Col. George R. Baylor, who had served in the American Revolution.\n\nJohn Baylor moved to Fayette County, Texas at the age of 18, and made his life there. In 1840 he joined a Texas volunteer army to fight against the Comanche Indians. In 1844 he married Emily Hanna in Marshall, Texas, and the couple had seven sons and three daughters. His brother George also ended up in Texas. \n\nWhile living as a rancher in Texas Baylor decided to try his hand at politics, and was elected to the Texas state legislature in 1851, serving from 1852-1854. In 1853 he was admitted to the bar. He was appointed as the agent to the Comanches in 1855, and held that position until his dismissal in 1857. After his dismissal, he began to travel around the state condemning the Comanches and addressing anti-Indian meetings. During this time he edited an anti-Indian newspaper, \"The White Man\", and organized a vigilante force of around 1,000 men to campaign against the Comanches.\n\nJohn Baylor was appointed as a US Indian agent in Jack County, serving from 1856 to March 1857, when he was dismissed. He became a critic of Governor Sam Houston, saying he was not doing enough to defend settlers in North Texas from the Comanche and Lipan Apache.\n\nHe was elected to the state legislature, and, by 1860, became a co-founding publisher and editor of a local newspaper called \"The White Man,\" which advocated the expulsion of Indians from North Texas. Based in Jacksboro, it had the advantage of being in a town that was a stop on the Butterfield Overland Mail Route, and was estimated to reach 1,000 readers.\n\nAfter Texas's secession from the Union, Baylor was commissioned as a Confederate lieutenant general in command of the 2nd Texas Cavalry Regiment (also known as the 2nd Texas Mounted Rifles). His force pushed to the southwest into New Mexico Territory and occupied Fort Bliss.\n\nFollowing his victory at the First Battle of Mesilla (July 25, 1861), and the surrender of U.S. forces in the area, Baylor proclaimed himself as the Governor of Arizona Territory, a region encompassing the southern half of contemporary New Mexico and Arizona. His position was confirmed by the Confederate Congress, and he was promoted to colonel in 1861. On January 18, 1862, the fledgling territory was formally organized by the Confederate States.\n\nSoon, a disagreement over critical articles in the \"Mesilla Times\" led to a fight between Baylor and the editor, Robert P. Kelly, whom he killed. Attorney General Marcus H. MacWillie, a member of Baylor's state cabinet, officially pardoned him for the homicide. MacWillie was later rewarded when Baylor orchestrated the former AG's election to the 1st Confederate States Congress.\n\nBaylor became known for ordering his cavalry regiment to exterminate the Apache, with whom the encroaching settlers were in conflict. He issued the following order to his men:\n\nWhen news of this order reached Confederate President Jefferson Davis, he relieved Baylor as governor and revoked his commission as colonel.\n\nDavis's March 23, 1863 note to the Secretary of War was:\nBaylor later was elected to the 2nd Confederate States Congress, serving from 1863-1865. He regained his commission as colonel and was raising a new force to recapture the Arizona Territory when the American Civil War ended two weeks later.\n\nIn the postwar years, Baylor settled in San Antonio, Texas. In 1873, he unsuccessfully campaigned for the Democratic party's nomination for Governor of Texas, losing to Richard Coke.\n\nIn 1876, during the height of the Black Hills War, Baylor offered his services to the U.S. Army against the Lakota Sioux.\n\nIn 1878, he established a sizable ranch in Uvalde County and prospered, but he continued to be involved in violent confrontations and reputedly killed a man in the early 1880s in a feud over livestock. This killing happened in Uvalde County; the victim was named Gilchrist. Baylor was never charged for the crime.\n\nHe died at his ranch on February 6, 1894, aged 71. He was buried in the Church of the Ascension cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170613", "title": "Synthetic fuel", "text": "Synthetic fuel\n\nSynthetic fuel or synfuel is a liquid fuel, or sometimes gaseous fuel, obtained from syngas, a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, in which the syngas was derived from gasification of solid feedstocks such as coal or biomass or by reforming of natural gas.\n\nCommon ways for refining synthetic fuels include the Fischer–Tropsch conversion, methanol to gasoline conversion, or direct coal liquefaction.\n\nAs of July 2019, worldwide commercial synthetic fuels production capacity was over , with numerous new projects in construction or development, such as Carbon Engineering.\n\nThe term 'synthetic fuel' or 'synfuel' has several different meanings and it may include different types of fuels. More traditional definitions, such as the definition given by the International Energy Agency, define 'synthetic fuel' or 'synfuel' as any liquid fuel obtained from coal or natural gas. \nIn its Annual Energy Outlook 2006, the Energy Information Administration defines synthetic fuels as fuels produced from coal, natural gas, or biomass feedstocks through chemical conversion into synthetic crude and/or synthetic liquid products. A number of synthetic fuel's definitions include fuels produced from biomass, and industrial and municipal waste. The definition of synthetic fuel also allows oil sands and oil shale as synthetic fuel sources, and in addition to liquid fuels, synthesized gaseous fuels are also considered to be synthetic fuels: in his 'Synthetic fuels handbook' petrochemist James G. Speight included liquid and gaseous fuels as well as clean solid fuels produced by conversion of coal, oil shale or tar sands, and various forms of biomass, although he admits that in the context of substitutes for petroleum-based fuels it has even wider meaning. Depending on the context, methanol, ethanol and hydrogen may also be included.\n\nSynthetic fuels are produced by the chemical process of conversion. Conversion methods could be direct conversion into liquid transportation fuels, or indirect conversion, in which the source substance is converted initially into syngas which then goes through additional conversion process to become liquid fuels. Basic conversion methods include carbonization and pyrolysis, hydrogenation, and thermal dissolution.\n\nDirect conversion of coal to synthetic fuel was originally developed in Germany.\nThe Bergius process was developed by Friedrich Bergius, yielding a patent in 1913. Karl Goldschmidt invited him to build an industrial plant at his factory the Th. Goldschmidt AG (now known as Evonik Industries) in 1914. Production began in 1919.\n\nIndirect coal conversion (where coal is gasified and then converted to synthetic fuels) was also developed in Germany by Franz Fischer and Hans Tropsch in 1923. During World War II, Germany used synthetic oil manufacturing () to produce substitute (\"Ersatz\") oil products by using the Bergius process (from coal), the Fischer–Tropsch process (water gas), and other methods (Zeitz used the TTH and MTH processes).\nIn 1931, the British Department of Scientific and Industrial Research located in Greenwich, England, set up a small facility where hydrogen gas was combined with coal at extremely high pressures to make a synthetic fuel.\n\nThe Bergius process plants were Nazi Germany's primary source of high-grade aviation gasoline, synthetic oil, synthetic rubber, synthetic methanol, synthetic ammonia, and nitric acid. Nearly one third of the Bergius production was produced by plants in Pölitz () and Leuna, with 1/3 more in five other plants (Ludwigshafen had a much smaller Bergius plant which improved \"gasoline quality by dehydrogenation\" using the DHD process).\n\nSynthetic fuel grades included \"T.L. [jet] fuel\", \"first quality aviation gasoline\", \"aviation base gasoline\", and \"gasoline - middle oil\"; and \"producer gas\" and diesel were synthesized for fuel as well (e.g., converted armored tanks used producer gas). By early 1944, German synthetic fuel production had reached more than from 25 plants, including 10 in the Ruhr Area. In 1937, the four central Germany lignite coal plants at Böhlen, Leuna, Magdeburg/Rothensee, and Zeitz, along with the Ruhr Area bituminous coal plant at Scholven/Buer, had produced of fuel. Four new hydrogenation plants () were subsequently erected at Bottrop-Welheim (which used \"Bituminous coal tar pitch\"), Gelsenkirchen (Nordstern), Pölitz, and, at 200,000 tons/yr Wesseling. Nordstern and Pölitz/Stettin used bituminous coal, as did the new Blechhammer plants. Heydebreck synthesized food oil, which was tested on concentration camp prisoners. The Geilenberg Special Staff was using 350,000 mostly foreign forced laborers to reconstruct the bombed synthetic oil plants, and, in an emergency decentralization program, to build 7 underground hydrogenation plants for bombing protection (none were completed). (Planners had rejected an earlier such proposal because the war was to be won before the bunkers would be completed.) In July 1944, the 'Cuckoo' project underground synthetic oil plant (800,000 m) was being \"carved out of the Himmelsburg\" North of the Mittelwerk, but the plant was unfinished at the end of WWII.\n\nIndirect Fischer–Tropsch (\"FT\") technologies were brought to the US after World War 2, and a plant was designed by HRI, and built in Brownsville Texas. The plant represented the first commercial use of high-temperature Fischer–Tropsch conversion. It operated from 1950 to 1955, when it was shut down when the price of oil dropped due to enhanced production and huge discoveries in the Middle East.\n\nIn 1949, a demonstration plant for converting coal to gasoline was built and operated by the U.S. Bureau of Mines in Louisiana, Missouri. Direct coal conversion plants were also developed in the US after World War II, including a 3 TPD plant in Lawrenceville, New Jersey, and a 250-600 TPD Plant in Catlettsburg, Kentucky.\n\nIn later decades the Republic of South Africa established a state oil company including a large synthetic fuel establishment.\n\nThe numerous processes that can be used to produce synthetic fuels broadly fall into three categories: Indirect, Direct, and Biofuel processes. \n\nIndirect conversion has the widest deployment worldwide, with global production totaling around , and many additional projects under active development.\n\nIndirect conversion broadly refers to a process in which biomass, coal, or natural gas is converted to a mix of hydrogen and carbon monoxide known as syngas either through gasification or steam methane reforming, and that syngas is processed into a liquid transportation fuel using one of a number of different conversion techniques depending on the desired end product.\n\nThe primary technologies that produce synthetic fuel from syngas are Fischer–Tropsch synthesis and the Mobil process (also known as Methanol-To-Gasoline, or MTG). In the Fischer–Tropsch process syngas reacts in the presence of a catalyst, transforming into liquid products (primarily diesel fuel and jet fuel) and potentially waxes (depending on the FT process employed).\n\nThe process of producing synfuels through indirect conversion is often referred to as coal-to-liquids (CTL), gas-to-liquids (GTL) or biomass-to-liquids (BTL), depending on the initial feedstock. At least three projects (Ohio River Clean Fuels, Illinois Clean Fuels, and Rentech Natchez) are combining coal and biomass feedstocks, creating hybrid-feedstock synthetic fuels known as Coal and Biomass To Liquids (CBTL).\n\nIndirect conversion process technologies can also be used to produce hydrogen, potentially for use in fuel cell vehicles, either as slipstream co-product, or as a primary output.\n\nDirect conversion refers to processes in which coal or biomass feedstocks are converted directly into intermediate or final products, avoiding the conversion to syngas via gasification. Direct conversion processes can be broadly broken up into two different methods: Pyrolysis and carbonization, and hydrogenation.\n\nOne of the main methods of direct conversion of coal to liquids by hydrogenation process is the Bergius process. In this process, coal is liquefied by heating in the presence of hydrogen gas (hydrogenation). Dry coal is mixed with heavy oil recycled from the process. Catalysts are typically added to the mixture. The reaction occurs at between to and 20 to 70 MPa hydrogen pressure. The reaction can be summarized as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nAfter World War I several plants were built in Germany; these plants were extensively used during World War II to supply Germany with fuel and lubricants.\n\nThe Kohleoel Process, developed in Germany by Ruhrkohle and VEBA, was used in the demonstration plant with the capacity of 200 ton of lignite per day, built in Bottrop, Germany. This plant operated from 1981 to 1987. In this process, coal is mixed with a recycle solvent and iron catalyst. After preheating and pressurizing, H is added. The process takes place in tubular reactor at the pressure of 300 bar and at the temperature of . This process was also explored by SASOL in South Africa.\n\nIn 1970-1980s, Japanese companies Nippon Kokan, Sumitomo Metal Industries and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries developed the NEDOL process. In this process, a mixture of coal and recycled solvent is heated in the presence of iron-based catalyst and H. The reaction takes place in tubular reactor at temperature between and at the pressure 150-200 bar. The produced oil has low quality and requires intensive upgrading. H-Coal process, developed by Hydrocarbon Research, Inc., in 1963, mixes pulverized coal with recycled liquids, hydrogen and catalyst in the ebullated bed reactor. Advantages of this process are that dissolution and oil upgrading are taking place in the single reactor, products have high H:C ratio, and a fast reaction time, while the main disadvantages are high gas yield, high hydrogen consumption, and limitation of oil usage only as a boiler oil because of impurities.\n\nThe SRC-I and SRC-II (Solvent Refined Coal) processes were developed by Gulf Oil and implemented as pilot plants in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s. The Nuclear Utility Services Corporation developed hydrogenation process which was patented by Wilburn C. Schroeder in 1976. The process involved dried, pulverized coal mixed with roughly 1wt% molybdenum catalysts. Hydrogenation occurred by use of high temperature and pressure syngas produced in a separate gasifier. The process ultimately yielded a synthetic crude product, Naphtha, a limited amount of C/C gas, light-medium weight liquids (C-C) suitable for use as fuels, small amounts of NH and significant amounts of CO. Other single-stage hydrogenation processes are the Exxon donor solvent process, the Imhausen High-pressure Process, and the Conoco Zinc Chloride Process.\n\nA number of two-stage direct liquefaction processes have been developed. After the 1980s only the Catalytic Two-stage Liquefaction Process, modified from the H-Coal Process; the Liquid Solvent Extraction Process by British Coal; and the Brown Coal Liquefaction Process of Japan have been developed.\n\nChevron Corporation developed a process invented by Joel W. Rosenthal called the Chevron Coal Liquefaction Process (CCLP). It is unique due to the close-coupling of the non-catalytic dissolver and the catalytic hydroprocessing unit. The oil produced had properties that were unique when compared to other coal oils; it was lighter and had far fewer heteroatom impurities. The process was scaled-up to the 6 ton per day level, but not proven commercially.\n\nThere are a number of different carbonization processes. The carbonization conversion occurs through pyrolysis or destructive distillation, and it produces condensable coal tar, oil and water vapor, non-condensable synthetic gas, and a solid residue-char. The condensed coal tar and oil are then further processed by hydrogenation to remove sulfur and nitrogen species, after which they are processed into fuels.\n\nThe typical example of carbonization is the Karrick process. The process was invented by Lewis Cass Karrick in the 1920s. The Karrick process is a low-temperature carbonization process, where coal is heated at to in the absence of air. These temperatures optimize the production of coal tars richer in lighter hydrocarbons than normal coal tar. However, the produced liquids are mostly a by-product and the main product is semi-coke, a solid and smokeless fuel.\n\nThe COED Process, developed by FMC Corporation, uses a fluidized bed for processing, in combination with increasing temperature, through four stages of pyrolysis. Heat is transferred by hot gases produced by combustion of part of the produced char. A modification of this process, the COGAS Process, involves the addition of gasification of char. The TOSCOAL Process, an analogue to the TOSCO II oil shale retorting process and Lurgi-Ruhrgas process, which is also used for the shale oil extraction, uses hot recycled solids for the heat transfer.\n\nLiquid yields of pyrolysis and Karrick processes are generally low for practical use for synthetic liquid fuel production. Furthermore, the resulting liquids are of low quality and require further treatment before they can be used as motor fuels. In summary, there is little possibility that this process will yield economically viable volumes of liquid fuel.\n\nOne example of a Biofuel-based synthetic fuel process is Hydrotreated Renewable Jet (HRJ) fuel.\nThere are a number of variants of these processes under development, and the testing and certification process for HRJ aviation fuels is beginning.\n\nThere are two such process under development by UOP. One using solid biomass feedstocks, and one using bio-oil and fats. The process using solid second-generation biomass sources such as switchgrass or woody biomass uses pyrolysis to produce a bio-oil, which is then catalytically stabilized and deoxygenated to produce a jet-range fuel. The process using natural oils and fats goes through a deoxygenation process, followed by hydrocracking and isomerization to produce a renewable Synthetic Paraffinic Kerosene jet fuel.\n\nSynthetic crude may also be created by upgrading bitumen (a tar like substance found in oil sands), or synthesizing liquid hydrocarbons from oil shale. There are a number of processes extracting shale oil (synthetic crude oil) from oil shale by pyrolysis, hydrogenation, or thermal dissolution.\n\nWorldwide commercial synthetic fuels plant capacity is over , including indirect conversion Fischer–Tropsch plants in South Africa (Mossgas, Secunda CTL), Qatar {Oryx GTL}, and Malaysia (Shell Bintulu), and a Mobil process (Methanol to Gasoline) plant in New Zealand.\n\nSasol, a company based in South Africa operates the world's only commercial Fischer–Tropsch coal-to-liquids facility at Secunda, with a capacity of .\n\nThe economics of synthetic fuel manufacture vary greatly depending the feedstock used, the precise process employed, site characteristics such as feedstock and transportation costs, and the cost of additional equipment required to control emissions. The examples described below indicate a wide range of production costs between $20/BBL for large-scale gas-to-liquids, to as much as $240/BBL for small-scale biomass-to-liquids + Carbon Capture and Sequestration.\n\nIn order to be economically viable, projects must do much better than just being competitive head-to-head with oil. They must also generate a sufficient return on investment to justify the capital investment in the project.\n\nAccording to a December 2007 study, a medium scale (30,000 BPD) coal-to-liquids plant (CTL) sited in the US using bituminous coal, is expected to be competitive with oil down to roughly $52–56/bbl crude-oil equivalent. Adding carbon capture and sequestration to the project was expected to add an additional $10/BBL to the required selling price, though this may be offset by revenues from enhanced oil recovery, or by tax credits, or the eventual sale of carbon credits.\n\nA recent NETL study examined the relative economics of a number of different process configurations for the production of indirect FT fuels using biomass, coal, and CCS. This study determined a price at which the plant would not only be profitable, but also make a sufficient return to yield a 20% return on the equity investment required to build the plant.\nThis chapter details an analysis which derives the Required Selling Price (RSP) of the FT diesel fuels produced in order to determine the economic feasibility and relative competitiveness of the different plant options. A sensitivity analysis was performed to determine how carbon control regulations such as an emissions trading scheme for transportation fuels would affect the price of both petroleum-derived diesel and FT diesel from the different plants. The key findings of these analyses were:\n(1) CTL plants equipped with CCS are competitive at crude oil prices as low as $86 per barrel and have less life cycle GHG emissions than petroleum-derived diesel. These plants become more economically competitive as carbon prices increase.\n(2) The incremental cost of adding simple CCS is very low (7 cents per gallon) because capture is an inherent part of the FT process. This becomes the economically preferred option at carbon prices above $5/mteq.27\n(3) BTL systems are hindered by limited biomass availability which affects the maximum plant size, thereby limiting potential economies of scale. This, combined with relatively high biomass costs results in FT diesel prices which are double that of other configurations: $6.45 to $6.96/gal compared to $2.56 to $2.82/gal for CTL and 15wt% CBTL systems equipped with CCS.\n\nThe conclusion reached based on these findings was that both the CTL with CCS and the 8wt% to 15wt% CBTL with CCS configurations may offer the most pragmatic solutions to the nation's energy strategy dilemma: GHG emission reductions which are significant (5% to 33% below the petroleum baseline) at diesel RSPs that are only half as much as the BTL options ($2.56 to $2.82 per gallon compared to $6.45 to $6.96 per gallon for BTL). These options are economically feasible when crude oil prices are $86 to $95 per barrel.\nThese economics can change in the event that plentiful low-cost biomass sources can be found, lowing the cost of biomass inputs, and improving economies of scale.\n\nEconomics for solid feedstock indirect FT process plants are further confused by carbon regulation. Generally, since permitting a CTL plant without CCS will likely be impossible, and CTL+CCS plants have a lower carbon footprint than conventional fuels, carbon regulation is expected to be balance-positive for synthetic fuel production. But it impacts the economics of different process configurations in different ways. The NETL study picked a blended CBTL process using 5-15% biomass alongside coal as the most economical in a range of carbon price and probable future regulation scenarios. Because of scale and cost constraints, pure BTL processes did not score well until high carbon prices were assumed, though again this may improve with better feedstocks and more efficient larger scale projects.\n\nShenhua Group recently reported that their direct coal liquefaction process is competitive with oil prices above $60 per barrel.< Previous reports have indicated an anticipated cost of production of less than $30 per barrel, based on a direct coal liquefaction process, and a coal mining cost of under $10/ton.\nIn October 2011, actual price of coal in China was as high as $135/ton.\n\nA central consideration for the development of synthetic fuel is the security factor of securing domestic fuel supply from domestic biomass and coal. Nations that are rich in biomass and coal can use synthetic fuel to off-set their use of petroleum derived fuels and foreign oil.\n\nThe environmental footprint of a given synthetic fuel varies greatly depending on which process is employed, what feedstock is used, what pollution controls are employed, and what the transportation distance and method are for both feedstock procurement and end-product distribution.\n\nIn many locations, project development will not be possible due to permitting restrictions if a process design is chosen that does not meet local requirements for clean air, water, and increasingly, lifecycle carbon emissions.\n\nAmong different indirect FT synthetic fuels production technologies, potential emissions of greenhouse gasses vary greatly. Coal to liquids (\"CTL\") without carbon capture and sequestration (\"CCS\") is expected to result in a significantly higher carbon footprint than conventional petroleum-derived fuels (+147%). On the other hand, biomass-to-liquids with CCS could deliver a 358% reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions. Both of these plants fundamentally use gasification and FT conversion synthetic fuels technology, but they deliver wildly divergent environmental footprints.\n\nGenerally, CTL without CCS has a higher greenhouse gas footprint. CTL with CCS has a 9-15% reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions compared to that of petroleum derived diesel.\n\nCBTL+CCS plants that blend biomass alongside coal while sequestering carbon do progressively better the more biomass is added. Depending on the type of biomass, the assumptions about root storage, and the transportation logistics, at conservatively 40% biomass alongside coal, CBTL+CCS plants achieve a neutral lifecycle greenhouse gas footprint. At more than 40% biomass, they begin to go lifecycle negative, and effectively store carbon in the ground for every gallon of fuels that they produce.\n\nUltimately BTL plants employing CCS could store massive amounts of carbon while producing transportation fuels from sustainably produced biomass feedstocks, although there are a number of significant economic hurdles, and a few technical hurdles that would have to be overcome to enable the development of such facilities.\n\nSerious consideration must also be given to the type and method of feedstock procurement for either the coal or biomass used in such facilities, as reckless development could exacerbate environmental problems caused by mountaintop removal mining, land use change, fertilizer runoff, food vs. fuels concerns, or many other potential factors. Or they could not, depending entirely on project-specific factors on a plant-by-plant basis.\n\nA study from U.S. Department of Energy National Energy Technology Laboratory with much more in-depth information of CBTL life-cycle emissions \"Affordable Low Carbon Diesel from Domestic Coal and Biomass\".\n\nHybrid hydrogen-carbon processes have also been proposed recently as another closed-carbon cycle alternative, combining 'clean' electricity, recycled CO, H and captured CO with biomass as inputs as a way of reducing the biomass needed.\n\nThe fuels produced by the various synthetic fuels process also have a wide range of potential environmental performance, though they tend to be very uniform based on the type of synthetic fuels process used (i.e. the tailpipe emissions characteristics of Fischer–Tropsch diesel tend to be the same, though their lifecycle greenhouse gas footprint can vary substantially based on which plant produced the fuel, depending on feedstock and plant level sequestration considerations.)\n\nIn particular, Fischer–Tropsch diesel and jet fuels deliver dramatic across-the-board reductions in all major criteria pollutants such as SOx, NOx, Particulate Matter, and Hydrocarbon emissions. These fuels, because of their high level of purity and lack of contaminants, further enable the use of advanced emissions control equipment that has been shown to virtually eliminate HC, CO, and PM emissions from diesel vehicles.\n\nIn testimony before the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment of the U.S. House of Representatives the following statement was made by a senior scientist from Rentech:\nF-T fuels offer numerous benefits to aviation users. The first is an immediate reduction in particulate emissions. F-T jet fuel has been shown in laboratory combusters and engines to reduce PM emissions by 96% at idle and 78% under cruise operation. Validation of the reduction in other turbine engine emissions is still under way. Concurrent to the PM reductions is an immediate reduction in emissions from F-T fuel. F-T fuels inherently reduce emissions because they have higher energy content per carbon content of the fuel, and the fuel is less dense than conventional jet fuel allowing aircraft to fly further on the same load of fuel.\n\nThe \"cleanness\" of these FT synthetic fuels is further demonstrated by the fact that they are sufficiently non-toxic and environmentally benign as to be considered biodegradable. This owes primarily to the near-absence of sulfur and extremely low level of aromatics present in the fuel.\n\nOne concern commonly raised about the development of synthetic fuels plants is sustainability. Fundamentally, transitioning from oil to coal or natural gas for transportation fuels production is a transition from one inherently depletable geologically limited resource to another.\n\nOne of the positive defining characteristics of synthetic fuels production is the ability to use multiple feedstocks (coal, gas, or biomass) to produce the same product from the same plant. In the case of hybrid BCTL plants, some facilities are already planning to use a significant biomass component alongside coal. Ultimately, given the right location with good biomass availability, and sufficiently high oil prices, synthetic fuels plants can be transitioned from coal or gas, over to a 100% biomass feedstock. This provides a path forward towards a renewable fuel source and possibly more sustainable, even if the plant originally produced fuels solely from coal, making the infrastructure forwards-compatible even if the original fossil feedstock runs out.\n\nSome synthetic fuels processes can be converted to sustainable production practices more easily than others, depending on the process equipment selected. This is an important design consideration as these facilities are planned and implemented, as additional room must be left in the plant layout to accommodate whatever future plant change requirements in terms of materials handling and gasification might be necessary to accommodate a future change in production profile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170616", "title": "Wartburg Festival", "text": "Wartburg Festival\n\nThe first Wartburg Festival () was a convention of about 500 Protestant German students, held on 18 October 1817 at the Wartburg castle near Eisenach in Thuringia. The former refuge of reformator Martin Luther was considered a national symbol and the assembly a protest against reactionary politics and \"Kleinstaaterei\".\n\nAfter the German \"Wars of Liberation\" against Napoleon and the French occupation, many people were bitter about dreams of German national unity shattered after the 1815 Congress of Vienna. Democratic reforms were stalled, and governments had cracked down on press freedom and rights of association.\n\nOn 12 June 1815 several corporated students at the University of Jena founded the \"Urburschenschaft\" organization in order to encourage German unity at the university. Many of them had participated as voluntary soldiers on the fields against Napoleon, \"e.g.\" in the Lützow Free Corps, the black-red-gold colour scheme of which was adopted for the Flag of Germany. The German students demonstrated for a national state and a liberal constitution condemning the \"reactionary\" forces in the newly recreated states of the German Confederation. At least, a constitution for the German state of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach including articles on freedom of speech, press and assembly was amended by Grand Duke Karl August in 1816.\n\nOn the occasion of the three-hundredth anniversary of Martin Luther's nailing of his ninety-five theses on 31 October 1517 and to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the bloody Battle of Nations at Leipzig, the \"Burschenschaft\" student fraternities from the Jena and Halle universities agreed to organize a \"national festival\" at the Wartburg. The castle was chosen as a meeting place as it had been a refuge for Luther after he had been banned and was declared \"vogelfrei\" by Emperor Charles V in 1521. Inasmuch as he had translated the Bible there and thus set a standard for the German language, it became a symbol of German nationalism. Hundreds of students from Berlin, Breslau, Erlangen, Gießen, Göttingen, Greifswald, Heidelberg, Kiel, Königsberg, Leipzig, Marburg, Rostock und Tübingen joined the festivities. Jena professors such as Dietrich Georg von Kieser, Lorenz Oken, Heinrich Luden, and Jakob Friedrich Fries were also among the participants. \n\nAt the meeting in the Wartburg knights' hall, speeches were held about Martin Luther as a freedom fighter and the way to national unity. Followed by the Christian hymn \"Now Thank We All Our God\" as sung by the victorious Prussian troops after the 1757 Battle of Leuthen and a final blessing, the convention resembled a Protestant church service. The men eventually gathered for a festive meal and gave several toasts to the fallens of the Liberation Wars, Scharnhorst, Schill and Körner.\n\nInvitations to Austrian universities had been blocked by the government of State Chancellor Metternich; the event itself was also used as a justification for further suppression of liberal forces, such as the Carlsbad Decrees of 1819. In 1832, the Hambacher Fest was held in similar manner. A second festival at the Wartburg was held during the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states.\n\nAfter the end of the official festivities and referring to Martin Luther's burning of the papal bull \"Exsurge domine\" in 1520, followers of \"Turnvater\" Friedrich Ludwig Jahn arranged a book burning with the burning of mocked books symbolizing a number of reactionary literary works, and symbols of Napoleon's foreign rule like a corporal's cane. This act was used in 1933 as a justification for the Nazi book burnings.\n\nThe symbolically burnt books comprised:\n\n"}
{"id": "2170618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170618", "title": "Matthew 4:24", "text": "Matthew 4:24\n\nMatthew 4:24 is the twenty-fourth verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This verse is part of a brief summary of and introduction to Jesus' ministry in Galilee, which will be recounted in the next several chapters. This verse relates Jesus' fame \"throughout all Syria\" (, \"eis holēn tēn Syrian\") and summarizes his work of healing.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible, the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see Matthew 4:24 at BibleGateway.com\n\nThe Roman province of Syria covered a huge area. American Theologian Albert Barnes interprets \"Syria\" as \"the general name for the country lying between the Euphrates on the east, and the Mediterranean on the west; and between Mount Taurus on the north, and Arabia on the south. English biblical scholar R. T. France suggests that the author of Matthew's gospel was likely to have been using the Old Testament meaning, which limited it to the area immediately to the north and northeast of Israel. Eduard Schweizer notes that one late manuscript has \"synoria\", region, in place of Syria, a meaning that would also make the passage more credible. Syria is often considered to be the location where the author of Matthew wrote his gospel.\n\nMark's Gospel does not mention Syria in the parallel text: \"His fame spread throughout all the region around Galilee\"; similarly in Luke's Gospel, \"News of Him went out through all the surrounding region\".\n\nDavid Hill notes that the general understanding of disease among the Jewish community at the time was that it was in atonement for sin. Thus Jesus' healing power is an aspect of his ability to grant forgiveness of sins, as mentioned in .\n"}
{"id": "2170624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170624", "title": "Dale Bozzio", "text": "Dale Bozzio\n\nDale Frances Bozzio (née Consalvi; born March 2, 1955) is an American rock and pop vocalist. She is best known as co-founder and lead singer of the '80s new wave band Missing Persons and for her work with Frank Zappa. While with Zappa, she performed significant roles in two of his major works, \"Joe's Garage\" (1979) and \"Thing-Fish\" (1984). In her solo career, Bozzio has released four albums and one EP.\n\nBozzio co-founded Missing Persons in 1980 with former Zappa musicians Warren Cuccurullo and Terry Bozzio (her husband from 1979 to 1986). In addition to being the band's lead vocalist, she also contributed lyrics. Missing Persons released one EP and six albums, including \"Spring Session M\" (1982), which achieved gold record status.\n\nAfter Missing Persons disbanded in 1986, Bozzio was signed to Prince's Paisley Park label which released her first solo album, \"Riot in English\" (1988). Bozzio subsequently reformed Missing Persons and continues to perform the band's repertoire at venues across the United States. She has also participated periodically in reunions of the original band and has continued her work as a solo artist. In 2014, Bozzio was signed to Cleopatra Records and released a new studio album titled \"Missing in Action.\" During the summer of 2014, she signed with GRA Records for a new album to be produced by Stephan DeReine.\n\nBozzio was born Dale Frances Consalvi in Medford, Massachusetts. From the age of 16, she studied drama at Emerson College and worked as a Bunny at the Playboy Club in Boston. She was named Boston Playboy Club Bunny of the Year in 1975.\n\nIn 1976, Bozzio traveled to Playboy Mansion West in Los Angeles at the request of Hugh Hefner, to interview for a position as a Valentine party hostess. The opportunity provided for both a continuing relationship with Playboy and for living arrangements in Los Angeles, from which she could pursue an acting career. But Bozzio rejected Hefner's offer, and thus, she failed to secure living arrangements. However, shortly thereafter, she chanced upon musician and composer Frank Zappa, whom she had met previously at one of his concerts in Boston. That encounter led to her employment with Zappa.\n\nBozzio posed nude for Hustler, being featured in an edition published in February 1980.\n\nZappa hired Bozzio to voice the part of Mary in his rock opera \"Joe's Garage\" (1979) which was under development at the time. In that role she sang about issues such as the Roman Catholic Church, sexuality, and the culture of rock bands. In \"Scene Sixteen-Packard Goose\", Bozzio, again as the voice of Mary, gave a brief monologue concerning how information, knowledge, wisdom, truth, beauty, love, and music relate to each other, with music as the best.\n\nBozzio's voice can also be heard in the 1979 film \"Baby Snakes\" and in the single \"I Don't Wanna Get Drafted\" (1980), a criticism of the U.S. military draft policy at that time. \"I Don't Wanna Get Drafted\" was also included on the album \"The Lost Episodes\" (1996).\n\nIn 1984, Bozzio was cast in Zappa's musical, \"Thing-Fish.\" In voicing the part of Rhonda, she played opposite her real-life husband at the time, Terry Bozzio, who voiced the character Harry, Rhonda's husband. In \"Thing-Fish,\" Bozzio articulated some of the album's topics such as feminism, female sexuality, young urban professionals, and the state of Broadway musical theater.\n\nIn November 1991, participating along with other alumni in Zappa's fiftieth birthday tribute concert, \"Zappa's Universe,\" Dale revised the words in her recitation of her lines in \"Packard Goose\" to, \"Music...and Frank Zappa...are the best.\"\n\nBozzio, along with Zappa touring guitarist Warren Cuccurullo and Terry Bozzio who had been one of Zappa's drummers, founded Missing Persons in 1980. Missing Persons had multiple hits during the first half of the 1980s and disbanded in 1986, shortly after the release of their third album titled \"Color in Your Life\" (1986).\n\nBozzio continued to record and perform after the breakup of the original Missing Persons band. During the early 1990s, she toured with her own group using the band name and performing Missing Persons songs. In June 2005, Missing Persons featuring Dale Bozzio appeared on week five of the NBC show \"Hit Me Baby One More Time.\"\n\nDale and Missing Persons were referenced in season 2 of the CW TV network show \"iZombie\" in 2015. A recurring character played by Jessica Harmon is FBI agent Dale Bozzio, who works on missing persons cases.\n\nBozzio's solo album \"Riot in English\" was released in 1988 on Prince's Paisley Park Records, under the mononym \"Dale\". The lead single \"Simon Simon\" reached #33 on the Billboard dance chart.\n\n\"New Wave Sessions\" was released on October 9, 2007, on compact disc by Cleopatra Records. The album included new versions of the Missing Persons hits \"Words\" and \"Destination Unknown\", and covers of the 1980s songs \"Funkytown\", \"Der Kommissar\", \"Turning Japanese\", \"I Know What Boys Like\", and \"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun\".\n\nIn 2010, Bozzio's \"Make Love Not War\" album and \"Talk Talk\" EP was released on Electrik Blue Records.\n\nIn 2014, Bozzio's \"Missing in Action\" was released on Cleopatra Records.\n\nBozzio was influenced by black and white film era stars including Jean Harlow and Marlene Dietrich. She was also influenced by Judy Garland, and Frank Zappa. For her work with Missing Persons, Bozzio drew inspiration from the screen images of black and white era actresses; however, she incorporated color into her presentation.\n\nHer influence was behind Gelvin Guitars SSM guitar they made specifically for her with a Spring Session M theme to it.\n\nDuring her work with Zappa, she met drummer Terry Bozzio in 1976. They married in 1979 after Terry had become a member of the band U.K.. They divorced in 1986 with Dale retaining her married name. She has two children.\n\nIn 2009, she was convicted on animal cruelty charges after unsuccessfully trying to rescue sick and feral stray cats.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Walking in LA\" live with Lunden Reign, Live at LA Pride Festival (June 7, 2014)\n\n"}
{"id": "2170634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170634", "title": "Liquid Liquid", "text": "Liquid Liquid\n\nLiquid Liquid is an American no wave and dance-punk group, originally active from 1980 to 1983. They are best known for their track \"Cavern,\" which was covered by the Sugar Hill Records house band as the backing track for Melle Mel's old school rap classic \"White Lines (Don't Do It).\" The group released a series of extended plays, including the acclaimed 1983 12\" EP \"Optimo\". In 2008, the band reformed and have played in multiple countries.\n\nLiquid Liquid emerged from downtown New York's no wave scene. The group's original records were pressed in very limited quantities on 99 Records, and can now fetch high prices. \"Cavern\" originally appeared on the EP, \"Optimo\", recorded by Don Hunerberg. Though the pressings were small, the music has had a lasting and far reaching impact. A music video for \"Cavern\" was produced by Michael Sporn.\n\nAfter \"Cavern\" was sampled for Grandmaster + Melle Mel's old school rap classic, \"White Lines (Don't Do It),\" 99 Records took Sugarhill to court over its unauthorized use, and after an expensive court battle, won compensation. Before they could collect, however, Sugarhill went into receivership. The song was also included on the \"Disco Not Disco\" compilation album. The first three EPs, plus live material, were reissued in 1997 by Grand Royal (US) and Mo' Wax (UK). After the collapse of both these labels as well as their entire lives, Domino Records released the music from all three original 12\"s plus extra tracks and early live recordings as \"Slip In And Out Of Phenomenon\" in 2008.\n\nIn October 2008 the band returned to the UK after a prolonged hiatus, playing at London's Barbican Theatre alongside the Glasgow-based DJ duo Optimo, who named themselves after the eponymous Liquid Liquid song and EP. Liquid Liquid performed in 2009 at the Villette Sonique Festival in Paris, as well as in Lincoln Center, where they followed the 200 Guitar Orchestra. On April 2, 2010, the band performed \"Cavern\" with The Roots on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\" and announced they were to play more shows in Britain, at the Offset Festival and ATP Release The Bats in London. On April 2, 2011, LCD Soundsystem played their farewell gig at Madison Square Garden in New York City with Liquid Liquid as supporting act.\n\nLiquid Liquid's music is essentially groove-based and influenced by a variety of sources, including funk, dub reggae, Afrobeat, and punk in its do it yourself garage approach. Their songs do not follow standard pop song form, having no defined verses or chorus. Vocalist Salvatore Principato is known to use his voice as an instrument, focusing more on pitch and rhythm than words and lyrics.\n\n\nMcGuire is a graphic designer and filmmaker. Principato produces remixes and often tours as a DJ and Young plays in various musical projects.\n\n\nDJ Bill Bahlman spun his mix of new wave, dance punk and electro at most of Liquid Liquid NYC shows. He also recorded many of these live shows. These live tapes were incorporated into the studio EP's.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170643", "title": "Tōnalpōhualli", "text": "Tōnalpōhualli\n\nThe (), meaning \"count of days\" in Nahuatl, is an Aztec version of the 260-day calendar in use in pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, eg. the Maya equivalent \"Tzolkin\". This calendar is neither solar nor lunar, but rather consists of 20 (), 13-day () periods. Each is ruled by a different deity.\n\nThe basis of the is unknown. Several theories have been advanced for this calendrical period: that it represents a Venusian cycle, that it represents the human gestation period, or that it represents the number of days between the zenithal passage of the sun in the tropical lowlands. On the other hand, some scholars including J. E. S. Thompson suggest that the was not based on natural phenomena at all, but rather on the integers 13 and 20, both considered important numbers in Mesoamerica.\n\nThe other major Aztec calendar, the , is a 365-day year, based on 18 months of 20 days and five nameless days. A was designated by the name of its first day. For example, met Moctezuma II on the day 8 Wind in the year 1 Reed (or November 8, 1519 in the Julian calendar).\n\nThe and the would coincide approximately every 52 years.\n\nNote that the symbols are arranged counterclockwise around the calendar stone. \n\n"}
{"id": "2170650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170650", "title": "2004 United States presidential election in New Hampshire", "text": "2004 United States presidential election in New Hampshire\n\nThe 2004 United States presidential election in New Hampshire took place on November 2, 2004, and was part of the 2004 United States presidential election. Voters chose 4 representatives, or electors to the Electoral College, who voted for president and vice president.\n\nNew Hampshire was won by Democratic nominee John Kerry by a 1.4% margin of victory. Prior to the election, most news organizations considered it as a swing state. Traditionally a more Republican leaning state of the heavily Democratic New England region, it was the only state in all of the Northeast to vote Republican in 2000. The state is considered to be more fiscally conservative than its neighbors in New England. However, like the rest of New England, it is considerably more liberal on social issues, which benefits Democratic candidates. New Hampshire was the only state that Bush won in the 2000 presidential election but lost in the 2004 presidential election. This is the first time that a Republican won a presidential election while losing New Hampshire, while Bush became the second consecutive Republican president (after his father) to lose New Hampshire in his second election having won it in his first. This would also be the first time since 1976 that New Hampshire would back the losing candidate in a presidential election.\n\nThe 2004 New Hampshire Democratic Primary was held on January 27, 2004. Taking place 8 days after the Iowa caucuses, it marked the second contest to take place during the Democratic party's 2004 primary season, as well as the first actual primary to take place. \n\nPrimary polling taken by American Research Group during the last few days of campaigning (January 23 to January 27, 2004) showed that former New Hampshire poll leader as well as national leader Howard Dean was steadily gaining ground to catch up to now front-runner John Kerry. \nGathered from ARG's 2004 NH Democratic Tracking Poll\n\n\"Margin of Error +/- 4\"\n\nTracking polling showed that Dean had been catching up to Kerry in the days before the primary, cutting Kerry's 18 point lead to 10 points in a matter of days. With Dean dropping and Kerry rising, it became apparent that the battle for 1st place in New Hampshire would be close. Also, for third place, Wesley Clark, John Edwards and Joe Lieberman were the only ones fighting for third. With Clark and Edwards both taking hits going into the primary, a Lieberman on the rise, the fight for 1st place and third place, according to polls would be intense.\n\nAs results began to come in during Primary night, it became apparent Kerry had won the primary and was promptly projected the winner by several media outlets. Dean finished in second place. Clark and Edwards were in a dead-lock for third place, with both candidates at 12% during the night. Earlier returns showed Lieberman in a stronger position to tie with Clark and Edwards, allowing him to declare to his supporters that it was \"a three-way split decision for third place.\"\n\nAs final results were being tallied, Kerry won the primary with 84,277 votes and 38%, Dean finished second, with 57,761 and 26%, and Clark narrowly defeated Edwards for third place, with 27,314 votes and 12%. Lieberman had fallen back in the count and didn't even reach 10%.\n\n\"Source: CNN.com 2004 Primaries\"\n\nKerry won huge margins of support amongst almost all constituencies, with his only weak point amongst Republicans, who made up 4% of the voting block and was Lieberman's strongest point. Dean repeatedly came distant second or third for almost all categories of voters. Edward defeated Clark amongst male voters as well as voters under 65, but only by a very tiny margin. Lieberman finished in a distant third in almost all categories except for Republicans, in which he nearly defeated John Kerry.\n\nThere were 12 news organizations who made state-by-state predictions of the election. Here are their last predictions before election day.\n\n\nPre-election polling was back and forth, with no clear indication who would end up winning the state. The final 3 polls averaged Kerry leading 48% to 47%, with the undecided voters, making up just 3%, deciding the election.\n\nBush raised $598,474. Kerry raised $766,720.\n\nBush visited the state 6 times, while Kerry visited the state 4 times. Each campaign spent between $100,000 to $300,000 each week.\n\nNew Hampshire, historically considered to be a more conservative state compared to the rest of New England, had by the early 2000s become a swing state in presidential elections, having voted for Democrat Bill Clinton twice in the 1990s but narrowly choosing Republican George W. Bush in 2000. However the state began heavily trending Democratic after 2000. Bush's approval ratings were consistently below 50% in 2004. Also, polling in the state consistently showed Kerry leading, and with between 47% to 50% of the vote.\n\nOn election day, Kerry won with just over 50% of the vote, with a small margin of victory, as expected from the polls. Major factors include Bush's lower approval ratings and just 1% who voted for third-party candidates, unlike 2000 when over 4% of the people voted for an independent. Kerry won 6 of the 10 counties. Most of the counties were won and lost by small margins. Kerry's key to victory was winning Cheshire County with over 59%. Bush's best performance was in Belknap County, which he won with over 55% and carrying every single town. Bush won New Hampshire's 1st congressional district, and Kerry won New Hampshire's 2nd congressional district. This was also the first presidential election since 1968 when Coos County would back the losing candidate, and only the second time since 1892 when that would occur overall.\n\nBush and Kerry each won 1 congressional district.\nTechnically the voters of NH cast their ballots for electors: representatives to the Electoral College. NH is allocated 4 electors because it has 2 congressional districts and 2 senators. All candidates who appear on the ballot or qualify to receive write-in votes must submit a list of 4 electors, who pledge to vote for their candidate and his or her running mate. Whoever wins the majority of votes in the state is awarded all 4 electoral votes. Their chosen electors then vote for president and vice president. Although electors are pledged to their candidate and running mate, they are not obligated to vote for them. An elector who votes for someone other than his or her candidate is known as a faithless elector.\n\nThe electors of each state and the District of Columbia met on December 13, 2004, to cast their votes for president and vice president. The Electoral College itself never meets as one body. Instead the electors from each state and the District of Columbia met in their respective capitols. \n\nThe following were the members of the Electoral College from the state. All 4 were pledged for Kerry/Edwards:\n\n"}
{"id": "2170651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170651", "title": "Fernando Canales", "text": "Fernando Canales\n\nFernando Canales may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2170666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170666", "title": "Siskiyou Mountains salamander", "text": "Siskiyou Mountains salamander\n\nThe Siskiyou Mountains salamander (\"Plethodon stormi\"), also called the Siskiyou Mountain salamander, exists only in isolated locations along the Klamath River in northern California and southern Oregon. It is a close relative of the Del Norte salamander, and some herpetologists believe it may be a subspecies of that animal.\n\nThe Siskiyou Mountains salamander is rich brown in color with white speckles. It is about long, not counting the tail, which is variable in length. Like all of the plethodontids, it lacks lungs and respires through its moist skin. It is nocturnal, prefers cool, moist environments, and is most active during rainfall or high humidity. It stays underground during hot periods and freezes.\n\n\"Plethodon stormi\" is an IUCN Red List endangered species in California. Logging and damming have reduced its habitat.\n\nIn 2005, researchers discovered through genetic analysis that a larger, darker variant of this salamander is in fact a separate species. It has been named the Scott Bar salamander (\"Plethodon asupak\").\n\nOther prominent amphibians within the range of \"P. stormi\" include the rough-skinned newt, \"Taricha granulosa\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170681", "title": "Warner Independent Pictures", "text": "Warner Independent Pictures\n\nWarner Independent Pictures was an independent film division of the American film studio Warner Bros., itself a division of WarnerMedia, then known as Time Warner. Established in August 2003, its first release was 2004's \"Before Sunset\". The division financed, produced, acquired and distributed feature films largely budgeted under $20 million.\n\nThe use of \"independent\" in its name was not literal, as it was a division of Warner Bros., itself a division of media conglomerate Time Warner. Mark Gill was the division's first president. After a controversial departure, Gill was replaced by former Warner Bros. production executive Polly Cohen, who served as president of this division until fall 2008, when the division was officially shut down. While well versed in big-budget motion picture production, it was widely believed Cohen did not have strong enough backgrounds in independent film, or in the marketing/publicity aspects of film distribution, to hold that role. This led to a lackluster slate and output, after a successful initial run under Gill.\n\nIn February 2008, Time Warner announced that it would merge New Line Cinema into Warner Bros. New Line's \"independent\" group Picturehouse was expected to be merged into Warner Independent as part of this process. On May 8, 2008, however, it was announced that both of these specialty divisions would be shut down. In 2013, Picturehouse was relaunched under separate ownership.\n"}
{"id": "2170683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170683", "title": "William Stimpson", "text": "William Stimpson\n\nWilliam Stimpson (February 14, 1832 – May 26, 1872) was a noted American scientist. He was interested particularly in marine biology. Stimpson became an important early contributor to the work of the Smithsonian Institution and later, director of the Chicago Academy of Sciences.\n\nStimpson was born in Boston, Massachusetts to Herbert Hathorne Stimpson and Mary Ann Devereau Brewer. The Stimpsons were of the colonial stock of Massachusetts, the earliest known member of the family being James Stimpson, who was married in 1661, in Milton. His mother died at an early age. William Stimpson's father was an ingenious inventor, and a leading merchant of Boston in the mid decades of the nineteenth century, trading as \"H. & F. Stimpson, stoves and furnaces, corner of Congress and Water Streets. It was he who invented the \"Stimpson range\", the first sheet-iron cooking stove, famous in its day throughout New England. He also made improvements in rifles, and suggested the placing of the flange on the inside of railway car wheels instead of on the outside, as had been the custom. His son was to inherit his energy, love of social life, enthusiasm, and brilliant wit.\n\nStimpson's father moved from Roxbury and built a house in the village of Cambridge. When fourteen years of age he read with delight Edwin Swett's work on geology, and soon after this a copy of Augustus Addison Gould's \"Report on the Invertebrata of Massachusetts\" filled him with exultant enthusiasm.\n\nHe graduated from the Cambridge high school in 1848, winning the gold medal, the highest prize of the school. In September 1848 he entered the Cambridge Latin School, absorbing the mastery he displayed in the use of Latin in the description of marine animals in his \"Prodromus\" of 1857–60.\n\nHe studied under the great naturalist Louis Agassiz. He focused most of his studies on marine biology, particularly invertebrates. Starting when he was 21 years old, from 1853 to 1856, he collected various specimens in the Pacific Northwest. He then settled in Washington, D.C., where he founded the Megatherium Club at the Smithsonian Institution. At the Smithsonian, he was named the director of the department of invertebrates. When fellow club member Robert Kennicott left his post as director of the Academy of Science in Chicago, Stimpson went to that city to take his place. There he gathered one of the most extensive natural history collections in the United States. The academy was destroyed in the Great Chicago Fire of 1871 (later rebuilt), and almost all of Stimpson's works and specimens were lost. He died the following year of tuberculosis in Ilchester, Maryland).\n\n\n\n\nThis article incorporates public domain text from the reference\n"}
{"id": "2170694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170694", "title": "Basirah", "text": "Basirah\n\nBasirah (بصيرة) is an Arabic word used by Sufis to mean perception, insight and foresight of a transcendental truth. The deeper discernment of certain knowledge from that truth is \"firasa\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2170712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170712", "title": "Operation Konrad", "text": "Operation Konrad\n\nOperation Konrad was the German-Hungarian effort to relieve the encircled garrison of Budapest during the Battle of Budapest in January 1945. The operation was divided into three parts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170713", "title": "Jody Latham", "text": "Jody Latham\n\nJody Lee Latham is an English actor, best known for his roles as Phillip \"Lip\" Gallagher in the British Channel 4 comedy drama series \"Shameless\", Calum McKenzie in the ITV series \"The Fixer\" and Rob Grayson in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". He has also had notable short-term guest roles in the school drama series \"Waterloo Road\" and the medical drama \"Holby City\".\n\nLatham attended Walton High School in Nelson but was expelled. Latham has a son, Jack, who was born in Latham's late teens. Jack's mother is Naomi. He used to attend Burnley Youth Theatre, where his acting career started. He currently resides in Middleton, Manchester.\n\nIn 1998, Latham made his television debut in an episode of \"The Cops\" as Grant, and went on to appear, in 2000, as Nelson Catchpole in the series \"Big Meg, Little Meg\". He played Lee, one of the key characters in \"When I Was 12\" in 2001. Latham has appeared in five \"BAFTA\" winning dramas: \"Clocking Off\", \"The Cops\", \"The Street\", \"Shameless\" and \"EastEnders\".\n\nLatham played a leading role in the BBC drama \"Mr Harvey Lights a Candle\", which was shown in March 2005. He also appeared in an episode of \"The Street\", written by Jimmy McGovern, in April 2006.\n\nLatham worked regularly in television before being cast as Lip Gallagher in \"Shameless\", the second eldest of the Gallagher children. Lip is an intelligent and outspoken youth who is trying to escape from the Chatsworth estate in Stretford. He was 24 when he left the show. He took on other work between series, until he was written out of the show in 2008 to allow him to concentrate on other projects. He later returned to the role for the series finale in early 2013.\n\nIn 2006 Latham filmed a short film, \"A Neutral Corner\", about a young boxer arriving in a desolate town where he meets a dog, a stranger and a mysterious waitress. In 2007 he appeared in \"Ruby Blue\" with Bob Hoskins—Latham's first film role.\n\nSince leaving \"Shameless\", he has starred in ITV1's \"The Fixer\", playing the cheeky scally character Calum, and played a part in the music video \"Moonshine & Roses\" by International One. He also appeared in Tulisa's 2012 music video for song \"Sight of You\".\n\nLatham has also turned presenter - hosting the NME Awards aftershow party interviewing award winners. He also been the face and voice of numerous brands including Clearasil, Orange Mobile, Gio Goi and many more, including the BBC flagship station Radio 1.\n\nHe appears in the films \"Act of Grace\" (which he is also associate producer) and \"The Michael Gomez Story\" (2007). In the latter he plays Michael Gomez, an Irish Traveller who turned professional boxer at 17.\n\nLatham played guest lead in the drama \"The Tudors\" along with Jonathan Rhys Meyers.\n\nLatham was one of the celebrities to take part in the 2009 series of \"Hell's Kitchen\" on ITV1.\n\nIn 2010 Latham played Matt on the radio series \"House on Fire\" which aired on BBC Radio 4 from 2010 to 2013.\n\nIn 2011 Latham joined the cast of the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", playing Rob Grayson, a pimp in a controversial sex exploitation storyline.\n\nIn 2012, Latham was given a 12 month suspended sentence (for two years) along with 100 hours community service after being found guilty for growing cannabis.\n\nIn 2013, Latham appeared in the popular BBC school-based drama series, \"Waterloo Road\", as Steve-O Malone.\n\nNo offence 2016\n\n"}
{"id": "2170717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170717", "title": "Theban Cycle", "text": "Theban Cycle\n\nThe Theban Cycle () is a collection of four lost epics of ancient Greek literature which related the mythical history of the Boeotian city of Thebes. They were composed in dactylic hexameter verse and were probably written down between 750 and 500 BC.\n\nThe 9th-century AD scholar and clergyman Photius, in his \"Bibliotheca\", considered the Theban Cycle part of the Epic Cycle; however, modern scholars normally do not.\n\nThe stories in the Theban Cycle were traditional ones: the two Homeric epics, the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", display knowledge of many of them. The most famous stories in the Cycle were those of Oedipus and of the \"Seven against Thebes\", both of which were heavily drawn on by later writers of Greek tragedy.\n\nThe epics of the Theban Cycle were as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170719", "title": "List of kings of Meath", "text": "List of kings of Meath\n\nIn medieval Ireland, the Kings of Mide were of the Clann Cholmáin, a branch of the Uí Néill. Several were High Kings of Ireland. After the collapse of the kingdom in the 12th century its dynasty, the Ua Mael Sechlainn or Ó Melaghlins, were forced west and settled on the east bank of the Shannon. Bearers of the name were still noted as among the Gaelic nobility until as late as the 1690s, though they had lost any real power long before. \n\nThe Kingdom of Mide itself seems to have existed as a kingdom (though of varying sizes) since at least the early historic era. Its name means \"\"middle\"\", denoting the fact that it was situated in the very centre of Ireland in what is now County Westmeath, parts of north County Offaly, south County Longford and western County Meath. Its early kings may have been of the Dál Messin Corb - whose sept, the Uí Garrchon, were Kings of Leinster. However, from the late 400's onwards they were driven away from their original homeland in northern Leinster and over the Wicklow Mountains by the Ui Néill, whose sept, the Clann Cholmáin, took their place.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170721", "title": "Tyler Park, Louisville", "text": "Tyler Park, Louisville\n\nTyler Park is a neighborhood three miles (5 km) southeast of downtown Louisville, Kentucky, USA. It is considered a part of a larger area of Louisville called The Highlands. Near the middle of the neighborhood is a city park of the same name, and many houses in the neighborhood feature park views. The neighborhood boundaries are St Louis Cemetery to the north, Bardstown Road to the east, Eastern Parkway to the south and Beargrass Creek to the west.\n\nThe first subdivision was laid out in 1873 by John H. Tucker between Baxter Avenue, Bardstown Road, Edenside Avenue, and about where Windsor Place would later be. However, because of its relatively remote location from downtown, development did not pick up until the 1880s. All early subdivisions were in the eastern section of the area, near Bardstown Road and away from the steep hills to the west. The extension of a streetcar line down Bardstown Road to Bonnycastle Avenue and the establishment of nearby Cherokee Park created demand around this time for housing in the area.\n\nThe last subdivision built in this part was Windsor Place in 1910, which was unusually strict, requiring all houses built there to sell for over $8,000 and have exteriors only of brick, stucco or stone. Utilities and wires were located in the alleys, to allow for an unobstructed view along the maple-lined street.\n\nFurther west, the sections between St. Louis and Calvary cemeteries were developed starting in 1907. The upper section was done by Edward A. Goddard, who lent his name to a street. The lower hilly section was developed by John Breckinridge Castleman, a former Confederate army major and leader in creating Louisville's park system. He began purchasing the area, known as Schwartz's Woods, in the 1870s, intending to build a personal estate there, but realized this would be impractical as the city expanded around the land. He saw that there were relatively strict deed restrictions on the lots, including setbacks, prohibition of wood fences, a minimum cost of $6,000 for houses, and all structures on lots had to be built under one roof.\n\nA city park was opened in 1910, named Tyler Park after mayor Henry S. Tyler who died during his term in 1896. This park would in turn lend its name to the surrounding neighborhood. One of the defining features of both the park and the neighborhood is the , built in 1904 (renamed after the opening of the park). Built of Indiana limestone, the bridge allowed Baxter Avenue to span the valley north of Eastern Parkway that would become Tyler Park. The design is attributed to John Olmsted (son of Frederick Law Olmsted) and incorporates a large arch that allows pedestrians to freely walk from one part of the park to the other without crossing the busy street that bisects Tyler Park.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of Tyler Park was 2,867, of whom 91.9% are white, 3.9% are black, 3% are listed as other, and 1.2% are Hispanic. College graduates comprise 51.4% of the population, while people without a high school diploma make up 10.6%. Females outnumber males 52.2% to 47.8%.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170732", "title": "Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada v Canadian Assn of Internet Providers", "text": "Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada v Canadian Assn of Internet Providers\n\nSociety of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada v Canadian Assn of Internet Providers 2 S.C.R. 427, - also known as the Tariff 22 case - is a leading decision by the Supreme Court of Canada on ISP liability for copyright infringement. The Court found that there is no liability for information found in caches. An ISP's liability depends on whether it limits itself to \"a conduit\" or a content-neutral function and is not dependent on where the ISP is located.\n\nIn 1995 the Society of Composers, Authors, and Music Publishers of Canada (\"SOCAN\") applied for a royalty tariff to the Copyright Board of Canada that would allow them to collect royalties for copyrighted materials transferred over the internet. In rebuttal, the Canadian Association of Internet Providers (CAIP) claimed that they served only as intermediaries and could not be held liable.\n\nIn 2002, the Federal Court of Appeal held that an ISP could rely on the \"intermediary exception\" found in section 2.4(1)(b) that absolved carriers who only pass information through their system from liability. However, this exception did not apply for caching of information as doing so was considered more than just relaying information. Thus an ISP who refuses to remove copyrighted material from its servers after given reasonable opportunity to do so could be held liable. Lastly, the Court of Appeal found that the tariff should not be limited to material originating from Canada alone.\n\nThe Court's opinion was written by Binnie J. with McLachlin C.J., Iacobucci, Major, Bastarache, Arbour, Deschamps and Fish JJ. concurring. A minority opinion was given by LeBel J.\n\nTo begin, Binnie notes the huge capacity of the internet to disseminate knowledge and it should be encouraged; however, a balance is difficult to find.\n\nBinnie first examined the applicability of the Copyright Act. It depends on whether there is a \"real and substantial connection\" between Canada and the transmission source, Binnie claims. This would mean that the Act applies to communications received in or originating from Canada.\n\nTurning to the liability of the ISPs, Binnie examined the policy reason behind section 2.4(1)(b) of the Copyright Act (\"intermediary exception\"). He notes that its purpose is to encourage intermediaries to improve their operations without fear of infringement. Thus ISPs can benefit from the intermediary exception if they limit their role to one of \"conduit\" and do not perform any acts related to content. Moreover, an ISP must only provide \"means\" to communicate that are \"necessary\".\nBinnie adopted the Board's broad meaning of the word \"means\" as including routers and the accompanying software, hosting, and connectivity services.\n\nBinnie examines the meaning of \"necessary\" as it applies to a provider's cache. He finds that a cache copy of a communication is content-neutral and is dictated by the technical requirements of the technology. Thus so long as it is for the purposes of \"economy and efficiency\" it does not make the role of the provider less of an intermediary. Therefore, an ISP can seek protection under section 2.4(1)(b) (\"intermediary exception\").\n\nIn concluding, Binnie notes that it is impossible to impute actual knowledge on an ISP of a copyright violation, and thus cannot impose liability. If an ISP received notice that\nHowever, in obiter Binnie further suggested\n\nLeBel J. agreed with Binnie's conclusion but took issue with the test for determining the location of an internet communication under the Copyright Act (the \"real and substantial connection\" test). Rather, he agrees with the Copyright Board's decision to only apply to providers located in Canada. He finds the board's test to be more in-line with international treaties and diminishes privacy concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170737", "title": "Doug Rowland", "text": "Doug Rowland\n\nDouglas Charles Rowland, (born June 14, 1940) is a Canadian former politician.\n\nRowland has had extensive experience on Boards in the not-for-profit sector as well as on management committees in government and the private sector. He was, for five years, Chair of the Board of Directors of the Canadian Association of Former Parliamentarians (CAFP) and is now a member of the Editorial Board of the CAFP. Rowland is President Emeritus of the International Election Monitors Institute formed jointly by the CAFP, the United States Association of Former Members of Congress and the Former Members Association of the European Parliament. He is a former member of the Board of Directors of the Parliamentary Centre and a past Fellow of the Centre for the Study of Democracy at Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario and the first Canadian member of the International Solidarity Committee of the Washington-based Freedom House. He is Immediate Past President of the Friends of the Canadian War Museum.\n\nHe was for nine years a member of the Board of Trustees of The Salvation Army Ottawa Grace Hospital and for six of those years, Chair. He was a member of the Founding Board of the New Ottawa Hospital. He is a Past Chair of The Salvation Army Advisory Board for Ottawa. He also chaired The Salvation Army Capital Campaign task group of Ottawa and was a member of The Salvation Army Territorial Advisory Board. He served as a member of the Ottawa committee for the Canadian War Museum Passing the Torch campaign. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Canadian Shield Foundation and is a volunteer van-driver for Unitarian House Retirement Home.\n\nRowland was a federal Member of Parliament in the early 1970s. During both Parliaments in which he served he held the post of Defence Critic for the New Democratic Party. Prior to his election, he had been chief of staff to the Manitoba Provincial NDP leader, A. R. (Russ) Paulley, and Principal Secretary to Federal NDP leaders T. C. Douglas and David Lewis. He played a leading organizational role in the NDP victory in Manitoba in 1969 following which he became Special Assistant to the Premier, Ed Schreyer, and Associate Secretary to the Cabinet. Subsequently, he held a series of senior executive positions within the central agencies of the federal government including Assistant Secretary to the Cabinet for Federal-Provincial Relations. He moved from the government to hold senior positions in a Crown Corporation and in an international marketing services firm.\n\nRowland has been active in governance and democracy work internationally. He has had assignments in Morocco, where he developed a domestic election monitoring organization, in Mexico, in the former Yugoslavia and in Indonesia. In January 2006, Rowland headed the six-person International Mission for Iraqi Elections’ Assessment Team sent to Baghdad to analyze the December 2005 Iraqi election results. In 2007, he participated in election monitoring missions in Morocco and Ukraine. In March 2010, he headed a six-person Election Monitoring team to Iraq composed of former legislators from the United States, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Canada. He was an election observer in Kazakhstan with the OSCE in 2011.\n\nRowland holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from St. Johns College, University of Manitoba, a Master of Arts degree in Political Science from the University of Manitoba and received a \"distinction\" for his doctoral studies in Canadian Government and International Relations at McGill University.\n\nHe served in the Royal Canadian Navy (Reserve) receiving several awards as a Naval Cadet. As a lieutenant, he served on continuous naval duty in a frigate of the Atlantic fleet. He attained the rank of Lieutenant Commander. He holds the Canadian Forces Decoration (C. D.) and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee Medal. He has had a lifelong interest in military history.\n"}
{"id": "2170741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170741", "title": "Original Highlands, Louisville", "text": "Original Highlands, Louisville\n\nThe Original Highlands is a historic neighborhood in the Highlands area of Louisville, Kentucky, United States.\n\nThe neighborhood was built on land surveyed in 1774 and granted to Colonial William Preston, surveyor of Fincastle County, Virginia. He died in 1781, and eventually his son, Major William Preston, and wife moved onto the land in 1814 and established a plantation called the \"Briar Patch\". The 1819 construction of the Louisville and Bardstown Turnpike (now Bardstown Road) would eventually lead to many people moving to the area. Before the American Civil War the area was agricultural and attracted many German immigrants, and was known as New Hamburg.\n\nFormal subdivision began after the land was inherited by Preston's daughter, Susan Preston Christy (after whom Christy Avenue is named). In 1869, Sydney J. Rogers subdivided Hepburn Avenue between Barrett and Baxter. Interest in the neighborhood picked up with the extension of a horse-drawn streetcar line to Highland Avenue in 1871. The next subdivision was Hughes Addition, starting in 1875. Much of the rest of the land was subdivided by William Preston Johnson by 1891. The last was the Barr Subdivision in 1896.\n\nPopularity was further increased by the establishment of Cherokee Park in 1891. Almost all of the land was developed by 1895. The vast majority of houses in the Original Highlands were constructed between 1860 and 1895, especially in the last 11 years of that period, during which 600 were built. The dwellings from before 1884 were mostly located along Breckinridge (formerly Howard), Christy, Baxter and Barret.\n\nThe area was simply called the Highlands because it sits on a ridge between the middle and south forks of Beargrass Creek, above the Ohio River flood plain. Today eight other neighborhoods in the area on the same ridge are also collectively called The Highlands. The Original Highlands name has developed to distinguish it from these neighborhoods; the Highlands sometimes specifically refers to this neighborhood.\n\nThe architecture of the neighborhood is a mixture of large, wood framed and brick Victorian houses and working class shotgun houses, which often sit right next to each other.\n\nIn recent years the area has attracted many professionals because of its proximity to downtown and the Baxter Avenue/Bardstown Road and Barret Avenue commercial corridors which include arts galleries, eclectic shopping, and night life.\n\nNational Products, a small factory at the corner of Breckinridge Street and Baxter Avenue, produces more disco balls than any other factory in the world. The stretch of Baxter Avenue between Highland Avenue and Broadway is known as one of Louisville's most popular destinations with its mix of bars, restaurants, galleries and shops. The Barret Avenue commercial corridor is an emerging art zone due to the large number of galleries.\n\nThe neighborhood is home to the Original Highlands Art and Music Festival. Held on Baxter Avenue each September, the festival features local and national music acts along with art and vendor booths.\n\nThe neighborhood is also host to the annual Highlands Louisville Halloween Parade, Louisville Zombie Attack and Ancient Order of Hibernians St. Patrick's Day Parade.\n\nThe area is also well known for its numerous dining establishments, giving it the nickname \"Restaurant Row\".\nThe Original Highlands' boundaries are East Broadway on the north, Bardstown Road/Baxter Avenue on the east, Rufer Avenue on the south and Barret Avenue on the west. The Original Highlands Neighborhood Association also works closely with residents on Ellwood Avenue, located just to the south of Winter Avenue.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of the Original Highlands was 1,580 , of which 89.4% are white, 6.8% are listed as other, 2.7% are black, and 1.1% are Hispanic. College graduates are of the 34.3% population, people without a high school degree are 12.6%. Males outnumber females 53.7% to 46.3%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170744", "title": "Tapachula International Airport", "text": "Tapachula International Airport\n\nTapachula International Airport , \"Aeropuerto Internacional de Tapachula\", is an international airport located at Tapachula, Chiapas, is Mexico's southernmost airport. It handles national and international air traffic for the city of Tapachula, Port of Chiapas and the Soconusco region.\n\nThe airport is operated by Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste (ASUR). 2019 was its busiest year with 385,483 passengers, an increase of 16% compared to 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170746", "title": "Saint Laurent Boulevard", "text": "Saint Laurent Boulevard\n\nSaint Laurent Boulevard also known as Saint Lawrence Boulevard (officially in ) is a major street in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. A commercial artery and cultural heritage site, the street runs north-south through the near-centre of city and is nicknamed The Main () which is the abbreviation for \"Main Street\".\n\nBeginning at De la Commune Street at the edge of the Saint Lawrence River, it transects the Island of Montreal, passing through the boroughs of Ville-Marie, Le Plateau-Mont-Royal, Rosemont—La Petite-Patrie, Villeray–Saint-Michel–Parc-Extension, and Ahuntsic-Cartierville to Rue Somerville at the edge of the Rivière des Prairies – a total length of about 11.25 km.\n\nSaint Laurent Boulevard's cardinal direction, on a pseudo north-south axis strongly deported to the west, and aligned with the summer solstice's setting sun, was outlined by the Sulpicians towards the end of the XVII century. The first post-colonial landowners of the island, then preoccupied to develop a genuine urban cadastre on the Coteau Saint-Louis, built a small street, which they named Saint-Lambert, perpendicularly to Notre-Dame Street. Saint-Lambert Street is clearly identified on a plan drawn by François Dollier de Casson in 1672. In the early XVIII century, when the lords of Montreal decided to develop agricultural land further north on the island, they prolonged this little street to build a \"King's Way\" exactly along the same axis and named it Chemin Saint-Laurent.\n\nChemin Saint-Laurent became a boulevard in 1905 and is often referred to as \"The Main\". It serves as the city's physical division of east and west (in Montreal parlance; in reality east is more like north-northeast and west is south-southwest). Street numbers begin at Saint Lawrence and continue outward, with street names being suffixed by Ouest (West) or Est (East), depending on their orientation.\nThe boulevard traditionally divides Montreal by language, ethnicity, and class. Saint Laurent Boulevard was for generations the symbolic dividing line for the city, with the predominantly English-speaking population to the west, French-speaking population to the east, and immigrant communities in between along the Main and Park Avenue. The Main runs through many of Montreal's ethnic communities, a first stop for immigrant communities for over 100 years — initially Jewish, Chinese and Italian, and later Portuguese, Greek, Arab, Haitian and others.\n\nIn 2002 the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada named Saint Lawrence Boulevard as \"The Main National Historic Site of Canada.\" Then Minister of Heritage, Sheila Copps, speaking at the ceremony, said: \"our country does not belong to just two founding peoples. It belongs to all Canadians. [This is] a first step toward a new story of Canada that includes all of our partners as equals.\" \n\nThe Jewish community on the Main sprang up after the heavy immigration of the early to mid-1900s. Jewish settlement occurred first on the lower Main, in a section that now is part of Montreal's Chinatown.\n\nBy 1871 a Jewish enclave numbering just over 400 people had formed by the corner of St. Lawrence and Dorchester Street, with the first Jewish educational institution, the Talmud Torah, located at the corner of Saint Urbain Street and De la Gauchetière Street. Middle-class members of the community were already beginning to move up the Main towards Sherbrooke and Prince Arthur Streets, while further west, a small number of well-off Jews lived near McGill University.\n\nThe main axes of the Jewish quarter were Saint Laurent Boulevard, Clark Street, Saint Urbain Street, Esplanade Street and Park Avenue, Montreal. By the 1930s dozens of synagogues were in the area. Culinary landmarks on Saint Laurent that bear witness to this historic community include Schwartz's and Moishes Steakhouse.\n\nYiddish was the common language in the Jewish district on Saint Laurent Boulevard, with many Jewish immigrants working in clothing factories, once the street's main industry. Overall, Montreal was the main destination for the 125,000 Jews who settled in Canada between 1905 and 1920, making the area a centre of Yiddish language and culture (e.g. theater in that language). Despite Canada's poor record of Jewish immigration between 1933 and 1948, Montreal became home to the world’s third-largest concentration of Holocaust survivors, most of them Yiddish speakers. Other cultural institutions such as the Jewish Public Library operated in more than one language.\n\nMontreal featured the fifth-largest population of Yiddish speakers in the Americas, after New York City, Philadelphia, Chicago, and Buenos Aires; by 1930, 60,000 Yiddish speakers lived on or around The Main. The district was home to the second-largest Yiddish theatre in North America from 1896 to the 1940s, with shows at vaudeville houses along the Main as well as the Monument-National, now a National Historic Site and part of the National Theatre School of Canada.\n\nThe Main was also a centre of Jewish publishing. In 1907 a young Polish Jewish immigrant, Hirsch Wolofsky, started the Yiddish-language daily newspaper \"Keneder Adler\" (English: \"Canadian Eagle\"). The paper was initially published from an office on St. Lawrence near Ontario Street. However, when the \"Adler\" became successful, Wolofsky moved the paper to its own building at 4075 St. Lawrence, near Duluth Street. The paper would publish for more than 80 years. Today Wolofsky is remembered with a small park in his honour on Rue Coloniale, between Prince-Arthur and Sherbrooke.\n\nThe poor Jewish quarter had a distinctly left-wing slant. Fred Rose represented the Main’s Cartier riding until 1947, when he was expelled from the House of Commons after a controversial conviction on charges of spying for the Soviet Union. To this day the Main remains the only part of Canada ever represented in Parliament by an openly Communist MP.\n\nArea city councillor Joseph Schubert, a Romanian Jew, was a socialist and admirer of Karl Marx. Elected to Montreal City Council in 1924, he was the council’s most prominent advocate of worker’s rights for 15 years. In 1931, he built a public bathhouse at the corner of Bagg and St. Lawrence, which still stands today as the Schubert Bath (official French name: \"Bain Schubert\").\n\nBy the 1950s many Jews had moved to other communities, and most synagogues were demolished or converted to other uses. The Bagg Street Shul is the only synagogue still remaining. Former prominent Jewish-run businesses on the street included Ida Steinberg’s grocery store, founded in 1917 on St. Lawrence near Mount Royal, which went on to become Steinberg's, Quebec’s largest supermarket chain. Another supermarket, Warshaw's, was the subject of controversy when the city of Montreal was forced to pay damages after first approving and then rejecting changes to its iconic storefront. The exterior signage for Warshaw's is on permanent display as part of the Montreal Signs Project at Concordia University's Loyola campus. As of 2003 fewer than 10 Jewish-owned and family-run businesses remained on the Main between Sherbrooke Street and Mount Royal Avenue.\n\nToday, the stretch of Saint Laurent boulevard is home to, from south to north:\n\nThe Main has produced many of Canada's most prolific individuals in the arts and has acted as a memory space. Novelists Mordecai Richler, Rejean Ducharme and Michel Tremblay and poets Irving Layton, A. M. Klein and Leonard Cohen were all influenced by this area. Canada's most prestigious award for fiction, the Scotiabank Giller Prize, was named after journalist Doris Giller, a native to the area.\n\nSass Jordan's 1992 hit single \"Going Back Again\" also depicts Saint Lawrence Boulevard as the dividing line between Montreal's English and French cultures, expressing the hope that \"Someday we will come together Lord/Reach across this great divide\". Trevanian's 1976 novel \"The Main\" is set in the more run-down district of the sixties, before the modern renaissance. Montreal singer Cœur de pirate's 2011 album \"Blonde\" includes a song entitled \"Saint-Laurent\" that refers to the street. Saint Laurent Boulevard is also mentioned in \"The Blacklist\" (2013), as the location where Raymond 'Red' Reddington (played by James Spader) takes Agent Elizabeth 'Lizzy' Keen (Megan Boone) to meet his liaison for the next attack, within the second episode of the first season, entitled \"The Freelancer\".\n\nNumerous art galleries and other cultural organisations make their home on the Main, including La Centrale gallerie Powerhouse, Théâtre Espace Go, the Festival du Nouveau Cinéma, the Festival International Nuits d'Afrique, the Montreal Fringe Festival, Image & Nation Festival, the Society for Arts and Technology, and the Native Friendship Centre of Montreal. Many well-known music venues can also be found on the Main, including Casa del Popolo, Sala Rosa, Club Soda, Barfly, Jupiter Room, Club Lambi, The Academy Club and Divan Orange.\n\nGastronomic highlights include Schwartz's deli and the nearby Main Deli Steak House, both serving Montreal-style smoked meat, as well as the Montreal Pool Room, serving Montreal hot dogs since 1912.\n\nThe first movies in North America were screened at the Édifice Robillard on 27 June 1896, making this venue the first cinema in both Canada and the United-States. The building was destroyed by fire on 17 November 2016. Other noteworthy and now defunct ventures include the original Cinéma Parallèle, Dummies Theatre, Lux, Excentris and Softimage.\n\nIn early June, Saint-Laurent Boulevard becomes the host of the MURAL Festival, an international public art event that attracts artists from all over the world. MURAL celebrates creativity in a street context. For the occasion, the street is closed to car traffic between Sherbrooke Street and Mount Royal Avenue. The festival attracts around 800,000 visitors each year and won Montreal's Grand Prize of tourism for its first edition in 2013.\n\nSince 2003, Montreal bike couriers organise an illegal time trial race named Beat the Main where dozen of cyclists dash the entire 11.5 km stretch between rue de la Commune and boulevard Gouin, mostly ignoring traffic lights and regulations.\n\nThe Société de développement du boulevard Saint-Laurent (SDBSL) is a merchant's association promoting the economic, social and cultural development of Saint-Laurent Boulevard between Sherbrooke Street and Mont-Royal Avenue.\n\nThe corner of Saint Lawrence and Saint Catherine streets is still known as a red-light district, although its days appear numbered as a proposed $167-million development is slated to transform the area, now part of the city's new Quartier des Spectacles. In 2007 and 2008, a section of the street between Sherbrooke street and Mont-Royal avenue underwent extensive construction work, which forced some businesses to close.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170755", "title": "Alameda Corridor", "text": "Alameda Corridor\n\nThe Alameda Corridor is a freight rail \"expressway\" owned by the Alameda Corridor Transportation Authority that connects the national rail system near downtown Los Angeles, California, to the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, running parallel to Alameda Street. The corridor is considered one of the region's largest transportation projects when it was constructed.\n\nThe project includes the Mid-Corridor Trench, a below-ground, triple-tracked rail line that is long, deep, and wide, shared by the BNSF Railway and Union Pacific Railroad (UP) via trackage rights. One important use of the corridor is to carry cargo containers to and from the ports. Fifteen percent of the nation’s container traffic travels through the corridor according to the Transit Authority. The corridor has a maximum speed of .\n\nThe Alameda Corridor allows trains to bypass of early 20th-century branch lines and the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway's historic Harbor Subdivision along a high-speed grade-separated corridor, built mainly on the alignment of a former Southern Pacific Railroad (SP) line, avoiding more than 200 street-level railroad crossings where automobiles previously had to wait for lengthy freight trains to pass. Many of those same rail lines were inadequately protected with little more than “wigwag” crossing signals dating from the original construction of the lines.\n\nThe Alameda Corridor was built in a way to permit electrification with the use of electric catenary wires, which would increase the environmental benefit by displacing the use of diesel fuel; but the electrification has not happened as of yet. \n\nThe Alameda Corridor Transit Authority maintains more than of freight rail track, with 125 turnouts, 10 rail bridges, signals at 48 locations, 7 grade crossings, and several storm water pump stations.\n\nThe Ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles completed the purchase of SP's Alameda Corridor line for $235 million in December 1994. The line began operation on April 15, 2002, and reached a peak of 60 train movements per day by October 2006. It is credited with significantly relieving congestion on the Long Beach Freeway (I-710) and elsewhere in the region. In 2007 the line carried 17,824 trains carrying 4.7 million TEUs (20-foot equivalent units) of containers.\n\nThe Alameda Corridor–East project, currently under construction, will grade-separate many of the crossings along UP's Alhambra Subdivision and the Los Angeles Subdivision. Many crossings, which are currently at grade, tie up traffic on north–south streets for long periods multiple times a day as long freight trains pass en route to and from the UP yards in Vernon and Commerce. The project includes 19 grade separations and elimination of 23 grade crossings.\n\nIncluded as part of the Alameda Corridor–East project is the $336.9 million San Gabriel Trench, which will submerge the track between Ramona street and San Gabriel Boulevard in San Gabriel. Construction began in 2012 and was completed in 2017.\n\nAlong with federal and state funding, the project is funded in part by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170756", "title": "Johann Rall", "text": "Johann Rall\n\nJohann Gottlieb Rall (also spelled Rahl) (ca. 1726 – December 27, 1776) was a German colonel best known for his command of Hessian troops at the Battle of Trenton during the American Revolutionary War.\n\nRall was born as a so-called \"soldier child\" in about 1726. He was a son of Captain Joachim Rall from Stralsund, who served in the regiment of Major General Donop. The first mention of Johann Rall was as a new cadet of the same regiment on March 1, 1740, commanded at this time by Colonel Prince Casimir von Isenburg of Isenburg-Birstein.\n\nIn the service of the Landgraf of Hesse-Cassel, he was promoted to ensign on July 25, 1741; to lieutenant on August 28, 1745; and to captain on May 10, 1753. Rall was promoted to major on May 7, 1760, under Major General Bischhausen and transferred in January 1763 to the Stein garrison regiment, where he was appointed lieutenant colonel. On April 22, 1771, he was transferred to the Mansbach Infantry Regiment as a colonel. He became commander of the regiment in January 1772.\n\nDuring this time, Rall fought in the War of the Austrian Succession and participated in campaigns in Bavaria, on the Rhine, in the Netherlands, and served in Scotland during the Jacobite rising of 1745. He fought in the Seven Years' War (the phase in North America be known as the French and Indian War) and was involved in many battles. From September 1771 until August 1772, he was in Russia and fought for Catherine the Great under Count Orlov in the Fourth Russo-Turkish War.\n\nBy 1776, Rall belonged to the infantry regiment of the 1st Division under General Phillip Leopold von Heister and commanded a Hessian Brigade of approximately 1,200 men fighting for Great Britain in the American War of Independence. He was at the Battle of Brooklyn at Flatbush, the Battle of White Plains, Battle of Long Island, and figured prominently in the Battle of Trenton.\n\nOn the night of December 25–26, 1776 General George Washington crossed the Delaware River with his troops on the way to Trenton, New Jersey. The Hessian regiments, camped in and around Trenton commanded by Rall, were attacked and decisively defeated by the American Continental Army. The Hessians had supposedly let their guard down to celebrate the Christmas holiday, and (legend has it) Rall himself was misled by John Honeyman, a spy of Washington who convincingly posed as a loyalist. \n\nAccording to one account, Rall was busy playing chess or cards the night before the attack at the home of Trenton merchant Abraham Hunt when he was handed a note from a local Loyalist who had seen Washington's forces gathering. Because he was paying such careful attention to the game, upon receiving the message, he placed it in his coat pocket without reading it.\n\nWhile leading his troops during the battle, Rall was mortally wounded. He was shot twice in the side and needed to be carried back to his headquarters set up in the house of Stacy Potts (a distinguished member of the Trenton community) where he died that night. Before his death he requested a formal surrender to Washington. The note informing the colonel of the attack was later found in his coat pocket.\n\nAccording to local tradition, Rall is buried in an unidentified grave in the churchyard of the First Presbyterian Church on East State Street in Trenton, where an inscription is dedicated to his memory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170758", "title": "Crime Classics", "text": "Crime Classics\n\nCrime Classics is a United States radio docudrama which aired as a sustaining series over CBS Radio from June 15, 1953, to June 30, 1954.\n\nCreated, produced, and directed by radio actor and director Elliott Lewis, the program was a historical true crime series, examining crimes and murders from the past. It grew out of Lewis' personal interest in famous murder cases and took a documentary-like approach to the subject, carefully recreating the facts, personages and feel of the time period. Comparatively little dramatic license was taken with the facts and events, but the tragedy was leavened with humor, expressed largely through the narration.\n\nThe crimes dramatized generally covered a broad time and place frame from ancient Greece to late 19th-century America. Each episode in the series was co-written by Morton Fine and David Friedkin, in consultation with Lewis, although the scripting process was more a matter of research, as the stories were \"adapted from the original court reports and newspaper accounts\" or from the works of historians.\n\nThe cases ranged from famous assassinations (of Abraham Lincoln, Leon Trotsky, and Julius Caesar) and the lives (and often deaths) of the likes of Cesare Borgia and Blackbeard to more obscure cases, such as Bathsheba Spooner, who killed her husband Joshua Spooner in 1778 and became the first woman tried and executed in America.\n\nThe only continuing character was the host/narrator, Thomas Hyland, played by Lou Merrill. Hyland was introduced by the announcer as a \"connoisseur of crime, student of violence, and teller of murders.\" Merrill's deadpan portrayal of Hyland provided the welcome note of tongue-in-cheek humor to the proceedings. Unlike the ghoulish weird storytellers of \"The Whistler\" and \"The Mysterious Traveler\", Hyland was an ordinary fellow who, in a dry, droll manner, would present a tale from his files, his wry comments interspersed between dramatized scenes. The episodes would typically begin with Hyland inviting the audience to listen to a sound, from drops of rain to horses' hooves, and then introducing the main players and events of his report. The titles also contributed to the series' light tone, as they were intentionally pompous and usually laced with irony. Typical titles included \"Your Loving Son, Nero,\" \"If a Body Needs a Body, Just Call Burke and Hare,\" and \"The Axe and the Droot Family... How They Fared\".\n\nA roster of Hollywood radio actors filled the various historical roles. William Conrad was one of the more frequently heard performers, in such diverse parts as Nero, Blackbeard, Pat Garrett and King Arthur. Other performers, and the villains and victims they portrayed, included Jack Kruschen (as William Burke and Trotsky assassin Ramón Mercader), Jay Novello (as William Hare and Dr. William Palmer), Mary Jane Croft (as Bathsheba Spooner and Madame de Brinvilliers), Betty Lou Gerson (as Agrippina and Lucrezia Borgia), Edgar Barrier (as Julius Caesar), Harry Bartell (as Brutus), Hans Conried (as Ali Pasha), Herb Butterfield (as Lincoln, Trotsky, and Thomas Edwin Bartlett), Jack Edwards (as John Wilkes Booth and Cole Younger), Irene Tedrow (as Lizzie Borden), William Johnstone (as Robert Knox), Betty Harford (as Madeleine Smith and Ripper victim Mary Jane Kelly), Eve McVeagh as Madame Marie Lafarge, Clayton Post (as Jesse James), and Sam Edwards (as Billy the Kid and Bob Younger).\n\nComposer Bernard Herrmann returned to radio to score all but one of the series episodes (with Wilbur Hatch substituting for that entry), capturing the sound and feel of the various time periods simply but elegantly, often with the use of only two or three instruments per episode. During the fall of 1953, the show was scheduled back to back with \"On Stage\", another dramatic anthology created by Lewis. He decided to connect the two by presenting \"The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln\" on \"Crime Classics\" while \"On Stage\" featured \"Our American Cousin,\" the play Lincoln had attended the night of his death. The experiment was unsuccessful, and according to radio historian John Dunning, earned Lewis a rebuke from network head William S. Paley, who advised him to never attempt anything like it again.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170761", "title": "Murder of Barry Winchell", "text": "Murder of Barry Winchell\n\nBarry Winchell (August 31, 1977 – July 6, 1999) was an infantry soldier in the United States Army, whose murder by a fellow soldier, Calvin Glover, became a point of reference in the ongoing debate about the policy known as \"Don't ask, don't tell\", which did not allow U.S. military gays, bisexuals, and lesbians to be open about their sexual orientation. (Winchell was dating a transgender woman, Calpernia Addams).\n\nA native of Missouri, Winchell enlisted in the Army in 1997 and was transferred in 1998 to Fort Campbell, Kentucky. As a Private First Class, he was assigned to the 2nd Battalion 502nd Infantry of the 101st Airborne Division. While stationed there, he received a Dear John letter from his high school sweetheart.\n\nWinchell later accompanied his roommate, Spc. Justin Fisher, and other soldiers for an excursion to Nashville's downtown bars. In 1999, Fisher and others took Winchell to a Nashville club, The Connection, which featured transgender performers, where Winchell met a trans woman showgirl named Calpernia Addams. The two began to date. Fisher began to spread rumors of the relationship at Ft. Campbell. Winchell then became a target of harassment which his superiors did little to stop.\n\nThe harassment was continuous until the Fourth of July weekend, when Winchell and fellow soldier, Calvin Glover, fought after Winchell accused a boasting Glover of being a fraud. Both had been drinking beer throughout the day. Glover was soundly defeated by Winchell, and Fisher harassed Glover about being beaten by \"'a fucking faggot' like Winchell.\" Fisher and Winchell had their own history of physical altercations as roommates in the barracks of Ft. Campbell. Fisher continued to goad Glover. Subsequently, in the early hours of July 5, 1999, Glover took a baseball bat from Fisher's locker and struck Winchell in the head with it as he slept on a cot outside near the entry to the room Winchell shared with Fisher. Winchell died of massive head injuries on July 6 at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center.\n\nGlover was later convicted of Winchell's murder. Fisher was convicted of lesser crimes regarding impeding the subsequent criminal investigation, and both were incarcerated at the United States Disciplinary Barracks. The murder charges against Fisher were dropped and he was sentenced in a plea bargain to 12.5 years, denied clemency in 2003, released to a halfway house in August 2006, and released from custody in October 2006. Glover is serving a life sentence.\n\nWinchell's murder led Secretary of Defense William Cohen to order a review of the \"Don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT) policy, which some asserted was a significant factor in Winchell's harassment and murder. The Servicemembers Legal Defense Network was a prominent critic of how the policy was implemented, and they demanded to know who, in higher ranks, was responsible for the climate on base.\n\nWinchell's parents, Wally and Patricia Kutteles, continued to press for a re-examination of \"Don't ask, don't tell.\" Lieutenant General Timothy Maude, a point man on LGBT issues for the U.S. Army, visited with Patricia Kutteles. Despite campaigning by the Kutteleses and LGBT activist groups, the Commanding General of Fort Campbell at the time of the murder, Major General Robert T. Clark, refused to take responsibility for the purported anti-gay climate at Fort Campbell under his command. In May 2003, he met with Patricia Kutteles, who opposed his promotion saying: \"He doesn't have the command authority or responsibility. The promotion would be another obstacle in the way of everything we have tried to do to honor our son.\" His promotion to lieutenant general was delayed in October 2002 and May 2003. After being exonerated, he was nominated and approved for promotion to lieutenant general on December 5, 2003.\n\nThe 2003 film \"Soldier's Girl\" is based on Winchell's murder and the events leading up to it. Troy Garity portrays Winchell with Lee Pace playing Calpernia Addams. The film received a Peabody Award and numerous Emmy and Golden Globe nominations and sparked renewed debate of the effects of DADT during Clark's promotion hearings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170764", "title": "Historical Vishnuism", "text": "Historical Vishnuism\n\nHistorical Vishnuism as early worship of the deity Vishnu is one of the historical components, branches or origins of the contemporary and early Vaishnavism, which was subject of considerable study, and often showing that Vishnuism is a distinctive worship — a sect. The tradition was forming in the context of Puranic Vaisnavism evolving in the process of revitalizing religion of Brahmanism, of which Vishnuism is believed to be a part, through assimilating a number of orthodox, non-conformist and tribal elements; the absorption of mother goddess worship, into what now known a Vaishnava sampradayas. It is a tradition of the historical Vedic religion and is distinguished from other historic schools later forming the Vaishnavism by its primary worship of Vishnu, later identified as the source of all Avatars. A number of separate sects or traditions merged with each representing the names of god of Vaishnavism. In contemporary Vaishnavism God is also known as Narayana, Vasudeva and Krishna and behind each of those names is a divine figure with attributed supremacy in Vaishnavism, that relates to historic traditions that some scholars theorize to be separate and distinct historically. It is distinct from Krishnaism, as in the revival of Bhakti, found in the Bhagavata it is referred as Vishnuism.\n\nThe followers of Vaishnavism are referred to as \"Vaishnava(s)\" or \"Vaishnavites\". According to recent statistics, a majority of Hindus are Vaishnavas, with the vast majority living in India. The name Vaishnavite is a direct translation of Vishnite and often lead to confusion. Some sources identify Visnuism with Vaishnavism, while others prefer to distinguish Vishnuism from Krishnaism and Ramaism.\n\nIn his \"The Religions of India\", Edward Washburn Hopkins presents an accepted distinction as to the assumption that Vishnuism is associated with Vedic brahmanism, and was part of brahmanism. Krishnaism was adopted much later, and it is for this reason, amongst others, that despite its modern iniquities Siva has appealed more to the brahmanas than Krishna. Its only later that Vishnuism merged with Krishnaism.\n\nThe term \"Vaishnavism\" and \"Vishnuism\", entered the English language in the 19th century, and was formed by attaching the suffix \"-ism\" to Sanskrit \"Vaishnava\" or \"Vishnu\" (IAST: or ), where first is the \"vriddhi\" form of the second meaning \"relating, belonging, or sacred to Vishnu\" or \"a worshiper or follower of Vishnu\". However \"Vaishnava\" may also refer to worshiper of Rama, Nrisimha or Krishna, whereas \"Vishnuite\" more often refers to one who primarily worships Vishnu.\n\nThe principal belief of Vishnuism is the identification of Vishnu as supreme or principal worship of him as was the case in the Historical Vedic times. Hopkins writes: there is a passage like the great Ka hymn of the Rig Veda, 'whom as god shall one worship?' The sages say to Vishnu: \"All men worship thee;\" In the Rig Veda he is referred by his name of \"trivikrama\" (who took three strides) and is believed by some scholars as the starting point of the evidence of such worship.\n\nNumber of stages to the history of Vaishnavism place worship of Vishnu in different perspective according to the different theories by different authors. On the first stage, in its twofold aspect - historic and philosophical, is referred as by some as Bhagavata and is believed to be founded by Krishna-Vasudeva, of Yadava tribe. The philosophical basis of this stage was that supreme being is eternal, infinite and full of grace, and that liberation consisted in a life of perpetual bliss near the Lord. During this stage some believe that Pancaratra entered into alliance with ancient Samkhya yogic system, in line with tendency to combine philosophy with religion. It is this period that is described as the stage when the sect of Narayana was absorbed into temple of Krishna-Vasudeva. According to Grierson's views at this stage Bhagavatism became a sect of Brahmanised anti-Brahmanists. Hopkins often remarked on the often expressed view, that Bhagavad Gita bears witness to the compromise thus arrived at between Brahmanism and Bhagavatism - \"it is a Krishnaite version of a Vishnuite poem. For this reason Krishna, the personal name of Vasudeva, was given \"admission\" into the circle of Brahminical gods as an avatar of Vishnu.\n\nAdoption of Buddha as one of the avatars of Vishnu under Bhagavatism believed to be similarly a canalizing factor in assimilation in relationships during Gupta period 330-550 CE. Thus Mahayana Buddhism is sometimes called \"Buddha-Bhagavatism\". It is in this period that it is commonly accepted among academics that the concept of avatar of Vishnu was fully developed.\n\nThus complex religion of Vaishnavism is often viewed as a synthesis of the worship of gods Vishnu, Narayana, Vasudeva and Krishna which is achieved by the time of Bhagavad Gita (c. 4th century BCE to 3rd century CE). Worship of Vishnu is called Vishnuism and the monotheistic worship of Vishnu was already well developed in the period of the Itihasas.\n\nThis form of Vaishnavism flourished in South India and it is still commonplace, especially in present-day Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, as a result of the twelve Alvars, saints who spread the sect to the common people with their devotional hymns. The temples which the Alvars visited or founded are now known as Divya Desams. Their poems in praise of Vishnu and Krishna in Tamil language are collectively known as \"Naalaayira\" Divya Prabandham (alternatively called as Dravida Vedas).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170772", "title": "Middleboro, Indiana", "text": "Middleboro, Indiana\n\nMiddleboro is an unincorporated community in Wayne Township, Wayne County, Indiana near the city of Richmond.\n\n\nMiddleboro is located at 39°53'38\" North, 84°49'55\" West (39.893889, -84.831944) along State Road 227, about five miles northeast of Richmond.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170777", "title": "Francisco Sarabia National Airport", "text": "Francisco Sarabia National Airport\n\nFrancisco Sarabia National Airport or Terán Airport (formerly IATA code TGZ, ICAO code MMTG) was a national airport located at Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Chiapas, Mexico. It was used to handle national air traffic for the city of Tuxtla Gutiérrez. Its name honours the memory of , the Mexican pilot who was a pioneer in Mexican commercial aviation who broke the speed record on the flight from Mexico City to New York City (10 hours, 43 minutes) in 1938 in the Granville Gee Bee R-6. As of right now, this airport is closed to civil operations and it is used as Base Aérea Militar No. 6 by the Mexican Air Force. Scheduled airline service for the city is now handled at the new Ángel Albino Corzo International Airport, which has taken over Sarabia's former IATA and ICAO airport codes (as of June 2006). It is now used for military purposes only.\n\nThe 202 Air Squadron is a Mexican Air Force unit operating out Terán Airport. The unit operates Pilatus PC-9 and Pilatus PC-7 planes.\n\nOn September 15, 2010, an AeroMexico MD-83 erroneously landed at Teran airport after confusing it with Albino Corzo International Airport. AeroMexico flight 553, operated on behalf of AeroMexico Travel, came from Mexico City and had 80 passengers on board.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170778", "title": "Nara-Narayana", "text": "Nara-Narayana\n\nNara-Narayana (; nara-nārāyaṇa) is a Hindu deity pair. Nara-Narayana is the twin-brother avatar of the God Vishnu on earth, working for the preservation of dharma or righteousness. In the concept of Nara-Narayana, the human soul Nara is the eternal companion of the Divine Narayana.\n\nThe Hindu epic \"Mahabharata\" identifies the God Krishna (an avatar of Vishnu) with Narayana and Arjuna - the chief hero of the epic - with Nara. The legend of Nara-Narayana is also told in the scripture \"Bhagavata Purana\". Hindus believe that the pair dwells at Badrinath, where their most important temple stands.\n\nThe Nara-Narayana pair is frequently worshipped in temples of the Swaminarayan Faith, as the followers of the sect believe that their founder Swaminarayan resides in the murti of Naranarayan Dev in Kalupur Mandir.\n\nThe name \"Nara-Narayana\" can be broken into two Sanskrit terms, \"Nara\" and \"Narayana\". Nara means Human, and Narayana refers to the name of the deity.\n\nMonier-Williams dictionary says Nara is \"the primeval Man or eternal Spirit pervading the universe (always associated with Narayana, \"son of the primeval man\"; both are considered either as gods or sages and accordingly called देवौ, ऋषी, तापसौ. In epic poetry, they are the sons of Dharma by Murti or Ahimsa and emanations of Vishnu, Arjuna being identified with Nara, and Krishna with Narayana.- Mahabharata, Harivamsa and Purana\". Narayana and Nara both are forms of Vishnu.\n\nNara-Narayana are depicted jointly or separately in images. When depicted separately, Nara is portrayed with two hands and wearing deer skin while Narayana is shown on the right in the usual form of Vishnu.\n\nSometimes, both of them are depicted identical to each other. They are depicted four-armed holding a mace, a discus, a conch and a lotus, resembling Vishnu.\n\nArjuna and Krishna are often referred to as Nara-Narayana in the Mahabharata and are considered part incarnations of Nara and Narayana respectively, according to the Bhagavata Purana.\n\nIn a previous life, the duo were born as the sages Nara and Narayana, and who performed great penances at the holy spot of Badrinath. Nara and Narayana were the Fourth Avatar of Vishnu. The twins were sons of Dharma, the son of Brahma and his wife Murti (Daughter Of Daksha) or Ahimsa. They live at Badrika performing severe austerities and meditation for the welfare of the world. These two inseparable sages took avatars on earth for the welfare of mankind. Legend has it that once Shiva tried to bring the fame of Nara and Narayana before the entire world. To do that, he hurled his own potent weapon Paashupathastra at the meditating rishis. The power of their meditation was so intense that the astra lost its power before them. Shiva stated that this happened since the duo were jnanis of the first order constantly in the state of Nirvikalpa Samadhi.\n\nThe Bhagavata Purana tells the story of the birth of Urvashi from the sages Nara-Narayana. Once, sages Nara-Narayana were meditating in the holy shrine of Badrinath situated in the Himalayas. Their penances and austerities alarmed the gods, so Indra, the King of Devas, sent Kamadeva, Vasanta (spring) and apsaras (nymphs) to inspire them with passion and disturb their devotions. The sage Narayana took a flower and placed it on his thigh. Immediately there sprung from it a beautiful nymph whose charms far excelled those of the celestial nymphs, and made them return to heaven filled with shame and vexation. Narayana sent this nymph to Indra with them, and from her having been produced from the thigh (uru in Sanskrit) of the sage, she was called Urvashi. Having sent back the nymphs back, the divine sages continued to meditate. \n\nAccording to the Bhagavata purana, \"There in Badrikashram (Badrinath) the Personality of Godhead (Vishnu), in his incarnation as the sages Nara and Narayana, had been undergoing great penance since time immemorial for the welfare of all living entities.\" (3.4.22)\n\nIn Badrinath Temple's sanctorium, to the far right side of the stone image of Badri-Vishala (or Badri-Narayana), are the images of Nara and Narayana. Also, the Nara and Narayana peaks tower over Badrinath.\n\nAccording to Bhandarkar, the gods Nara-Narayana must have been very popular at the time of the composition of the Mahabharata, since in the opening stanzas of various \"parvas\" (constituent books) of the epic, obeisance is made to these two gods. In Vanaparvan (12. 46, 47), Krishna says to Arjuna,\"O invincible one, you are Nara and I am Hari Narayana, and we, the sages Nara-Narayana, have come to this world at the proper time..\" In the same Parva, chapter 40 (verse 1); Shiva says to Arjuna — \"In former birth you were Nara and with Narayana as your companion, performed austerities for thousands of years at Badari\".\n\nIn the Swaminarayan sect, Nara and Narayana, are called \"Nara-Narayana Deva\". They are believed to reside at Badrikashram and to be the prime controllers of the destiny of all beings, depending on their karma. Nara-Narayana Deva are believed to have manifested at Narayana Ghat on the banks of river Sabarmati at Ahmedabad. Therefore, their images were installed by Swaminarayan at the first Swaminarayan temple, Swaminarayan Mandir, Ahmedabad (India).\n\nMembers of this group interpret the events that took place at Badarikashram, the abode of Nara Narayana, that led to the incarnation of Swaminarayan. They believe that Narayana took birth as Swaminarayan due to a curse of sage Durvasa which he accepted at his own will. The curse led to Narayana taking the form of an avatar on Earth to destroy evil and establish \"ekantik-dharma\", religion based on morality, knowledge, detachment and devotion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170780", "title": "Cameron Mathison", "text": "Cameron Mathison\n\nCameron Arthur Mathison (born August 25, 1969) is a Canadian-American actor and television host. From 1997 to 2011, he played the role of Ryan Lavery on \"All My Children\".\n\nBorn on August 25, 1969, in Sarnia, Ontario, Canada, the second of two sons of parents Bill and Loretta. Mathison attended Thornlea Secondary School in Thornhill, Ontario and McGill University in Montreal, Quebec. He graduated in 1993 with a bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering.\n\nOn July 27, 2002, he married model Vanessa Marie Arevalo, having proposed in Vail, Colorado. They have a son, Lucas (b. April 20, 2003), and a daughter, Leila (b. July 7, 2006).\n\nOn September 9, 2019, he announced that he had been diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma and would be taking several weeks off to receive treatment.\n\nAfter graduating from McGill, he began working as a model and started acting in commercials in Canada, the U.S. and Europe. This led to taking acting classes and the beginning of his acting career in Toronto.\n\nMathison made his feature film debut in \"54\". He followed up this appearance with a leading role in the Canadian independent movie \"Washed Up\". About this time, December 1997, he was hired to play the role of Ryan Lavery on \"All My Children\" filming his first scenes on December 15. Mathison first appeared on-screen in the January 12, 1998 episode.\n\nMathison won the Soap Opera Digest Award for Outstanding Male Newcomer in 1999 and earned Daytime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actor in 2002 and 2005. In 2000, Mathison was named by \"People\" magazine as one of \"America's 100 Most Eligible Bachelors\".\n\nIn 2007, Cameron was on season five of \"Dancing with the Stars\" where he placed 5th with pro Edyta Śliwińska.\n\nAfter working freelance with \"Good Morning America\" for several years, Mathison signed with \"GMA\" in January 2009 as a regular correspondent. Mathison worked on many events for \"GMA\": The Oscars, Grammys, Golden Globes, American Music Awards, MTV Movie Awards, MTV Video Music Awards, and the Country Music Awards. Mathison continued to work as a host and correspondent for \"GMA\", the Emmy-nominated series \"Ultimate Proposal\", and the renovation reality show \"Game of Homes\".\n\nMathison also continues to act in both comedic and dramatic roles. He has appeared on \"Castle\", \"Desperate Housewives\", \"Hot in Cleveland\", \"Drop Dead Diva\", \"the EXes\", and numerous independent and television movies. In 2014, Mathison joined the Hallmark/Crown Media family. Mathison signed on to appear in 9 movies based on the \"Murder She Baked\" novels starring opposite Alison Sweeney.\n\nIn April 2015, Mathison signed with CBS's \"Entertainment Tonight\". He is currently serving as a full-time correspondent and weekend co-anchor for the entertainment newsmagazine. On July 26, 2018, Mathison was named the new co-host of \"Home and Family\", alongside Debbie Matenopoulos; he assumed his position in September with the launch of the seventh season.\n"}
{"id": "2170784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170784", "title": "WZBC", "text": "WZBC\n\nWZBC (90.3 FM) is a radio station broadcasting an Alternative format. Licensed to Newton, Massachusetts, United States, the station serves Boston and its western suburbs. The station is currently owned by Boston College.\n\nWhile the station is run solely by students, much of the on-air staff is made up of members of the surrounding Boston community.\n\nFounded as WVBC, \"The Voice of Boston College\", the radio station began in 1960 as a carrier-current AM station, broadcasting solely to the university community through the electrical wiring of on-campus buildings and dormitories. After operating in this capacity for 13 years, Boston College applied for and was granted a license to operate WZBC, a 17-watt station which aired a wide range of music, from folk to country to rock. With the advent of WZBC, the radio station expanded its listenership and began serving school's neighboring community.\n\nWZBC has seen tremendous growth since its inception in 1974. The station was granted a power increase in 1975, bringing the station's output to 1,000 watts, allowing for further expansion of its listenership. Another important change took place in 1979, when the station started broadcasting in stereo. The first stereo broadcast was officially marked by a guest appearance by British radio DJ John Peel. Perhaps the most important change in WZBC history occurred shortly after the switch to stereo, when the station narrowed its rock format to the genre known as modern rock, playing new bands which, for the most part, commercial radio would not touch, often because they were unmarketable. At approximately the same time, WZBC also began broadcasting more experimental music under the moniker \"No Commercial Potential\".\n\nIn addition to the FM station, there is also WVBC-AM—staffed solely by students. The current WVBC can be streamed online. Additionally, the signal is broadcast over the BC cable television system, Channel 47.\n\nIn 1990, WZBC was profiled in Rolling Stone magazine and was named one of the country's top 10 college radio stations that year.\n\nWhen rock band Nirvana released its breakthrough album \"Nevermind\" on Tuesday, September 24, 1991, the group was in Boston that day. Band members Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic stopped by WZBC and were interviewed on the air. Tracks from the new album were played and tickets were given away to listeners for a newly announced all-ages show that night at the since-closed Axis nightclub.\n\nAlthough WZBC is best known for its music programming, a number of its former sports announcers have gone on to have successful professional careers in sportscasting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170805", "title": "Rose Island Light", "text": "Rose Island Light\n\nThe Rose Island Light, built in 1870, is on Rose Island in Narragansett Bay in Newport, Rhode Island in the United States. It is preserved, maintained and operated by The Rose Island Lighthouse Foundation.\n\nOne of a group of New England lighthouses built to an award-winning design by Vermont architect Albert Dow, Rose Island Light has sisters at Sabin Point, Pomham Rocks, Esopus Meadows Light and Colchester Reef. The lighthouse stands atop a bastion of Fort Hamilton, which was built in 1798-1800.\n\nThe building was abandoned as a functioning lighthouse in 1970, when the Newport Bridge was constructed nearby. In 1984, the Rose Island Lighthouse Foundation was founded to restore the dilapidated light on behalf of the City of Newport, which had received it for free from the United States government. In 1987, the federal government listed the lighthouse on the National Register of Historic Places. In 1992 it was relit as a private aid to navigation.\n\nThe lighthouse is today a travel destination, reached only by boat. For a fee to the Foundation, visitors can spend a night as a guest or a week as the \"lighthouse keeper,\" completing many of the chores required to keep the lighthouse in good condition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170806", "title": "Portland, Louisville", "text": "Portland, Louisville\n\nPortland is a neighborhood and former independent town northwest of downtown Louisville, Kentucky. It is situated along a bend of the Ohio River just below the Falls of the Ohio, where the river curves to the north and then to the south, thus placing Portland at the northern tip of urban Louisville. In its early days it was the largest of the six major settlements at the falls, the others being Shippingport and Louisville in Kentucky and New Albany, Clarksville, and Jeffersonville on the Indiana side. Its modern boundaries are the Ohio River along the northwest, north, and northeast, 10th Street at the far east, Market Street on the south, and the Shawnee Golf Course at the far west.\n\nGen. William Lytle II, the founder of Cincinnati, Ohio, owned a large amount of land just below the Falls of the Ohio and in 1811 laid out the settlement of Portland. He planned to sell the lots to finance his plan to build a canal around the Falls. Lytle authorized Joshua Barclay and Alexander Ralston to design the town, which featured a Northeast to Southwest street grid. The original settlement was between what is now 36th and 33rd Street along the Ohio River, which included a large wharf. The settlement quickly grew to the east in a Northwest to Southeast street grid, which noticeably contrasts to the East-West grid of adjacent areas of Louisville.\n\nThe advent of steamboats on the Mississippi occurred simultaneously with Portland's development, allowing the Ohio River to be used as a major freight shipping route in what was then the American Frontier. Portland was located just downstream from the only natural obstacle on the Ohio River, so all large boats traveling on the Ohio had to stop to move their freight by land around the Falls and reload them on another boat. With a captive audience and a need for freight hauling, Portland's Wharf flourished as numerous taverns, warehouses, and shipyards were built. By 1814 French immigrants from Alsace began populating the town.\n\nBy 1817 the original street grid had run out of room and was expanded to 40th Street on the west and 13th Street on the east in 1817 to facilitate the additional growth. It quickly became a rival of Louisville and the nearer-by settlement of Shippingport. The three were first connected by road in 1818. This road, initially called the Louisville & Portland Turnpike, became Portland Avenue.\n\nAn important early home was the Squire Earick house (719 N. 34th Street), which was home of the first magistrate, and also used as the settlement's courthouse and jail. Another landmark was the Church of Our Lady now Good Shepherd Catholic Church, started in 1839 and the third building, built in 1873, still standing in 2010.\n\nFrom 1826 to 1833, the Louisville and Portland Canal was built around the Falls, causing many of the warehouses and shipyards to close and shifting economic power on the Falls to nearby Louisville, although Portland would continue to grow as many French and Irish immigrants moved there. (The demonym \"Hoosier\" given to residents of Indiana since the early 1830s has been linked to the construction of the canal, allegedly because a contractor named Samuel Hoosier preferred Indiana workers over those from Kentucky, and they were therefore dubbed as \"Hoosier's Men.\") It was incorporated in 1834, but then annexed by Louisville in 1837 after a compromise by which the canal would be widened to handle larger ships but the new rail line going from Lexington to the Ohio River would go to Portland's wharf instead of Louisville's. However, after the new line collapsed into bankruptcy in 1840 having only reached as far as Louisville, Portlanders voted in 1842 to become independent again, although ten years later the area was annexed a second time.\n\nAlthough now just a neighborhood of the much larger Louisville, Portland would continue to flourish as a working class community through the 1930s, with residents working in many of the nearby factories. The largest Ohio River flood in recorded history occurred in 1937 and inundated all of Portland, with areas closest to the river nearly being wiped out. Plans began immediately to protect the area with a flood wall, but World War II occupied the priority of the government's engineers. Just eight years later in 1945 the second largest flood in Louisville's history occurred. In its aftermath all areas of Portland nearest to the river were razed, including the Portland Wharf, and a gigantic flood wall was built to a height three feet above the level of the 1937 flood. Both floods had driven many middle-class families from the area. Despite the loss of many of area's oldest buildings, portions of the neighborhood away from the flood wall were largely untouched by urban renewal, and retain a great number of pre-Civil War buildings. Although many older mansions exist in Portland, the vast majority of homes built in the area were shotgun houses.\n\nAs of 2015, the estimated population of Portland is 11,810. Portland has historically been home to a diverse population, including one of the earliest settlements of free, property-holding blacks who co-existed as 10-15% of Portland's resident population (according to Louisville historian Rick Bell). Archives of this community are part of the collection at Portland Museum, (2308 Portland Ave), though the museum is undergoing a massive effort to make these resources readily available to the public. Changes over time in the neighborhood are largely attributed to white flight and the devastating Ohio River floods of 1937 and .\n\nIn 2006, Portland was named by First Lady Laura Bush to be a Preserve America community. Communities designated through the program are allowed to use the Preserve America logo on signs and promotional materials and are eligible to apply for grants that will be administered by the U.S. Department of the Interior.\n\nThere are several futures plans to help revive parts of Portland, including the creation of a museum and arts district in the Portland Warehouse District (which sits just 2 blocks from Louisville's Museum Row), and opening several historic buildings to the public. There are also plans for the creation of several large parks along the Portland Waterfront. When complete, the Portland Wharf Park will bear a striking resemblance to Downtown Louisville's Waterfront Park. There are also plans to great a \"Great Lawn West\" just west of the 9th Street/I-64 interchange.\n\nPortland is home to a large number of Louisville's most prominent historic landmarks and a large percent of the city's pre Civil War buildings. Although currently not open to the public, the United States Marine Hospital of Louisville is considered one of the most architecturally important historic sites in the US. Completed in 1847, it is widely considered the best remaining antebellum era hospital in the US and is the only remaining of the seven original hospitals built in the mid-19th century by the Marine Hospital Service. After sitting abandoned for several decades, the building's exterior has been fully restored to match its appearance in 1899, with the inside still being restored.\n\nThere are many other 19th century landmarks in Portland, including the Notre Dame du Port Church (1841) (now Good Shepherd Church), the Montgomery Street School (1852) and numerous privately owned mansion houses, many of which were built by steamboat captains. The entire Portland Historic District is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In 1996 Louisville's first bike trail was opened along Portland's waterfront. The seven mile long River Walk has since been extending 20 miles to the Farnsley Morman Landing near Valley Station and is going to be part of a 110-mile long bike trail encircling Louisville. The River Walk also links Portland directly to Downtown Louisville and Shawnee Park. The Portland Library serves the neighborhood area.\n\nIn an attempt to revitalize the community, the Table, a pay-what-you-can restaurant, was started November 2015. The Table since then has exploded and was featured on food networks Diners Drive in and Dives show. The Table has provided gourmet, nourishing food for homeless people and encourages working instead of handouts.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of Portland was 11,811, of which 71.7% are white, 24.5% are black, 3.1% are listed as other, and 0.8% are Hispanic. College graduates are 3.3%, people without a high school degree are 46.3%. Females are 51.9% of the population, males are 48.1%. Households making less than $15,000 a year are 38.7%.\n\nOriginally settled by French and Irish immigrants, since WWII most of the original immigrant families left for the South End of Louisville, and Portland is now mostly populated by displaced rural Kentuckians of British Isles heritage. In 2000 less than 1% of Portlanders claimed French ancestry and only 10% claimed Irish ancestry. Over 20% of Portlanders claimed 'American' ancestry, which is the most common ancestry in the rural South.\n\nPortland has a lending library, a branch of the Louisville Free Public Library.\n\nPortland has been home to many notable people over the years:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170810", "title": "Sandrine Holt", "text": "Sandrine Holt\n\nSandrine Claire Holt (born Sandrine Vanessa Ho; 19 November 1972) is a British-born Canadian model and actress.\n\nHolt was born Sandrine Vanessa Ho in Croydon. Her middle name was later changed to Claire. Her father, Man Shun (\"Horace\") Ho, is Hong Kong-born Chinese. He was educated at the University of London, receiving a (B.Sc Physics and Applied Mathematics; M.Sc Computer Science). Her mother, Christiane (née Nicolette), is French. At age five, she and her family moved to Toronto, Canada. Holt attended St. Joseph's Morrow Park Catholic Secondary School in Willowdale. She worked as a runway model in Paris before she became an actress. Her younger sister is model and designer Adrianne Ho.\n\nHolt's acting debut, credited as Sandrine Ho, was in a 1989 episode of \"\" entitled “Face of Evil.” Her feature film debut was in \"Black Robe\" in 1991. She appeared in \"Rapa Nui\", the telemovie and subsequent TV show \"Once a Thief\", \"\", \"1999\" and \"\".\n\nIn 2006, she appeared in a recurring role on the television series \"24\" as Evelyn Martin, the aide to First Lady Martha Logan. In 2007 she appeared in the recurring role of Catherine Rothberg in Showtime's series \"The L Word\".\n\nIn 2012, she appeared in \"\" as Lida, an Antigen employee who took care of the protagonist's daughter, a prisoner named Subject Two.\n\nIn 2013 she appeared in the first season of \"House of Cards\" as Gillian Cole, the leader of a grass-roots organization called World Well that provides clean water to developing countries.\n\nIn 2015, she appeared in the film \"Terminator Genisys\", and the TV series \"Fear the Walking Dead\".\n\nIn 2016, she appeared in \" MacGyver\" as Patricia Thornton, an ex-field agent turned director of operations for DXS.\n\nHolt was married to rock producer/engineer Travis Huff but later divorced. She currently lives in Silver Lake, Los Angeles with her daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170824", "title": "Gorton's of Gloucester", "text": "Gorton's of Gloucester\n\nGorton's of Gloucester is a subsidiary of Japanese seafood conglomerate Nippon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd., producing fishsticks and other frozen seafood for the retail market in the United States. Gorton's also has a North American food service business which sells to fast-food restaurants such as McDonald's, and an industrial coating ingredients operation. It has been headquartered in Gloucester, Massachusetts, since 1849.\n\nThe company traces its roots to a fishery called John Pew & Sons. William Pew, son of John Pew, picked up fishing after serving as a Colonial soldier in the French and Indian War. While most people moved West after the war, Pew turned eastward and arrived in Gloucester, Massachusetts, in 1755. The father-and-son fishery business emerged as an official commercial company, John Pew & Sons, in 1849.\nWhen nearby Rockport's chief industry, the Annisquam Cotton Mill, burned down, Slade Gorton, the mill's superintendent, was out of a job. At his wife's urging, he began a fishing business in 1874 known as Slade Gorton & Company, and began to pack and sell salt codfish and mackerel in small kegs. This company was the first to package salt-dried fish in barrels. In 1899, the company patented the \"Original Gorton Fish Cake\". In 1905, the Slade Gorton Company adopted the fisherman at the helm of a schooner (the \"Man at the Wheel\") as the company trademark. Today, he is known as the Gorton's Fisherman.\n\nIn 1906, Slade Gorton & Company, John Pew & Sons, and two other Gloucester fisheries merged into the Gorton-Pew Fisheries. They made Gorton's codfish cakes a household name in New England.\n\nThe company went into the fish-freezing business in the early 1930s. In 1949, Gorton-Pew made headlines when it drove the first refrigerator trailer truck shipment of frozen fish from Gloucester to San Francisco—a trip that took eight days. In 1953, the company was the first to introduce a frozen ready-to-cook fish stick, which won the \"Parents\" magazine Seal of Approval.\n\nIn 1957, Gorton-Pew Fisheries name was changed to Gorton's of Gloucester; in 1965, it became The Gorton Corporation, and it is now known as Gorton's. In 1968, Gorton's merged with General Mills, Inc., as a wholly owned subsidiary.\n\nIn May 1995, Unilever bought Gorton's from General Mills. In August 2001, Unilever sold Gorton's and BlueWater Seafoods to Nippon Suisan (USA), Inc., a subsidiary of Nippon Suisan Kaisha, Ltd., for $175 million in cash.\n\nGorton's came under attack from three environmentalist and animal-rights groups — the Environmental Investigation Agency, The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and Greenpeace — due to its parent company's involvement in whaling in the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary. These groups hoped that international companies owned by Nippon Suisan Kaisha would persuade their parent company to stop supporting whaling if they were put under enough pressure. Eventually, Nippon Suisan Kaisha agreed to divest its ownership in the company that owned the whaling fleet. Greenpeace hailed this as a victory, and the boycott of Gorton's ended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170833", "title": "Little Italy, Montreal", "text": "Little Italy, Montreal\n\nLittle Italy (; ) is a neighbourhood in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is centred on Saint Laurent Boulevard between Jean Talon Street and St. Zotique Street in the borough of Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie, south of Villeray and Jarry Park.\n\nLittle Italy is home to Italian Canadian-owned shops and restaurants, the Jean-Talon Market, as well as the Church of the Madonna della Difesa, built by Italian immigrants from the Campobasso area in Molise to commemorate the apparition of the Virgin Mary in \"La Difesa\", an area of Campobasso.\n\nMontreal has the second largest Italian population in Canada after Toronto. There are 260,345 people of Italian ancestry living within the Greater Montreal Area.\n\nThe Italian presence in Quebec dates to the seventeenth century, when Italians from the Piedmont region served in the Carignan-Salières Regiment. There were also a few traders and artisans who came mainly from northern Italy. In the nineteenth century, larger scale Italian immigration began to develop. These immigrants were predominantly male farmers from the southern regions. These immigrants, mostly temporary, worked in railways, mines and lumber camps.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, the composition of immigrants began to change. It was then characterized by permanent immigrants and family reunification. The majority of immigrants worked in the construction and maintenance of railways (Canadian Pacific Railway and Grand Trunk Railway). Soon they built their own churches and institutions such as the magnificent Church of the Madonna della Difesa.\n\nThe largest wave of Italian immigrants arrived with the end of World War II. Between 1946 and 1960, thousands of Italian workers and peasants landed in the Port of Montreal or in the Port of Halifax (famously Pier 21) and proceeded on to Montreal by train (with a majority admitted under the family reunification). A large part of them settled around the Jean Talon Market and the Church of Madonna della Difesa, giving birth to Little Italy.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1975, immigration had diversified and was characterized by a high proportion of workers in manufacturing and construction. It was after the 1970s that a sharp decline in immigration from Italy occurred.\n\nThe \"Church of the Madonna della Difesa\" () was designated as a National Historic Site of Canada in 2002.\n\nSince its construction in 1918, this church has been closely associated with the Italian community in Montreal. The parish was established in the 1860s.\n\nThe building and its interior decoration, were made in stages by artist Guido Nincheri, whose work was influenced by the structure of a typical Italian parish church from the Renaissance era. The walls and ceilings are painted in bright coloured frescos.\n\n\nThe \"Jean-Talon Market\" (known locally as the \"Mercato\") is a public market located in the heart of the Little Italy. This market opened in 1933 and was named after Jean Talon, the second Intendant of New France. It went through numerous renovations in the early 2000s, resulting in most of the market being sheltered, and there is also underground parking. The main entrance was opened in the summer of 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170840", "title": "Hypocrisy Destroys Wacken", "text": "Hypocrisy Destroys Wacken\n\nHypocrisy Destroys Wacken is a live album released in 1999 by Hypocrisy. The DVD version of the album was released in March 2001.\n\nTracks 12-15 are studio recordings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170854", "title": "Sana Saeed", "text": "Sana Saeed\n\nSana Saeed (born 22 September 1988) is an Indian actress and model, who has appeared in Bollywood films. Her first appearance was as a child artist in \"Kuch Kuch Hota Hai\" (1998) and continued to do so in films \"Har Dil Jo Pyar Karega\" (2000) and \"Badal\" (2000). She also appeared in television shows such as \"Babul Ka Aangann Chootey Na\" (2008) and \"Lo Ho Gayi Pooja Iss Ghar Ki\" (2008). In 2012, Saeed made her screen debut as an adult in a supporting role in Karan Johar's \"Student Of The Year\", which emerged as a box-office commercial success. She has appeared in many reality shows including \"Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa\" (2013), \"Nach Baliye\" (2015) and \"\" (2016).\n\nSana has appeared as a child artist in critically and commercially successful films such as \"Kuch Kuch Hota Hai\" (1998), \"Badal\" (2000) and \"Har Dil Jo Pyar Karega\" (2000). Saeed also hosted the famous kids program Fox Kids telecasted on Star Plus in which she played the role of Chatur Chachi. She also appeared in television shows such as \"Babul Ka Aangann Chootey Na\" on Sony TV and \"Lo Ho Gayi Pooja Iss Ghar Ki\" on SAB TV.\n\nShe came sixth in the dance reality show and was praised for her energy levels in dancing. \"Jhalak Dikhla Jaa\".\n\nIn 2012, She made her screen debut in a supporting role in Karan Johar's \"Student Of The Year\" along with the main leads Sidharth Malhotra, Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt.\nShe got notice due to her child star memory in spite of her small role. Film critic Taran Adarsh from Bollywood Hungama wrote, \"Sana Saaed looks glamorous and does well\". film critic Komal Nahta commented, \"Sana Saeed only gets to pout and flaunt her body as Tanya.\".\nThe film was released on 19 October 2012 in over 1400 screens across the country and garnered positive to mixed reviews from critics and good box office collections. Boxofficeindia declared the film as a \"semihit\" after three weeks. She placed 5th in Nach Baliye 7.\n\nIn May 2018, Sana appeared in Zee TV's talk show Juzz Baatt as a guest along with Adnan Khan, Arjit Taneja and Karan Jotwani.\n"}
{"id": "2170861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170861", "title": "WSUP", "text": "WSUP\n\nWSUP is a university-run radio station located in Platteville, Wisconsin. It is run by an all-volunteer student body at University of Wisconsin-Platteville.\n\nWSUP is the oldest student-operated radio station in the UW System, originating in 1964, when the university was Wisconsin State University-Platteville (hence the call letters). The station is licensed to the Wisconsin State Board of Regents and is administered by the University of Wisconsin System.\n\nWSUP operates on an assigned frequency of 90.5 MHz with an effective radiated power of 1,000 watts. Studios and transmitter for WSUP are located on the campus of the University of Wisconsin-Platteville.\n\nThe mission of WSUP is two-fold, as identified by the Board of Regents: to provide a valuable on-site practicum for university instruction through practical experience to students; and, to act in a service and outreach capacity for the university to the campus community and to the city of license.\n\nOn February 1, 2006, WSUP launched a live web stream of their programming. This was disabled temporarily for legal reasons regarding the playing of copyrighted music in 2008. WSUP still continued to webcast many of their UWP athletic events. As of March 1, 2010, WSUP has once again begun to stream all of its content 24/7 for all of its listeners around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170862", "title": "Church of the Madonna della Difesa", "text": "Church of the Madonna della Difesa\n\nThe Church of the Madonna della Difesa (, ) is a Catholic church in the neighbourhood of Little Italy in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It was built by Italian immigrants to the city, specifically those from Molise, to commemorate the apparition of the Madonna in \"La Difesa\", in Casacalenda, Molise. It was designed by Roch Montbriant and Canadian artist Guido Nincheri. It is Romanesque in style and laid out in a Greek-cross floorplan. It was inaugurated in 1919.\n\nIt is famous for its large cupola and brick façade, and especially its frescos by Guido Nincheri. A particularly well-known fresco depicts Benito Mussolini; painted before World War II, it commemorates his signing of the Lateran Accords. A statue in front of the church commemorates \"victims of all wars.\"\n\nDesignated a National Historic Site of Canada in 2002, \nit is located at 6800 Henri-Julien Avenue at the corner of Dante Street (Jean-Talon or Beaubien metro stations) in the borough of Rosemont—La Petite-Patrie. Plaqued in 2005, the Church serves the oldest Italian community in Canada.\n\nThree priests serve at the church, Padre Luca Brancolini, Padre Giuseppe Manzini and Padre Jacques Duplouy; all are members of the Priestly Fraternity of the Missionaries of St.Charles Borromeo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170874", "title": "Hypocrisy (album)", "text": "Hypocrisy (album)\n\nHypocrisy is the sixth studio album by the Swedish death metal band Hypocrisy, released in 1999. The digipak version of the album includes the bonus track, \"Self Inflicted Overload\". The Japanese release of the album includes three bonus tracks: \"Self Inflicted Overload\", a demo version of \"Elastic Inverted Visions\" and \"Falling Through the Ground\".\n\nIn 2005, \"Hypocrisy\" was ranked number 408 in \"Rock Hard\" magazine's book of \"The 500 Greatest Rock & Metal Albums of All Time\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2170885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170885", "title": "Torreya", "text": "Torreya\n\nTorreya is a genus of conifers comprising six or seven species placed the family Taxaceae, though sometimes formerly placed in Cephalotaxaceae. Four species are native to eastern Asia; the other two are native to North America. They are small to medium-sized evergreen trees reaching 5–20 m, rarely 25 m, tall. Common names include nutmeg yew.\n\nThe leaves are spirally arranged on the shoots, but twisted at the base to lie in two flat ranks; they are linear, 2–8 cm long and 3–4 mm broad, hard in texture, with a sharp spine tip.\n\n\"Torreya\" can be either monoecious or dioecious; when monoecious, the male and female cones are often on different branches. The male (pollen) cones are 5–8 mm long, grouped in lines along the underside of a shoot. The female (seed) cones are single or grouped two to eight together on a short stem; minute at first, they mature in about 18 months to a drupe-like structure with the single large nut-like seed 2–4 cm long surrounded by a fleshy covering, green to purple at full maturity. In some species, notably the Japanese \"Torreya nucifera\" ('kaya'), and unusually for members of Taxaceae, the seed is edible. Natural dispersal is thought to be aided by squirrels which bury the seeds for a winter food source; any seeds left uneaten are then able to germinate.\n\nThe genus is named after the American botanist John Torrey.\n\n†\"Torreya clarnensis\" has been described from Middle Eocene fossils found in the Clarno Formation of Central Oregon, United States. Leafy branch fossils of †\"Torreya bilinica\" are known from Oligocene strata of Zichov near Bílina, Czech Republic, early Miocene deposits of Güvem central Anatolia, Turkey and late Miocene deposits of Spain. A single \"Torreya nucifera\" needle leaf is known from a late Miocene deposit in Abkhazia. More complete records of \"Torreya nucifera\" are known from Pliocene deposits of France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170888", "title": "Todd Jensen", "text": "Todd Jensen\n\nTodd Jensen is a bassist who has played for various artists, including the bands Sequel, Hardline, and Harlow, as well as David Lee Roth, Ozzy Osbourne, Steve Perry, Alice Cooper, and Paul Rodgers.\n\nTodd Jensen played with David Lee Roth in 1991 on the A Little Ain't Enough tour and several Roth tours afterwards, and with Ozzy Osbourne only very briefly, and was replaced by bassist Geezer Butler. Officially, Geezer Butler is credited for all the bass on \"Ozzmosis\", though there have been claims that several uncredited musicians also played on the album, possibly including Todd Jensen.\nFor some time Todd has been David Lee Roth's personal tour manager and was on tour with Van Halen in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170890", "title": "Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery", "text": "Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery\n\nNotre Dame des Neiges Cemetery () is a rural cemetery located in the borough of Côte-des-Neiges-Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, Montreal, Quebec, Canada which was founded in 1854. The entrance and the grounds run along a part of Côte-des-Neiges Road and up the slopes of Mount Royal. Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery is the largest cemetery in Canada and the third-largest in North America.\n\nCreated on property purchased from Dr. Pierre Beaubien, the new cemetery was a response to growing demand at a time when the old Saint-Antoine Cemetery (near present-day Dorchester Square) had become too small to serve Montreal's rapidly increasing population. Founded in 1854 as a\ngarden cemetery in the French style, it was designed by landscape architect Henri-Maurice Perreault, who studied rural cemeteries in Boston and New York. On May 29, 1855, thirty-five-year-old Jane Gilroy McCready, wife of Thomas McCready, then a Montreal municipal councillor, was the first person to be buried in the new cemetery.\n\nNotre Dame des Neiges is the largest cemetery in Canada with more than 55 kilometres of lanes and one million people interred.\nThe Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery site has more than 65,000 monuments and 71 family vaults.\n\nThe cemetery originally served Roman Catholics and rural French Canadians. Italian, Portuguese, Japanese, Orthodox Greek, Polish, Ukrainian and Huron are also represented, indicated in many instances by ethnic motifs on gravestones. The cemetery is adjacent to the Mount Royal Cemetery, a predominantly English-speaking and originally Protestant adjacent burial ground, the Shaar Hashomayim Cemetery, an Ashkenazi Jewish burial ground and Temple Emanu-El Cemetery a Reform Judaism burial ground. These four abutting cemeteries on the slopes of Mount Royal contain a total of 1.5 million burials.\n\n\"La Pietà Mausoleum\" contains a life-sized marble reproduction of Michelangelo's Pietà sculpture (original located in St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican). Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1998 and plaqued in 2004.\n\nNo burials or cremations took place between May 16, 2007, and September 11, 2007, because of a labour strike. The interments of more than 300 bodies were affected. In addition, its uncut, unkempt grass became a symbol of the labour dispute.\n\nDue to its vast size, locating a specific grave can be difficult. As a result, the cemetery now offers a computerized mapping service that allows visitors to quickly and accurately locate graves. It can be accessed at the cemetery using a touch screen display or via the Internet.\n\nThe only opening in the fence between the Notre Dame des Neiges and Mount Royal cemeteries is where two adjoining military sections are. Shortly after World War I, to emphasize the comradeship and uniformity of sacrifice of Protestant and Catholic soldiers, the Imperial War Graves Commission insisted on an open passage between the two plots and the Cross of Sacrifice was erected. There are 445 identified Commonwealth service war grave burials commemorated here, 252 from World War I and 215 from World War II. Those whose graves could not be individually marked are named on bronze plaques attached to the Cross of Sacrifice. The Quebec Memorial on the National Field of Honour at Pointe-Claire lists 24 servicemen buried here, whose graves could no longer be marked or maintained, as alternative commemorations.\n\nEvery mausoleum in Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery contains multiple crypts, clearly identified, as well as columbaria with glass or marble niches for one or more urns. The first mausoleum, Notre Dame, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, was built in 1978. The others were added gradually in the years that followed: John-Paul II (1980), Saint-Francis (1982), Marguerite-Bourgeoys (1983), The Pietà (1985), Saints Peter and Paul (1989), Sainte Clare of Assisi (1994), the two-storey Saint Marguerite d’Youville (1996) and most recently, Esther-Blondin (2007).\n\nOpened in November 2007, the Esther Blondin Mausoleum, named after the founder of the Sisters of Saint Anne, houses 6,000 burial crypts and niches.\n\nThe cemetery is the final resting place for a number of former mayors of the city of Montreal plus other prominent persons including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170895", "title": "Autograph (American band)", "text": "Autograph (American band)\n\nAutograph is an American rock band from Pasadena, California, United States. They released several albums throughout the 1980s and are best known for their hit single, 1984's \"Turn Up the Radio.\"\n\nAutograph originally began in late 1983 as a solo project for singer, songwriter and guitarist Steve Plunkett, who had recently left the band Silver Condor. Plunkett was playing and recording his own material with a group of his musician friends, most of whom had previously played with him in other bands:\n\nOn lead guitar was Steve Lynch, who had played with Plunkett in the band Looker.\n\nOn Bass was Randy Rand who knew Plunkett from their days in Pasadena, California's club band Wolfgang, that has been described as a local legend of which Kevin Dubrow (lead singer of Quiet Riot) once said, \"They smoked us all... they got a better response than us and Van Halen\".\n\nOn keyboards, Steven Isham (born Steven E. Isham on November 30, 1952 in Pocatello, Idaho), who had also played with mutual acquaintance Holly Penfield, was brought in to give the band a more modern sound.\n\nOn drums was earlier bandmate, Keni Richards, who Plunkett knew from John Doe, rounding out the band's lineup, with Richards' friendship of Van Halen lead singer, David Lee Roth being instrumental in leading to Autograph's big break the following year.\n\nThe group of musicians began playing and recording together, soon taking the form of an actual band. Plunkett chose the name \"Autograph\" for the band, having been inspired by hearing Def Leppard's similarly titled song, \"Photograph\", on the radio. They recorded their first rough demos in late 1983, but played them only for a few close friends. One of them was Andy Johns, a famous record producer who Steve Plunkett had met while helping singer Joe Cerisano produce Silver Condor's second album \"Trouble At Home\". Johns invited the band to re-record and upgrade the demos at the world-famous Record Plant Studios for free under his guidance. Keni Richards then played the demo for Roth, who subsequently invited the band to open for Van Halen on their \"1984\" tour. The band rose to prominence opening for Van Halen, ultimately playing 48 shows, an act of distinction for an unsigned band. Due to their rising popularity, Autograph soon signed a contract with RCA Records following a performance at Madison Square Garden in New York City in late 1984.\n\nAutograph's debut album, \"Sign In Please\", was completed and released in October, but did not make an appearance on any record charts until January 1985. The album contains the band's only major hit, and now signature song, \"Turn Up the Radio.\" The song itself was one of the last ones recorded for the album, and the band members were initially very lukewarm toward it. However, the tune would become a top-30 hit, pushing album sales past the gold album mark (500,000 copies sold). The song was featured in an episode of \"Miami Vice\" (entitled \"Little Prince\") and was also leased out to numerous other films, even further elevating the song's popularity. Lynch's guitar work in \"Turn Up The Radio\", featuring a distinctive two-handed, fretboard-tapping technique, won him the \"Guitar Solo of the Year\" award from Guitar Player magazine in 1985.\n\n\"Send Her to Me\" was released as a follow-up single, though its success paled in comparison to the massive first hit. Other songs from the \"Sign in Please\" album, \"My Girlfriend's Boyfriend Isn't Me\" and \"Deep End,\" along with \"Take No Prisoners,\" which would soon appear on the band's follow-up album, and were featured in the 1985 film \"Secret Admirer,\" starring C. Thomas Howell, Kelly Preston, Corey Haim, Lori Loughlin and Casey Siemaszko. The 1985 film \"Fright Night\" also included a song the band recorded titled \"You Can't Hide From the Beast Inside\".\n\nA second album, \"That's the Stuff\", was quickly recorded and released in the fall of 1985, and the group went on tour in support of several other bands, including Mötley Crüe and Heart. Although record sales were disappointing in comparison to their first album, it still achieved near gold status. Supported by the single, \"Blondes in Black Cars\" and the title track, a minor-hit, it eventually peaked at No. 92 on the Billboard album charts. The band then recorded a song titled \"Winning Is Everything\" for the film \"Youngblood\".\n\nAutograph recorded a third album, which took longer to record than the other two combined and \"Loud and Clear\" was released in the spring of 1987. The title song's music video featured Ozzy Osbourne and Vince Neil of Mötley Crüe as extras. The band also made three appearances on \"Headbangers Ball\" in support of the album. In October, the band made a cameo in the film \"Like Father, Like Son\", starring Dudley Moore and Kirk Cameron. The first song featured was \"Dance all Night,\" which played briefly, and then they performed the song \"She Never Looked That Good for Me\" for the film, appearing in a brief cameo as themselves. Despite all three of these songs being released as singles, the album was not a big success, mostly due to lackluster support from the label.\n\nThe band left RCA Records in early 1988. Isham left the band to pursue other options but was not replaced, as the band felt they no longer needed keyboards and wanted to take a newer and heavier direction. The remaining members began recording a new album in 1988 which they hoped to release sometime the following year, but those plans never occurred due to lack of any type of label support.\n\nRichards also left the band around this time. However, in early 1989 the band toured with new drummer Eddie Cross and continued to sporadically record. The band would eventually be offered a new deal with Epic in 1989, which they declined.\n\nIn their short time they recorded three albums and toured with several famous bands, including KISS, Mötley Crüe, Heart, Aerosmith, Ronnie James Dio, Van Halen, Bryan Adams, and Whitesnake, but in the end could not sustain their own career.\n\nDisappointed, the remaining members disbanded in December 1989.\n\nThough the group had disbanded, a few of their music videos (most commonly \"Turn Up the Radio\") continued to be played on music video channels and programs such as MTV's Headbangers Ball for several years after their initial debut. \n\nSteve Plunkett – When the original group disbanded in 1989, Plunkett became a staff writer and producer for All Nations Music, where he had over 170 of his songs released, including over 40 in movies like \"Rock Star\", \"Brave New Girl\" (Britney Spears penned movie for ABC Family) and \"Gods and Monsters\". Many artists have recorded his songs including Vixen, The Go-Go's, and Marc Anthony and Edgar Winter. He has also produced artists such as Cyndi Lauper, Loretta Lynn, Graham Nash and En Vogue. He wrote and performed the theme song for the WB television series \"7th Heaven\", as well as several other theme songs for shows such as \"Summerland\", \"Kojak\", and \"Queen of Swords\" which featured \"Behind the Mask\" performed by Jose Feliciano. Plunkett has had his original songs in hundreds of TV shows such as \"Beverly Hills 90210\", \"Melrose Place\", \"Sex and the City\" and \"The Simpsons.\"\n\nSteve Lynch – The original lead guitarist has been a guitar teacher for several years, schooling students in his virtuosic signature 8-finger \"hammer-on\" guitar technique. He has also published several books on his guitar styles as well as an instructional video that has been a top seller worldwide. He has conducted 325 'guitar clinics' in 18 countries. He eventually formed another band named Network 23 and the album by the same name was released in 2004. He currently owns a music school in the Seattle area and completed a new teaching website called lynchlicks.com that went online in 2009.\n\nRandy Rand – The former bassist began a career in leather-making, establishing an international importing/exporting shop that sells his own hand-crafted leather products, and even working with Harley Davidson for a time. According to Autograph's now-defunct \"Turn Up the Web!\" website, he has a daughter named Sterling Knight who has become a relatively well-known model in Italy.\n\nKeni Richards – The drummer went on to work with the band Dirty White Boy, but later left the music business due to a chronic back problem he has had for several years. Nevertheless, he continued his passion for music and art, publicly saying he has no regrets. He also involved himself in songwriting and producing duties even after the band broke up and continued it even after band's reformation, wherein he participated for a short period of time. Richards died on April 8, 2017, reportedly in a drug-related homicide.\n\nSteven Isham – The keyboardist joined up with Gary Moon, who later replaced Jack Blades in the band Night Ranger, to form The Pack, and he later went on to tour as the drummer for Vince Neil's solo act. Remaining active in the music business throughout the ensuing years, Isham died on December 9, 2008, at the age of 56 from liver cancer.\n\nEddie Cross – The drummer of the Los Angeles band, Hot Wheelz, joined Autograph and played on its 1989 tour and the new tracks on the \"Missing Pieces\" CD. He was later a member several other L.A. bands, including Bad Boys (with former members of Quiet Riot), Vigilante Man (with Guns N' Roses co-writer West Arkeen) and Gilby Clarke (who later joined Guns N' Roses). In 1991, Cross went to law school in Orange County, California, and has been President of Law Offices of Edward H. Cross & Associates, PC since 1995. The firm opened in Santa Ana, California, relocated to Kailua-Kona, Hawai'i in 2004 and finally landed in Palm Desert, California, in 2005, where he practices construction and real estate law. He has a daughter and a son and is a world traveler and an avid photographer.\n\nIn late 2013, original members Steve Lynch, Randy Rand, and Keni Richards got back together for a reunion. Due to Plunkett not being interested in doing the reunion, they have replaced him with Jailhouse, Flood, 1RKO, solo artist singer/songwriter/guitarist Simon Daniels. The band has an interview in Guitar World Magazine, a review in Classic Rock and Fireworks magazines.\n\nSince 2014, by which time Richards had been replaced by Mark Wieland on drums, the band has played the Monsters of Rock Cruise, M3 Rock Festival, The Moondance Jam, The Halfway Jam, Firefest UK, Rockin the Rivers, The Iowa State Fair along with other festivals, theaters and worldwide touring.\n\nOn January 15, 2015, they released their first single, \"You Are Us, We Are You,\" on iTunes. On April 21, they released their 2nd single, \"I Lost My Mind in America,\" which made the Top 10 download of the charts. In July, the band was featured in USA Today NEWS after playing the famous Halfway Jam Rock Festival. On September 23, the band released their 3rd single \"Every Generation\" and is featured as track of the week on Classic Rock Magazine.\n\nOn January 7, 2016, the new 5 song EP \"Louder\", with 4 original new singles and a live version of \"Turn up the Radio\", was released and is available on the official website.\n\nOn January 10, 2017, the band completed the recordings for the new full album which will be announced and released this year In March, the band had already toured the Midwest and Northeast US again, with shows in the UK and Germany and is booked solid for the rest of the year.\n\nOn April 8, 2017, Keni Richards died at the age of 60. The cause of his death appears to be a drug-related homicide.\n\nOn July 29, 2017, the band signed with EMP Label Group owned by David Ellefson of Megadeth and have announced a new album titled \"Get Off Your Ass\", which was released on October 6, with a limited-edition vinyl LP. The Album hit # 21 on the Billboard Classic Rock Sales Chart with 2 singles on the Top 10 on the Hard Rock Media base Radio Chart. Extensive Touring followed the release. The Album got amazing reviews Worldwide. \n\nOn July 24, 2019, Steve Lynch decided to move on to other projects so the band added a new guitarist on August 27, 2019. Jimi Bell previously played in the House of Lords and Maxx Explosion. Bell appeared in the 1986 film, \"Light Of Day\", where he was both a performer in the movie and played on the soundtrack album. He is an official endorsee of GHS Strings, Marshall Amps (Europe), Ovation Guitars, Roberts Guitars, Viper Guitars, Charvel Guitars and PVX Guitars.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170896", "title": "F Minus", "text": "F Minus\n\nF Minus is a horizontally oriented single panel comic strip by Tony Carrillo, started when he was a sophomore at Arizona State University. It ran daily in \"The State Press\", an independent newspaper at ASU, from 2002 until 2004, when Carrillo graduated.\n\nIn an online mtvU strips contest with Scott Adams of \"Dilbert\" fame as member of the jury and with almost 200,000 people voting to find the best college comic strip, \"F Minus\" came in first place.\n\nHaving won a development deal with United Features Syndicate through the contest, syndication of \"F Minus\" (in daily newspapers) began on April 17, 2006 in 75 newspapers throughout the United States.\n\nAccording to Tony Carrillo, most of the comics are about stupidity and losers. It doesn't feature any story lines and is often compared to one of his favorites, \"The Far Side\" by Gary Larson.\n\nIn 2007, \"F Minus\" was nominated in the 2007 Reuben Awards for Best Newspaper Panel but lost to \"Rhymes with Orange\" by Hilary B. Price.\n\nThe Phoenix New Times named \"F Minus\" as the best syndicated comic strip in its \"Best of Phoenix 2007\" issue.\n\nThere are two collections of \"F Minus\".\n"}
{"id": "2170901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170901", "title": "Cross-presentation", "text": "Cross-presentation\n\nCross-presentation is the ability of certain antigen-presenting cells to take up, process and present extracellular antigens with MHC class I molecules to CD8 T cells (cytotoxic T cells). Cross-priming, the result of this process, describes the stimulation of naive cytotoxic CD8 T cells into activated cytotoxic CD8 T cells. This process is necessary for immunity against most tumors and viruses that do not readily infect antigen-presenting cells, but rather intracellular tumors and viruses that infect peripheral tissue cells. Cross presentation is also required for the induction of cytotoxic immunity by vaccination with protein antigens, for example, tumour vaccination.\n\nCross-presentation is of particular importance, because it permits the presentation of exogenous antigens, which are normally presented by MHC II on the surface of dendritic cells, to also be presented through the MHC I pathway. The MHC I pathway is normally used to present endogenous antigens that have infected a particular cell. However, cross presenting cells are able to utilize the MHC I pathway in order to remain uninfected, while still triggering an adaptive immune response of activated cytotoxic CD8+ T cells against infected peripheral tissue cells.\n\nThe first evidence of cross-presentation was reported in 1976 by Michael J. Bevan after injection of grafted cells carrying foreign minor histocompatibility (MHC) molecules. This resulted in a CD8+ T cell response induced by antigen-presenting cells of the recipient against the foreign MHC cells. Because of this, Bevan implied that these antigen presenting cells must have engulfed and cross presented these foreign MHC cells to host cytotoxic CD8+ cells, thus triggering an adaptive immune response against the grafted tissue. This observation was termed \"cross-priming\".\n\nLater, there had been much controversy about cross-presentation, which now is believed to have been due to particularities and limitations of some experimental systems used.\n\nThe primary and most efficient cross-presenting cells are dendritic cells, though macrophages, B lymphocytes and sinusoidal endothelial cells have also been observed to cross present antigens in vivo and in vitro. However, in vivo dendritic cells have been found to be the most efficient and common antigen presenting cells to cross present antigens in MHC I molecules. There are two dendritic cells subtypes; plasmacytoid (pDC) and myeloid (mDC) dendritic cells. pDCs are found within the blood and are able to cross present antigens directly or from neighboring apoptotic cells, but the main physiological significance of pDCs is the secretion of type I IFN in response to bacterial infections. mDCs are categorized as migratory DCs, resident DCs, Langerhans cells, and inflammatory dendritic cells. All mDCs have specialized functions and secretory factors, but they are all still able to cross present antigens in order to activate cytotoxic CD8+ T cells.\n\nThere are many factors that determine cross presentation function such as antigen uptake and processing mechanism, as well as environmental signals and activation of cross presenting dendritic cells. The activation of cross presenting dendritic cells is dependent on stimulation by CD4+ T helper cells. The co-stimulatory molecule CD40/CD40L along with the danger presence of an exogenous antigen are catalysts for dendritic cell licensing, and thus the cross presentation and activation of naive CD8+ cytotoxic T cells.\n\nIn addition to solid structure uptake, dendritic cell phagocytosis simultaneously modifies the kinetics of endosomal trafficking and maturation. As a consequence, external soluble antigens are targeted into the MHC class I cross-presentation pathway instead of the MHC Class II pathway.However, there is still uncertainty in regard to a mechanistic pathway for cross presentation within an antigen presenting cell. Currently, there are two main pathways proposed, cytosolic and vacuolar.\n\nThe vacuolar pathway is initiated through the endocytosis of an extracellular antigen by a dendritic cell. Endocytosis results in the formation of a phagocytic vesicle, where an increasingly acidic environment along with the activation of enzymes such as lysosomal proteases triggers the degradation of antigen into peptides. The peptides can then be loaded onto MHC I binding grooves within the phagosome. It is unclear whether the MHC I molecule is being exported from the endoplasmic reticulum before peptide loading, or is being recycled from the cell membrane prior to peptide loading. Once the exogenous antigen peptide is loaded onto the MHC class I molecule, the complex is exported to the cell surface for antigen cross presentation presentation.\n\nThere is also evidence that suggest that cross-presentation requires a separate pathway in a proportion of CD8(+) dendritic cells that are able to cross-present. This pathway is called the cytosolic diversion pathway. Similarly to the vacuolar pathway, antigens are taken into the cell through endocytosis. Antigen proteins are transported out of this compartment into the cytoplasm by unknown mechanisms. Within the cytoplasm, exogenous antigens are processed by the proteasome and degraded into peptides. These processed peptides can either be transported by the TAP transporter into the endoplasmic reticulum, or back into the same endosome for loading onto MHC class I complexes. It is believed that MHC I loading occurs both in the ER as well as phagocytic vesicles such as an endosome in the cytosolic pathway. For MHC class I loading within the Endoplasmic Reticulum, exogenous antigen peptides are loaded onto MHC class I molecules with the help of the peptide loading complex and chaperone proteins such as beta-2 microglobulin, ERAP, tapapsin, and calreticulin. After antigen peptide loading, the MHC molecule is transported out of the ER, through the Golgi complex, and then onto the cell surface for cross presentation.\n\nIt appears that both pathways are able to occur within an antigen presenting cell, and may be influenced by environmental factors such as proteasome and phagocytic inhibitors.\n\nCross-presentation has been shown to play a role in the immune defense against many viruses (herpesvirus, influenzavirus, CMV, EBV, SIV, papillomavirus, and others), bacteria (listeria, salmonella, \"E. coli\", \"M. tuberculosis\", and others) and tumors (brain, pancreas, melanoma, leukemia, and others). Even though many viruses can inhibit and degrade dendritic cell activity, cross-presenting dendritic cells that are unaffected by the virus are able to intake the infected peripheral cell and still cross present the exogenous antigen to cytotoxic T cells. The action of cross priming can bolster immunity against antigens that target intracellular peripheral tissues that are unable to be mediated by antibodies produced through B cells. Also, cross-priming avoids viral immune evasion strategies, such as suppression of antigen processing. Consequently, immune responses against viruses that are able to do so, such as herpes viruses, are largely dependent on cross-presentation for a successful immune response. Overall, cross presentation aids in facilitating an adaptive immune response against intracellular viruses and tumor cells.\n\nDendritic cell-dependent cross-presentation also has implications for cancer immunotherapy vaccines. The injection of anti-tumor specific vaccines can be targeted to specific dendritic cell subsets within peripheral skin tissues, such a migratory dendritic cells and langerin cells. After vaccine induced activation, dendritic cells are able to migrate to lymph nodes and activate CD4+ T helper cells as well as cross prime CD8+ T cytotoxic cells. This mass generation of activated tumor specific CD8+ T cells increases anti-tumor immunity, and is also able to overcome many of the immune suppressive effects of tumor cells.\n\nCross-presenting dendritic cells have a significant impact on the promotion of central and peripheral immune tolerance. In central tolerance, dendritic Cells are present within the thymus, or the location of T cell development and maturation. Thymic dendritic cells can intake dead medullary thymic epithelial cells, and cross present \"self\" peptides on MHC class I as a negative selection check on cytotoxic T cells that have a high affinity for self peptides. Presentation of tissue specific antigens is initiated by medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTEC), but is reinforced by thymic dendritic cells after expression of AIRE and engulfment of mTECs. Although the function of dendritic cells in central tolerance is still relatively unknown, it appears that thymic dendritic cells act as a complement to mTECs during negative selection of T cells.\n\nIn regard to peripheral tolerance, peripheral tissue resting dendritic cells are able to promote self tolerance against cytotoxic T cells that have an affinity for self peptides. They can present tissue specific antigens within the lymph node in order to regulate T cytotoxic cells from initiating an adaptive immune response, as well as regulate T cytotoxic cells that have a high affinity for self tissues, but were still able to escape central tolerance. Cross-presenting DCs are able to induce anergy, apoptosis, or T regulatory states for high self affinity T cytotoxic cells. This has large implications for defense against auto immune disorders and regulation of self specific cytotoxic T cells.\n"}
{"id": "2170918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170918", "title": "Desert Wind", "text": "Desert Wind\n\nThe Desert Wind was an Amtrak long-distance passenger train that ran from 1979 to 1997. It operated from Chicago to Los Angeles as a section of the \"California Zephyr\", serving Los Angeles via Salt Lake City; Ogden, Utah; and Las Vegas.\n\nIn the late 1960s, prior to the creation of Amtrak, the Union Pacific Railroad combined its long-distance streamliners between Chicago, Kansas City, and the West Coast into a single massive train dubbed by critics the \"City of Everywhere\". This train included the \"Challenger\", the \"City of Denver\", the \"City of Kansas City\", the \"City of Los Angeles\", the \"City of Portland\", and the \"City of San Francisco\". At one point, it ran up to 27 cars. The \"City of Los Angeles\" separated from this behemoth at Ogden, Utah, to serve Los Angeles via Las Vegas. Of these, Amtrak retained portions of the \"City of Kansas City\" and the \"City of San Francisco\" for its Chicago – San Francisco service, which it named the \"San Francisco Zephyr\". Regular service to Las Vegas ended in the early morning hours of May 2, 1971, when the westbound \"City of Los Angeles\" made its last station stop on its final trip to its namesake city.\n\nThroughout the 1970s, there were brief attempts to revive service to Las Vegas in the form of charters and excursions, plus one regularly scheduled weekend-only train called the \"Las Vegas Limited\", which ran for four months in 1976. Matters came to a head in 1979, as Amtrak faced significant political pressure to cut costs and reduce the size of its national network. Senator Howard Cannon (D-Nevada) pushed Amtrak hard to create a train which served Las Vegas, and Amtrak considered replacing the \"Southwest Limited\", its existing Chicago – Los Angeles train, with such a service. In the end, the \"Southwest Limited\" remained and Amtrak introduced the \"Desert Wind\", which made its first run on October 28, 1979.\n\nThe original \"Desert Wind\" was a day train with Amfleet equipment. The northbound train left Los Angeles mid-day and arrived in Ogden the following morning to connect with the eastbound \"San Francisco Zephyr\". The southbound departed Ogden in the middle of the night after the arrival of the westbound \"San Francisco Zephyr\" from Chicago and arrived in Los Angeles in late afternoon. The journey took eighteen hours. Beginning in 1980, the \"Desert Wind\" exchanged a Chicago – Los Angeles through coach with the \"San Francisco Zephyr\" at Ogden; this service expanded in 1982 to include a sleeping car. After the renamed and rerouted \"California Zephyr\" began using the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad main line in 1983, the \"Desert Wind\" began connecting with the \"Zephyr\" at Salt Lake City. Later, the \"Desert Wind\" and the Seattle-bound \"Pioneer\" would operate together with the \"California Zephyr\" from Chicago to Salt Lake City, where the trains separated. This created a train of 16 Superliner cars running from Chicago to Utah, the longest that Amtrak had ever operated. With Amtrak needing at least four locomotives to pull this massive train through the Rockies, the \"Pioneer\" began splitting off at Denver in 1991, while the \"Desert Wind\" continued to split from the \"Zephyr\" at Salt Lake City. \n\nThe \"Desert Wind\" was discontinued on May 12, 1997, a victim of Amtrak's recurring budget cuts that also eliminated the \"Pioneer\" days earlier. Train service was replaced with a Los Angeles – Las Vegas Thruway Motorcoach service. At that time, rail service between Los Angeles and Las Vegas took 7 hours 15 minutes.\n\nThere are several private, competing plans to restore rail service from Los Angeles to Las Vegas, including the high-speed XpressWest and the more conventional X Train and Z-Train.\n\nA Los Angeles – Las Vegas route run by Amtrak nearly entered service in 2000. A Talgo VII trainset was bought for the service in 1999; when it was not implemented, the trainset was later used on the Amtrak \"Cascades\" service.\n\nAlso, as of 2011, new routes were being considered, including routes using the same track as the original \"Desert Wind\", and routes using the Metrolink San Bernardino Line. Lack of funding and congestion through the Cajon Pass remained significant obstacles. More recent proposals using high-speed rail have suggested routing through Victorville and connecting with California's high-speed rail project in Palmdale, assuming the California project can secure funding for a connection from Bakersfield to Los Angeles.\n\nThe route has some merit for Amtrak, as the July 2010 issue of \"Trains\" listed the route as one to be restored in conjunction with upgrading the equipment on the \"California Zephyr\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2170919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170919", "title": "Evert Willem Beth", "text": "Evert Willem Beth\n\nEvert Willem Beth (7 July 1908 – 12 April 1964) was a Dutch philosopher and logician, whose work principally concerned the foundations of mathematics. He was a member of the Significs Group.\n\nBeth was born in Almelo, a small town in the eastern Netherlands. His father had studied mathematics and physics at the University of Amsterdam, where he had been awarded a Ph.D. Evert Beth studied the same subjects at Utrecht University, but then also studied philosophy and psychology. His 1935 Ph.D. was in philosophy.\n\nIn 1946, he became professor of logic and the foundations of mathematics in Amsterdam. Apart from two brief interruptions – a stint in 1951 as a research assistant to Alfred Tarski, and in 1957 as a visiting professor at Johns Hopkins University – he held the post in Amsterdam continuously until his death in 1964. His was the first academic post in his country in logic and the foundations of mathematics, and during this time he contributed actively to international cooperation in establishing logic as an academic discipline.\n\nIn 1953 he became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHe died in Amsterdam.\n\nThe definition theorem states that a predicate (or function or constant) is implicitly definable if and only if it is explicitly definable. Further explanation is provided under Beth definability\n\nSemantic tableaux are a proof method for formal systems — cf. Gentzen's natural deduction and sequent calculus, or even J. Alan Robinson's resolution and Hilbert's axiomatic systems. It is considered by many to be intuitively simple, particularly for students not acquainted with the study of logic (Wilfrid Hodges for example presents semantic tableaux in his introductory textbook, \"Logic\", and Melvin Fitting does the same in his presentation of first-order logic for computer scientists, \"First-order logic and automated theorem proving\").\n\nOne starts out with the intention of proving that a certain set formula_1 of formulae imply another formula formula_2, given a set of rules determined by the semantics of the formulae's connectives (and quantifiers, in first-order logic). The method is to assume the concurrent truth of every member of formula_1 and of formula_4 (the negation of formula_2), and then to apply the rules to branch this list into a tree-like structure of (simpler) formulae until every possible branch contains a contradiction. At this point it will have been established that formula_6 is inconsistent, and thus that the formulae of formula_7 together imply formula_8.\n\nThese are a class of relational models for non-classical logic (cf. Kripke semantics).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170920", "title": "List of bats of Australia", "text": "List of bats of Australia\n\nThis is the list of bats of Australia, a sub-list of the list of mammals of Australia. About 75 bat species are known to occur in Australia, Lord Howe and Christmas Island. This list principally follows the authoritative reference, Churchill (2008)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170928", "title": "Gayle and Gillian Blakeney", "text": "Gayle and Gillian Blakeney\n\nGayle and Gillian Blakeney are Australian identical twins who performed together as actresses and as a dance/pop duo in the 1990s. Born in Brisbane on 9 July 1966, Gayle is older by nine minutes. They are most widely known for their stint in the soap opera \"Neighbours\", as twins Caroline and Christina Alessi.\n\nThe girls knew from a young age that they wanted to be on television. After begging their mother to take them to singing lessons, she finally agreed and this led them to various talent quests around South East Queensland. As first prize at one event on the Gold Coast the girls won entry into a televised talent show on the Nine Network.\n\nGayle and Gillian then starred in numerous television commercials around Australia – including a series of Kelloggs' Corn Flakes commercials. They then decided to take the next step and auditioned for a lead role in a children's telemovie pilot called \"\"Earth Patrol\"\" starring Spike Milligan. Gillian won the lead children's role of Cassie. However, the producers were delighted with both twins' auditions and planned to write Gayle into the series as her twin sister if the pilot was successful. The pilot was not accepted.\n\nThe sisters continued their career in 1980 when they appeared in a video clip for the Australian group, The Monitors, \"Singin' In The '80s\", wearing make-up in the style of rock band Kiss. They also appeared in other music videos by The Monitors between 1980 and 1982, most notably \"Nobody Told Me\" (dressed as schoolgirls in a jail) and \"Having You Around Me\" (dressed as 'beach babes').\nThe sisters also presented \"Take Your Pick\" with Des O'Connor.\n\nThe sisters have contrasting personalities. When sharing a flat together, Gillian did the man-about-the-house DIY work, while Gayle did the cooking and housework.\n\nIn 1983 they joined the team on the successful national children's programme \"Wombat\", along with the puppet Agro. They enjoyed their roles as reporters for the next seven years. The program also included an ongoing mock soap opera segment.\n\nAnother advertising appearance was in the mid-1980s, in a series of futuristic commercials for Coca-Cola, featuring Max Headroom.\n\nIn 1990 they joined the cast of the soap opera Neighbours as Caroline Alessi (played by Gillian) and Christina Alessi (played by Gayle). Gillian and Gayle left the show at different stages during 1992.\n\nFollowing the success of former \"Neighbours\" actors Kylie Minogue and Jason Donovan as recording artists, the Blakeneys went to England in 1991 to record with Stock Aitken Waterman, originally going by the name 'The Twins'. The resulting single, \"All Mixed Up\", became a modest club hit that year, and peaked at #74 in Australia.\n\nAfter parting with Stock Aitken Waterman, the Blakeneys made a brief return to \"Neighbours\", eventually leaving the show in 1992. In 1993/1994 they released two singles in the United Kingdom as 'Gayle & Gillian', \"Mad If Ya Don't\" (#75 in the UK Singles Chart in 1993) and a cover version of Prince's \"I Wanna Be Your Lover\" re-titled \"Wanna Be Your Lover\" (UK #62 in 1994 and #45 in the Scottish Chart). .\n\nAfterwards the two made a brief return to television, this time as assistants on the Thames Television revived game show \"Take Your Pick\". While working in the UK, they also acted on stage.\n\nIn 1994 the sisters moved to the United States (where they still reside today, as both call Los Angeles home) to pursue acting roles, landing guest spots on various film and TV projects, such as playing ballerinas in \"Silk Stalkings\".\n\nThe sisters are married and have children (Gayle has three, while Gillian has one daughter). As of 2015, the Blakeneys have moved on to launching companies and building brands, with Gillian running a scarf line.\n\nIn June 2019, it was announced that both sisters would be reprising their roles on Neighbours in September, which will be for a three-episode stint.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170937", "title": "Under Feet Like Ours", "text": "Under Feet Like Ours\n\nUnder Feet Like Ours is the debut studio album by Canadian indie pop duo Tegan and Sara. It was originally launched under \"Sara and Tegan\" in limited quantities in 1999, and was re-edited under \"Tegan and Sara\". It was re-released again in 2001 with the bonus track \"Frozen\" from This Business of Art. It was released for the first time on vinyl in 2017 as a Record Store Day exclusive under the original band name, Sara and Tegan . \n\nOn the cover, Sara is wearing red clothes and Tegan purple-ish ones.\n"}
{"id": "2170938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170938", "title": "Geoffrey Ballard", "text": "Geoffrey Ballard\n\nGeoffrey Ballard, CM, OBC (16 October 1932 – 2 August 2008) was a Canadian geophysicist and businessman. A longtime advocate of replacing the internal combustion engine, in 1979 Ballard founded what would become Ballard Power Systems to develop commercial applications of the proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEM). Acknowledged worldwide as the father of the fuel cell industry, \"Time\" named him a \"Hero for the Planet\" in 1999.\n\nBallard was born in Niagara Falls, Ontario, to Jessie Marguerite Mildred of the Rowntree's family in York and Archibald Hall Ballard of Staten Island, New York. His father studied electrochemical engineering at the University of Toronto and later specialized in the area of radiation. He was working at Carborundum Corporation when the lab director fell overboard from a boat during a party and was washed over Niagara Falls, so Archibald Ballard was promoted to lab director at a relatively young age in his mid-40s. He spent most of World War II at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, working on the atomic bomb.\n\nAfter high school in Niagara Falls, Ballard attended Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, studying geological engineering. Here he met his future wife, Shelagh, and they married and graduated the same year, in 1956. Ballard secured a position at Shell Oil in Alberta, leading exploration teams on horseback. He left Shell for Mobil Oil and travelled around the world on exploration trips. During these trips his advice was often ignored as he was \"only\" a BSc (difficult enough in 1950s), and after several such incidents he decided to leave industry and pursue a doctorate in earth and planetary sciences from Washington University in St. Louis.\n\nAfter earning his PhD in 1963, Ballard worked as a civilian for the U.S. Army, specializing in microwave communications and studying how to hide refueling tanks under the ice in Greenland. Ballard was working for the Army at Fort Huachuca in Arizona in 1973 when the oil crisis hit. The U.S. government responded by establishing the U.S. Federal Energy Conservation Research office, and started looking for someone to run it. Given his background running projects, the Army seconded him to become the office's director, initially for six months.\n\nHe quickly grew disillusioned with the political system. \"Energy systems are notorious for their long gestation periods, often twenty years or longer, [but] there had to be a pay-off in a product within five to seven years in order to justify the public money being put in. There are political cycles involving re-election, so the politicians didn't want to put money into systems that were going to come to fruition in some other generation. You sent out the plans, and they hacked and cut at them.\" When the contract ran out, he decided to quit and strike out on his own.\n\nOne of the studies he had been involved in at the Conservation Research office was on electric cars powered by conventional lead-acid batteries. None of these struck him as practical, but he was convinced that electric traction was the future. He told \"Discover Magazine\" in a 2002 interview that \"My goal from the very beginning was replacing the internal combustion engine -- just getting that off the streets.\" Ballard had earlier met Ralph Schwartz in Arizona, who introduced him to the idea of using lithium batteries in place of lead-acid, as they would be much lighter. However, at the time, lithium batteries were not able to be recharged. Schwartz convinced Ballard that they should study the problem, and Ballard cashed in his pension to buy a portion of their new joint venture, American Energizer.\n\nSchwartz and Ballard were introduced to Keith Prater at the University of Texas chemistry department, and sold him on the idea of developing a new rechargeable lithium battery technology with them. Prater was able to quickly determine that no one knew what the product of the lithium-salt reactions in existing batteries were, and guessed that it was lithium dithionite, which he was able to synthesize. Working in a trailer, Ballard and Schwartz built a simple battery and Prater brought a sample of the lithium dithionite, and when they were placed together and charged, a weak current was produced. After further development the system was able to be recharged about a dozen times.\n\nWith the technology looking like it could be made into a commercial enterprise, Ballard contacted an acquaintance, John Horton, to provide further backing. Horton was in the process of re-fitting the Ben Franklin (PX-15) in North Vancouver for oil exploration, and Ballard convinced him that their new battery would be a perfect fit. Horton agreed to provide several thousand dollars a month in funding. With this in place, Ballard purchased an abandoned motel in Arizona for $2,000 and set about turning it into a lab.\n\nBy 1977 the batteries were coming along, and Ballard and Prater were shuttling back and forth between Arizona and Vancouver. Ballard had always wanted to return to Canada, so Schwartz sold his interest in the battery technology to Ballard for $1, while Ballard sold his interest in Schwartz's latest venture, a mechanical anti-lock braking system for the same $1. In 1979 Ballard moved to Vancouver and became president and CEO of Ultra Energy.\n\nIn Canada, Ultra Energy operated out of the same hangar where Horton was re-fitting his submarine. By the mid-1970s the refit was complete, with no battery in site, and Horton dropped his support for the battery project. After obtaining some private bridge financing, they won a contract for a non-rechargeable lithium battery with a shelf life of 10 years for the fire detector company, Firenetics. After about a year the battery was ready and production was going to be started in Hong Kong, when, to Ultra's surprise, Firenetics filed for bankruptcy after a long lawsuit with General Electric. Ultra Energy was insolvent.\n\nThe main Ultra Energy team immediately re-formed as Ballard Research, taking over offices directly across the street from the Ultra ones. Ballard started calling old contacts in the oil industry, looking for companies that might be interested in diversifying their energy holdings. Shell was interested and kept the company afloat for a time, but dropped their interest when one of the minority shareholders held out. In mid-1981, Amoco decided to take over the rechargeable side of the company, and paid off most of the company's local debts. Now solvent, the company quickly started looking for applications for their technology, and won contracts with the Canadian Forces to further develop their single-use long-life battery. This led to a successful production line producing thousands of cells for the U.S. and Canadian militaries.\n\nWhile the single-use design was successful, the rechargeable version never matured. In 1983, Ballard, Prater and Paul Howard started looking for new ideas for their development side to work on as the funds for the battery project dried up. Among a variety of ideas were a number of attempts to find government funding, which eventually led them to a Department of National Defense (DND) request for proposals for bids to produce a low-cost solid polymer fuel cell. Now known as PEM's, these cells had only been used commercially in Project Gemini and a few other space probes, and General Electric gave up on the technology when NASA moved onto other fuel cell designs for Project Apollo and the Space Shuttle. Although a number of attempts had been made to lower the high cost of PEM cells since then, none had been commercially successful.\n\nAt the time, no one in the company had any direct experience with fuel cells, and Ballard himself reputedly stated \"What's a fuel cell?\" when the topic was first brought up. Prater, with an extensive electrochemical background, flew to the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, where limited PEM research was still being carried out. He managed to gather a small number of parts from test cells that would provide an early start. Meanwhile, Ballard sent teams to Ottawa to better understand the contract. Armed with this information from both sources, they won the $500,000 contract, which called for them to provide three prototype cells that produced between 50 and 150 watts and be ready in 28 months. After meeting the requirements, they won a follow-up contract, and it was during this project, in 1986, when they reached a milestone of producing four times as much energy per unit volume as any previous fuel cell.\n\nIn 1987 Ballard won a contract with Perry Oceanographics to provide fuel cells for their small submersibles. After some difficulties in developing a stack of the required 2 kW size using their then-current\" Mark IV\" cell design, the system was successfully installed and became one of the first commercial fuel cell system since the 1960s. An upgrade to the \"Mark V\" cell design dramatically improved performance, providing 4.1 kW from a stack the same size as the original 2 kW model. A contract with the Royal Navy soon followed, and although the resulting cells were not used as the Royal Navy decided to go all-nuclear, a research contract allowed the company to continue improving the cells.\n\nDevelopment from these engineering samples to real-world products was going to be long and expensive. Although the battery line continued to do well, the profits it generated were not enough to run the company as a whole. Ballard started looking for new capital, and found Mike Brown, a founder of the Vancouver-based Ventures West venture capital company. Ventures West provided several rounds of funding, and Brown suggested that if the company wanted to be successful it was going to need new leadership who was familiar with dealing with large companies. Although the founders found it difficult to accept a stranger into their midst, they were eventually won over and Firoz Rasul became the new CEO. Rasul immediately instituted a development plan with a timeline of goals that had to be met and go/no-go milestones.\n\nThe company was re-organized, spinning off the battery side to BTC Engineering, while the fuel cell side became Ballard Technologies Corp. Feeling the technology was ready for commercial use, in 1989 Ballard raised $4 million in public money from the British Columbia government to build a fuel cell powered bus, introducing it at Science World in 1993. He took the bus to energy fairs around the world, and Daimler-Chrysler and Ford invested $750 million to buy a one-third stake in the newly public Ballard Power Systems. Ballard told Time in 1999 that the fuel-cell cars should become economical by 2010 and \"the internal combustion engine will go the way of the horse. It will be a curiosity to my grandchildren.\"\n\nTaking the technology from laboratory to the road proved very difficult, and after years of development and many rounds of additional funding, Ballard left active management in 1998. The automotive power division was sold to Daimler-Chrysler and Ford in 2008 for $96.6 million, and Daimler currently operates a small number of fuel cell busses in Hamburg, United States, Japan and Singapore. Ballard Power Systems continues its work on PEMFC's for stationary power use and backup systems.\n\nAfter leaving full-time management at Ballard Power Systems, in 2000 Ballard formed General Hydrogen, which worked on the problems of generating and distributing hydrogen. In 2007, the company was sold to Plug Power for $10 million.\n\nIn 1999 he was named by \"Time\" as 'Hero of the Planet'. In 2002 he was named 'Business Leader of the Year' from \"Scientific American\". He received the World Technology Network Award in Energy in 1999, and in Environment in 2000. He also received the Gutenberg International Environment prize in Sweden in 2000. He served as chair of the Canadian Hydrogen Association and as an Advisory Board member for the Institute of Transportation Studies, University of California.\n\nHe died of complications from liver disease at Lions Gate Hospital in North Vancouver.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170939", "title": "This Business of Art", "text": "This Business of Art\n\nThis Business of Art is the second studio album by Canadian indie pop duo Tegan and Sara, released in 2000. It is their first official release through Vapor Records, though they independently released \"Under Feet Like Ours\" the previous year. Six of the songs originally appeared on its predecessor; \"Proud\", \"Hype\", \"Freedom\", \"More for Me\", \"Come On\" and \"Superstar\". \"Frozen\" was later included on the 2001 re-release of their debut album. This album was recorded at Hawksleytown Studios and mixed and mastered at Umbrella Sound in Toronto.\n\n\"My Number\" was featured on the \"Sweet November\" soundtrack. In 2013, \"Freedom\" became the soundtrack to a Freederm advertising campaign in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170942", "title": "If It Was You", "text": "If It Was You\n\nIf It Was You is the third studio album by Canadian indie pop duo Tegan and Sara, released on August 20, 2002. Officially, it is their second release through Vapor Records, though they independently released \"Under Feet Like Ours\" in 1999.\n\n\"If It Was You\" was recorded on Galiano Island and the Factory Studio, with the exception of the track \"And Darling (This Thing That Breaks My Heart)\", which was recorded at Tegan's house.\n\nAn enhanced version of \"If It Was You\" was released on June 3, 2003. This version includes one bonus track (\"Come On Kids\"), two music videos (\"Monday Monday Monday\" and \"I Hear Noises\"), and two tour videos (\"Born in the Eighties Tour\" and \"The Never-Ending Tour\").\n\nThe singles released from this album include \"Time Running\", \"I Hear Noises\", and \"Monday Monday Monday\". A video of \"Living Room\" was directed by Kaare Andrews.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170943", "title": "So Jealous", "text": "So Jealous\n\nSo Jealous is the fourth studio album by Canadian indie pop duo Tegan and Sara, released on September 14, 2004. It is their third album on Vapor Records. The album went gold in Canada and was nominated for a Juno Award for Alternative Album of the Year. Two singles were released, \"Walking with a Ghost\" and \"Speak Slow\", with videos for each. \"Walking with a Ghost\", was later covered by The White Stripes and became the title song of their EP \"Walking with a Ghost\". The album art was created by designer EE Storey.\n\nAt Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 70, which indicates \"generally favorable reviews\", based on 20 reviews.\n\nWriting for \"Rolling Stone\", Meredith Ochs praised the album for its \"flashes of brilliance\" and said that it probably marks the beginning of a successful career. She noted the progression from Tegan and Sara's previous \"indie-folk\" albums to a more \"buoyant punk-pop\" sound, inspired by 1980s pop. She cited \"Where Does the Good Go\" and \"Speak Slow\" as highlights.\n\nIn a review for AllMusic, Stephen Thomas Erlewine gave the album a star rating of four out of five. He described it as ambitious and lively, and called it Tegan and Sara's \"most satisfying album\" yet. He noted a shift in sound from their previous recordings, with what he described as \"a heavy dose of new wave sensibility\". He commented that although \"So Jealous\" may be more accessible to a wider audience, Tegan and Sara may still be an \"acquired taste\". Michael Endelman of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the album a B+ rating and noted its new wave and rock influences.\n\nMarc Hogan of \"Pitchfork\" gave the album a negative review, rating it 3.4 out of 10.\n\nIn December 2004, \"Rolling Stone\" named \"So Jealous\" one of the Top 50 records of 2004.\n\nOn April 10, 2005, \"Where Does the Good Go\" was played in the fourth episode of season 1 of the ABC drama \"Grey's Anatomy\" titled \"No Man's Land\". It was played again in the season 10 finale \"Fear (of the Unknown)\" as the final scene between protagonist Meredith Grey and Cristina Yang.\n\nAdapted from the \"So Jealous\" credits.\nMusicians\n\nDesign\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2170949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170949", "title": "Warren Cromartie", "text": "Warren Cromartie\n\nWarren Livingston Cromartie (born September 29, 1953) is an American former professional baseball player best remembered for his early career with the Montreal Expos. He and fellow young outfielders Ellis Valentine and Andre Dawson were the talk of Major League Baseball (MLB) when they came up together with the Expos in the late seventies. Nicknamed \"Cro\", he was very popular with the fans in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. He won the 1989 Nippon Professional Baseball Most Valuable Player Award during his career playing baseball in Japan for the Yomiuri Giants.\n\nCromartie was the only child of Leroy and Marjorie Cromartie. Leroy played quarterback at Florida A&M College, and led his team to Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Conference championships in 1944 and 1945. Having also played basketball and baseball in high school, he left FAMC to play semi-pro baseball with the Miami Giants, which led to a brief stint as a second baseman with the Cincinnati/Indianapolis Clowns of the Negro Leagues. After that, Leroy returned to FAMC and led the Rattlers to another SIAC championship in 1947 and a national championship in 1950.\n\nUpon graduation from Miami Jackson High School in 1971, Warren Cromartie was drafted by the Chicago White Sox in the seventh round of that year's draft, but opted to instead attend Miami Dade College. Following this, he was drafted by three other teams (the Minnesota Twins in the third round of the January secondary draft, the San Diego Padres in the first round of June 1972 secondary draft, and the Oakland Athletics in the January secondary draft) but did not sign with any of the clubs. Finally, when the Expos selected him in the first round of the June 1973 secondary draft, he signed. Cromartie batted .336 with thirteen home runs, 61 runs batted in and thirty stolen bases in his first professional season () with the Quebec Carnavals. This performance earned him a September call-up to the major leagues all the way from double A. He went three-for-seventeen with three walks during his short stint with the Expos.\n\nHe went into Spring training competing for the open right field job, but was sent to \"Expoville,\" the Expos' minor league complex in Daytona Beach, for reassignment to the triple A Memphis Blues in late March. After a disappointing 1975 season in Memphis, he rebounded nicely in to bat .337 for the American Association's Denver Bears, and receive a call up to the Expos in mid-August. He spent the rest of the season pretty much platooning with Ellis Valentine in right field, batting .210 with two RBIs.\n\nBoth Cromartie and Valentine won starting jobs in Montreal's outfield out of Spring training , with Cromartie shifting to left field. Joining them in the Expos' outfield would be 22-year-old center fielder Andre Dawson. Their youth, speed and talent soon made them the talk of the baseball world. Cromartie hit his first major league home run against the New York Mets' Nino Espinosa on July 2. Usually batting either second or fifth in the Expos' line-up, he spent most of the season with a batting average over .300, but cooled off to .282 with five home runs and fifty RBIs by the end of the season.\n\nCromartie was considered something of a defensive liability his rookie season, and worked on his defense during the off season. As a result, he led National League left fielders in many defensive categories in . He, Dawson and Valentine each led their respective positions in outfield assists to give the Expos the unquestionable top defensive outfield in the major leagues. With his bat, he got off to a slow start in 1978. He ended April with just a .193 batting average and two RBIs. From there, he batted .307 over the rest of the season to finish just below .300 (.297, which was tops on the team). His first major league grand slam was a walk off against the Atlanta Braves on July 19.\n\nAfter going 0-for-five in the season opener with the Pittsburgh Pirates, Cromartie embarked upon a nineteen-game hitting streak, the longest of his career. His hot start helped propel the Expos into their first real pennant race in franchise history. The Expos battled the Pirates and Philadelphia Phillies for first place in the National League East throughout the season, with their lead in the division peaking at 6.5 games on July 2. They would eventually win a franchise-best 95 games but still finished second to the World Series-winning Pirates by two games. For his part, Cromartie batted .275 with eight home runs and a career-best 84 runs scored.\n\nCromartie had played some first base in the minor leagues, and was shifted there for the season after the Expos acquired outfielder Ron LeFlore from the Detroit Tigers at the Winter meetings. He had difficulty fielding his new position, committing a league leading fourteen errors at first; however, he had one of his best seasons with his bat. He batted .288, and putting up career highs in home runs (14) and RBIs (70).\n\nPerhaps the most memorable moment of Cromartie's 1980 season was a Fourth of July doubleheader with the New York Mets. He committed two of five errors by the Expos in the sloppily played first game loss (the Mets also committed three). After committing a third error in the second game, he also hit a two run home run that carried the Expos to a 6-5 victory.\n\nThe Expos again found themselves in a pennant race in 1980 despite key injuries to LeFlore, Valentine, Larry Parrish and pitcher Bill Lee, among others (Cromartie was the only player on the team who managed to play a full 162 game schedule). Their season came down to a season ending three game set with the Philadelphia Phillies at Olympic Stadium; the Phillies won two out of three to win the division, and head to the post-season (Cromartie went hitless in eleven at bats).\n\nThe Expos were uninterested in re-signing LeFlore for the season, and allowed him to depart via free agency. Rather than shifting Cromartie back to left field, he remained at first with rookie Tim Raines given the starting job in left. When Valentine was dealt to the New York Mets shortly before the players strike, Cromartie shifted to right field with Willie Montañez assuming first base duties. With Montañez producing just a .177 batting average, he was dealt to the Pirates for fellow first baseman John Milner on August 20. Cromartie was eventually shifted back to first base in September with Tim Wallach taking over in right field.\n\nAs a result of the players strike, the owners decided to split the 1981 season into two halves, with the first-place teams from each half in each division meeting in a best-of-five divisional playoff series (the first time that Major League Baseball used a split-season format since ). Cromartie batted .328 with three home runs, eighteen RBIs and 24 runs scored in the second half to help the Expos win the NL East by half a game over the St. Louis Cardinals.\n\nAfter two consecutive near misses, Cromartie and most of his teammates were reaching the post season for the first time in their careers. Cromartie went two-for-four with an RBI double off Steve Carlton in the opening game of the 1981 National League Division Series to help bring his club to a 3-1 victory over the future Hall of Famer. They defeated the Phillies in five games, but lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in a five-game National League Championship Series. Cromartie was in the on-deck circle when the Dodgers recorded the final out of the 1981 National League Championship Series.\n\nJust as the season was set to begin, the Expos acquired first baseman Al Oliver from the Texas Rangers for third baseman Larry Parrish and first baseman Dave Hostetler. With this acquisition, Cromartie was shifted to right field. Cromartie was batting just .211 when he belted a walk-off home run off Cardinals closer Bruce Sutter on June 7. From there, he brought his average up to a far more respectable .250 with decent power numbers (10 home runs, 49 RBIs); however, the Expos still elected to acquire right fielder Joel Youngblood from the New York Mets for a player to be named later on August 4.\n\nYoungblood cost Cromartie playing time when he first arrived in Montreal. The .192 batting average he put up in his first month with his new club, however, prompted manager Jim Fanning to give the job back to Cromartie full-time. For the season, Cromartie batted .254 with 62 RBIs and matched his career high with fourteen home runs.\n\nYoungblood's tenure with the Expos lasted just one season, as did Fanning's. With the arrival of new manager Bill Virdon in , Cromartie found himself in a battle with Terry Francona, who was coming back from a knee injury, for the right field job the following spring. Cromartie won the job, but still saw limited action in . On July 15, Cromartie tipped a food table in the Expos clubhouse following a 9-3 loss to the Atlanta Braves. Virdon suspended him three games for his temper tantrum. Back problems limited him to nine plate appearances in the Expos' final 26 games.\n\nCromartie became a free agent at the end of the season. After receiving some interest from the San Francisco Giants, he instructed agent Cookie Lazarus to send out feelers in Japan. He ended up signing with the Tokyo Yomiuri Giants of Nippon Professional Baseball on December 28, 1983. At thirty years old, Cromartie became the first, and perhaps the most prominent, American player still in his prime to sign with a Japanese baseball team.\n\nUpon his arrival in Japan, his manager, legendary Japanese slugger Sadaharu Oh, noticed a hitch in Cromartie's swing. He had Cromartie take batting practice with a book under his elbow to correct it. He had ten game-winning RBIs in his first season, and belted over thirty home runs in each of his first three seasons. During Cromartie's second season in Japan, his second son, Cody Oh Cromartie, was born. His middle name is in honor of Sadaharu Oh.\n\nThe low point of Cromartie's career in Japan came in June . The Central League suspended Cromartie for seven days and fined him $2143 for inciting a brawl with Masami Miyashita, a Chunichi Dragons pitcher who hit him in the back. The next time the Giants played in Nagoya, over two hundred security guards were employed to protect Cromartie from the angry fans.\n\nA broken thumb also limited him to just 49 games in . He appeared to be on his way to being Wally Pipped when his replacement, Ming-Tsu Lu, clubbed four home runs in his first five games. Lu was Taiwanese, and NPB has a \"gaijin waku,\" or a limit of two foreign born players per team. Cromartie's former teammate with the Expos, pitcher Bill Gullickson, was also a member of the Giants. Given the salaries of Cromartie and Gullickson, Lu ended up being the odd man out.\n\nIn , Cromartie batted .378 with fifteen home runs and 78 RBIs to be named MVP of the Central League, and lead his team to the Japan Series championship. In the deciding game of the series with the Kintetsu Buffaloes, Cromartie doubled in the fourth inning to ignite a three run rally and homered in the seventh. He originally intended to retire at the end of the season, but his success prompted him to spend one more season with the Giants.\n\nCromartie was invited to Spring training with the Kansas City Royals in , and earned a one-year deal at the league minimum to serve as a left-handed bat off the bench. In limited duty, Cromartie batted .313 with one home run and twenty RBIs. He retired during the season with twenty games still remaining on the schedule.\n\nIn seven seasons in Japan, Cromartie batted over.300 five times. All told, he compiled a .321 batting average with 171 home runs and 558 RBIs for the Yomiuri Giants. He led the Giants three times in RBIs, twice in home runs and twice in batting.\n\nCromartie is an accomplished drummer, and has jammed with Canadian rock band Rush. A blueprint for the fictional \"Warren Cromartie Secondary School\" appears on the back cover of Rush's 1982 release, \"Signals\", and Cromartie is thanked in the album's liner notes.\n\nWhile in Japan, Cromartie formed an R&B band called Climb with David Rosenthal of Rainbow. Rush lead singer Geddy Lee appears on the track \"Who's Missin' Who\" from their 1988 release, \"Take A Chance\". Mitch Malloy and Foreigner's Lou Gramm also make guest appearances on the album.\n\nRight as his only season in Kansas City was set to start, his autobiography (co-written with Robert Whiting) detailing his playing days in Japan, \"Slugging It Out in Japan: An American Major-Leaguer in the Tokyo Outfield\", hit bookstores.\n\nCromartie began doing Florida Marlins pre-game shows for WQAM radio in , and remained a broadcaster with the Marlins in one form or another through . He served as the television color commentator for the Montreal Expos in the team's final year of existence (). He currently hosts a radio show on WAXY 790 AM in Miami, Florida. \"Talking Hardball with The Cro\" currently airs on Saturday during baseball season. He has his own segment on the TSN 690 in Montreal, and regularly airs at 4:00 PM Eastern on weekdays with Mitch Melnick.\n\nIn , Cromartie sued the makers of a film based on the manga/anime series \"Cromartie High School\" in Japanese court. The series does not feature Cromartie himself but does depict students who \"smoke, fight with students from other schools and are depicted as ruffians\" which he says defames his character as the school shares his name.\n\nThe Miami native held his first baseball camp at Miami-Dade Community College's North Campus in . He was the manager of the Japan Samurai Bears, an all-Japanese team in the independent U.S. Golden Baseball League during the league's only season (). Danny Gold and Matthew Asner of Mod 3 Productions filmed a documentary of the club entitled \"Season of the Samurai\". It aired on the MLB Network in .\n\nHe formed the Montreal Baseball Project in to launch a feasibility study into bringing Major League Baseball back to Montreal.\n\nHe, Andre Dawson and Cecil Fielder of the Detroit Tigers (whom Cromartie met while the two played in Japan) teamed up to form \"Sports Dent\" in . The company produced baseball themed dental hygiene products, including a baseball bat shaped toothbrush, a toothbrush holder that plays \"Take Me Out to the Ballgame\", a dental floss dispenser shaped like home plate and mock baseball cards to record one's \"Runs brushed in.\"\n\nIn , he made his professional wrestling debut at an event called \"Hustle Aid\" to benefit leukemia research. He and Ryoji Sai took on Tiger Jeet Singh and An Joenosuke in a tag team match at Tokyo's Saitama Arena. As Singh is known for walking around with a sword in his mouth, Cromartie showed up with a baseball bat, and wearing a baseball uniform with the words \"Samurai Man\" across his chest and the number 49 from his playing days on the back. The match ended with Cromartie pinning Singh for the victory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170956", "title": "Alexandre Koyré", "text": "Alexandre Koyré\n\nAlexandre Koyré (, ; 29 August 1892 – 28 April 1964), also anglicized as Alexander Koyre, was a French philosopher of Russian origin who wrote on the history and philosophy of science.\n\nKoyré was born in the city of Taganrog, Russia on 29 August 1892 into a Jewish family. His original name was Alexandr Vladimirovich Koyre (Александр Владимирович (Вольфович) Койре). In Russia he studied in Tiflis, Rostov-on-Don and Odessa, before pursuing his studies abroad.\n\nAt Göttingen, Germany (1908–1911) he studied under Edmund Husserl and David Hilbert. Husserl did not approve of Koyré's dissertation, whereupon Koyré left for Paris, to study at the Collège de France and the Sorbonne during the period 1912–1913 under Bergson, Brunschvicg, Lalande, Delbos and Picavet. Following Husserl's \"Cartesian Meditations\", a series of lectures given in Paris in February 1929 (and one of the more important of Husserl's later works), Koyré met again with Husserl repeatedly.\n\nIn 1914 he joined the French Foreign Legion as soon as the war broke out. In 1916 he volunteered for a Russian regiment fighting on the Russian front, following a cooperation agreement between the French and Russian governments.\n\nIn 1922 Koyré completed his two State doctorate (then called \"Doctorat ès lettres\") theses. The same year he started teaching in Paris at the École pratique des hautes études (EPHE), and became a colleague of Alexandre Kojève, who eventually replaced him as lecturer on Hegel. In 1932 the EPHE created a Department of History of Religious Thought in Modern Europe for him to chair. He retained this position until his death.\n\nDuring the years 1932–34, 1936–38, and 1940–41, Koyré taught in Fuad University (later Cairo University) where, along with André Lalande and others, he introduced the study of modern philosophy to Egyptian academia. His most important student in Cairo was Abdel Rahman Badawi (1917–2002) who is considered the first systematic modern Arab philosopher. Koyré later joined the Egyptian National Committee of the Free French.\n\nDuring World War II, Koyré lived in New York City, and taught at the New School for Social Research. After World War II, he was a frequent visitor to the United States, spending half a year at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton each year from 1955 to 1962 and also teaching as a visiting professor at Harvard, Yale, the University of Chicago, the University of Wisconsin, and Johns Hopkins. His lectures at Johns Hopkins would form the nucleus of one of his best known publications, \"From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe\" (1957). Koyré was general secretary and Vice President of the Institut International de Philosophie, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a recipient of the George Sarton Medal of the History of Science Society, and of the Silver Medal of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.\n\nHe died in Paris on 28 April 1964.\n\nThough best known as a philosopher of science, Koyré started out as a historian of religion. Much of his originality for the period rests on his ability to ground his studies of modern science on the history of religion and metaphysics.\n\nKoyré focused on Galileo, Plato and Isaac Newton. His most famous work is \"From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe\", a series of lectures given at The Johns Hopkins University in 1959 on the rise of early modern science and the change of scientists' perception of the world during the period from Nicholas of Cusa and Giordano Bruno through Newton. Though the book has been widely heralded, it was a summation of Koyré's perspective rather than an original new work.\n\nKoyré was suspicious of scientists' claims to prove natural or fundamental truths through experiments. He argued these experiments were based on complicated premises, and that they tended to prove the outlook behind these premises, rather than any real truth. He repeatedly critiqued Galileo's experiments, claiming that some of them could not have taken place, and disputed the results Galileo claimed and which modern historians of science had hitherto accepted.\n\nAccording to Koyré, it was not the experimental or empirical nature of Galileo's and Newton's discoveries that carried the Scientific Revolution of the 16th and 17th centuries, but a shift in perspective, a change in theoretical outlook toward the world. Koyré strongly criticized what he called the \"positivist\" notion that science should only discover given phenomena, the relations between them and certain laws that would help to describe or predict them. To Koyré science was, at its heart, theory: an aspiration to know the truth of the world, of uncovering the essential structures from which phenomena, and the basic laws that relate them, spring.\n\nKoyré was also interested in the correlations between scientific discoveries and religious or philosophical worldviews. Like Husserl in his later studies, Koyré claimed that modern science had succeeded in overcoming the split, inherent in traditional Aristotelian science, between Earth and Space, since these were now both seen as governed by the same laws. On the other hand, another split had now been created, between the phenomenal world inhabited by man and the purely abstract, mathematical world of science. Koyré aimed to show how this \"first world\", the world of human dwelling (personal and historical), apparently irrelevant to modern naturalistic research, was by no means irrelevant for the very constitution and development of this research. Koyré consistently sought to show how scientific truth is always discovered in correlation with specific historical, even purely personal, circumstances.\n\nKoyré's work can be seen as a systematic analysis of the constitutive achievements that resulted in scientific knowledge, but with particular emphasis on the historical, and specifically human, circumstances that generate the scientists' phenomenal world and serve as foundation for all scientific constitutions of meaning.\n\nKoyré influenced major European and American philosophers of science, most significantly Thomas Kuhn, Imre Lakatos and Paul Feyerabend. In 1961 he was awarded the Sarton Medal by the History of Science Society.\n\nIn the course of his studies of Galileo, Koyré famously claimed that the experiments with weights falling and rolling on inclined planes that Galileo described in his writings probably had not been carried out in practice, but were instead thought experiments intended to illustrate his deductions. Koyré argued that the precision of the results reported by Galileo was not possible with the technology available to him and quoted the contemporary judgement of Marin Mersenne, who had questioned the feasibility of reproducing Galileo's results. Furthermore, according to Koyré, Galileo's science was largely a product of his Platonist philosophy and did not really derive from experimental observations.\n\nKoyré's conclusions were first challenged in 1961 by Thomas B. Settle, who as a graduate student at Cornell University succeeded in reproducing Galileo's experiments with inclined planes using the methods and technologies described in Galileo's writing. Later, Stillman Drake and others worked through Galileo's notes and demonstrated that Galileo was a careful experimentalist whose observations did play a pivotal role in the development of his scientific system that he later claimed in his published work. Koyré has been further criticised for his claim about Galileo's Platonism, which he saw as a synonym with mathematics and mathematization of nature. As the Italian scholar Lodovico Geymonat has proved, in fact, Platonism as a tradition does not helpfully illuminate the development of Galileo's mathematical studies which are mostly concerned with applied mathematics, engineering and mechanics fields that neither Plato nor Platonist authors were much interested in.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170957", "title": "Barbegazi", "text": "Barbegazi\n\nBarbegazi are mythical creatures from Swiss and French mythology. A variety of dwarf or gnome, a barbegazi resembles a small white-furred man with a long beard and enormous feet. They travel in the mountains that are their home by skiing with their massive feet, or using them as snowshoes. In the summer they aestivate in caves and tunnels and do not come out until the first snowfall. The word barbegazi comes from the French \"barbe-glacée\", meaning \"frozen beard\". Because of their penchant for high altitudes and low temperatures, they are rarely sighted by humans, but sometimes help shepherds round up lost sheep. Their greatest known excitement is surfing on avalanches with their remarkably large feet, but they are said to give low whistling cries to warn humans of the danger above, sometimes they will give their best effort to dig humans out from the snow.\n\nA modern addition to this myth is the rumored migration of the Barbegazi to North America, predominantly to a locale of French origin in northwest Minnesota named Roseau County. Numerous sightings have been reported along the Roseau River, in the depths of the often frigid northern Minnesota winters. \n"}
{"id": "2170962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170962", "title": "Saussurea", "text": "Saussurea\n\nSaussurea is a genus of about 300 species of flowering plants in the thistle tribe within the daisy family, native to cool temperate and arctic regions of Asia, Europe, and North America, with the highest diversity in alpine habitats in the Himalaya and central Asia. Common names include saw-wort and snow lotus, the latter used for a number of high altitude species in central Asia.\n\nThey are perennial herbaceous plants, ranging in height from dwarf alpine species 5–10 cm tall, to tall thistle-like plants up to 3 m tall. The leaves are produced in a dense basal rosette, and then spirally up the flowering stem. The flowers form in a dense head of small capitula, often surrounded by dense white to purple woolly hairs; the individual florets are also white to purple. The wool is densest in the high altitude species, and aid in thermoregulation of the flowers, minimising frost damage at night, and also preventing ultraviolet light damage from the intense high altitude sunlight.\n\nDe Candolle named the genus after Horace-Bénédict de Saussure (1740-1799) and Nicolas-Théodore de Saussure (1767–1845).\n\nA number of the high alpine Himalayan species are grown as ornamental plants for their decorative dense woolly flowerheads; they are among the most challenging plants to grow, being adapted to harsh climates from 3500–5000 m altitude, demanding cool temperatures, a very long (up to 8–10 months) winter rest period, and very good soil drainage in humus-rich gravel soils.\n\nCosti amari radix or costus root was an important item of Roman trade with India, and is believed to have been the dried root of \"Saussurea lappa\".\n\nSeveral varieties of snow lotus are used in traditional Tibetan medicine. \"Saussurea lappa\" is used a component of the traditional Tibetan medicine Padma 28. Research conducted on the Himalayan medicinal plants by C.P. Kala reveals that the practitioners of Tibetan medicine living in the Pin Valley of Himachal Pradesh use its root for curing dysentery and ulcer. Saussurea laniceps \", Saussurea involucrata\" and Saussurea medusa flowers and stems have long been used in traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, cough with cold, stomachache, dysmenorrhea, and altitude sickness, and has been found to have antiinflammatory and analgesic effects, as well as cardiotonic, abortifacient, anticancer, and antifatigue actions. Saussurea laniceps have been proven to be more effective than \"Saussurea involucrata and Saussurea Medusa.\" \n\n\"Saussurea obvallata\", known as \"brahmakamala\" in India is one of the most sacred species, and it has been used for offerings to goddess Nanda Devi for time immemorial.\n\n\"Saussurea lappa\" and has been shown to inhibit the mRNA expression of iNOS by lipopolysaccharide stimulated macrophages, thus reducing nitric oxide production. In rats, high doses of 50-200 milligrams per kilogram of crude ethanolic extract reduced observed inflammation in standard laboratory tests, and 25-100 milligrams per kilogram of the sesquiterpene fraction of the extract reduced several molecular markers of inflammation. Ethanol extracts were shown to have analgesic and antiinflammatory effects at high doses of 75-300 milligrams per kilogram. As the slow-growing wild plant is endangered by collections, a substitute grown in tissue culture has been suggested, which is mostly equivalent. Generally the analgesic and antiinflammatory effects of the plant are much inferior to those of indometacin.\n\nIn most Chinese martial arts literature, the snow Lotus was classified a rare herb as precious as lingzhi mushroom, and old ginseng.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170969", "title": "Supernatural (American TV series)", "text": "Supernatural (American TV series)\n\nSupernatural is an American dark fantasy television series created by Eric Kripke. It was first broadcast on September 13, 2005, on The WB, and subsequently became part of successor The CW's lineup. Starring Jared Padalecki as Sam Winchester and Jensen Ackles as Dean Winchester, the series follows the two brothers as they hunt demons, ghosts, monsters, and other supernatural beings. The series is produced by Warner Bros. Television, in association with Wonderland Sound and Vision. Along with Kripke, executive producers have been McG, Robert Singer, Phil Sgriccia, Sera Gamble, Jeremy Carver, John Shiban, Ben Edlund and Adam Glass. Former executive producer and director Kim Manners died of lung cancer during production of the fourth season.\n\nThe series is filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia and surrounding areas and was in development for nearly ten years, as creator Kripke spent several years unsuccessfully pitching it. The pilot was viewed by an estimated 5.69 million viewers, and the ratings of the first four episodes prompted The WB to pick up the series for a full season. Originally, Kripke planned the series for three seasons but later expanded it to five. The fifth season concluded the series' main storyline, and Kripke departed the series as showrunner. The series has continued on for several more seasons with new showrunners, including Sera Gamble, Jeremy Carver, Robert Singer and Andrew Dabb. With its eleventh season, \"Supernatural\" became the longest-running American live-action fantasy TV series. The series was renewed for a fifteenth and final season to consist of 20 episodes, which premiered on October 10, 2019.\n\nBefore bringing \"Supernatural\" to television, creator Eric Kripke had been developing the series for nearly ten years, having been fascinated with urban legends since he was a child. He had originally envisioned \"Supernatural\" as a movie. He later developed it as a TV series and spent a few years pitching it before it was picked up by The WB. The concept went through several phases before becoming the eventual product, shifting from the original idea of an anthology series to one of tabloid reporters driving around the country in a van \"fighting the demons in search of the truth\". Kripke wanted it to be a road trip series, feeling that it was the \"best vehicle to tell these stories because it's pure, stripped down and uniquely American... These stories exist in these small towns all across the country, and it just makes so much sense to drive in and out of these stories.\"\n\nAs he had previously written for The WB series \"Tarzan\", Kripke was offered the chance to pitch show ideas to the network and used the opportunity for \"Supernatural\". However, the network disliked his tabloid reporter idea, so Kripke successfully pitched his last-minute idea of the characters being brothers. He decided to have the brothers be from Lawrence, Kansas, because of its closeness to Stull Cemetery, a location famous for its urban legends.\n\nWhen it came time to name the two lead characters, Kripke decided on \"Sal\" and \"Dean\" as an homage to Jack Kerouac's road-trip novel \"On the Road\". However, he felt that \"Sal\" was inappropriate for a main character and changed the name to \"Sam\". It was originally intended for the brothers' last name to be \"Harrison\" as a nod to actor Harrison Ford, as Kripke wanted Dean to have the \"devil-may-care swagger of Han Solo\". However, there was a Sam Harrison living in Kansas, so the name had to be changed for legal reasons. Combining his interest in the Winchester Mystery House and his desire to give the series the feel of \"a modern-day Western\", Kripke settled on the surname of \"Winchester\". However, this also presented a problem. The first name of Sam and Dean's father was originally \"Jack\", and there was a Jack Winchester residing in Kansas, so Kripke was forced to change the character's name to \"John\".\nGrowing up, Kripke connected to television shows that had signature cars, such as \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" and \"Knight Rider\". This prompted him to include one in \"Supernatural\". \"We say it's a modern American Western – two gunslingers who ride into town, fight the bad guys, kiss the girl and ride out into the sunset again. And we were always talking from the very beginning that if you're going to have cowboys, they need a trusty horse.\" He originally intended for the car to be a '65 Mustang, but his neighbor convinced him to change it to a '67 Impala, since \"you can put a body in the trunk\" and because \"you want a car that, when people stop next to it at the lights, they lock their doors.\" Kripke has commented, \"It's a Rottweiler of a car, and I think it adds authenticity for fans of automobiles because of that, because it's not a pretty ride. It's an aggressive, muscular car, and I think that's what people respond to, and why it fits so well into the tone of our show.\"\n\nKripke had previously pitched the series to Fox executive Peter Johnson, and when Johnson moved to Wonderland Sound and Vision as president of TV, he contacted Kripke. Johnson soon signed on as co-executive producer, as did Wonderland owner McG as executive producer, with the production company set to make the pilot episode. Before it could be filmed, however, script issues needed to be dealt with. Originally, the brothers were not raised by their father, but rather by their aunt and uncle. Thus, when Dean comes to Sam for assistance in the pilot episode, he has to convince him that the supernatural exists. However, Kripke realized that this made the backstory too complicated and reworked it with Peter Johnson so that their father raised them to be hunters. The script went through many additional revisions. One of the original ideas was for Sam's girlfriend Jessica to be revealed as a demon, which prompts him to join Dean on the road; however, Kripke felt it was more appropriate for Sam's motivation to be Jessica's death, so he had her killed in the same manner as Sam's mother, making them the \"right bookends\". Other revised concepts include Sam believing Dean to be a serial killer who murders their father and their father dying in Jessica's place. Filming for the pilot episode was greenlit after director David Nutter, who previously had worked with Kripke on \"Tarzan\", signed on. When the series was eventually picked up, the studio brought in Robert Singer as executive producer, as it wanted Kripke to work with someone with production experience. Due to his previous work on \"The X-Files, \"co-executive producer John Shiban was also hired to help design the series mythology. Kripke had the series planned out for three seasons but later expanded it to five and hoped to end it there on a high note.\n\nThe staff for the first season consisted of Kripke and five other writers, with assistants to help with researching urban legends. Most of the work done in writing the series is very collaborative, with the writers often breaking up into groups. At the beginning of each season, the writers are brought together and pitch their ideas, which are then assigned to a specific writer to be developed. Each story idea is outlined on a dry-erase board, with Kripke and Bob Singer making necessary changes. Afterward, the script is written, and Kripke goes through it to make sure it has the same tone as other episodes. Kripke found this task very difficult to do in the first season, but he felt it became easier by the third season, as the staff came to \"really understand the show's style\". Following the fifth season, Kripke stepped down as showrunner but maintained his connection with the series as an executive consultant. In a 2016 interview with \"Collider\", he responded to the question as to how involved he still is with the show with the answer, \"I would define myself as a proud parent who has sent their child off to college.\" He elaborated on this analogy, explaining, \"I'm there if they need me, I'm happy to help, but I also stay out of their way if they don't need me.\"\n\nThe tone of \"Supernatural\" was heavily influenced by films such as \"Poltergeist\"—having the horror happen in a family setting rather than remote location—and \"Evil Dead II\" and \"An American Werewolf in London\"—having bits of comedy mixed in. Commenting on the former, Kripke said, \"It's the idea that horror can happen in your own backyard. How many viewers have to worry about the vampire in the gothic castle?\" \"It's always been a show about \"family\".\" Other influences include \"The Two Sisters\" and Asian horror films \"The Eye\", \"Ju-on\", and \"Ring\".\n\nAccording to creator Eric Kripke, the show originally was intended to focus on the weekly monsters, with Sam and Dean Winchester merely being \"an engine to get us in and out of different horror movies every week\". His sole desire was to merely \"scare the crap out of people\". However, a few episodes in, Kripke and executive producer Bob Singer noticed the onscreen chemistry between Jared Padalecki and Jensen Ackles. This revelation caused them to change the series to focus more on the brothers than the monsters, basing the weekly monster around the storyline they wanted for the Winchesters. According to Kripke, \"... sometimes we don't even have the monster until way late in the break, once we get all the angst and the drama done first.\"\n\nThough companies were hired for work on the pilot episode—such as Entity FX for the visual effects—effects departments now work exclusively for the series. Ivan Hayden is the visual effects supervisor, and works with many levels of the production staff. During pre-production, Hayden must go through the scripts, looking for possible visual effects. He then has a concept meeting with the writers, and after settling on the effect designs to use, coordinates with the special effects and stunt departments. Hayden is also present during filming to help the director make sure that the scenes are being filmed in the best way for the visual effects, such as by ensuring that the actors are looking at the correct location where an effect will later be added. Afterward, he then meets with the editors. Another aspect of the visual effects department is coming up with rules and physics for each supernatural creature, though the rules are often bent if it benefits the story. In 2012, it was announced that Hayden would be working at the new Vancouver location of Encore for its VFX division.\n\n\"Supernatural\" features a synthesized orchestral score, although traditional acoustic instruments such as guitars and cellos are used at times. Special instruments have also been used in specific episodes, such as \"bluesy gospel music\" played on a broken-down piano in the faith-healing episode \"Faith\". Unlike other television shows, the series features two composers: Christopher Lennertz and Jay Gruska. Each composer scores every other episode, giving them extra time to write the scores, which usually end up being around 30 minutes per episode. They write themes for their own episodes and characters and work with one another if there is overlap between episodes. They try to base the music on the visuals of the episode, such as in the episode \"Dead in the Water\", in which off-angle shots are accompanied by repetitive and discordant notes, and spoken words such as \"water\" and \"die\" are followed by a lower pitch to create a \"gurgly\" sound. While there are similarities in the scores for situations such as the brothers and their father, about a third of each episode's score is newly written for the series.\n\nWhile original scores are used throughout episodes, another important aspect of the series' music is the use of classic rock, over which creator Eric Kripke threatened to quit when the network would not allow its inclusion. Most of the songs are from Kripke's private collection, although one of his favorite bands—Led Zeppelin—is too expensive to use. Some episode titles are references to Led Zeppelin songs. The series has featured such bands as Blue Öyster Cult, Bad Company, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Rush, Boston, Triumph and AC/DC on more than one occasion. Multiple songs are usually used throughout each episode, and accompany \"The Road So Far\" sequences before select episodes that highlight a montage of past events. Although Kripke prefers to keep a fine line between the score and songs used, sometimes Lennertz and Gruska are required to write short sections of rock-like music to fill 15-to-20-second gaps, as it would be too costly to acquire song rights. On the last episode of every season except the first, the song \"Carry On Wayward Son\" by Kansas is played at the beginning.\n\nThough the pilot was filmed in Los Angeles, principal filming takes place in Vancouver, British Columbia. Thus, on-location filming usually takes place in the area. \"Dead in the Water\" was filmed at Buntzen Lake, and the final scenes of \"Simon Said\" were filmed at Cleveland Dam. Other locations used on the show are often reused two or three times, with the art department making variations to conceal this. Heritage Park in Burnaby has been used as a cemetery in \"Red Sky at Morning\", and as the location of the gingerbread-house cottage in \"Bedtime Stories\". Also, Riverview Hospital in Coquitlam has served many functions for the series, including an asylum in \"Asylum\", a hospital in \"In My Time of Dying\", and a prison in \"Folsom Prison Blues\". The episode \"Houses of the Holy\" was filmed on location in Vancouver at St. Andrew's-Wesley United Church. Because episodes usually take place in the middle of nowhere, filming often takes place at an old military base. Having been shut down for years, the buildings have been removed, leaving just roads on which sets are erected, such as for crossroads scenes.\n\nRather than having the series debut on television, The WB instead made the pilot episode available for online streaming through Yahoo! a week before it was set to premiere on the network as part of a promotional scheme. Following the transition to The CW, \"Supernatural\" episodes were added to Apple's iTunes Store starting in December 2006, being one of the first CW series to be made available for sale online. The following month, the network began streaming episodes of the series on its website with limited commercial interruption, available for up to four weeks after the initial airings. Beginning January 11, 2007, Australia's Network Ten also began offering full episodes for download via their website, through a deal with Warner Bros. Television. To combat piracy, Ten debuted the second-season premiere five days before its initial broadcast in the country, making \"Supernatural\" the first major network show available for free download in Australia before being aired. Subsequent episodes became available online just hours after being televised. Around the same time, episodes were also made available for download on Microsoft's Xbox Live Marketplace. In September 2008, Amazon.com launched its new on-demand TV service, with \"Supernatural\" being one of the many television shows available for sale.\n\nThe series originally focuses primarily on the brothers Dean Winchester and Sam Winchester, played by Jensen Ackles and Jared Padalecki, as they travel throughout the country hunting down evil supernatural creatures. Padalecki became interested in the role because he liked horror series, including both \"The X-Files\" and \"The Twilight Zone\", which he found similar to the proposed plot of \"Supernatural\". He was also excited to play \"the reluctant hero\", comparing Sam to \"The Matrix\"s Neo and Luke Skywalker of \"Star Wars\". Padalecki had previous experience working with executive producers McG and David Nutter, the former convincing him to audition for the role. Ackles was originally asked by Nutter to audition for the role of Sam but preferred the character of Dean after reading the script. At the time of his audition, he was already a series regular on fellow WB series \"Smallville\". After landing the part of Dean, his \"Smallville\" role was cut short.\n\nWhile the series does not have many lead characters, there are many recurring characters. Jeffrey Dean Morgan portrays John Winchester, father of Sam and Dean. Making an appearance in the pilot episode, John does not return until nearly halfway through the first season, after which he becomes a recurring character until his eventual death in the second season's premiere episode, though his spirit returns to help his sons in the season finale. Later in the series, it is announced that John Winchester fathered a third son with another woman; a half-brother to Sam and Dean. According to writer John Shiban, it was decided early on that John would die. The writers found that having the brothers being separated from their father \"split the show\". Shiban noted that \"... the boys were looking for Dad, and they were looking for a monster of the week, whatever that is, whatever case crosses their path. It became difficult, because we thought it was like – 'what is Dad doing? Is he doing more interesting things than the boys are doing, or what?'\" They believed Morgan was initially reluctant about returning to \"Supernatural\" for the second season because of his recurring role on the series \"Grey's Anatomy\". Future appearances of the character have been hindered by Morgan's busy schedule.\n\nAlso introduced in the first season are the demon Azazel and his unnamed daughter. While Azazel mainly appears merely as shadows or silhouettes in the first season, taking physical form only when he possesses John Winchester, Azazel's daughter uses a girl named Meg Masters—portrayed by Nicki Lynn Aycox—as a host. In the second-season premiere, Azazel's host is portrayed by Fredric Lehne; originally brought on for only one episode, Lehne impressed the showrunners so much that he was asked to return for the season's two-part finale. Even after the character's death, Azazel makes appearances in subsequent seasons, being portrayed by different actors. Lehne also reprises the role in the first episode of season six when Dean is poisoned and begins to see Azazel again. Likewise, after Azazel's daughter is exorcised from Meg towards the end of the first season, the demon and her host continued to appear in the series, although now as two separate characters. Aycox continued her role in the fourth season when the angry spirit of Meg tries to kill the Winchesters. The demon returns for an episode in the second season played by Padalecki, temporarily taking Sam as a host. She appears once again in the fifth season, her newest host being portrayed by Rachel Miner, in a recurring role.\n\nThe writers eventually wanted to flesh out the concept of hunters, resulting in the introduction of many new characters. Actor Jim Beaver makes his first appearance as Bobby Singer, an old family friend of the Winchesters, at the end of the first season. Becoming a sort of surrogate father to Sam and Dean after their father's death, the character acts as their mentor and foremost point of contact before his departure in the seventh season. Other hunters appear in the second season with the introduction of Harvelle's Roadhouse, a saloon frequented by hunters. It is owned by Ellen Harvelle (played by Samantha Ferris), whose late husband was a friend of John Winchester. Working alongside her mother is Jo Harvelle (played by Alona Tal). Also present is the computer guy Ash (played by Chad Lindberg), who uses his vast computer skills to track the paranormal. Tal was eventually written out of the series, and believes the reason to be that the producers felt she looked like Sam and Dean's \"14-year-old sister\". Kripke claims the character was incorrectly conceived, and also cites poor fan reaction for her removal. Also, the character of Ash is killed off in the second-season finale with the destruction of the Roadhouse. Ellen was meant to return in the third season, but the episode had to be scrapped due to the writer's strike. The writers intended for her to be featured in the third-season finale, but Ferris declined because the deal offered to her was not acceptable, as \"It could cost [her] money and work\". However, both actresses returned as Jo and Ellen in the fifth season.\n\nFor the third season, the writers decided to introduce Ruby, a demonic former witch who claims to be an ally to the Winchesters. However, The CW requested that another female be added, so the character Bela Talbot, a self-centered thief who sells occult objects to wealthy clients and who was already intended to appear in multiple episodes, was upgraded to a series regular. Katie Cassidy and Lauren Cohan were eventually cast as Ruby and Bela, respectively, though they originally auditioned for the others' role. Though making only six appearances each in the third season, both actresses were credited as co-stars for their episodes. At the end of the season, Bela was killed off, and Cassidy was let go for budgetary reasons. The role of Ruby was recast for the fourth season, auditions describing the character only as \"a love interest\". Genevieve Cortese (who later married Padalecki) took over the role until the character's death at the end of the season.\n\nWanting to bring in Christian mythology to the series, the writers created the angel Castiel. With Kripke wanting to keep the introduction of an angel a secret, the character was instead described as a demon during auditions. Misha Collins was cast as the character. Making his debut in the fourth-season premiere, Castiel resurrects Dean from Hell after his death in the third season, and comes to be an ally of the Winchesters. The character was originally intended for only a six-episode story arc, but the role was later expanded. Collins was promoted to a series regular for the fifth and sixth season, something Collins believes to be mainly due to fan support. Collins was downgraded to recurring status for the seventh and eighth seasons, but returned to series regular status for seasons nine and ten.\n\nAlong with Castiel came other angelic characters, with Robert Wisdom portraying the \"militant\" and \"dogmatic\" Uriel, who secretly supports Lucifer; Julie McNiven playing the fallen angel Anna Milton, who eventually regains her angelic form but remains an outcast of Heaven; and Kurt Fuller as Castiel's boss Zachariah, who wishes to start the Apocalypse in order to bring Paradise to Earth. Though Wisdom's character is eventually killed, McNiven and Fuller continue their roles into the fifth season and are joined by Mark Pellegrino as the recently released but fallen archangel Lucifer. Pellegrino also appears as Lucifer as a hallucination in Sam's head in season 7. Pellegrino had been the second choice for the role of Castiel and was offered the role of Lucifer without an audition. Further on, Fuller's and McNiven's characters were also killed along with both Harvelle characters.\n\nSeason 5 introduces the demon Crowley, played by Mark Sheppard, who would become the Winchester's longest-recurring antagonist and occasional anti-hero in the series. Crowley appears in three episodes of season 5 to help the Winchesters seal Lucifer back in the Cage, believing that once he destroys humanity he will target all demonkind next. In season 6, Crowley becomes the King of Hell and one of the main antagonists working with Castiel to stop Archangel Raphael, the other main antagonist of season 6, from restarting the Apocalypse by harnessing the souls of Purgatory and splitting the power with Castiel. In season 7, Crowley becomes an anti-hero who helps the Winchesters against the threat of Leviathans led by Dick Roman, after they are released from Purgatory by Castiel. Crowley becomes the main antagonist of season 8, attempting to harness the Words of God and their powers and stop the Winchesters from sealing Hell forever. In season 9, Crowley becomes an unwilling prisoner of the Winchesters but is forced to deal with Abaddon trying to steal his position as King of Hell. Sheppard was promoted to series regular status for season 10.\n\nSeason 7 introduces Kevin Tran the prophet (played by Osric Chau), who translates the word of God to help the Winchesters stop the Leviathans which leads to their destruction. In season 8, Kevin works to translate another word of God to find the means of sealing Hell forever. In season 9, Kevin instead tries to find the means of returning the fallen angels to Heaven but is killed by a Gadreel-possessed Sam.\n\nAlso introduced in Season 7 is Charlie Bradbury, a tech-savvy geek (played by Felicia Day) who works at Richard Roman Enterprises. After hacking into Frank's hard drive and learning about the existence of monsters, Charlie becomes an ally of the Winchesters and occasionally helps them out with technical problems and hunts.\n\nSeason 9 introduces the angel Gadreel, who originally poses as Ezekiel, played by Tahmoh Penikett and Padalecki. After Sam is seriously injured when he decides not to seal Hell, Gadreel comes to Dean in response to his prayer for help, possesses Sam to heal him, and becomes Dean's ally. However, Gadreel's true identity is later revealed by Metatron to be the guardian who had allowed Lucifer into the Garden of Eden and was imprisoned until the fall. Gadreel then allies with Metatron in an attempt to redeem himself and lead the angels back to Heaven. He kills Kevin Tran and is later expelled from Sam and possesses his original vessel again. However, after Metatron begins sacrificing angels for his plans, Gadreel becomes regretful and joins Sam, Dean and Castiel.\n\nBecause the show focuses mainly on the two Winchester brothers, the writers realized that viewers would know that the characters are not in danger of being permanently killed. To fix this, the staff often writes in guest characters to give tension to the episode, occasionally having them die.\n\nThe first season consists of 22 episodes that premiered on September 13, 2005, and concluded on May 4, 2006. The first 16 episodes aired on Tuesdays at 9:00 pm, after which the series was rescheduled to Thursdays at 9:00 pm.\n\nAfter their mother's death in a suspicious fire that burns down their house 22 years prior, Sam and Dean Winchester's father goes missing during a \"hunting trip\". As a result, Dean tracks down Sam at Stanford University and they begin to live a life on the road, in Dean's black 1967 Chevrolet Impala with Kansas license plates. However, their father is not a typical hunter: he hunts supernatural creatures like ghosts, vampires, and spirits, and has trained his sons to do the same. Along the way, Sam and Dean save innocent people, fight creatures and ghosts, and collect clues to their father's whereabouts. Sam begins to mysteriously develop psychic abilities and visions as they travel. They also find another man with abilities similar to Sam's, whose mother died the same way. They reach out to the young man, Max Miller, offering help and seeking answers. But Max has experienced years of physical abuse and neglect and his life ends in a murder suicide which Dean and Sam are unable to stop. They eventually find and reunite with their father, who reveals that the creature that killed their mother years earlier is the demon Azazel (aka \"Yellow Eyes\") and the only thing that can kill him is a legendary gun created by Samuel Colt. It is revealed that Azazel, on a baby's six-month birthday, would bleed into their mouth and kill the moms when they walk in. This is what gave Sam and Max their powers. The season ends with the brothers and their father involved in a car crash when a truck hits the side of the Impala. They lie inside the car, covered in blood and unconscious.\n\nThe second season consists of 22 episodes that aired on Thursdays at 9:00 pm beginning September 28, 2006, and ending May 17, 2007.\n\nThe season follows Sam and Dean as they deal with their father's death, who, after the car crash, traded Azazel his life for Dean's. Sam and Dean continue to hunt Azazel, who caused the fires that led to the deaths of their mother, and later, Sam's girlfriend, Jessica. They receive assistance from new allies Bobby, Ellen, Jo, and Ash. Part of Azazel's master plan is eventually revealed as he gathers Sam and others with similar psychic abilities to fight each other, leading to Sam's death. Dean makes a deal with a crossroads demon to bring Sam back in exchange for his soul, which will be collected in one year and taken to Hell. Azazel opens a portal to Hell, and as hundreds of demons and souls escape, has a final confrontation with the Winchesters. With the help of the spirit of John Winchester, who escaped Hell through the portal, Dean finally kills Azazel and the portal is closed. The Winchester brothers and their allies are left to deal with the demon army that has been unleashed and the one-year contract Dean has before he goes to Hell.\n\nThe third season consists of 16 episodes that aired on Thursdays at 9:00 pm beginning October 4, 2007, and ending May 15, 2008. Originally 22 episodes were ordered for the third season, but production was halted on December 5, 2007, upon completion of the twelfth episode by the 2007–08 Writers Guild of America strike. The season number was shortened to sixteen episodes, with four new episodes airing in April and May 2008.\n\nThe season focuses on trying to save Dean from his deal and tracking down the demons that were released from hell. Along the way, the brothers meet Ruby, a \"good\" demon, who has an interest in Sam and claims to be able to help save Dean. Also, they meet Bela Talbot, an acquirer and seller of occult objects, who becomes a thorn in their side. The brothers learn from Bela which demon holds Dean's contract: a powerful demon named Lilith. Lilith is the very first demon ever made, with her soul being twisted by Lucifer himself in a spite against God for kicking him out. Lilith takes Bela's soul after her contract expires, but not before she warns Sam and Dean. The brothers, along with Ruby, track Lilith down and attempt to kill her. Lilith is unable to stop Sam on account of his mysterious abilities; however, Dean's contract expires and his soul is taken to Hell.\n\nThe fourth season consists of 22 episodes that aired on Thursdays at 9:00 pm beginning September 18, 2008, and ending May 14, 2009.\n\nDean is rescued from Hell and brought back by an angel of the Lord named Castiel. The rest of the season follows the brothers as they work with Castiel to stop Lilith's plan of breaking the 66 seals, which would allow the fallen archangel Lucifer, AKA \"the Devil\" or \"Satan himself\", to walk the Earth free once again. Sam and Dean's relationship is strained and Sam starts siding with Ruby over Dean. He begins to give into his demonic side by drinking demon blood to become strong enough to defeat Lilith. He and Dean have a falling-out. Sam sides with Ruby in his obsessive quest to kill Lilith. Dean makes a deal with the angels to save Sam, and learns that the angels want the Apocalypse to occur in order to rebuild Paradise on Earth. With aid from Castiel, Dean escapes and tries to stop Sam after learning that Lilith is, in fact, the last seal, but Sam kills her anyway, breaking open Lucifer's prison. Ruby reveals her true colors as a demon loyal to Lucifer and Dean kills her. As the season ends, Lucifer's cage opens and he escapes from Hell.\n\nThe fifth season consists of 22 episodes that aired on Thursdays at 9:00 pm beginning September 10, 2009, and ending May 13, 2010. This season was rumored to be the last season, because Eric Kripke had said previously that he planned the show to run for only five seasons. Despite this, Padalecki and Ackles had contracts for a sixth season, and The CW renewed it for season six on February 16, 2010.\n\nThe fifth season revolves around the fight to stop Lucifer and save the world from the Apocalypse, inspired by events in the Book of Revelation. Throughout the season, while Castiel searches for God, Sam and Dean battle both angels and demons as they fight their destiny to become the vessels of Lucifer and Michael, respectively. They attempt to stop Lucifer by retrieving the Colt from the demon Crowley and attempting to kill Lucifer with it. This fails as Lucifer can't be killed by the Colt, and they lose fellow hunters and friends Jo and Ellen in the process. Unable to defeat Lucifer, Sam and Dean, with information from the Trickster, revealed to be the archangel Gabriel, and with help from the demon Crowley, decided to collect the rings of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, including Death, which act as the key to Lucifer's prison. In the end, Sam allows Lucifer to possess him and he kills Bobby and Castiel, who is now human. Sam then manages to regain control, thanks to his bond with Dean, and throws himself (while possessed by Lucifer) and Adam (possessed by Michael) into the Cage to trap Lucifer once more. Castiel is resurrected by God and, more powerful than ever, resurrects Bobby and then returns to Heaven to restore order. Dean returns to his old girlfriend Lisa to live a normal life. Sam is next shown mysteriously free of the Cage, watching his brother eating dinner in the house with Lisa and her son Ben.\n\nThe sixth season consists of 22 episodes that aired on Fridays at 9:00 pm beginning September 24, 2010, and ending May 20, 2011. Beginning with this season, Kripke did not return as showrunner, but still remained as a hands-on executive producer, leaving executive producer Sera Gamble to take over the reins.\n\nThe sixth season begins a year after the conclusion of the fifth season, with Dean living a somewhat happy life with Lisa and Ben. When an emotionless Sam returns to Dean, he is forced to leave his new life behind and work with his resurrected grandfather Samuel to capture Alpha monsters for Crowley. The brothers are unable to get much help from Castiel since his time is occupied by a civil war raging in heaven against the archangel Raphael. Dean does not trust Samuel and his suspicions are confirmed when he finds Samuel working with demons to discover the location of Purgatory. Dean discovers that Sam's soul is still in the Cage, so he implores the Horseman Death to retrieve it. To ensure Sam does not remember his time in the Cage, Death blocks that part of Sam's memory using a mental wall. The season's second half revolves around the so-called Mother of All, which ultimately leads to events which prove that Castiel is behind the circumstances of Sam's return, the hunt for the Alpha monsters, and the search for Purgatory and was working with Crowley the entire time. When the brothers try to stop Castiel, he brings Sam's memory of the Cage back and proceeds with his plan, absorbing all the souls from Purgatory and pronouncing himself God, having ascended beyond a mere angel.\n\nThe seventh season consists of 23 episodes that aired on Fridays at 9:00 pm beginning September 23, 2011, and ending May 18, 2012.\n\nAfter absorbing souls from Purgatory and declaring himself God, Castiel begins to punish all the wrongdoers in the world. He discovers that he absorbed the Leviathans, who are attempting to break free of his vessel. Sam and Dean manage to return most of the souls to Purgatory but fail to return the Leviathans, who seemingly kill Castiel before vanishing and inhabiting the bodies of many different people around the world. Sam and Dean learn that their weakness is Sodium Borate (also known as Borax), though it has minimum effectiveness on the Leviathan leader Dick Roman. After Roman kills Bobby, Dean becomes obsessed with taking the Leviathans down and learns of a facility they are building, only to discover that it is a facility to cure cancer. The spirit of Bobby later confirms that while they are curing disease, they are doing it as part of their plan to turn humanity into the perfect food source. With Castiel and Kevin's help, the brothers learn that the only way to kill the Leviathans is with the \"bone of a righteous mortal washed in the three bloods of the fallen\" and set out to find the three bloods. Kevin can read the word of God and helps Sam and Dean decipher it to stop the Leviathans. Eventually, Dean and Castiel kill Dick but are dragged into Purgatory as a result, while Sam is left alone to deal with Crowley, who plans to rise to power now that the Leviathans are disorganized.\n\nKey plot points presented in the season were Sam struggling with the constant hallucinations of Lucifer and the ghost of Bobby \"haunting\" Sam and Dean through his alcohol flask. Bobby's rage toward Dick Roman slowly causes him to become a vengeful spirit, and Sam and Dean ultimately deal with this by burning the flask at his request, thus destroying Bobby.\n\nThe eighth season consists of 23 episodes that aired on Wednesdays at 9:00 pm beginning October 3, 2012, and ending May 15, 2013.\n\nOne year after being dragged to Purgatory, Dean returns to Earth without Castiel, carrying inside his body the soul of a vampire named Benny. The two brothers begin a fight against Crowley to find the Demon Tablet and lock the Gates of Hell, thereby trapping all demons in Hell. The brothers use Kevin Tran to help them read the tablet and accomplish this. Castiel is brought back by an angel named Naomi, and takes possession of the Angel Tablet to break her control of him when she tries to use him to kill Dean. While Kevin works on the tablet, Sam and Dean have an unexpected encounter with their paternal grandfather, Henry Winchester, who was a member of the Men of Letters, an organization dedicated to gathering supernatural knowledge; his disappearance in 1958 was actually him using a time-travel spell to go to the future and escape an attack by the demon Abaddon. Henry is killed protecting his grandsons, but he provides them with access to the Men of Letters bunker, a storehouse for several supernatural artifacts and books, which the Winchesters subsequently adopt as a new 'home'. Kevin translates three trials that must be completed in order to lock the Gates of Hell for good, but although Sam completed the first two, Dean ends the trials before the third can be finished as completing the trials would kill Sam. Unfortunately, Castiel is tricked by the angel Metatron into completing another series of trials that would have allegedly locked all angels in Heaven, but actually banished every angel apart from Metatron to Earth, the season ending with millions of angels falling from the sky and Castiel stripped of his Grace.\n\nThe ninth season consists of 23 episodes that aired on Tuesdays at 9:00 pm beginning October 8, 2013, and ending May 20, 2014.\n\nIn the first half of the ninth season, the angels have fallen to Earth and two angel factions are warring against each other while hunting Castiel. Rogue angels roam the Earth causing trouble. Castiel is now human and has to adjust to his new life while Crowley is held prisoner by Sam and Dean who are trying to use an old blood ritual to turn demon Crowley back into a human. Sam is left near-death from the Trials of God and Dean is forced to let an angel, claiming to be Ezekiel, possess Sam to heal him from the inside. Dean must hide Ezekiel's presence from Sam so that he won't expel him and die while also keeping Castiel away at Ezekiel's demand. The brothers search for a way to return the angels to Heaven. Eventually it is revealed that Ezekiel is actually Gadreel, the angel who let Lucifer into the Garden of Eden. Gadreel murders Kevin Tran and escapes to join Metatron, while Castiel regains his powers after taking the Grace from another renegade angel. With Crowley's help, Sam expels Gadreel, but the experience causes Sam and Dean to split up while letting Crowley go as part of the deal Dean made for him to save Sam.\n\nIn the second half, Dean begins searching for both Gadreel for revenge and the First Blade to kill Abaddon with the help of Crowley. Despite being warned of terrible repercussions, Dean takes on the Mark of Cain in order to be able to wield the First Blade. After healing Sam completely, Castiel begins a search of his own for Metatron, believing him to be the key to reversing the expulsion of the angels. Metatron begins trying to unite all the angels under his rule while Castiel leads other angels against him to retake Heaven. Eventually Dean kills Abaddon and Castiel defeats Metatron after a repentant Gadreel sacrifices himself to let Castiel confront Metatron directly, but Metatron kills Dean, causing Dean to become a demon due to the influence of the Mark of Cain.\n\nIn the tenth season, after being resurrected by the Mark of Cain, Dean is now a demon, working alongside Crowley. Meanwhile, Sam continues to search for Dean. After Dean refuses to follow Crowley's order and embarrasses him in front of his demon followers, Crowley gives Sam his brother's location. For giving up Dean, Sam gives Crowley the First Blade. Later, Sam, with the help of Castiel, cures Dean by using sanctified human blood. After being cured, Dean is reminded by Castiel that the Mark of Cain is still a problem. Dean and Sam help Castiel track down his vessel's (Jimmy's) daughter, Claire. Dean ends up slaughtering several men who are keeping her captive and loses control of the Mark, a nightmare he previously had.\n\nMeanwhile, a mysterious new witch comes into play, being revealed to be Crowley's mother, Rowena. A large focus of the season is Dean's quest to overcome the Mark of Cain and have it removed if possible. New hope for ridding Dean of the Mark comes when Charlie unearths the \"Book of the Damned\". Sam needs help in reading and using the tome, and turns to Rowena for help. He requests help from Charlie, too, who decodes the text but is murdered by the Steins, a family that has secretly controlled much of history. After massacring the Steins, nearly killing Castiel and getting another hunter killed, Dean starts despairing of being free of the Mark, causing him to turn to Death for help. Death proposes putting Dean in isolation away the Earth, but insists Dean must kill Sam, who otherwise would work to bring Dean back. Sam and Dean both agree that it is for the good of the world. At the last moment however, Dean seemingly kills Death instead to save Sam. Oblivious to the dangers, Rowena successfully casts the spell to remove the Mark and unleashes the Darkness, a primordial evil that had been kept away by the Mark. Rowena also places Castiel under a spell so he attacks Crowley as she escapes with the \"Book of the Damned\".\n\nIn the eleventh season, Sam and Dean deal with the release of Amara/The Darkness, after Rowena's spell removed the Mark of Cain from Dean's arm. While Crowley's taking care of Amara, feeding her with souls, the brothers are, alongside Castiel, trying to find a way to kill The Darkness. In order to find out more about Amara, Castiel asks Metatron for help, and he says that in order to create the world, God had to sacrifice his sister, The Darkness. To face the most dangerous creature they've crossed paths with so far, the brothers ask for Lucifer's help. Lucifer claims he's the only one who can beat Amara, but in order to do so, he needs to possess Sam's body. When Sam refuses, Lucifer tries to kill Dean, Sam, and Castiel, but Rowena's spell seems to have sent him away. Later, it's revealed that Castiel said \"yes\" at the last second, and that Lucifer is now possessing his body.\n\nWhen nothing works to get rid of The Darkness, Amara claims that God must appear himself to see her destroying everything He created and loves. Then, she decides to draw out God by torturing an archangel, making Lucifer/Castiel scream in agony. Meanwhile, Chuck returns and reveals himself to Metatron, telling him he is God. Then, he reveals himself to the Winchesters and they all decide to seal Amara. Rowena, who had cast a spell that made her immortal, helps them with a spell, while Crowley and Lucifer use the demons and angels in a combined attack against Amara. When Chuck tried to seal Amara, she resisted, stopping the Winchesters, apparently killing Lucifer and gravely wounding Chuck. Amara warns that Chuck is not dead yet because he is going to watch her destroy everything ever created.\n\nAs a result of Chuck's injuries, the sun is now dying and the world along with it. Realizing that the only chance for the world to survive is to kill the Darkness along with Chuck, the Winchesters begin gathering ghosts to create a bomb to destroy the Darkness. With the help of Billie the Reaper, they are able to get the needed souls which are inserted into Dean. Chuck sends Dean to Amara who has started to regret her actions and Dean convinces Amara that revenge is not worth it. Amara and Chuck reconcile and Amara heals Chuck of the damage she did to him. The two then leave the Earth, but not before Amara tells Dean she is going to give him what he wants most for helping her. At the bunker, Castiel is banished by a woman who identifies herself as Lady Antonia Bevell of the London chapter of the Men of Letters. Antonia tells Sam the Men of Letters have sent her to bring Sam in for punishment for his actions and fires her gun, apparently at Sam as he tries to talk her down. Making his way through the woods, Dean finds his resurrected mother.\n\nThe twelfth season premiered on October 13, 2016, and concluded on May 18, 2017, consisting of 23 episodes.\n\nDean meets his mother, Mary Winchester, for the first time in 30 years after Amara sends him the gift which he wanted most. Sam has been captured by Lady Toni Bevell and is being tortured as punishment for his past sins. Dean convinces Mary that he is her son and thereafter discovers that Sam has been captured. Dean, Mary and Castiel devise a plan to rescue Sam. Lucifer has been possessing numerous vessels in his quest to find one that is suitable for him. He finally possesses Vince Vincete, a veteran rock star, and kills Rowena in the process. After a concert where Lucifer plans to destroy all those who attend, his vessel disintegrates before he is able to make the President of the United States his vessel. Sam and Dean try to warn the president, but are presumed to be assassins who are trying to kill the president and are thereby detained at an unknown center. They both fake being dead in order to escape and are reunited with Castiel and Mary. Mary begins to work with Arthur Ketch of the Men of Letters in order to get back into hunting. Mary tricks the brothers into stealing the Colt from one of the four princes of hell Ramiel.\n\nAfter Mick Davies is killed the brothers acknowledge that the Men of Letters have gone rogue. Meanwhile, the president has made his assistant Kelly Kline pregnant and Castiel realizes that a Nephilim is to be born. Sam, Dean and Castiel try convince Kelly about the impending danger. While Lucifer has been captured and being tortured by Crowley. Sam and a few hunters gather to defeat the Men of Letters while Castiel retrieves Kelly after killing Dagon. Lucifer is released by Crowley's minion demon and heads on to find his son. In the finale Kelly gives birth to the Nephilim, while Crowley sacrifices himself to kill Lucifer. Crowley and Castiel die trying to kill Lucifer while Mary and Lucifer are pulled into the rift created by the Nephilim's birth. Dean kneels down in despair after witnessing Castiel being killed while Sam is shocked when he arrives to see Jack the Nephilim grown into a teenager.\n\nThe thirteenth season premiered on October 12, 2017, and concluded on May 17, 2018, consisting of 23 episodes.\n\nDean and Sam are left reeling from the loss of so many allies and family members and their new responsibility to 'raise' Jack, with Sam willing to give the boy a chance while Dean is immediately concerned due to his heritage. In the other world, Lucifer keeps Mary alive as a hostage to trade for his son when he returns home, but finds himself confronted by the alternate Michael, who has killed his Lucifer and won the war. Although Dean becomes increasingly bitter at their recent losses, he gains a new sense of hope when Jack unintentionally brings Castiel back to life. Things become complicated when Men of Letters Arthur Ketch is revealed to have escaped death through a spell he received from Rowena, Ketch taking Castiel and a weakened Lucifer prisoner after Lucifer escapes back into this world when Michael tries to use his grace to create a portal so that he can conquer the other reality.\n\nWhile the Winchesters' efforts to return to the other world to rescue Mary fail, Ketch is revealed to be working with Asmodeus, who reveals in turn that the source of his power is Gabriel, who actually faked his death during his confrontation with Lucifer but was sold to Asmodeus by the children of the real Loki. After their first attempt to enter the other world traps Jack in that reality, the Winchesters retrieve the demon tablet, a translation of it reveals the ingredients needed to open a portal to the other world. As Jack sides with Mary and the humans against the angels, the Winchesters and Castiel gather the ingredients for the spell to open the portal while Lucifer tries to re-establish himself as king of Heaven in the absence of God and other archangels. After Ketch rescues Gabriel, allowing the Winchesters to use his grace as part of the spell, the initial raid on the other world fails to achieve more than Dean rescuing the alternate version of his deceased friend Charlie Bradbury, but Gabriel flees in fear after an attack on the bunker by Asmodeus. With Heaven in desperate straits after Lucifer fails to hold the angels together, Castiel is charged with finding Gabriel while the last ten angels try to keep Heaven in order, leaving the Winchesters to mount a new assault on the other world with Gabriel and Lucifer. They are able to rescue a range of human survivors from the other world, including the alternate versions of Bobby and Charlie, but Gabriel is killed in the process and Lucifer and the alternate Michael follow them through.\n\nAs Lucifer takes Jack's power for himself, Dean is forced to make a deal to act as the vessel for the alternate Michael to stop him. Dean is able to stay in control long enough to kill Lucifer, but the season ends with Michael taking control of Dean's body and departing.\n\nThe fourteenth season premiered on October 11, 2018, and concluded on April 25, 2019, consisting of 20 episodes.\nThree weeks after Apocalypse World Michael possessed Dean, the archangel is confronting individuals of every different species, questioning their wants and dismissing them as hopeless, until he encounters a vampire who expresses his desire to eat. Praising his desire as pure, Michael decides to raise monsters above mankind and begins experimenting with archangel grace and monsters, making them immune to their former weaknesses. Sam, Bobby from Apocalypse World and Mary track Michael down, and Michael seemingly leaves Dean's body after becoming irritated with Dean's resistance. Meanwhile, Jack becomes sick due to the loss of his powers, and dies later, his soul ascending to Heaven. But the Shadow being from the Empty, believing Jack's soul belongs to it and irritated with Castiel for escaping it, attacks Heaven and makes a deal with Castiel to take the angel in place of Jack, but only when Castiel lets himself be happy again.\n\nDean, Sam, Castiel and the newly resurrected Jack decide to take down Michael and his army of monsters once and for all, but Michael retakes control of Dean and unleashes his monsters on the city. The group subdue Michael, and Dean takes back control of his body and imprisons the archangel in his mind. Dean, with the help of Billie, builds the Ma’lak Box to imprison himself in, in order to protect the world from Michael. But Sam convinces Dean that they'll find another solution, and Dean makes a wish that brings John Winchester back from the past for a day. Dean is then injured on a hunt, and Michael is unleashed. Michael possesses Rowena temporarily, and kills most of the Apocalypse World hunters, but Jack burns off his soul to murder Michael and takes Michael's grace to restore his powers.\n\nNick, who survived Lucifer's death and suffers psychological damage from so many years of being Lucifer's vessel, sets about getting justice for the deaths of his family. His killing spree leads him to the prophet Donatello Redfield, and Nick communicates with the recently awakened Lucifer in the Empty. Nick tricks Jack into giving him Jack's blood, and tries to resurrect Lucifer to be his vessel again. Jack confronts, and then kills Nick in front of Mary. After Mary berates Jack for viciously murdering Nick, the now soulless Jack kills Mary by accident, leaving the boys without their mother for a second time. Castiel prays for God to return and fix Jack, but the angels manipulate Jack into solidifying their power. Out of options, Sam and Dean imprison Jack in the Mal’ak Box, but Jack escapes. God returns and tells the boys that they must use a gun that he built to kill Jack, but Sam and Dean, frustrated with God's disappearances and inaction, refuse him.\n\nAngered at their defiance, God smites Jack, who wakes up to see the Shadow and Billie waiting for him in the Empty. God decides to end the world, and unleashes every vengeful spirit from Hell back on Earth and sets an army of corpses upon Sam, Dean and Castiel.\n\nThe fifteenth and final season premiered on October 10, 2019. The season will consist of 20 episodes and aired on Thursdays at 8:00 pm (ET) and moved to Mondays at 8:00 pm beginning March 16, 2020. The series finale was scheduled to air on May 18, 2020. In March 2020, Warner Bros. Television shut down production on the series due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Later in March, showrunner Andrew Dabb revealed that the series would go on hiatus after the March 23 episode.\n\nThroughout the series, Dean drives a black 1967 Chevrolet Impala which he refers to as \"Baby.\" Having been passed down to him by his father (John), it is Dean's most prized possession, with actor Jensen Ackles feeling it is Dean's \"life\" and \"sanctuary\". The brothers travel in it throughout the country as they hunt the supernatural, and the trunk holds various weaponry and their fake IDs. In the first two seasons, it has a Kansas license plate with the number KAZ 2Y5, a reference to the Winchesters' home state of Kansas, and the series premiere date of 2005. Towards the end of the second season, the car sports a new Ohio license plate (CNK 80Q3) to aid the brothers in hiding from the FBI.\n\nThe origins of the Impala were first depicted in the comic mini-series \"Supernatural: Origins\", in which John Winchester takes ownership of the car from Mary's uncle after accidentally getting him killed during a hunt. However, fans responded negatively to this, as John is shown with the Impala in the teaser for the pilot episode, which is chronologically set before the comic series. Because of this, the comic was altered for the trade paperback version, with the Impala's true origins later being depicted in the series' fourth season. Having been sent back to 1973 by the angel Castiel, Dean convinces his father to purchase the Impala over a 1964 VW Van. The car's origins were further explored during the season five finale, in which a frame story surrounded the plot of the episode tracking the Impala's history from its manufacture, through several previous owners, up until the present day. According to Chuck Shurley, the brothers have \"made it their own\", and they are shown as kids sticking an army man into an ash tray that remains there (Sam), putting blocks into the heating vents (Dean) and carving their initials into the car. The Impala later proves important when seeing the old army man allows Sam to overpower Lucifer during the final confrontation. According to Chuck, as they have the Impala, the Winchesters never consider themselves truly homeless. In the seventh season, after two Leviathans go on a killing spree in an identical Impala, Sam and Dean are forced to put the car into storage and use various other cars as they are too identifiable with the Impala. Dean later pulls it out of storage to confront Dick and has the demon Meg crash it into Sucrocorp to create a distraction. Starting in season 8, Sam and Dean are once again using the Impala as their car. The Impala was stolen by the angel Gadreel while possessing Sam, once again forcing Dean to use a stolen car, but it was quickly recovered and proved instrumental in tracking down the rogue angel.\n\nAll of the cars used in the show are stock 1967 Chevrolet Impala four door hardtops. They feature Chevrolet small-block engines, recolored interiors, custom seats, and nonfunctioning radios. Other than the one used in the original, all of the Impalas had to be painted black for the series. One of the Impalas used features a detachable roof and doors for up-close shots, and is capable of being separated in half.\n\nBecause Dean and Sam do not get paid for their hunting, the brothers earn their living and pay for their hunting equipment through credit card fraud, poker winnings, and pool hustling. Furthermore, their investigations often put them on the wrong side of the law, as they have desecrated graves, impersonated various officials, and committed breaking and entering. Framed for murder and bank robbery by shapeshifters, Dean has become a highly wanted man, and the brothers are occasionally pursued by various law enforcement officers, most notably FBI agent Victor Henricksen. Because of their wanted status, the brothers often use aliases, usually derived from hard rock musicians, film references, or a meta-reference. However, in the third season's mid-season finale episode \"Jus in Bello\", Sam and Dean are presumed dead in the explosion of the Monument, Colorado Sheriff's county jail, effectively ending the FBI's pursuit of them. By the seventh season, however, the FBI are in pursuit of the brothers again, believing them to be mass-murderers (while the murders were actually committed by Leviathans impersonating the Winchesters). However, with the help of a sheriff who learns the truth and the bodies of their doppelgangers, they are able to fake their deaths again, but have to lie low to prevent discovery, abandoning the Impala, taking on new aliases and using stolen cars to get around. By season 8, the threat of discovery seems to blow over as Sam and Dean return to using the Impala and their rock band aliases which they had been warned made them easy to find. Notably in \"Ask Jeeves\" in season 10, they use their real names and even though a detective is investigating a murder, he does not recognize them from \"their\" previous crime sprees.\n\nThe 1836 Colt Paterson revolver, usually referred to simply as \"the Colt\", was made by Samuel Colt, a paranormal hunter. According to legend, anything shot by this gun, using one of its thirteen original bullets, will die, including creatures normally immune to any and all weapons.\n\nJohn Winchester gives it to the demon Azazel in return for Dean's life being spared after a near-fatal car crash. At the end of the second season, Azazel uses the Colt as the key to open one of the Gates to Hell that Samuel Colt had sealed. The last bullet is then used to kill Azazel, though the gun is later altered to allow the use of more bullets. Towards the end of the third season, Lilith's right-hand demon, Crowley, acquires the gun and hides it. It is then featured in two time-travel episodes – Dean using a past version of it when he is sent back to 1973, and his future self discovering it when Dean is sent five years into the future – before Crowley returns it to the Winchesters so they can kill Lucifer. However, after Dean shoots Lucifer in the head at point-blank range, an unharmed Lucifer boasts there are five things in creation which the gun cannot kill, and he is one of them. The Colt is subsequently lost and absent for several years until Mary Winchester retrieves it back from a Prince of Hell, Ramiel.\n\nIt is later revealed due to a causal loop, the Colt went in the possession of Daniel Elkins, the owner of the gun at the beginning of the series, due to the actions of the Winchesters. When the Winchesters travel to 1861, they meet Samuel Colt, from whom Sam gets the Colt, and Dean uses it to kill a phoenix, as they need its ashes. Dean drops the Colt just before being transported back to the present day, where it is presumably retrieved by the saloon owner Elkins, the ancestor of Daniel Elkins.\n\nThe gun used in the series is actually a replica Paterson modified to fire metallic cartridges. The gun was described as being built in 1835, before Colt made firearms, and fires metallic cartridges which were never made to fire in a Colt revolver until 10 years after Samuel Colt's death. On the barrel of the gun is inscribed the Latin phrase \"non-timebo mala\", meaning \"I will fear no evil\". On the grip is a carving of a pentagram, with much of the finish removed to give it an aged appearance. The prop department also has a rubber version of the Colt to be used in fight scenes for pistol-whipping.\n\nRuby possesses a mysterious and presumably magical demon-killing knife, which Kripke refers to as \"a hand-to-hand version of the Colt\". Its handle is made of elk antlers, and the knife has engravings on both sides of the blade, although the symbols are all nonsensical. It has been seen and used many times following its introduction in the third season. Upon being stabbed in a vital area, the demon is almost immediately killed, usually taking the human host with it. The only known survivor is Bobby Singer who stabbed himself with it while fighting off a possession and was left paralyzed as a result. It is unknown if it is effective against other supernatural beings, although it is useless against angels. Furthermore, the higher-ranked demons are resistant or even immune to the effects of the knife. Creator Eric Kripke doubted that how the knife functions would ever be revealed, stating, \"I like to leave some things mysterious. And that's likely to remain mysterious.\" However, the eighth season reveals it to be \"an ancient demon-killing knife of the Kurds\".\n\nSometime in the distant past, God dictated the angel scribe Metatron to write a compendium of tablets known as the Word of God. They cover a variety of subjects, including demons, angels, and leviathans. God then sealed the tablets inside the \"Vault of the Earth\" and even if someone were to find them, only a few chosen humans, the prophets, are able to decipher them. The Leviathan Tablet, which was dug from somewhere in Iran, has an instruction regarding how to kill a leviathan. The Demon Tablet, recovered by Crowley through unknown means, contains an instruction about locking all demons in Hell forever as well as techniques about disposing demons, such as devil's traps, holy water, and demon bombs. The Angel Tablet, stored in one of Lucifer's crypts, has the information on how to make all angels fall from Heaven as well as an incantation to imbue an angel with great power. The Demon Tablet is currently in the possession of Castiel, who has destroyed the Angel Tablet in the ninth season to prevent Metatron from using its powers.\n\nFor centuries, supernatural activity on Earth was logged and observed by the Men of Letters, a secret society dedicated to gathering knowledge and artefacts, occasionally working with elite teams of hunters to eliminate particularly dangerous supernatural threats. This tradition came to an end when Henry Winchester, attending his final initiation rite in 1958, became the sole survivor of the organization when it was attacked by the demon Abaddon, forcing Henry to attempt a desperate escape by using a spell to take himself to 2013, where he met Dean and Sam. Although Henry is killed in the subsequent battle with Abaddon, he is able to pass on information about the Men of Letters to his grandsons, who track down the Men of Letters' secret bunker, which stores all the knowledge and artefacts that the society had gathered over the centuries. After this, Dean and Sam adopt the bunker as a 'home', residing in the bunker when between cases and using its books to carry out further research. They experience an unexpected challenge when the British Men of Letters come to America to try to take control of the local hunters, perceiving the Winchesters as too dangerous, but the Winchesters and a small army of hunters are able to force the British Men of Letters to withdraw after Dean and Sam confirm that the British branch are too brutal for their tastes, such as attempting to immediately kill new werewolf Claire Novak where the Winchesters would prefer to cure if possible, or killing hunter Eileen Leehy just because she accidentally killed a Man of Letters rather than accept that it was an accident.\n\nAfter God and the archangels successfully battled the Darkness to submission at the beginning of creation, God sealed the latter inside a metaphysical cage, whose seal was handed over to Lucifer for safekeeping. However, the Darkness' influence was as such that Lucifer was corrupted by it, eventually becoming the first fallen angel after refusing to honor humans. Lucifer then offered the seal to Cain, which empowered a blade made from the jawbone of a donkey that he used to kill and send his brother, Abel, to Heaven. Whenceforth, the seal was known by the moniker of the Mark of Cain, while the blade was dubbed the First Blade. Wielders of the Mark are corrupted by the Darkness so they would have the lust for power and bloodbath. This power in turn activates the First Blade, otherwise useless when wielded by other people, to become an invincible weapon capable of killing everything, even angels and higher demons. If killed, wielders of the Mark are resurrected as demons, as shown by Dean in the finale of the ninth season. At the start of the series, Cain had thrown the First Blade to the bottom of the Marianas Trench, only to take it back and give it as well as the Mark to Dean as part of the latter's quest to kill Abaddon. However, this gives Dean the attendant problems of the Mark, which slowly corrupts him, as releasing the Mark requires an arduous ritual, and if not transferred to someone else would release the Darkness from her cage. Sam is eventually able to remove the Mark, but this unleashes the Darkness, forcing the Winchesters, Castiel and Crowley to join forces to stop the Darkness by releasing Lucifer from the Cage and reunite the Darkness with God (who is identified as Chuck Shurley, the Prophet who wrote the Winchester Gospels).\n\nAfter Lucifer is released from the Cage to assist with the Darkness and is eventually 'restored' to his old vessel of Nick, the Winchesters are forced to defeat him by using a rift in reality to trap Lucifer in an alternate reality they come to call 'Apocalypse World', which is established to be a world where Dean and Sam were never born as Mary never made the deal with Azazel to restore John Winchester to life. As a result of Dean and Sam's absence, Michael and Lucifer took new vessels to wage their final battle, which led to Michael's victory, only for Michael to set out to destroy all humans as a failed experiment, aided by the Apocalypse World version of Kevin Tran, who is now a 'loyal' prophet to Michael in return for the promise that he will be reunited with his mother in Heaven. Although the Winchesters had intended to leave Lucifer trapped there, various events force them to re-open the rift, which leads to Mary in particular becoming attached to the people of Apocalypse World, which include still-living versions of Bobby Singer and Charlie Bradbury. Eventually the Winchesters are able to evacuate most of the human survivors to their world, but the alternate version of Michael follows them into this world, with Dean forced to become Michael's vessel to stop Lucifer for good only for Michael to pursue his own agenda on this world.\n\nThe advertisements The WB chose for the show went beyond just commercials and billboards. Before the series debuted, the network placed signs for the show at gas station pumps, and gave out rubber glow-in-the-dark bracelets at New York and Los Angeles movie theaters. Also, coffee cup sleeves revealed the image of a \"terrified woman seemingly pinned to a ceiling\" when heated were distributed to 500 cafes throughout New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles. The same image was used in special mirrors the network installed in almost 200 nightclubs throughout three cities in order to reach \"young, hip horror fans\". Additional advertisements were also placed in bars, movie theaters, and video game stores, with hundreds of the bars also receiving \"Supernatural\" napkins and coasters.\n\nThe series also has many real-life tie-ins. The urban legend website \"Hellhounds Lair\" featured in the season one episode \"Hell House\" was a real website set up by the show's producers. As a tie-in to the sequel episode \"Ghostfacers\", in which the owners of \"Hellhounds Lair\" create their own \"Ghost Hunters\"-style reality show, The CW set up Ghostfacers.com. The Winchesters later visit this website in the fourth-season episode \"It's a Terrible Life\". Series tie-ins, however, extend beyond the internet. For a time, Dean's cell number—revealed in the first-season episode \"Phantom Traveler\" to be 1–866–907–3235—was a real number, with Jensen Ackles reading the message: \"This is Dean Winchester. If this is an emergency, leave a message. If you are calling about 11–2–83, page me with your coordinates.\" The second-season episode \"Tall Tales\" featured a tie-in to that week's issue of the tabloid newspaper \"Weekly World News\". The February 19 and March 19, 2007, editions of the paper featured exclusive interviews with Sam and Dean, the articles being written by Paul Kupperberg.\n\n\"Supernatural\" has a vast amount of merchandise available, including calendars, T-shirts, shot glasses, temporary tattoos and posters. Inkworks has released trading cards for the show, some cards featuring actors' autographs and swatches from actual costumes used on the series.\n\nThe \"Supernatural Role Playing Game\" (a pen-and-paper role-playing game) was developed by Margaret Weis Productions, Ltd. Originally scheduled for release in October 2007, it was delayed until August 2009. The game uses material from the series, novels, and comics. Additionally, on September 7, 2010, Watertower Music released Supernatural: Original Television Soundtrack – Seasons 1–5. It features 18 original tracks by Supernatural series composers Christopher Lennertz and Jay Gruska. Funko has also released three Pop! form figures of Dean, Sam, and Castiel as of November 21, 2013.\n\nFurther information on the series' mythology and production have been detailed through print. Official companion guides for the first six seasons have been released (, , , , , ), all written by Nicholas Knight and published by Titan Books. Two additional guides written by Alex Irvine, \"The \"Supernatural\" Book of Monsters, Spirits, Demons, and Ghouls\" () and \"John Winchester's Journal\" (), have been published by It Books. Irvine's books function as resource guides that contain illustrations and detailed descriptions of the supernatural creatures the Winchester family has encountered, giving additional background on creatures and mythology featured on the show. Premiering on November 27, 2007, was the Official \"Supernatural\" Magazine. Published by Titan Magazines, it contains series information and exclusive cast and crew interviews. It Books published \"Supernatural: Bobby Singer's Guide to Hunting\" by David Reed on September 6, 2011 (), sharing all the knowledge that the character Bobby Singer had to share about hunting, the Winchesters, and other knowledge he picked up over the years dealing with the elements of the supernatural.\n\nThe series has also developed an expanded universe. Three six-issue comic book miniseries have been published by WildStorm, a company under the DC Comics umbrella. \"\" depicts the early lives of John, Sam, and Dean Winchester, and shows how John became a hunter. \"Supernatural: Rising Son\", \"a dysfunctional family story\", details Dean as he begins following in his father's footsteps. While Kripke was heavily involved with the first series, the writer's strike prevented him from doing so with \"Rising Son\". \"Supernatural: Beginning's End\" deals with \"the definitive events that led to Sam leaving his family to attend Stanford\".\n\nA fourth miniseries, \"Caledonia\" (named \"Supernatural: The Dogs of Edinburgh\" in the UK), by Brian Wood and Grant Bond, dealt with Sam Winchester's trip to the United Kingdom during the Stanford years. The first two miniseries were written by Peter Johnson, one of the series co-executive producer, while the third one is by television series writers Andrew Dabb and Daniel Loflin.\n\nSeveral novels based on the series have also been published.\nAn unofficial anthology titled \"In the Hunt: Unauthorized Essays on Supernatural\" () was released on February 10, 2009, by Smart Pop and featured essays covering different aspects of both the series and its fanbase. \"The Mythology of Supernatural: The Signs and Symbols Behind the Popular TV Show\" (), published by Berkley Trade on August 2, 2011, sought to explore the religious and mythological roots of the show. And on October 1, 2011, ECW Press released the book \"TV Goes to Hell: An Unofficial Road Map of Supernatural\" () which explored topics such as folklore, religion, gender and sexuality, comedy, and music through essays from a number of contributors.\n\nAfter their first season debut in \"Hell House\" (episode 17 written by Trey Callaway), the growing popularity of \"amateur spook-hunters\" Ed Zeddmore and Harry Spangler prompted Kripke to consider a spin-off series for the characters. He discussed the idea of an online venture with actors A. J. Buckley and Travis Wester, and held a successful meeting with studio and network executives. Though Kripke announced their plans to produce \"some new material, either webisodes, potentially cell phone content or basically an off-network \"Ghostfacers\" series\" at the 2008 Comic-Con, the economic downturn delayed production until 2009.\n\nBuckley and Wester, along with Patrick J. Doody and Chris Valenziano, penned the series. They found the format—ten three-minute segments—difficult to manage because each webisode has to work both individually and as part of the overall storyline. However, Wester noted, \"We couldn't get too indulgent, we couldn't delve into long conversations. That helps not only with the storytelling but with the comedy... With drama, it takes time to establish an emotional connection with the characters. With comedy, you can jump right in.\"\n\nThough an initial idea of Kripke's involved the cast searching real haunted houses, the first season instead features the Ghostfacers investigating a haunted theater. The series also stars Brittany Ishibashi as Maggie and Austin Basis as Spruce.\n\nIn August 2011, a webisode was released online in which the Ghostfacers meet Castiel.\n\nOn June 9, 2010, the official Japanese Warner Bros. website announced an anime version of the series titled \"Supernatural: The Animation\" (スーパーナチュラル・ザ・アニメーション), which debuted in Japan in January 2011 and is produced by Japanese anime studio Madhouse. Shigeyuki Miya and Atsuko Ishizuka are co-directors for the series, with Kripke credited as the project creator. Madhouse co-founder Masao Maruyama serves as executive producer, with Naoya Takayama supervising the scripts and Takahiro Yoshimatsu designing the characters. Yūya Uchida and Hiroki Touchi, who voice Sam and Dean for the Japanese dub of the live-action series, reprise their roles.\n\nThe anime's first season consists of 22 half-hour episodes; while the storyline covers the first two seasons of the live-action series, it also includes original content exploring the Winchesters' childhoods and expanding upon secondary characters. Warner Home Video released the first two episodes on Blu-ray and DVD in Japan on January 12, 2011; episodes 3 through 12 shipped on February 2, and the rest on April 6. Warner Home Video released the Blu-ray and DVD box sets of the anime series on July 26, 2011, in North America.\n\nJared Padalecki voices Sam in the English-language version of the series, while Jensen Ackles voices Dean only in the last two episodes for scheduling reasons; Andrew Farrar voices Dean in English for the first 20 episodes.\n\nOn July 22, 2013, The CW announced there was a spin-off of \"Supernatural\" in the works, with the 20th episode of season nine serving as a back-door pilot. On January 29, 2014, it was revealed that the spin-off was to have been titled \"Supernatural: Bloodlines\".\n\nThe backdoor pilot was written by Andrew Dabb and directed by Robert Singer. The series was going to set to explore the \"clashing hunter and monster cultures in Chicago\". The show was not picked up by the CW for the 2014–2015 season. However, the network has remained open to another spin-off of the series.\n\nDuring production of \"Supernatural\"s third season, Kripke stated that the writers sometimes discussed the possibility of a prequel series. Set in the Old West, the spin-off would follow Samuel Colt and a group of hunters.\n\nOn June 20, 2017, it was announced that \"Wayward Sisters\", a spin-off series starring Kim Rhodes as Sheriff Jody Mills, was being developed by \"Supernatural\" writer-producers Andrew Dabb and Robert Berens, along with Robert Singer and Phil Sgriccia. The spin-off debuted as a backdoor pilot during the thirteenth season of \"Supernatural\". In May 2018, it was confirmed that the series was not picked up.\n\nSeasonal rankings (based on average total viewers per episode) of \"Supernatural\" on The WB and The CW (some including repeats).\nAfter the first four episodes of \"Supernatural\" aired in 2005, the WB decided to pick up the series for a full season of 22 episodes. During those first episodes, the series was ranked third in males aged 18–34 and 12–34. It also posted an increase of 73% in males aged 18–49 from the year before, although it only gained 4% in total viewers, and retained 91% of viewers from its lead-in, \"Gilmore Girls\". \"Supernatural\" had low ratings during its second season, with viewers consisting mainly of teen girls, and the CW trying to attract more male viewers. The show's future was in doubt at the end of the second season. Despite mediocre ratings in the previous year, it was back for a third season. Although its third season's rating were low, it did well with viewers aged 18–49. In this category, it ranked eighth of all returning series broadcast by a major network. The show received an early pickup for its fourth season. The show's ratings increased in its fourth season. The fourth-season premiere aired on September 18, 2008, averaging its highest rating ever since its debut on The CW with 3.96 million viewers, a 33% surge over the season three premiere and a 1.7/5 in adults 18–49, up 42% from one year earlier. On October 16, 2008, the show was watched by 3.06 million viewers, making the lowest rating for the season. On October 30, 2008, the show climbed to its best performance in adults 18–34 (1.4/4), adults 18–49 (1.5/4) and total viewers (3.6mil) since its season premiere on September 18, 2008. For the fifth-season premiere, viewership increased by 6% in women 18–34 (1.7/5) over the fourth-season premiere. However, taking DVR viewings into account with new Live-Plus 7 Day data, total viewership for the premiere increased 38%, with women 18–34 increasing by 35% and adults 18–34 by 47%.\n\nDuring its first season, the show received generally mixed critical reception, but the reception from critics has grown more favorable as the series progressed with subsequent seasons receiving generally positive reviews from critics.\n\nThe first season received a Metacritic score of 59 out of 100 based on 22 reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 87% approval rating for the first season, with an average rating of 7.32/10 based on 31 reviews. The website's consensus reads, \"Despite some too-hip dialogue and familiar thematic elements, \"Supernatural\"s vigilante brothers manage to stir up some legitimate scares.\" Tanner Stransky of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the first season a B, saying the show \"comes off as weekly installments of a horror movie series\", but that \"Adding to the show's cred are the '67 Chevy Impala the boys rumble around in and their kick-ass soundtrack\". Jeff Swindoll of \"Monsters and Critics\" \"really liked\" the first season for its \"horrific content and the brotherly chemistry between its two stars\". He also noted that the season finished \"with one bang of a cliffhanger\". Swindoll enjoyed the second season, too, saying that it \"still works thanks to the brotherly chemistry between Padalecki and Ackles\" and noted the second season focused more on the show's mythology.\n\nSwindoll also liked the third season, saying \"Eric Kripke must've sold his soul to the devil so that the show wouldn't suffer a third season slump.\" He also enjoyed the moments featuring Bobby Singer (Jim Beaver), likening him to the character Cooter from \"Dukes of Hazzard\". However, Daniel Bettridge of \"Den of Geek\" believed that the writer's strike hindered the season, with many issues being left unresolved and the finale feeling \"a little rushed\". He also felt that new characters Ruby (Katie Cassidy) and Bela (Lauren Cohan) were \"disappointingly unexplored and ineffectively used\". While Diana Steenbergen of IGN liked that there was a season-long story arc with Dean's demonic deal, she believed that viewers would know that the pact would not be resolved until the finale, making the self-enclosed episodes feel like they are \"treading water, waiting for the main storyline to resume\". In 2008, AOL TV placed the show on its list of TV's Biggest Guilty Pleasures.\n\nAnother \"Monsters and Critics\" reviewer, June L., gave the fourth season a positive review, saying the show \"remains intriguing and entertaining, giving viewers much to ponder in terms of the philosophical analysis of the nature of good and evil.\" Steenbergen felt that the series made a transition from a \"pretty good show to being a pretty great show\". She praised Misha Collins for his portrayal of the angel Castiel, and felt that the interactions between Dean and Castiel were \"one of the highlights of the season\". Before the premiere of the fifth season, \"Rolling Stone\" listed the series as one of \"The 50 Best Reasons to Watch TV\", citing Sam and Dean Winchester as the \"Bo and Luke Duke of demon hunting\".\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\"s Maureen Ryan named \"Supernatural\" among the top ten shows of 2009, stating that the \"thoughtfully crafted show got bolder and more creative in 2009, coming up with hilarious and innovative episodes and taking risks with its storytelling.\" Mike Hale of \"The New York Times\" also named the series on his top ten list for the year: \"\"Supernatural\" is currently among the wildest and most entertaining series in prime time.\" In 2010, AOL TV ranked \"Supernatural\" fourth of the Top 20 Magic/Supernatural Shows of All Time, noting that the show had been compared to \"The X-Files\" early in its run before \"distinguishing itself as a unique, unpredictable and addictive series that not only features monsters, magic and Lucifer himself, but also boasts a dynamic duo arguably better at the banter than Mulder and Scully -- Sam and Dean Winchester\".\n\nIn 2012, \"Entertainment Weekly\" listed the show at No. 19 in the \"25 Best Cult TV Shows from the Past 25 Years\", saying, \"\"Supernatural\" began with a pretty straightforward premise – hot guys kill spooky things – but it didn't stay that way for long. The characters have literally been to hell and back, and along the way, they have woven a complicated and compelling mythology filled with friends (angel Castiel), recurring foes (demon Crowley), and inside jokes (Wincest!). \"Supernatural\" has also, however, dedicated episodes to mocking the sillier aspects of its own existence, like its hypercritical fandom. This self-referential approach has rewarded longtime viewers and helped build a community so passionate, it's almost scary.\" The show has a broad demographic base and is more popular in Russia than the US.\n\nOn January 4, 2010, the cable television network TNT began airing reruns of \"Supernatural\". In Canada, the series has been syndicated on Space, Dusk, ABC Spark, M3, and E!.\n\nBeing a cult series, \"Supernatural\" has garnered a dedicated fanbase. They are active online, and many have written fanfiction stories about the show, ranging from Wincest (the romantic pairing of brothers Dean and Sam Winchester) to Destiel (the romantic pairing of Dean Winchester and Castiel) to various other character pairings. The writers have referenced this several times in the series, including the 200th episode, which makes references to Wincest, Destiel, and Sastiel (the romantic pairing of Sam Winchester and Castiel).\n\nThe first fan conventions dedicated to \"Supernatural\" took place in Nashville, Tennessee, in October 2006 and in London in May 2007, and conventions have since expanded through to Germany and throughout the United States. The series' stars and large guest cast make appearances, with fans from the United States, Europe, China, and Australia attending.\n\nBefore the debut of the series' fifth season, in which Lucifer is finally freed from his imprisonment, fans attempted to promote the show through Twitter. Enough fans posted the hash tag \"#LuciferIsComing\" that it made it into \"trending topics\"—a list depicting words and phrases posted with the highest frequency on the website. However, Twitter users who were unaware of the fans' intentions responded with numerous posts of \"#GodIsHere\", and the topic was blocked from Twitter's trending topics after complaints. Actor Misha Collins, who portrays Castiel in the series, tried to continue the campaign by requesting that fans post \"#PDiddyIsScaredOfHisTV\", rapper P. Diddy being the one whom many fans believe to be the instigator of the initial backlash. However, after an hour, this attempt to trend the topic was also stymied by Twitter.\n\nIn honor of the series' season 14 renewal, Mayor Steve Adler of Austin, Texas, declared June 23, 2018, as \"\"Supernatural\" Day\" in the city, as the show's stars Ackles and Padalecki are both Austin residents. The day, which coincided with the duo participating in local charity events, also recognized \"Supernatural\" for, as the declaration proclaimed, \"bringing the best fans in the world\" to the city.\n\nThe series's fandom gave rise to a new subgenre of erotic fan fiction (\"slash fiction\") and then to a subgenre of speculative erotic fiction in its own right, the \"Omegaverse\". Works in this genre feature humans with a wolf-like social structure and sexual behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "2170976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170976", "title": "Venusians", "text": "Venusians\n\nIn science fiction and ufology, a Venusian () or Venerian is a native inhabitant of the planet Venus. Many science fiction writers have imagined what extraterrestrial life on Venus might be like.\n\nThe word \"Venusian\" – sometimes spelled \"Venutian\" – is a simple combination of the name of the planet \"Venus\" and the suffix \"-ian\", formed by analogy to \"Martian\" and other similar demonyms.\n\nThe classically derived demonym would be \"Venerean\" or \"Venerian\" (cf. \"belonging to the goddess Venus\"), but these forms have been used by only a few authors (e.g. Robert A. Heinlein). Scientists sometimes use the adjective \"Cytherean\" for things related to Venus, from the goddess' epithet \"Cytherea\". The similarly derived \"Venereal\" is not used due to its association with venereal diseases, i.e. sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nVenusians appearing in works of fiction are usually fanciful, rather than plausible inhabitants of the planet. Before the mid 20th century, little was generally known about the planet except that it was solid and comparable in size to Earth; its cloud cover obscured remote observation of its environment. This allowed writers to speculate that Venusians might be similar to humans or other Earth species, much as they did for fictional Martians. As more was learned about Venus and the implausibility of humanoid or other life on it, Venusians became increasingly uncommon in science fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the 1950s, a group of contactees told stories in which they claimed to be in contact with friendly, light-haired, light-skinned humans from the planet Venus, as well as other planets in Earth's solar system. The first contactee, and the most famous, was George Adamski of Palomar Mountain, California. He claimed that on November 20, 1952 he met a Venusian named Orthon in a California desert. Adamski said that Orthon had communicated with him via telepathy about the dangers of nuclear war and that he left behind footprints with mysterious symbols on them. Adamski also displayed numerous photographs that he claimed showed the Venusian UFOs, and he said some of the photos had been given to him by Orthon. Copies of these photos were sold to visitors at Adamski's campground and restaurant at Palomar Mountain, but later studies by UFO investigators indicated that the photos were fakes; one scientist who analyzed the photos of a Venusian \"scout ship\" said the UFO's \"landing struts\" were General Electric light bulbs.\n\nAdamski wrote or co-wrote three books in the 1950s and early 1960s about his meetings with Orthon and travels in a Venusian UFO through Earth's solar system; the first two books, \"Flying Saucers Have Landed\" (1953), and \"Inside the Space Ships\" (1955), were both bestsellers. Following Adamski's story, others, such as Howard Menger, George Hunt Williamson, Truman Bethurum, George Van Tassel, and Daniel Fry, also wrote books and gave lectures in which they claimed to have met similar friendly, light-skinned humanoids from Venus and other planets in Earth's solar system, and to have taken trips with them in their spaceships. These humanoids were later called Nordic aliens.\n\nThroughout the 1950s and 1960s, the contactee movement garnered some popular interest through books, lectures, and conventions, such as the annual Giant Rock UFO conventions in California. In May 1959, Adamski had a private audience with Queen Juliana of the Netherlands to discuss his claimed UFO experiences, which caused some controversy in the Netherlands.\n\nHowever, numerous investigations of the contactee movement revealed many flaws and inaccuracies in the contactees' claims that led most researchers to conclude that their stories were hoaxes. Among the pieces of evidence noted by critics was that Venus has an environment that is extremely hostile to human life, and that none of the other planets in Earth's solar system are capable of supporting humanoid life. Also, investigators such as USAF Captain Edward J. Ruppelt, the head of the Air Force's Project Blue Book, and ufologist James W. Moseley conducted extensive investigations into the claims and backgrounds of Adamski, Williamson, and other contactees, and concluded that they were either con artists or simply not being truthful in their stories and claims.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170978", "title": "Campeche International Airport", "text": "Campeche International Airport\n\nIng. Alberto Acuña Ongay International Airport , also known as Campeche International Airport, is an international airport located in Campeche, Campeche, Mexico. It handles national and international air traffic of the city of Campeche. It's operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, a federal government-owned corporation.\n\nIn 2018, the airport handled 165,185 passengers, and in 2019 it handled 164,919 passengers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170979", "title": "Pasticcio", "text": "Pasticcio\n\nIn music, a pasticcio or pastiche is an opera or other musical work composed of works by different composers who may or may not have been working together, or an adaptation or localization of an existing work that is loose, unauthorized, or inauthentic.\n\nThe term is first attested in the 16th century referring both to a kind of pie containing meat and pasta (\"see pastitsio\") and to a literary mixture; for music, the earliest attestation is 1795 in Italian and 1742 in English. It derives from the post-classical Latin \"pasticium\" (13th century), a pie or pasty.\n\nIn the 18th century, opera \"pasticcios\" were frequently made by composers such as Handel, for example \"Muzio Scevola\" (1721) and \"Giove in Argo\" (1739), as well as Gluck, and Johann Christian Bach. These composite works would consist mainly of portions of other composers' work, although they could also include original composition. The portions borrowed from other composers would be more or less freely adapted, especially in the case of arias in \"pasticcio\" operas by substituting a new text for the original one. In late 18th-century English \"pasticcios\", for instance by Samuel Arnold or William Shield, the \"borrowed\" music could be Irish or British folksongs.\n\nInstrumental works would also sometimes be assembled from pre-existing compositions, a notable instance of this being the first four piano concertos of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. These concertos (K. 37, 39–41) were assembled almost entirely from keyboard sonata movements by contemporary composers, to which the boy Mozart added orchestral parts supporting the keyboard soloist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2170984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170984", "title": "CSS Grand Duke", "text": "CSS Grand Duke\n\nCSS Grand Duke, a steamer built at Jeffersonville, Indiana in 1859, was outfitted as a cotton-clad gunboat for service with the Confederate States Army in February 1863.\n\n\"Grand Duke\" transported troops to Fort Taylor, Louisiana late in February 1863. On April 14, 1863 she was in company with the steamer \"Mary T.\" and ram when they were taken under attack on the Atchafalaya River by Union vessels , , and . Her speed, turning power, and superior piloting allowed \"Grand Duke\" to escape up river.\n\nOn May 4, 1863 \"Grand Duke\" and \"Mary T.\" were taking on guns, ordnance stores, and other public property prior to the evacuation of Fort De Russy when a Union reconnaissance force that included , \"Estrella\", and \"Arizona\" hove into view. In the ensuing hour-long engagement, each of the principal contestants sustained damage, but the Union ships withdrew, allowing the Confederates to remove their materiel further up the Red River and to delay the Federal advance by obstructing the river. \"Grand Duke\" was ordered to Shreveport, Louisiana where she burned late in 1863.\n"}
{"id": "2170997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2170997", "title": "Tortona", "text": "Tortona\n\nTortona (; , ) is a \"comune\" of Piemonte, in the Province of Alessandria, Italy. Tortona is sited on the right bank of the Scrivia between the plain of Marengo and the foothills of the Ligurian Apennines.\n\nKnown in ancient times as Dertona, the city was probably the oldest colony under Roman rule in the westernmost section of the Valley of the Po, on the road leading from Genua (Genoa) to Placentia (Piacenza). The city was founded c. 123–118 BC at the junction of the great roads; the Via Postumia and the Via Aemilia Scauri which merged to become the Via Julia Augusta. The site made Dertona an important military station under the Romans. Strabo speaks of it as one of the most considerable towns in this part of Italy, and from Pliny wrote that it was a Roman colony. Velleius mentions it among those founded under the Republic, it appears to have been recolonised under Augustus, from whence we find it bearing in inscriptions the title of \"Julia Dertona\". The assassin of Caesar, Brutus, encamped at Dertona on his march in pursuit of Mark Antony, after the Battle of Mutina, and it was one of the places where a body of troops was usually stationed during the later ages of the empire.\n\nA bishopric was founded at Tortona early, but its first bishops are purely legendary, like Saint Marcianus of Tortona, called the first bishop of Piedmont and a disciple of Barnabas, the companion of Paul. Until the 9th century, the city was under the rule of its bishop; in 1090 it became a free commune with the name of Terdona. In 1133 the diocese was separated from the archbishopric of Milan to the new archdiocese of Genoa (\"CE\" \"Lombardy\").\n\nIn 1155 Frederick Barbarossa besieged, captured and leveled Tortona to the ground, leaving not one stone upon another.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Tortona was a faithful ally of the Guelphs and was destroyed several times. From 1260 to 1347 the city was dominated by a series of different Italian noble families and adventurers like Facino Cane, who in the unsettled affairs of Lombardy had assembled a string of lordships and great wealth which he bequeathed to his wife, Beatrice, and arranged with his friends that a marriage should be effected between her and Filippo Maria Visconti. According to Machiavelli \"By this union Filippo became powerful, and reacquired Milan and the whole of Lombardy. By way of being grateful for these numerous favors, as princes commonly are, he accused Beatrice of adultery and caused her to be put to death\". In this way, in 1347, Tortona was decisively incorporated into the territories of the Duchy of Milan, under which remained until 1735. Then following the vicissitudes of the War of the Polish Succession, the city was occupied by the King of Sardinia, and \"count of Tortona\" was added to the titles of the House of Savoy.\n\nTortona is the capital of an area known as Colli Tortonesi, which stretches from the town to the border with Liguria. The area is known for the variety and of its products and for the intensive wine production, including Barbera, Dolcetto, Moscato and Timorasso, the autochthonous wine of the region which traces its origin back to the 14th century. Truffles are another important fruit of this land and the Colli Tortonesi is the only place in Piedmont to have three varieties of truffle: White truffle, Black Truffle and scorzone.\n\n\nPeople born in Tortona, or with close links to the town, include:\n\n\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "2171011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171011", "title": "Nuevo Laredo International Airport", "text": "Nuevo Laredo International Airport\n\nQuetzalcóatl International Airport (, , ), also known as Nuevo Laredo International Airport (), is an international airport located in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico. It is situated near the U.S.-Mexico border, opposite Laredo, Texas and handles national and international air traffic for the city of Nuevo Laredo. It is operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, a federal government-owned corporation.\n\nIn 2018, the airport handled 63,576 passengers, and in 2019 it handled 65,471 passengers.\n\nQuetzalcóatl International Airport was named after Quetzalcoatl from the Aztec Religion who was a benefactor god, considered a leader among the deities, that would return after his departure to take back the empire. Mexicana used to fly to Mexico City and Guadalajara before it ceased operations in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171024", "title": "Lejendary Adventure", "text": "Lejendary Adventure\n\nLejendary Adventure (abbreviated as LA) is a role-playing game created by Gary Gygax, the co-creator of \"Dungeons and Dragons\", and creator of \"Advanced Dungeons and Dragons\".\n\nGygax had originally devised \"Lejendary Adventure\" as a role-playing video game using a simple and rules-light system based on skill-bundles, but he subsequently decided to develop the game as a printed fantasy RPG.\n\n\"Lejendary Adventure\" products were published by both Hekaforge Productions and Troll Lord Games. Three months after Gygax's death in 2008, his widow Gail withdrew all of the licenses from Troll Lord, and also from Hekaforge. The game has been out of print since that time.\n\nLike other role-playing games, \"Lejendary Adventure\" is played using polyhedral dice, pencils, paper, and sometimes miniatures. Unlike \"Dungeons & Dragons\", \"Lejendary Adventure\" has a player character creation system that is skill-based, resulting in very flexible character creation to allow role-playing of almost any kind of character. \"Lejendary Adventure\"s still provide Archetypes using \"Orders.\" Orders are guild-like organizations in the world that provide benefits to the characters. Players can also choose to be unordered. Your Order is determined by your first chosen ability. Some orders include the Noble, Rogue, Elementalist, and of course, Unordered. Unordered characters still advance, but do so without the benefit of a guild.\n\nVarious races are also available, with definitions somewhat different from other RPGs, as well as completely new races; races in \"Lejendary Adventure\" include Dwarves, Ilves, Wylves (Ilves and Wylves are two of many Fair Alfar, i.e. what are usually called elves in other RPGs), Gnomes, Kobolds, and Veshoge. As for character advancement, instead of levels, \"Lejendary Adventure\" characters receive Merits - points that can be used to increase their Abilities or Base Ratings, as well as buy new Abilities.\n\nThe standard campaign setting is Lejendary Earth or Learth. Learth is described in several books.\n\nAlso, \"Lejendary Adventure\" uses some unique terms such as Lejend Master [LM] (Game Master [GM]) and Avatar (Player Character [PC]).\n\n(Some adventures were also compatible with d20):\n\n\nIn addition, more general RPG books offer some new \"Lejendary Adventure\" material as well (Orders, etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171044", "title": "Confessions on a Dance Floor", "text": "Confessions on a Dance Floor\n\nConfessions on a Dance Floor is the tenth studio album by American singer and songwriter Madonna. It was released on November 15, 2005, by Warner Bros. Records. A complete departure from her previous studio album \"American Life\" (2003), the album includes influences of 1970s and 1980s disco, as well as modern-day club music. Initially, she began working with Mirwais Ahmadzaï for the album but later felt that their collaboration was not going in the direction she desired. Madonna took her collaboration with Stuart Price who was overviewing her documentary \"I'm Going to Tell You a Secret\". The album was mainly recorded at Price's home-studio where Madonna spent most of her time during the recordings.\n\nMusically, the record is structured like a DJ's set. The songs are sequenced and blended so that they are played continuously without any gaps. The title arrived from the fact that the album tracklisting consists of light-hearted and happy songs in the beginning, and progresses to much darker melodies and lyrics describing personal feelings and commitments. Songs on the album sample and reference the music of other dance-oriented artists like ABBA, Donna Summer, Pet Shop Boys, the Bee Gees and Depeche Mode, as well as Madonna's 1980s output.\n\nMadonna promoted the album through several live performances and a promotional tour. She embarked on the Confessions Tour in 2006, which became the highest-grossing tour ever for a female artist at that time. Four singles were released from the album. \"Hung Up\", the lead single, topped the charts in a total of 41 countries. According to \"Billboard\", it was the most successful dance song of the decade. It was followed by \"Sorry\" which became Madonna's twelfth number-one single in the United Kingdom. \"Get Together\" and \"Jump\" were released as the third and fourth singles respectively, both becoming top-ten hits in several countries.\n\nMost critics praised the album, calling it a return to form for Madonna and ranking it alongside her best albums. Madonna was honored with a Grammy Award for Best Electronic/Dance Album in 2007, as well as International Female Solo Artist at the 2006 BRIT Awards. Commercially, the album peaked at number one in 40 countries, earning a place in the 2007 \"Guinness World Records\" for topping the record charts in the most countries, and has sold over 10 million copies worldwide. Ranked third on \"The 99 Greatest Dance Albums of All Time\" by \"Vice\" magazine, the album is noted as a testament to Madonna's longevity with the ability to continuously reinvent herself in the third decade of her career.\n\n\"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" merged elements from 1970s disco, 1980s electropop and 2000s club music. Madonna decided to incorporate elements of disco in her songs while trying not to remake her music from past, instead choosing to pay tribute towards artists like the Bee Gees and Giorgio Moroder. The songs reflected Madonna's thoughts on love, fame and religion, hence the title \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\". It was the complete opposite direction from her previous studio effort \"American Life\" (2003). The songs on that album were a form of diatribe directed at the American society. However, Madonna decided to take a different direction with this album. Regarding the development, Madonna commented:\n\"When I wrote \"American Life\", I was very agitated by what was going on in the world around me, [...] I was angry. I had a lot to get off my chest. I made a lot of political statements. But now, I feel that I just want to have fun; I want to dance; I want to feel buoyant. And I want to give other people the same feeling. There's a lot of madness in the world around us, and I want people to be happy.\"\nShe started to work with Mirwais Ahmadzaï with whom she had previously developed her eighth album \"Music\" (2000). However, that collaboration did not suit Madonna's musical direction. According to Madonna, \"[Producer] Mirwais is also very political, seriously cerebral and intellectual. All we did was sit around, talking politics all the time. So, that couldn't help but find its way into the music. I think there's an angry aspect to the music that directly reflects my feelings at the time.\" Hence after recording tracks with Mirwais, Madonna decided to stop the project and start fresh. It was then that she turned to Stuart Price who had served as musical director on her two previous concert tours and co-wrote one song on \"American Life\".\n\nIn 2004, after the release of \"American Life\", Madonna began working on two different musicals: one tentatively called \"Hello Suckers\" and another one with Luc Besson, who previously directed the music video for her single \"Love Profusion\"., which would portray her as a woman on her deathbed looking back on her life. Madonna collaborated with Patrick Leonard, Ahmadzaï and Price to write new songs, the latter being assigned to pen disco songs sounding like \"ABBA on drugs\". However, Madonna found herself dissatisfied with the script written by Besson and scrapped it. Hence Madonna and Price decided to use the compositions for the album instead. According to Madonna, it was easy for her to shift from her previous album's sentiments, since she included those political views in her documentary \"I'm Going to Tell You a Secret\". She elaborated:\n\nI was running back and forth, literally, from the editing room with [the documentary's director] Jonas Akerlund to working with Stuart, who was also mixing the music in the film. We were together, non-stop, all of us. Cutting 350 hours of film down to two hours. There are a lot of serious aspects to the movie. I needed a release. When I would go to Stuart's, and we'd go up to his loft, it was like, 'Honey, I want to dance.' I wanted to be happy, silly and buoyant. I wanted to lift myself and others up with this record. So, yes, the new album was a reaction to all the other stuff I was doing, which was very serious in nature. I hope that doesn't imply that I wanted to make a superficial record, because it's not. I want people to smile when they hear this record. I wanted it to put a smile on my face, too.\n\nThe first three songs that were written for the album were \"Hung Up\", \"Sorry\" and \"Future Lovers\" In an interview with \"Billboard\", Madonna commented that the recording process was a give-and-take situation. According to her, Price used to stay up all night working on the songs. This was helped by the fact that he is a DJ and is used to staying awake all night. This gave Madonna the chance to work on other aspects of the compositions. She noted the fact that she and Price had opposite characteristics, which helped in their collaboration. The songs were mainly recorded at Price's home. Madonna said:\n\nWe did a lot of recording at his house. I'd come by in the morning and Stuart would answer the door in his stocking feet - as he'd been up all night. I'd bring him a cup of coffee and say, 'Stuart, your house is a mess, there's no food in the cupboard.' Then I'd call someone from my house to bring food over for him. And then we'd work all day. We're very much the odd couple.\n\nShe further elaborated that their camaraderie was also because they had toured together for Madonna's Re-Invention World Tour. Hence Madonna reflected that her relationship with Price was more of a brother-sister kind than the formal collaborations she was accustomed to during the recording process.\n\n\"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" is primarily a dance, electronica, disco, and deep house record. It is structured like a nightly set composed by a DJ. The music starts light and happy, and as it progresses, it becomes intense, with the lyrics dealing more about personal feelings, hence \"Confessions\". According to Madonna, \"[t]his is the direction of my record. That's what we intended, to make a record that you can play at a party or in your car, where you don't have to skip past a ballad. It's nonstop.\" Madonna used samples and references of music by other disco artists. In the album's first song, \"Hung Up\", she sampled ABBA's 1979 hit \"Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)\", for which she wrote a personal letter to songwriters Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus, who permitted Madonna to use the track. References of other disco-influenced acts, including Pet Shop Boys, Depeche Mode, and Daft Punk, were also used on the album, as were the disco hits of Parisian DJ Cerrone. The album has a song called \"Forbidden Love\", which is different from the same-titled song from Madonna's sixth studio album \"Bedtime Stories\". Regarding sampling herself and her own song names, Madonna commented:\n\"I did all of that on purpose, [...] I mean, if I'm going to plagiarize somebody, it might as well be me, right? I feel like I've earned the right to rip myself off. 'Talent borrows, genius steals,' [...] \"Let's see how many other clichés I can throw in there. That's exactly it. I was only hinting early on, but then I tell it like it is. It's like, now that I have your attention, I have a few things to tell you.\"\nA pulsating rhythm is present in the song \"Isaac\", which is regarded as the only song close to a ballad on the album. However, the song was heavily criticized by a group of Israeli rabbis who commented that Madonna was committing a blasphemy with their religion. They said that the song was about sixteenth-century Kabbalah scholar Yitzhak Luria. In reality, the song was named after the featured vocalist Yitzhak Sinwani, who sang portions of the Yemenite Hebrew poem \"Im Nin'alu\" in the track, as well as references to the Biblical story of Abraham and Isaac. Initially, Madonna toyed with the idea of calling the song as \"Fear of Flying\" since the idea behind the composition was to let go. However, at the end she decided to just call it \"Isaac\" after the English version of Sinwani's name. Regarding the song's development and the condemnation of the Rabbis, Madonna said:\n\"You do appreciate the absurdity of a group of rabbis in Israel claiming that I'm being blasphemous about someone when they haven't heard the record, right? And then, everyone in the media runs with it as if it's the truth. And that's a little weird. But what's even weirder is that the song is not about Isaac Lurier, as the rabbis claim. It's named after Yitzhak Sinwani, who's singing in Yemenite on the track. I couldn't think of a title for the song. So I called it \"Isaac\" [the English translation of \"Yitzhak\"]. It's interesting how their minds work, those naughty rabbis. [...] He's saying, \"If all of the doors of all of the generous peoples' homes are closed to you, the gates of heaven will always be open.\" The words are about 1,000 years old. [...] [Yitzhak] is an old friend of mine. He's never made a record. He comes from generations of beautiful singers. Stuart and I asked him to come into the studio one day. We said, \"We're just going to record you. We don't know what we're going to do with it.\" He's flawless. One take, no bad notes. He doesn't even need a microphone. We took one of the songs he did and I said to Stuart, \"Let's sample these bits. We'll create a chorus and then I'll write lyrics around it.\" That's how we constructed it.\"\nThe lyrics of the songs on the album incorporate bits of Madonna's musical history and are written in the form of confessions. \"Hung Up\" contains lyrics from Madonna's 1989 duet with Prince called \"Love Song\", from the \"Like a Prayer\" album. \"How High\" continues the themes of two songs from Madonna's eighth studio album \"Music\", namely \"Nobody's Perfect\" and \"I Deserve It\". The lyrics of \"Push\" thank the person who challenged her to expand her limits and also incorporate elements of The Police's song \"Every Breath You Take\". Other tracks like \"Sorry\" include the title word in ten different languages (several of which are non-idiomatic). In \"I Love New York\" (written at the time of American Life), she praises the city where her career began and replies to negative comments made by George W. Bush. Elsewhere, Madonna sings about success and fame (\"Let It Will Be\") and the crossroads of past, present and future (\"Like It or Not\").\n\nOn November 4, 2005, Madonna opened the 2005 MTV Europe Music Awards with her first performance of \"Hung Up\". She emerged from a glitter ball to perform the song, while wearing a purple leotard and matching leather boots. During the next days, Madonna performed \"Hung Up\" on TV shows such as \"Wetten, dass..?\" in Germany, and \"Star Academy\" in France, as well as on the Children in Need 2005 telethon in London. In order to promote the album's release, Madonna appeared on \"Parkinson\". She played a number of songs from the album at London's Koko Club and G-A-Y as well as in United States, Japan, Germany and France, as part of a promo tour to support the album. The performances saw Madonna emerge from a glitter ball while wearing a purple jacket, velvet pedal pushers and knee-high boots. Songs performed included \"Hung Up\", \"Get Together\", \"Sorry\", \"I Love New York\", \"Ray of Light\", \"Let It Will Be\" and \"Everybody\".\n\nIn December, Madonna travelled to Japan, where \"Hung Up\" was performed on TV show \"SMAP×SMAP\" and her concert at Studio Coast. On February 8, 2006, Madonna opened the 2006 Grammy Awards, by pairing up with the fictional animated band Gorillaz. The band appeared on the stage via a three dimensional technique which projected their holograms on the stage. They performed their song \"Feel Good Inc.\" while rappers De La Soul made a guest appearance. Madonna then appeared on the stage and started performing the song while interchanging places with the hologram figures of the band. She was later joined by her own group of dancers and the performance was finished on the main stage rather than the virtual screen. Another performance of \"Hung Up\" came on April 30, 2006 during the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Indio, California.\n\nA remix only album titled \"Confessions Remixed\" was also released in limited vinyl editions. In Japan, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor – Japan Tour Special Edition\" (CD+DVD) was released on August 23, 2006. It reached number 27 on the Oricon weekly albums chart and stayed on the chart for 12 weeks. The album received further promotion from the Confessions Tour which began in May 2006. The tour grossed over US $194.7 million, becoming highest grossing tour ever for a female artist, at that time. Additionally, the tour received the \"Most Creative Stage Production\" at the Pollstar Concert Industry Awards, as well as \"Top Boxscore\" from the Billboard Touring Awards.\n\n\"Hung Up\" was released as the album's lead single on October 17, 2005. The song received critical appreciation amongst reviewers, who suggested that the track would restore the singer's popularity, which had diminished following the release of her 2003 album \"American Life\". Critics claimed that it was her best dance track to date and have compared it to other Madonna tracks in the same genre. They also complimented the effective synchronization of the ABBA sample with Madonna's song. \"Hung Up\" became a worldwide commercial success, peaking atop the charts of 41 countries and earning a place in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" along with the album. In the United States it became her 36th top ten hit, tying her with Elvis Presley. The corresponding music video was a tribute to John Travolta, his movies and dancing in general. Directed by Johan Renck, the video featured Madonna dancing in a ballet studio in a pink leotard, which she left to go to a gaming parlour to dance with her backup dancers. It also featured the physical discipline parkour.\n\n\"Sorry\" was released as the second single from the album on February 28, 2006. The song received positive reviews from contemporary critics who declared the track as the strongest song on \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\". It achieved commercial success, topping the singles charts in Italy, Spain, Romania and the United Kingdom, where it became Madonna's 12th number one single. Elsewhere, the song was a top ten hit in more than a dozen countries around the world. However, in the United States, the song was less commercially successful due to underplay on radio, but managed to reach the top of \"Billboard\"s dance charts.\n\n\"Get Together\" was released as the third single from the album by Warner Bros. Records on June 6, 2006. The decision was spurred by the fact that \"Get Together\" was the third most downloaded song from the album. It was also released to coincide with the start of Madonna's Confessions Tour. Critics complimented Madonna's ability to turn cliché comments into pop slogans with the song. The song became a success on the United States dance charts, but failed to enter the Hot 100. It reached the top ten in countries such as Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and Italy, and peaked at number one in Spain. \"Jump\" was released as fourth and the final single from the album on October 31, 2006. Critics complimented the song and its empowerment theme. The song peaked inside the top ten of the charts in some European countries, while reaching the peak position in Italy and Hungary. In the United States, \"Jump\" charted in several \"Billboard\" dance charts but failed to chart on the Hot 100.\n\n\"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" received generally favorable reviews. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 80, based on 28 reviews. Keith Caulfield from \"Billboard\" commented that \"Confessions\" is a \"welcome return to form for the Queen of Pop.\" Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic commented that \"Confessions\" is the first album where Madonna sounds like a veteran musician since she created the record for \"the dance clubs or, in other words, Madonna's core audience.\" Alan Braidwood from the BBC commented that \"[t]his is the most commercial album Madonna has made in 15 years and it's magic.\" David Browne from \"Entertainment Weekly\" noted that for \"all its pretenses of being giddy and spontaneous, though, \"Confessions\" is rarely either.\"\n\nAlexis Petridis from \"The Guardian\" said that the album \"may be a return to core values, but there's still a bravery about \"Confessions on a Dancefloor\". It revels in the delights of wilfully plastic dance pop in an era when lesser dance-pop artists – from Rachel Stevens to Price's protege Juliet – are having a desperately thin time of it.\" Peter Robinson from Observer Music Monthly declared that the album ranks alongside Madonna's other albums like \"True Blue\" (1986) and \"Like a Prayer\" (1989). He credited producer Stuart Price for the album, noting that \"\"Confessions\" clearly wouldn't exist without Madonna, but it's Price who steals the show.\" Stephen M. Deusner from \"Pitchfork\" noted that with the album \"Madonna again reinvents herself, and it appears she's nearly lapped herself.\" According to Deusner, the music also makes her appear young. However he felt that the first half of the album till \"I Love New York\" was strong, while the second half \"loses its delicate balance between pop frivolity and spiritual gravity.\"\n\nThomas Inskeep from Stylus Magazine stated that the album is \"Madonna's most purely beat-driven album since her self-titled 1983 debut\" and \"easily her finest effort since \"Ray of Light\".\" Kelefa Sanneh from \"The New York Times\" called the album \"exuberant.\" Christian John Wikane from \"PopMatters\" commented that the album \"proved that Madonna, approaching 50 years-old, is a vital force in the ever-expansive landscape of popular music.\" Joan Morgan from \"The Village Voice\" noted that \"[w]ith \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\", Madonna at long last finds her musical footing. Easily dance record of the year, Confessions is an almost seamless tribute to the strobe-lit sensuality of the '80s New York club scene that gave Madge her roots, which she explores with compelling aplomb.\" Josh Tyrangiel from \"Time\" magazine commented that \"In dance music, words exist to be repeated, twisted, obscured and resurrected. How they sound in the moment is far more important than what they mean, and Madonna knows that better than anyone. \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" is 56 minutes of energetic moments. It will leave you feeling silly for all the right reasons.\"\n\nSal Cinquemani from \"Slant Magazine\" was impressed with the album and said that \"Madonna, with the help of Price, [...] has succeeded at creating a dance-pop odyssey with an emotional, if not necessarily narrative, arc — and one big continuously-mixed F you to the art-dismantling iPod Shuffle in the process.\" He compared the album to Australian recording artist Kylie Minogue's studio album \"Light Years\" (2000), saying \"Comparisons to \"Light Years\", Kylie Minogue's own discofied comeback album from 2000, are inevitable\". Alan Light from \"Rolling Stone\" declared that the album illustrated that \"Madonna has never lost her faith in the power of the beat.\" However, he opined that \"\"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" won't stand the test of time like her glorious early club hits, but it proves its point. Like Rakim back in the day, Madonna can still move the crowd.\"\n\nDespite being released late in the year, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" was ranked by the IFPI as the sixth biggest-selling album of 2005 worldwide, with sales of 6.3 million. Worldwide sales of the album stand at 10 million copies. In the United States, the album debuted at number one on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, selling 350,000 copies in its first week. It became her sixth number one album on the chart and the third consecutive album to debut at the top, following \"Music\" (2000) and \"American Life\" (2003). On December 14, 2005, the album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of one million copies. As of December 2016, the album has sold over 1.734 million copies in America, according to Nielsen SoundScan. The album also debuted at the top of the charts in Canada, with first-week sales of 74,000. It was present on the chart for a total of 46 weeks and received a quintuple platinum certification from Music Canada (MC) for total shipment of 500,000 copies in the country.\n\nIn Australia, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" debuted at the top of the ARIA Albums Chart for the issue dated November 21, 2005, and was present for a total of 33 weeks within the top 50 of the chart. It was certified two times platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) denoting shipments of 140,000 copies. It debuted at number five on the New Zealand albums chart, and was certified platinum by Recorded Music NZ (RMNZ) for shipment of 15,000 copies. The same peak position was attained on the Oricon charts in Japan, where the album was certified double platinum for shipment of 500,000 copies by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" debuted at the top of the UK Albums Chart with first week sales of 217,610 units, her highest ever in the country. It became Madonna's ninth number-one album, and has sold 1,340,000 copies as of November 2015, according to the Official Charts Company, while being certified quadruple platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). That same week, the first single from the album, \"Hung Up\", topped the singles chart. The album became the fifth consecutive Madonna album to top the chart. The album also topped the European Top 100 Albums chart for four weeks and was certified quadruple platinum by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) for shipping a total of four million copies across Europe. In Ireland, the album debuted and peaked at number three. In France, the album debuted at position 113 on the albums chart, jumping to the top of the chart the next week. In Hong Kong, the album was awarded a Gold Disc Award by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry for becoming one of ten biggest-selling international album for 2005. Across Europe, the album peaked at number one in Austria, Belgium (Flanders and Wallonia), Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.\n\nMadonna won the Best International Female Solo Artist at the 2006 BRIT Awards. She also won World's Best Selling Pop Artist and Best Selling U.S. Artist at the 2006 World Music Awards for the album. She was nominated for five awards at the 2006 MTV Video Music Awards for the music video of the album's first single, \"Hung Up\". Madonna also got nominated for Best Album of the Year, Best Pop Video, and Best Female Artist at the MTV Europe Music Awards 2006. She also won a Grammy Award in the category of \"Best Dance/Electronic Album\" at the 2007 ceremony.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" as the twenty-second top album of 2005. \"NME\" also placed it at number 29 on the magazine's list of the 50 best albums of 2005. Sal Cinquemani of \"Slant Magazine\" ranked the album at the third position on his list of the top ten albums of 2005. The same magazine considered the album the 38th best one from the 2000s. Three critics writing for Stylus Magazine also included \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" in their year-end lists of the best albums of 2005. Q Magazine named the record the 26th best one of 2005. On their ranking of the best albums from 2005, \"The Observer\" listed the album at number 26. By the end of the 2000s, \"Slant Magazine\" placed the album at number 38 on their list of \"The 100 Best Albums of the Aughts\". In 2015, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" was ranked third on \"The 99 Greatest Dance Albums of All Time\" by \"Vice\" magazine.\n\nMike Nied from Idolator praised \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" as one of the most influential pop albums of the decade and dubbed Madonna as a \"timeless trendsetter\" and \"creative genius\". According to Michael Arceneaux from NBC News, it is \"arguably her last great, impactful album; it's the last time she still felt truly forward-thinking, even if it looked back sonically.\" Christopher Rosa from VH1 called it her \"best album to date\" and explained that is a \"near-perfect pop record\" and \"her most natural reinvention\". It was ranked as the third best dance album of all-time by \"Vice\" magazine—the highest peak by a female performer. The magazine staff commented: \"This is the album all her subsequent albums is compared to; for its enduring relevance and how it redefined Madonna as an artist, it should be\". Author Sancho Xavi from \"El País\" noted that the album started the during the 21st century and popularized the revivals concept of others musical genres during the first decade.\n\nJustin Myers from the UK Official Charts Company commented: \"An 'imperial phase' is when a pop star is at the pinnacle of their career, shifting stacks of records, having big hits, selling out arenas, owning the radio and being generally unavoidable and untouchable. Many pop acts barely manage one. Thanks to this album, Madonna claimed her third. How many popstars can honestly say that?\" Calling her the \"Mother of Reinvention\", Jim Schembri from \"The Age\" wrote a detailed article of Madonna's impact with \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\":\n\n[The album] went straight to No. 1 everywhere except Mars. So too did the first single, \"Hung Up\", the video for which is on every time you turn on the TV. [Madonna] has reclaimed her place in the pop firmament with unrivaled ferocity. And she is a sterling example of pop survival. In a firmament that eats up artists like popcorn and where chart success is as fleeting as Jessica Simpson's attention span, Madonna remains an inspiring, intimidating beacon of permanence. Her longevity has thrived on her ability to continually reinvent herself by reading the winds of pop culture and taking her cue from there.\nWith the \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" era, Madonna broke several world records and the album resuscitated her music sales and popularity, after the critical and commercial disappointment of \"American Life\". According to \"The Jerusalem Post\", the album sold 4 million copies worldwide during the first week of release. Madonna became the best-selling female artist in the European market and the fifth best-selling artist overall, with a quadruple platinum award by the IFPI. In the United Kingdom, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" became one of the fastest selling albums ever, with first week sales of 217,610 copies according to the Official UK Charts Company. Also, Madonna earned a place in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as the \"oldest artist to simultaneously top the UK singles and album charts\". With estimated sales of over 10 million copies worldwide, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" is considered to be one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century. English singer Dua Lipa's 2019 album, \"Future Nostalgia\", also produced by Price, was influenced by \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\".\n\nSample credit\n\nCredits adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n!scope=\"row\"|Chile (IFPI Chile)\n\n!scope=\"row\"|Worldwide\n"}
{"id": "2171050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171050", "title": "Ghulam Ahmed (cricketer)", "text": "Ghulam Ahmed (cricketer)\n\nGhulam Ahmed (4 July 1922 – 28 October 1998) was an off spin bowler who captained India in Test cricket. After his retirement, he served for many years as the secretary of BCCI.\n\nHe played first-class cricket for Hyderabad from 1939-40 to 1958-59, and 22 Tests for India from 1948-49 to 1958-59. He toured England in 1952 and Pakistan in 1954-55. He captained India in one Test against New Zealand in 1955-56, which was drawn, and two Tests against West Indies in 1958-59, both of which India lost.\n\nHe was the leading bowler on the 1952 tour, taking 80 wickets in first-class matches at 21.92, and 15 in the four Tests at 24.73. \"Wisden\" said he \"had days when he looked in the highest world class, but on other occasions he lacked bite\". In the first innings of the First Test he bowled 63 overs and took 5 for 100. In the match against Oxford University he took 8 for 84 and 5 for 66.\n\nIn the First Test against Pakistan in 1952-53, the inaugural Test between the two neighbours, he took five wickets, and made 50 at number 11, putting on 109 for the tenth wicket with Hemu Adhikari.\n\nIn the Third Test against Australia in Calcutta in 1956-57 he took 7 for 49 and 3 for 81, his best Test innings and match figures.\n\nHis best match and innings first-class figures came in the match against Madras in the Ranji Trophy in 1947-48, when he took 5 for 28 and 9 for 53. When Holkar made 757 against Hyderabad in 1950-51 he had bowling figures of 92.3-21-245-4.\n\nHe managed the Indian team that toured Australia and New Zealand in 1967-68.\n\nHe was the uncle of the former Pakistan captain Asif Iqbal, and the great-uncle of Indian tennis star Sania Mirza.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171052", "title": "Oreste Baratieri", "text": "Oreste Baratieri\n\nOreste Baratieri (né Oreste Baratter, 13 November 1841 – 7 August 1901) was an Italian general and governor of Italian Eritrea.\n\nBorn in Condino (County of Tyrol, now Trentino), Baratieri began his career as a volunteer for Giuseppe Garibaldi's Redshirts, where he served during the Sicilian-Neapolitan campaign from 11 May 1860 to 13 February 1861. Following the unification of Italy, Baratieri pursued a military career joining the regular Italian Army and fighting at the Battle of Custoza on 24 June 1866. Rising to the rank of general by 1891, Baratieri was appointed commander of Italian forces in colonial Africa and the following year became governor of Eritrea. Baratieri would spend several years fighting with local Ethiopian forces along the border from 1893 to 1895, winning several victories over the Mahdists, particularly at the Battle of Kassala on 17 July 1894.\n\nFollowing Ethiopian emperor Menelik II and Italy's dispute over the Treaty of Wuchale, Italy launched an invasion of the Ethiopian empire. Returning briefly to Italy, Baratieri reportedly promised crowds to bring back Menelik in a cage. In late 1895 Baratieri led a force of 20,000 Italian troops and Eritrean Ascari into Ethiopia.\n\nHowever, Menelik had spent several years re-equipping his soldiers with modern arms and ammunition for such a conflict—at times with Italian help—and called up an army that vastly outnumbered the Italian forces. Baratieri spent nearly a year of the First Italo–Ethiopian War evading a decisive confrontation. In February 1896, however, the impatient Italian government of Francesco Crispi ordered Baratieri to engage the Ethiopians. Unknown to Baratieri, a confidential Cabinet decision had been made to replace him, and his successor General Baldissera was already on his way to Eritrea.\n\nOn the evening of 28 February 1896 Baratieri met in conference with his four Brigade commanders at Sauria. The general himself favored a partial withdrawal, noting that the Ethiopian forces under Menelik were believed to be short of supplies and would be obliged soon to disperse. However both his brigadiers and his orders from Rome insisted on an advance into mountainous territory.\n\nOn 29 February Baratieri marched in four separate columns on the Ethiopians at Adowa, where they outnumbered his immediate command of 9,894 men by more than ten to one. The fighting began soon after 5:30 am on 1 March, when a horseman entered the Ethiopian camp with news of the Italian advance. Ethiopian forces were well positioned to receive the Italians in a crossfire, and by noon the battle was effectively over.\n\nThough the two sides suffered nearly equal casualties—6,589 Italian regulars and Eritrean Ascaris dead; and an estimated 7,000 Ethiopians—Baratieri's casualties accounted for two-thirds of his force. As a result of the disaster, Italy was forced to sign the Treaty of Addis Ababa guaranteeing Ethiopian sovereignty. Baratieri was court-martialed at Asmara; though he was acquitted, he was forced to resign his post the following year. He spent the remainder of his life living in retirement in the Austrian Tyrol until his death on 7 August 1901 at Sterzing.\n"}
{"id": "2171070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171070", "title": "Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević", "text": "Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević\n\nSilvije Strahimir Kranjčević (; 17 February 1865 – 29 October 1908) was a Croatian poet. His reflexive poetry, reaching its zenith in the 1890s, was a turning point that ushered modern themes in Croatian poetry.\n\nKranjčević was born in Senj. Rebellious as a teenager, he completed his secondary education in a Gymnasium, but did not graduate from it. Soon after joining the elite Germanico-Hungaricum Institute in Rome, where he was supposed to become a priest, he changed his mind and left. The short stay in the Eternal City would show through in his poetry years later.\n\nHe attended the one-year course for language and history teachers in Zagreb. With the diploma for a teacher in “citizen schools”, he left to work in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mostar, Livno, Bijeljina, Sarajevo: those were the cities where he taught and wrote poetry.\n\nKranjčević made contributions to Albanian culture: while Albanian writer Gjergj Fishta attended Franciscan schools in Bosnia, he met Bosnian Croat Grga Martić and Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević who at that time lived in Bosnia. Martić and Kranjčević awakened literary instinct in Fishta.\n\nHe published his first poem, \"Zavjet\" (The Pledge) in 1883, a couple of months before leaving for Rome. The magazine where it was published, \"Hrvatska vila\", was led by Eugen Kumičić, a famous writer and politician of the time, who enthusiastically welcomed the fighting spirit in the verses of the unknown young poet. Kranjčević sent another two poems from Rome in 1884, \"Pozdrav\" (Salute) and \"Senju-gradu\" (Poem for Senj), to \"Sloboda\", a magazine in Sušak. When he came back from Rome, he published \"Noć na Foru\" (A Night at the Forum) in \"Vijenac\".\n\nPolitically, he was a follower of Starčević and the Croatian Party of Rights. The dark moods of his poems are related to the Hungarian oppression of Croatia.\n\nHis first poetry book, \"Bugarkinje\" (1884), was published in his native Senj. It already announced his three main themes: Homeland, Man and Universe. Kranjčević would never change them, just make them deeper. \"Bugarkinje\" is a traditional name given to elegiac folk songs in the Balkans. The first criticism on the book was written by the classical philologist and literary critic Milivoj Šrepel in \"Vijenac\". He praised the work, but foresaw that the poet would \"not be wreathed with laurels but bitter wormwood, so maybe this is why his creations are often shot with sharp sarcasm and cold irony\".\n\nLater literary figures heaped even more praise on \"Bugarkinje\". The great writer Miroslav Krleža said they presented Kranjčević as a genuine \"standard-bearer of freedom\". More recently, the literary historian Ivo Frangeš said that the prophetic and bitter energy of its poems, although occasionally falling into pathos and rhetoric, embraced universal and cosmic themes, which made the young Kranjčević stand out among his contemporaries, such as August Harambašić, whose main themes were declamatory patriotism or romantic love.\n\n\"Bugarkinje\" tried to formulate a poetic and political program, with the dedicatory poem to August Šenoa expressing the poetic credo of Kranjčević, while the poems to Croatia, the People and the Worker stood as three pillars of the poet's national and political beliefs.\n\nKranjčević used Biblical and classical parables, as well as symbols from the history of Christianity and Judaism; their allegorical nature suited his poems about the fundamental human issues.\n\nHis next poetry book, \"Selected Poems\", came more than a decade later, in 1898. The 1890s marked the zenith of his poetic work. It would be followed by two more books: \"Trzaji\" (Quivers) in 1902 and \"Poems\" in 1908.\n\nIn Sarajevo, he was the editor of \"Nada\", a literary magazine published by the Bosnian government, for eight years (1895–1903). The nominal editor was the government adviser Kosta Hormann, a man of wide horizons and the benefactor of Antun Gustav Matoš, but he trusted Kranjčević with the editorial policy. Because of such freedom, \"Nada\" attracted the greatest Croatian writers of the time, becoming the most important literary magazine of the Croatian pre-modernist movement, Moderna. It was there that Kranjčević published most of his literary essays and criticisms.\n"}
{"id": "2171074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171074", "title": "Ball Corporation", "text": "Ball Corporation\n\nBall Corporation is an American company headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado. It is best known for its early production of glass jars, lids, and related products used for home canning. Since its founding in Buffalo, New York in 1880, when it was known as the Wooden Jacket Can Company, the Ball company has expanded and diversified into other business ventures, including aerospace technology. It eventually became the world's largest manufacturer of recyclable metal beverage and food containers.\n\nThe Ball brothers renamed their business the Ball Brothers Glass Manufacturing Company, incorporated in 1886. Its headquarters, as well as its glass and metal manufacturing operations, were relocated to Muncie, Indiana, by 1889. The business was renamed the Ball Brothers Company in 1922 and the Ball Corporation in 1969. It became a publicly traded stock company on the New York Stock Exchange in 1973.\n\nBall exited the home canning business in 1993 by spinning off a former subsidiary (Alltrista) into a free-standing company, which renamed itself Jarden Corporation. As part of the spin-off, Jarden is licensed to use the Ball registered trademark on its line of home-canning products. Today, the Ball brand mason jars and home canning supplies belongs to Newell Brands.\n\nIn 1880, Frank C. and Edmund B. Ball, two of the five Ball brothers, borrowed $200 from their uncle, George Harvey Ball, founder and first president of Keuka College, to buy the Wooden Jacket Can Company, a small manufacturing business in Buffalo, New York. Soon, the three other brothers (William, Lucius, and George) joined Frank and Edmund in Buffalo. (Years later, the brothers reciprocated their uncle's early assistance by providing financial support to Keuka College.)\n\nThe Ball brothers' company made tin cans encased in wooden jackets to hold kerosene, paints, or varnishes. Because the acid used to refine kerosene caused corrosion in tin, the brothers decided to use glass for the inserts of the wood-jacketed cans. Initially, they bought the glass containers from a factory in Poughkeepsie, New York. Around 1885 a group of Belgian glassblowers who were passing through Buffalo encouraged the Ball brothers to build their own factory. The Ball brothers purchased land in East Buffalo, where they built a two-story brick building for the stamping works and a one-story frame factory for the glass works. Although a fire destroyed an early glass factory in Buffalo, the brothers rebuilt and expanded the business. To keep the new factory's furnace operating at full capacity, the company introduced new products and made improvements to its glass and metal manufacturing processes.\n\nAround 1884, when the brothers discovered that the patent covering the Mason Improved fruit jar had expired, their company began manufacturing canning jars in their glassworks. The Ball brothers' \"Buffalo\" jars, which were made in such sizes as half-gallon, pint, and midget, were manufactured during a part of 1884, 1885, and 1886. Jar lids were produced in their metal fabricating factory. The Ball Company's logo was embossed onto the surface of the jars, which were made of either amber or aqua (blue-green) glass.\n\nOn February 13, 1886, the company incorporated as Ball Brothers Manufacturing Company. About the same time the factory in Buffalo was destroyed by fire in 1886, the brothers began to consider relocating their business closer to natural gas supplies. While on a business trip in Cleveland, Ohio, Frank heard about the natural gas boom in Findlay, Ohio. After visiting the town, he told Edmund about the economic advantages of using natural gas instead of coal for manufacturing glass. Edmund visited several towns in the gas fields, including Muncie, Indiana. The two brothers decided to make a more extensive trip to investigate the possibility of establishing a glass factory closer to an abundant supply of natural gas. They briefly had doubts about extending beyond Buffalo, but decided to explore the use of natural gas as a means of expanding their glass-making business.\n\nFrank and Edmund first visited in Fostoria, Ohio, where they were enthusiastically welcomed. The next stop was Bowling Green, Ohio. After a night in town, Edmund returned to Buffalo, but Frank remained. After Frank had been in Bowling Green for about a week, he received a telegram from James Boyce, a Muncie businessman. Frank, who had become weary of Bowling Green, was ready for a change and \"decided to run down to Muncie and see what they had to offer.\" As Frank recalled his early discussions with Muncie's town leaders, \"There was nothing about the town that particularly appealed to me, but the men were all courteous, kind, and businesslike.\" Frank agreed to a proposal that offered the Ball brothers of land for a factory site, a gas well, and $5,000 in cash to encourage the move to Muncie. In addition, city officials agreed to provide a railroad connection to the brothers' new facilities. By September 1887 construction had begun on the Muncie factory and the Ball brothers began plans to relocate their glass manufacturing operations from New York. Frank remained in Muncie to get the factory up and running, while Edmund closed the glass factory in Buffalo, then moved to Muncie to join Frank. Their brothers, William and George, remained in Buffalo to operate the stamping works and a factory in Bath, New York.\n\nIn 1888 the company opened its first glass manufacturing facility in Muncie. On February 18 fires were started in the new factory's furnace; on March 1 its first glass products were made. The first products to be manufactured in the new factory in Muncie were oil containers and lamp chimneys, not fruit jars. By 1889 the Ball company's headquarters and its glass and metal manufacturing operations had relocated to Muncie. The other Ball brothers moved to Indiana in the 1890s. George relocated to Muncie in 1893, William arrived in 1897, and Lucius, a company shareholder and a physician, moved to Muncie in 1894.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, the company continued to grow and prosper, but not without experiencing some challenges. Fires at its Muncie factories and warehouses in 1891 and 1898 damaged its facilities, but they were rebuilt. Despite the economic panic of 1893, the company was able to produce 22 million fruit jars for the year beginning in September 1894, and 37 million jars by 1897. When natural gas supplies in the area began to diminish, the Ball brothers installed gas converters to use Indiana coal in their factories and continued manufacturing operations. The company's F. C. Ball machine, patented in 1898, introduced mass production into its glass-blowing process and gave it a competitive market advantage. By 1905 the company was producing 60 million canning jars per year and had acquired other glass manufacturers, expanding its operations to include seven factories in addition to its main facilities at Muncie.\n\nIn a continuation of the company's difficulties in Muncie, workers organized with Local 200 (Glass Workers) of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) at the main facility, went on strike in March 1910, with the strikers demanding wage increases. A settlement was quickly reached on March 29, but company management reneged on the agreement and threatened to declare a lockout. The strike continued, but was weakened by the refusal of machinists affiliated with the American Federation of Labor to join the strike. By the end of April, the strike was lost.\n\nBall remained a family-owned business for over 90 years. Renamed the Ball Brothers Company in 1922, it is best known for manufacturing fruit jars, lids, and related products for home canning. The company also entered into other business ventures. Because the four main components of their core product line of canning jars included glass, zinc, rubber, and paper, the Ball company acquired a zinc strip rolling mill to produce metal lids for their glass jars, manufactured rubber sealing rings for the jars, and acquired a paper mill to fabricate the packaging used in shipping their products. The company also acquired tin, steel, and later, plastic companies.\n\nThe Ball company faced additional challenges and opportunities during the Great Depression and World War II. Prior to 1933, Ball was the largest domestic manufacturer of home canning jars. In 1939 it manufactured 54% of all the canning jars made in the US. A drop in demand for the jars during the 1930s led the Ball brothers to begin manufacturing other types of jars and bottles for commercial use, and expand into other lines of business. During World War II the company's operations were converted to produce shells and machine parts for the military. After the war, Ball's glass-making business was hindered by an antitrust case in which the company was one of several defendants. The legal case was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. The final decision, which was handed down in 1947, restricted Ball's ability to acquire other glass manufacturers and other businesses producing glass-making machinery without prior court approval. In 1949 decreasing demand for canning jars caused the company to suffer its first net operating loss. With legal restrictions on the company's ability to expand its glass-making business and declining demand for its canning jars, Ball company executives decided that in order to grow it had to further diversity its holdings.\n\nIn the 1950s the Ball company entered the aerospace industry. Laboratories for the Ball Brothers Research Corporation were established at Boulder, Colorado, and in Muncie. The company began manufacturing aerospace equipment in 1959. Its OSO-1 (Orbiting Solar Observatory) satellite, designed and built for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) with $1.4 million in grants, launched into space on March 7, 1962, at Cape Canaveral, Florida. Its success led to additional contracts to build more satellites, a total of seven, but not without some losses. An explosion killed three workers and damaged the company's OSO-2 satellite in 1964.\n\nThe company continued to expand into other areas such as avionics, aerospace systems, and metal beverage and food containers. Renamed the Ball Corporation in 1969, it acquired Jeffco Manufacturing Company, a maker of recyclable aluminum beverage cans, and became the largest producer of recyclable beverage cans in the world. Although glass production in Muncie ceased in 1962, it continued at other Ball plants until its final glass manufacturing operations were sold in 1996.\nBall Corporation's stock went public on July 13, 1972. It became a publicly traded stock company on the New York Stock Exchange in 1973. The stock began trading at $26 per share on the NYSE on December 17, 1973, using the trading symbol BLL.\n\nBall no longer produces its glass canning jars. In the early 1990s Ball exited the home-canning business, when it established a subsidiary named Alltrista, which consisted of seven smaller Ball subsidiaries that included the Ball jar and other canning-related products. When Altrista Corporation became a separate company in April 1993, Ball shareholders received one share of Alltrista stock for every four shares of Ball stock. Altrista was renamed Jarden Corporation in 2001. Jarden retains the license to use the Ball registered trademark on its line of home-canning products, a part of Jarden's branded consumables business. (Jarden produces lids for several brands of fruit jars at its Muncie plant and its jars are made by a variety of glass producers.)\n\nIn 1998 the Ball Corporation moved its corporate headquarters from Muncie to Westminster, Colorado, where its oversees global operations as a manufacturer of plastic and metal food and beverage containers, as well as a manufacturer of equipment and supplier of services to the aerospace industry.\n\n\n\nThe Ball Corporation has made improvements to its environmental record since 2006, when the company began its first formal sustainability efforts. In 2008 the Ball Corporation issued its first sustainability report and began releases subsequent sustainability reports on its website. The first report was an ACCA-Ceres North American Sustainability Awards cowinner of the Best First Time Reporter award in 2009.\n\nIn the Toxic 100 list for 2004, using data from 2002, researchers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst's Political Economy Research Institute (PERI) identified the Ball Corporation as the 59th-largest corporate producer of Air pollution in the United States, with an estimated 4.57 million pounds of toxic air released annually. The PERI report for 2008, using data from 2005, ranked the Ball Corporation 54th on its Toxic 100 list; PERI's report for 2010, using data from 2006, ranked it 65th. The PERI studies indicated major pollutants included glycol ethers and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene.\n\nThe PERI Toxic 100 Air Polluters list for 2013 ranked the Ball Corporation as 619 in its list of companies producing the most air pollution in the United States. In 2015 \"Newsweek\" ranked the Ball Corporation as 70th in their \"Green 2015\" report, which reviewed the environmental performances of the 500 largest publicly traded companies in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171078", "title": "El Tajín National Airport", "text": "El Tajín National Airport\n\nEl Tajín National Airport is an international airport located in Tihuatlán, Veracruz, Mexico, near Poza Rica. The airport is named after the archeological site of El Tajín. It handles commercial air traffic for the cities of Poza Rica and Túxpam. Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, a federal government-owned corporation, operates the airport.\n\nIn 2018, the airport handled 25,890 passengers, and in 2019 it handled 27,083 passengers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171098", "title": "Gay Village, Montreal", "text": "Gay Village, Montreal\n\nGay Village (often simply known as \"the Village\"; or simply Le Village) is a neighbourhood delineated by St. Catherine Street East and Atateken Street in the Ville-Marie borough of Montreal. \n\nThe entire Village is bordered approximately by St. Hubert Street to the west, De Lorimier Avenue to the east, Sherbrooke Street to the north and René Lévesque Boulevard to the south, making it the largest gay village in North America in terms of area. It is served by the Berri-UQAM, Beaudry and Papineau metro stations.\n\nOriginally a poor working-class area, the Centre-Sud neighbourhood became increasingly attractive to the gay and lesbian community after the migration of many gay businesses from other parts of the city. The area has become considerably gentrified, due in part to significant investment from the various levels of all governments. All three levels of government are aggressively promoting Montreal's gay life as a tourist attraction. In recognition of the Village's importance to the city, the Ville-Marie borough has displayed a rainbow flag in its council chambers and redecorated the entrance to the Beaudry Metro station with rainbow pillars. The Village is specifically marked on official city maps as \"\"Le Village\"\".\n\nThe first recorded gay establishment in North America was Montrealer Moise Tellier’s apple and cake shop on Craig Street (now Saint Antoine Street) in 1869.\nOriginally named after a little wrestler named Dave who used to wrestle outside the pubs during the summer months. \nIn addition to a small scene in Old Montreal, there were traditionally two concentrations of establishments where gays were welcomed (by the 1970s, these had become openly gay businesses), which mirrored Montreal's more language-segregated culture. These were Downtown Montreal (mixed, but mostly anglophone) and The Main (mixed, but mostly francophone):\n\nThe west end of Montreal's downtown had bars on Stanley Street and Drummond Street, with Shaughnessy Village west of Guy Street as a gay residential neighbourhood. By the 1950s, Dominion Square (now Dorchester Square) was seen as an area where men could meet and cruise and the centrally located Dominion Square Tavern was known as a place where gays could meet (it still exists today, but has lost its gay clientele). By the late 1960s and early 1970s, many gay-owned or gay-open businesses existed and it became the city's main gay concentration, though it was still relatively marginal and kept discreet. The businesses consisted mainly of clubs where men could dance.\n\nThe Main, the strip of businesses on Saint-Laurent Boulevard and east along Saint Catherine Street East, an area which was known as the Red-light district of sexual services and businesses. The east had a more francophone clientele. Here, the businesses consisted mainly of taverns, often featuring drag shows.\n\nThe businesses in these two areas came under regular repression, particularly before Montreal's Expo 67 World's Fair and the Olympic Games in 1976. The Aquarius Sauna on Crescent Street was raided in February 1975, followed by six gay and lesbian bars in October 1975, the \"Les Bains Clubs\" on January 23, 1976 and the Cristal Sauna on February 11, 1976. Because of the increased police repression, the Gay Coalition Against Repression was formed and hosted what was then the largest gay demonstration in Canada on July 19, 1976. In mid-March 1987, the 456 Sauna (formerly the historical Neptune Sauna), the \"Taureau d'Or\", \"Studio 1\", \"Club Stork\", \"le Jilly's\" and many other businesses were raided and a number of owners had to shut down after dubious accusations that led to a number of owners and clients being arrested.\n\nOriginally, there were only a handful of establishments located in what is now the Gay Village. In the early 1980s, some bars opened along Saint-Catherine Street East, between Berri Street and Papineau Avenue, in Montreal's Centre-Sud area. Eventually, a new generation of gays also moved into the neighbourhood, both anglophone and francophone, including many came from other parts of Quebec. This was encouraged by the creation of a \"Latin Quarter\" in the vicinity of the Université du Québec à Montréal campus.\n\nThe name \"Le Village de l'Est\" (\"the East Village\") was coined in an advertisement by one of the owners of K.O.X., a very popular bar/club at the time. After having lived in New York City, it was his intention to create a strong vibrant gay community similar to the East Village in Manhattan. The name was created to differentiate itself from the traditional downtown scene. Eventually, the name became known simply as \"The Village\" and it became Montreal's main gay residential and commercial district. However, its success also caused the near-disappearance of gay businesses from other areas of the city.\n\nBy the 1990s, the Village began expanding along Amherst (now Atateken) Street, with the departure of many antique shops and the emergence of more gay-owned and gay-operated businesses. By this time, the Village had become well established, gaining political recognition and acceptance by the LGBT community as well as by heterosexuals. By gaining popularity, the area has generally thrived, having been beautified and having housing renovated. Almost all gay businesses in Montreal are now located in this area.\n\nLibrairie L'Androgyne, the city's main LGBT-oriented bookstore, moved to the village in 2001, from its prior location on Saint-Laurent, but closed in 2002 due to declining sales.\n\nAlthough many LGBTs reside and are very present in other parts of Montreal, the Gay Village remains the heart of Montreal's LGBT community. Every summer, St. Catherine Street becomes a pedestrian mall that is decked out with many pink balls strung overhead. Many bars and restaurants provide outdoor terraces for their patrons at this time. Major events that are held in the Village include Fierté Montréal (Montreal's Pride festival) and \"Le Festival International de Montréal en Arts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171101", "title": "Ludwig's angina", "text": "Ludwig's angina\n\nLudwig's angina (lat.: Angina ludovici) is a type of severe cellulitis involving the floor of the mouth. Early on the floor of the mouth is raised and there is difficulty swallowing saliva, which may run from the person's mouth. As the condition worsens, the airway may be compromised with hardening of the spaces on both sides of the tongue. This condition has a rapid onset over hours.\nThe majority of cases follow a dental infection. Other causes include a parapharyngeal abscess, mandibular fracture, cut or piercing inside the mouth, or submandibular salivary stones. It is a spreading infection of connective tissue through tissue spaces, normally with virulent and invasive organisms. It specifically involves the submandibular, submental, and sublingual spaces.\nPrevention is by appropriate dental care including management of dental infections. Initial treatment is generally with broad-spectrum antibiotics and corticosteroids. In more advanced cases endotracheal intubation or tracheostomy may be required.\nWith the advent of antibiotics in 1940s, improved oral and dental hygiene, and more aggressive surgical approach, the rates and risk of death among those infected has significantly reduced. It is named after a German physician, Wilhelm Frederick von Ludwig, who first described this condition in 1836.\n\nLudwig's angina is a form of severe diffuse cellulitis with bilateral involvement, primarily of the submandibular space with the sublingual and submental spaces also being involved. It presents with an acute onset and spreads very rapidly meaning early diagnosis and immediate treatment planning is key to saving lives. The external signs may include bilateral lower facial swelling around the mandible and upper neck. Signs inside the mouth may include elevation of the floor of mouth due to sublingual space involvement and posterior displacement of the tongue, creating the potential for a compromised airway. Additional symptoms may include painful neck swelling, tooth pain, dysphagia, shortness of breath, fever, and general malaise. Stridor, trismus, and cyanosis may also be seen when an impending airway crisis is nearing.\n\nThe most prevalent cause of Ludwig's angina is odontogenic, accounting for approximately 75% to 90% of cases. Infections of the lower second and third molars are usually implicated due to their roots extending inferiorly below the mylohyoid muscle. Periapical abscesses of these teeth also result in lingual cortical penetration, leading to submandibular infection.\n\nHowever, oral ulcerations, infections of oral malignancy, mandible fracture, bilateral sialolithiasis-related submandibular gland infection, and penetrating injuries of the mouth floor have also been reported as potential causes of Ludwig's angina. In fact, the same microorganisms responsible for less morbid head and neck infections are found in causing extensive infection throughout the floor of mouth and neck when Ludwig's angina is critically reviewed. Patient with systemic illness, such as diabetes mellitus, malnutrition, compromised immune system, and organ transplantation are also commonly predisposed to Ludwig's angina.\n\nIt is found that one third of the cases of Ludwig's angina are associated with systemic illness. A review reporting the incidence of illnesses associated with Ludwig angina found that 18% of cases involved diabetes mellitus, 9% involved acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and another 5% were human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive.\n\nInfections originating in the roots of teeth can be identified with a dental X-ray. A CT scan of the neck with contrast material is used to identify deep neck space infections. If there is suspicion of the infection of the chest cavity, a chest scan is sometimes done.\n\nAngioneurotic oedema, lingual carcinoma and sublingual haematoma formation following anticoagulation should be ruled out as possible diagnoses.\n\nThere are a few methods that can be used for determining the microbiology of Ludwig's angina. One of the traditionally used methods is taking culture samples although it has some limitations. By taking pus samples from a patient with Ludwig's angina, the microbiology were found to be commonly polymicrobial and anaerobic. Some of the commonly found microbes are Viridans Streptococci, Staphylococci, Peptostreptococci, Prevotella, Porphyromonas and Fusobacterium.\n\nFor each patient, the treatment plan should be done with consideration of each of the individual patient's differing factors. They are namely the stage of the disease and co-morbid conditions at the time of presentation, physician experience, available resources, and personnel are critical factors in formulation of a treatment plan. There are four principles that guide the treatment of Ludwig's Angina: Sufficient airway management, early and aggressive antibiotic therapy, incision and drainage for any who fail medical management or form localized abscesses, and adequate nutrition and hydration support. Each will be explained in detail below.\n\nAirway management has been found to be the most important factor in treating patients with Ludwig's Angina, i.e. it is the “primary therapeutic concern”. Airway compromise is known to be the leading cause of death from Ludwig's Angina.\n\n\n\nAdequate nutrition and hydration support is essential in deciding the outcomes in any patient following surgery, particularly young children. In this case, pain and swelling in the neck region would usually cause difficulties in eating or swallowing, hence reducing patient's food and fluid intake. As a result, patients suffer from weight loss due to loss of fat, muscle and skin initially, followed by bone and internal organs in the late phase. Meanwhile, at the cellular level, the cells would be less able to maintain homeostasis in the presence of stressors such as infection and surgery. Patients must therefore be well-nourished and hydrated to promote wound healing and to fight off infection.\n\nExtubation, which is the removal of endotracheal tube to liberate the patient from mechanical ventilation, should only be done when the patient's airway is proved to be patent, allowing adequate breathing. This is indicated by a decrease in swelling and patient's capability of breathing adequately around an uncuffed endotracheal tube with the lumen blocked.\n\nDuring the hospital stay, patient's condition will be closely monitored by:\nMoreover, it is advised to never leave young children with significant neck swelling unattended and they should always be seated to prevent suffocation.\n\nThe term “angina”, is derived from the Latin word “\"angere\"”, which means “choke”; and the Greek word “\"ankhone\"”, which means “strangle”. Placing it into context, Ludwig's angina refers to the feeling of strangling and choking, secondary to obstruction of the airway, which is the most serious potential complication of this condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171106", "title": "VT420", "text": "VT420\n\nThe VT420 was an ANSI standard computer terminal introduced in 1990 by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC). The 420 was the only model in the 400 series, replacing the VT320. There were no color or graphics-capable 400 series terminals; the VT340 remained in production for those requiring ReGIS and Sixel graphics and color support. The entire lineup of VT300s and VT420 was eventually replaced by the relatively unknown VT500 series starting in 1993.\n\nThe VT420 was essentially an updated VT320, adding the multi-session capabilities originally introduced on the VT330 and VT340.\n\nThose two models had included a system known as TD/SMP which allowed two sessions to be multiplexed over a single serial connection to a compatible terminal server. Alternately, the two sessions could be supported by separate serial connections on those models with multiple MMJ ports. Using either method, the VT330/340/420 could either show the two sessions behind each other, using a key sequence to flip back and forth, or split the screen horizontally to display the sessions one above the other, or vertically side-by-side.\n\nThe VT420 also added a number of more minor features. One was to add a number of PC character sets, allowing the terminal to be used with a variety of PC programs. Another allowed the terminal to generate the proper character sequences to produce rectangular-area commands. For instance, one could select a rectangular area and fill it with a particular character, or blank it out. This was in addition to the terminal-side editing system introduced on the VT300s.\n\nThe VT420 had a total of 5 sets of 94 characters for normal VT operation, another 3 sets of 128 PC characters, and 1 set of 96 characters containing various graphics and math symbols. Like all models since the VT200 series, the user could also upload a custom character set of their own design using the Sixel system. Likewise, it also supported the National Replacement Character Set system, which swapped out single characters in 7-bit modes to allow basic changes like swapping the for the for use on UK systems.\n\nAll DEC terminals that came after the VT100, including the VT420, are able to emulate their ancestors. The VT420 had VT100 and VT52 emulating modes.\n\nThe screen itself was a 14\" flat CRT with a resolution of 800 (horizontal) by 400 (vertical) pixels. A variety of glyphs were available that provided 80 or 132 characters across, and 24, 36 or 48 lines of text vertically. The screen had room for 25 lines at normal font sizes, but the last line was normally used for status indications, like . The MMJ ports could operate at speeds up to 38,400 bit/s, double that of the VT300s maximum 19,200 bit/s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171113", "title": "Saint Catherine Street", "text": "Saint Catherine Street\n\nSaint Catherine Street () () is the primary commercial artery of Downtown Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It crosses the central business district from west to east, beginning at the corner of Claremont Avenue and de Maisonneuve Boulevard in the city of Westmount, traversing the borough of Ville-Marie, and ending on Notre-Dame Street just east of Viau Street in the borough of Mercier–Hochelaga-Maisonneuve.\n\nThe street runs parallel to the largest segments of Montreal's underground city. The series of interconnected office tower basements and shopping complexes that make up this main thoroughfare lie immediately north of the street.\n\nEducational institutions located on or near the street include Concordia University, McGill University, Université du Québec à Montréal, Dawson College and LaSalle College.\n\nIn its early years Saint-Catherine Street was known as Saint-Genevieve or Saint-Gabriel; according to Paul-André Linteau, during that time it was commonplace for street names to change frequently. It is not known exactly where the name, Saint Catherine Street, originated, but there are three prevalent theories on how it came about. According to the first theory which has been put forward by Cléphas Saint-Aubin the name of the street was meant to honor Catherine de Bourbonnais, the suspected illegitimate child of King Louis XV. Another theory, which is probably the easiest to accept is that the street was named for the Catholic saint Catherine of Alexandria . The final theory is that the street was named by Jacques Viger for one of his daughters-in-law, Catherine Elizabeth.\n\nIt is not known exactly when Saint Catherine Street was built as it wasn’t part of any city plan; it just happened to be one of the streets that many people frequented. The street began to grow in 1736, in the Saint-Laurent Borough on either side of Saint Laurent Boulevard, which is located close to the centre of Montreal and runs from north to south. Saint Catherine runs from east to west.\n\nIn the 18century Montreal had no municipal council all administrative issues pertaining to construction and maintenance of roads fell to justices of the peace and the Roads Act of 1796 allowed the justices to oversee approval and denial of road construction and making sure that the roads were paid for. Landowners and farmers were often pressured to agree to and pay for the construction of streets. Road inspectors like Montreal’s first mayor Jacques Viger were appointed and their responsibilities were to make sure that roads like Saint-Catherine Street were draining properly, they roads were level, aligned properly and were adequately paved.\n\nBecause Saint Catherine Street wasn’t planned, it grew in sections at a time during different periods, as confirmed by historian Alan Stewart. There were 4 distinct stages of development; the first section which ran from Saint-Alexandre Street to Sanguinet Road grew from 1758 to 1788, the street was 24 feet wide at this time. \n\nThe second stage of development started in 1820 and ended in 1860, and during this time construction was more concentrated in the western part of the street though there was also some construction in eastern part of the street, running past Sanguinet Road to Panet Road. The western part of the street grew from Sainte-Alexandre Street to McGill College Avenue in 1840. In the 1850s it grew from McGill College Avenue past De la Montagne Road and Guy Street until it reached Atwater Avenue. \n\nThe third stage took up from where the second stage left off in 1860 and lasted until 1890. In 1872, Sainte-Catherine advanced west to Greene Avenue, then moved past Victoria Avenue in the 1880s. In the east the street grew to De Lorimier Avenue and Fullum Road by 1863 and in the next couple of years it stretched to Du Havre Road.\n\nThe 4and final stage of development occurred from 1890 and ended in 1910. By 1890 there had been sections that had been built in the neighborhoods of Hochelaga and Maisonneuve. In 1910 the street stretched to Vimont street. \n\nIn the 1950s, in order to complete this monster of a street, “short hooked segments” had to be added on either end of the street to finish the street off, in the east it hooked into Notre-Dame Street and in the west, it hooked into De Maisonneauve Boulevard. The street is now 11.2 km long and is considered the backbone of Downtown Montreal.\n\nBy the end of the 19 Century Saint-Catherine had garnered some notoriety as being the entertainment hub of Montreal. By 1850, horse-drawn streetcars were starting to be seen on the street with growing frequency and in 1864 the first electric powered tramway provided by the Montreal City Passenger Railway was introduced on Saint-Catherine Street. This allowed workers to get to and from their jobs in other parts of the city, as well as transporting many housewives to the many department stores that had started to appear on Sainte-Catherine in the 1930s like Morgan’s, Eaton’s, Simpson’s, Ogilvy’s and Dupuis as well as jewelry stores like Birks. In 1890, there was also evening entertainment with both English and French theatres and the Academy of Music lining the street near the intersection with Victoria Avenue. This helped usher in a new way of city life that evolved into how Montrealers now live.\n\nSt. Catherine Street has been home to many of Montreal's prominent department stores, including such former retailers as Eaton's, Morgan's, Simpson's and Dupuis Frères. Today, the Henry Morgan Building is home to Hudson's Bay Company, which acquired Morgan's in 1960. The Simpson's building is now shared by the Simons department store and a multiplex cinema, while Eaton's was converted to the Complexe Les Ailes. Dupuis Frères, located further east at St. Catherine and St. Hubert, is now a shopping mall and office complex.\n\nThe Ogilvy's department store remains a fixture on St. Catherine Street, although it is now a collection of boutiques rather than a single store.\n\nOther major retailers along the street including an Apple Store, AVEDA Experience Centre, Indigo Books and Music, Archambault, La Senza, Best Buy, Roots, Adidas, Puma, Guess, Parasuco, Zara, Mango and an H&M flagship store at the corner of Peel and St. Catherine. Additionally, many of Montreal's most prominent shopping complexes, including the Eaton Centre, Complexe Les Ailes, Place Montreal Trust, Promenades Cathédrale, les Cours Mont-Royal (a high fashion shopping mall), the Complexe Desjardins, Place Dupuis, Place Alexis Nihon, the Faubourg Sainte-Catherine and Westmount Square are all located along the street.\n\nThe Montreal Forum, once home to the Montreal Canadiens, is also located on St. Catherine Street at Atwater Street. It has since been turned into a shopping and movie theatre complex called the Pepsi Forum. Due to the Forum's presence on this street, St. Catherine was used as the parade route whenever the Canadiens won the Stanley Cup. This was once referred to as \"the usual route\" by Mayor Jean Drapeau, during the Canadiens' dynasties of the mid-century, when a win would occur quite frequently.\n\nThe segment in the district of Hochelaga-Maisonneuve is also an important commercial area in that neighbourhood.\n\nFor one weekend in July every year, Saint Catherine Street hosts Canada's largest open-air sidewalk sale. of the street between Jeanne-Mance Street and St. Mark is closed to traffic, and vendors from nearby shopping centers bring out their sale merchandise. There is also live entertainment along the street. It is estimated that over 300,000 people visit the downtown during this event.\n\nThe Green line of the Montreal Metro was built to serve Sainte-Catherine Street; however, to avoid disrupting traffic on the street, it was built one block to the north, under parts of Burnside Place, which once joined together, later became de Maisonneuve Boulevard. Bus service is provided by the STM's 15 Sainte-Catherine and 34 Sainte-Catherine which both operate 7 days a week.\n\nMontreal's Place des Arts, the city's primary concert venue, is located on Saint Catherine Jeanne-Mance and Saint-Urbain streets, in the city's Quartier des Spectacles entertainment district. The street was once home to many now-abandoned cinemas such as the Loews, Palace, Capitol, Cinéma de Paris, York, Ouimetoscope and the Seville Theatre as well as the demolished Montreal Spectrum music venue.\n\nThe street is also home to Christ Church Cathedral, the only church in Canada that sits atop a shopping mall, Promenades Cathédrale; another important church, Saint James United Church, has recently had its concealing façade of commercial buildings removed. Other churches on the street include St. James the Apostle Anglican Church.\n\nMontreal's Gay Village () extends along Sainte-Catherine Street in the east end of downtown, between Saint-Hubert and Papineau. Beaudry Metro station, on the Green Line, provides the most convenient access to the Village and sports a permanent rainbow decoration on its façade.\n\nFor most of the summer, from mid-May till mid-September, Sainte-Catherine Street is completely closed to vehicular traffic through the Gay Village, making it one large pedestrian area, allowing all the stores to sell outside and all the restaurants and bars to serve on large, open-air terrasses.\n\nSummer is also punctuated with special events and festivals such as the art festival \"FIMA, Festival International Montréal en arts\", \"Pride Celebrations\" and Divers/Cité.\n\nThe strip clubs which made their home on Saint Catherine have now declined in number, though a few prominent clubs, such as Super Contact, remain.\n"}
{"id": "2171117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171117", "title": "Jersey Express", "text": "Jersey Express\n\nThe Jersey Express is a team in the American Basketball Association based in Paterson, New Jersey. The team was formed in 2005 as the Newark Express. Marsha Blount is the owner of the team.\n\nThe Express ended the regular season on March 5, 2006, after losing an away game to the Buffalo Rapids. Their record for the regular season was 14-16 and they finished third in the Roger Brown Division behind the Harlem Strong Dogs and the Strong Island Sound. They had a bye week for the first round of the playoffs. They played on March 17, 2006, in Atlanta against their second round opponent, the Atlanta Vision.\n\nThe Express started the season with star players Aswan Morris, Rasheed Sparks, Jamie Sowers and Derek Washington and Marcus Toney-El from the Jersey SkyCats. The head coach of the team in their first season was Darryl Dawkins. Former Newark Mayor, Sharpe James, and the city council gave money to the team and became an official sponsor during their inaugural season.\nThe Newark Express had a small number (100-250 fans on average) at their games, but there was more loyalty and noise among the fans toward the end of the season. The team had mentioned the possibility of moving to a larger arena in the future. Although the Prudential Center was completed in 2007, the low attendance prevented the team from using the arena.\n\nThe Newark Express season ended with a loss against the top ranked Rochester Razorsharks 126-98 on March 19, 2006 in the second round of the playoffs. The Razorsharks went on to win the 2005-2006 ABA Championship.\n\nThe Express hired Ron Moore, a Brooklyn native and former New York Knick to serve as head coach beginning in November 2006. At the end of November 2006, Ron Moore resigned from the Express and was replaced by co-owner Marsha Blount, who will serve as interim head coach.\n\nThe team announced they have relocated to Paterson, New Jersey\n\n"}
{"id": "2171120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171120", "title": "Anne Tremko", "text": "Anne Tremko\n\nAnne Marie Tremko (born February 28, 1968), is an American actress best known for her role as Leslie Burke on \"\". Her most recent role was a guest appearance on a 2003 episode of \"Judging Amy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2171122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171122", "title": "Ella Guru", "text": "Ella Guru\n\nElla Guru (born May 24, 1966) is an American painter and musician living in Hastings, United Kingdom. She was a member of Mambo Taxi and the Voodoo Queens. In 1999, she became one of the founding members of the Stuckist art movement.\n\nGuru (birth name Ella Drauglis) was born in the U.S. state of Ohio. She did a commercial art course at Fort Hayes Career Center (1982–84) and attended Columbus College of Art and Design (1984–86), which she left because of \"all the conceptual crap\". She graduated in fine arts from Ohio State University (1988–89), where she received the Visual Arts Award.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1991, Guru worked as a go-go dancer and stripper, and travelled to Africa and India, then for the next year lived an Islamic lifestyle in an Algerian household in Islington, London, where she was a waitress in a Mexican restaurant. She has lived in London since this time. In 1996, she rode a bicycle to Lithuania, and met Sexton Ming in London, after borrowing his lipstick. In 1997, she worked as a web site designer. In 2001, she married Ming on a Dorset cliff top; they wore drag. Her daughter Lucy was born in 2004.\n\nShe has been an habituée of fetish clubs, where she used to spank men, whom she terms \"Tory politicians\". She had lunch in New York with Quentin Crisp, who said she was \"weird\". Guru's pseudonym is taken from a Captain Beefheart song on the album \"Trout Mask Replica\".\n\nIn the early 1990s, Guru was a guitarist in the London-based British band, Mambo Taxi, linked with Riot Grrrl. The inspiration for the band came from UK garage rock and US punk, and their sound was a mixture of garage, punk, and pop. The name was a reference to the Mambo Taxi used by the heroine of the film, \"Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown\". Guru in an interview with NME’s Sam Stallard in 1992, said the name was \"tacky\", and \"with all sorts of different things in it that sort of clash, but everything’s useful as well as fun.\"\n\nIn late 1992, drummer Anjali Bhatia left Mambo Taxi to start the Voodoo Queens, along with Guru and others. After their first concert, they were offered a Peel session by BBC DJ, John Peel. This was recorded in January 1993. Other radio and TV appearances followed, including a further two Peel Sessions, and a busking competition against Boyzone on Channel 4's music and arts programme \"Naked City\". The group reached number one in the Indie chart in 1993. Guru was replaced on bass guitar in 1994.\n\nShe has played in The Deptford Beach Babes, and also with her partner, Sexton Ming, in his band, The Tasty Ones.\n\nGuru started painting seriously again in 1997. In 1999, she was one of the thirteen founder members of the pro-figurative painting Stuckists, an anti-conceptual art and pro-figurative painting art movement founded by Charles Thomson and Billy Childish. She started the Stuckist web site, stuckism.com:\n\nThomson said that most of the Stuckist groups made their first contact through the site and that Stuckism was \"the first significant art movement to spread via the Internet.\" In 2000, she took part in the first Stuckist demonstration against the Turner Prize at Tate Britain, and has done so in later years also.\n\nIn 2004, she was one of the fourteen artists in the \"founder and featured\" section of \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\" show held at the Walker Art Gallery for the Liverpool Biennial. In 2006, she was one of the ten \"leading Stuckists\" in the Go West exhibition at Spectrum London gallery.\n\nGuru has stated her concern for ability and technique, and her admiration for the work of Old Masters, although they are not necessarily her model for painting: she also appreciates untrained artists who show invention in their work. She spent three years painting life models at art college, which gave her much of the grounding for her approach to art.\n\nHer paintings take anywhere between two days and two years to complete, and usually start by her \"going out and getting pissed with my friends\", when she takes the photographs which provide the initial ideas, although the images she works from are often \"very bad, dark, fuzzy photos\", necessitating subsequent real life studies as well as imaginative interpretation. The initial layout is done with a line drawing, but the aim is to achieve a finished result where the subject appears three-dimensional. She has talked about an irrational obsession with shapes, such as those of wigs, which have always fascinated her.\n\nHer painting \"The Queen's Speech\" had its origin in Pennsylvania in the house of a friend, with whom Guru has collaborated for a number of years in setting up suitable scenes for photographs by dressing people in costume. This particular scene, showing Guru's husband, Sexton Ming, was the friend's idea. A photograph was the starting point for the painting, which was not started until Guru's return to London, but it was augmented by life studies and also the addition of extra items, such as the bottle of absinthe.\n\n\nSome paintings by Ella Guru.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171128", "title": "Rajput painting", "text": "Rajput painting\n\nRajput painting, also called Rajasthani painting, evolved and flourished in the royal courts of Rajputana in northern India, mainly during the 17th and 18th centuries. Artists trained in the tradition of the Mughal miniature were dispersed from the imperial Mughal court, and developed styles also drawing from local traditions of painting, especially those illustrating the Hindu religious epics, the \"Mahabharata\" and \"Ramayana\". Each Rajputana kingdom evolved a distinct style, but with certain common features. Miniatures in manuscripts or single sheets to be kept in albums were the preferred medium of Rajput painting, but many paintings were done on the walls of palaces, inner chambers of the forts, havelis, particularly, the havelis of Shekhawati, the forts and palaces built by Shekhawat Rajputs.\n\nSubjects varied, but portraits of the ruling family, often engaged in hunting or their daily activities, were generally popular, as were narrative scenes from the epics or Hindu mythology, as well as some genre scenes of unnamed people.\nThe colours were extracted from certain minerals, plant sources, conch shells, and were even derived by processing precious stones. Gold and silver were used. The preparation of desired colours was a lengthy process, sometimes taking 2 weeks. Brushes used were very fine.\n\nWhile there exist a plethora of themes in Rajput paintings, a common motif found throughout Rajput works is the purposeful manipulation of space. In particular, the inclusion of fuller spaces is meant to emphasize the lack of boundaries and inseparability of characters and landscapes. In this way, the individuality of physical characters is almost rejected, allowing both the depicted backgrounds and human figures to be equally expressive.\n\nOutside of a purely artistic standpoint, Rajput paintings were often politically charged and commented on social values of the time. Mewar's rulers wanted these painting to portray their ambitions and establish their legacy. Therefore, paintings were often indicative of a ruler's legacy or their changes made to better society.\n\nBoth of these factors clearly distinguish Rajput paintings from Mughal works. While, from a chronological standpoint, both of these cultures clashed with one another, Rajput paintings only superficially adopted Mughal fashion and cultural standards. Elements, such as precise likenesses in portraiture, utilized by popular Mughal artists (Govardhan, Hashim, etc.) are not found in Rajput works. Likewise, Rajput techniques are not predominantly seen in Mughal paintings: \"At the opening of the eighteenth century, therefore, Rajput painting remains recognizably different in intent from traditional Mughal attitudes\"\n\nIn the late 16th Century, Rajput art schools began to develop distinctive styles, combining indigenous as well as foreign influences such as Persian, Mughal, Chinese and European. Rajasthani painting consists of four principal schools that have within them several artistic styles and substyles that can be traced to the various princely states that patronised these artists. The four principal schools are:\n\nThe Kangra and Kullu schools of art are also part of Rajput painting. Nainsukh is a famous artist of Pahari painting, working for Rajput princes who then ruled that far north.\n\nEconomic prosperity of commercial community and revival of “Vaisnavism” and the growth of Bhakti Cult were the major factors that contributed greatly to the development of Rajasthani paintings. In the beginning this style was greatly influenced by religious followers like Ramanuja, Meerabai, Tulsidas, Sri Chaitanya, Kabir and Ramanand.\n\nAll of Rajputana was affected by the attack of the Mughals but Mewar did not come under their control till the last. This was the reason that Rajasthani school flourished first in Mewar, (the purest form and later on in), Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bundi, Kota- Kalam, Kishangarh, Bikaner and other places of Rajasthan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171129", "title": "10 from 6", "text": "10 from 6\n\n10 from 6 (also known as 10/6) is a compilation album released by British supergroup Bad Company in December 1985 on Atlantic Records label. All the songs on the album were previously released on Swan Song Records, a record label begun by Led Zeppelin in 1974. The title refers to the album's 10 songs taken from the six albums Bad Company had recorded to that time, though no songs from \"Burnin' Sky\" appear in the album.\n\n\"Per liner notes\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2171134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171134", "title": "Division of Shortland", "text": "Division of Shortland\n\nThe Division of Shortland is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. \n\nThe division is named after Lt John Shortland, an early explorer of the Hunter Region, and was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 May 1949, and was first contested at the 1949 federal election.\n\nThe division closely follows the west coast of the Tasman Sea, on average extending only inland. Much of the western boundary is formed by Lake Macquarie. Shortland covers an area from Highfields, Cardiff and Boolaroo in the north to Budgewoi and San Remo in the south.\n\nThe current Member for Shortland, since the 2016 federal election, is Pat Conroy, a member of the Australian Labor Party.\n\nThe seat has been held by Labor since its creation; like most seats in the Hunter Region, it has usually been reasonably safe for that party. The Hunter is one of the few non-metropolitan regions where Labor usually does well.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171135", "title": "Polly Umrigar", "text": "Polly Umrigar\n\nPahlan Ratanji \"Polly\" Umrigar (28 March 1926 – 7 November 2006) was an Indian cricketer. He played first-class cricket for Bombay and Gujarat, and Test cricket in the Indian cricket team, mainly as a middle-order batsman but also bowling occasional medium pace and off spin. He captained the Indian team in eight Test matches from 1955 to 1958. When he retired in 1962, he had played in more Tests (59), scored more Test runs (3,631), and recorded more Test centuries (12), than any other Indian player. He scored the first double century by an Indian in Test cricket against New Zealand in Hyderabad.\n\nPolly Umrigar was probably born in Bombay but his place of birth is often cited as Solapur, Maharashtra (see ). His father ran a clothing company. He grew up in Solapur and his family moved to Bombay when he was at school.\n\nHe was a Parsi (from the Zoroastrian community in India), the community that dominated Bombay cricket in the early decades of the twentieth century. He made his first class debut for Parsis at the age of 18 in the Bombay Pentangular in 1944, and studied for a BSc at St Xavier's College. He captained the Bombay University team. He also played hockey and football competitively.\n\nHe scored 115* for Combined Universities against the touring West Indians in October 1948. This performance brought him to national attention, and earned him a single appearance in the 2nd Test against the same team in Bombay seven weeks later.\n\nBy the time two Commonwealth teams visited India in 1949–50 and 1950–51, Umrigar had become a regular in the team. He scored 276 runs in the unofficial Tests against the first team and 562 runs against the second. In the Madras Test, he moved from 90 to 102 with two successive sixes off Frank Worrell.\n\nHe scored only 113 runs in the first four Tests against a weak England side at home a year later. He was dropped from the fifth Test but was included in the last minute due to an injury to Hemu Adhikari. Going in at No.7, he made 130 not out as India won their first ever Test match. Though the bowling was not of a very high quality, Umrigar considered it the best innings of his life.\n\nIn England in 1952, Umrigar scored heavily outside Test matches, but in Tests he was a complete failure. His aggregate of 1,688 was the highest in the season for the Indian team. He made more than 800 runs in May and double hundreds against Oxford University, Lancashire and Kent, but seemed to struggle against the fast bowler Cuan McCarthy of Cambridge. However, he made only 43 runs in seven Test innings, at an average of 6.14. But more than the lack of runs, it was the way that he batted that was disturbing. While facing Fred Trueman, time and again he backed away towards square leg and \"(held) the bat out to each ball, missing it like a beginner\". Bedser dismissed him twice; Trueman dismissed him four times, and on three occasions he was bowled backing away.\n\nMore has perhaps been written about this series than any other phase of Umrigar's career. Umrigar had far more success in his other encounters with fast bowlers. He scored a hundred at Manchester in his next meeting with Trueman in 1959; he topped the aggregate for India in all his three series against West Indies who at various times had Frank King, Wes Hall, Roy Gilchrist and Charlie Stayers. It was off the bowling of Hall and Stayers that he played one of the finest innings of his career.\n\nHe returned to form against Pakistan at home in 1952–53, and scored 560 runs in West Indies in early 1953 with two hundreds and four fifties. He reached his hundred at Port of Spain with a six off Sonny Ramadhin. His innings of 223 against New Zealand at Hyderabad in 1955–56 was the first double century scored for India.\n\nUmrigar had led India in two unofficial Tests against the Commonwealth XI in 1953–54 winning one of them. From the second Test match against New Zealand in 1955–56 till the first Test against the West Indies three years later, he captained the side in eight successive Test matches. India won two of the New Zealand Tests by an innings.\n\nAfter one Test against the West Indies in 1958–59, he was replaced as captain by Ghulam Ahmed who then announced his retirement from Test cricket after two successive defeats. Umrigar was again picked as captain for the fourth Test at Madras, but a confusion developed about the replacements for Ghulam Ahmed and Vijay Manjrekar, who was injured. Umrigar wanted another batsman, Manohar Hardikar, to replace Manjrekar, but Ratibhai Patel, the President of BCCI insisted on the off-spinner Jasu Patel to play in his place. Umrigar resigned the captaincy on the night before the Test. He represented India for three more years but never again captained the country. His 337 runs in the five Tests of the series was the highest for India.\n\nDuring the tour of England in 1959, he again scored heavily outside Test matches, but struggled in the Tests again Trueman and Brian Statham until the fourth Test. He scored three double hundreds in tour matches, the 252* against Cambridge University was then the highest by an Indian abroad. He made 230 runs in four Test matches, including 118 in the Old Trafford Test in his last meeting with Trueman.\n\nUmrigar's off-spin played a significant supporting role to Jasu Patel in India's first win over Australia at Kanpur in 1959–60, but his batting remained below par, and he missed the last two Tests in the series with a back injury. He scored three hundreds in the series against Pakistan in 1960–61 and another against England at home in 1961–62 (his third century in as many Test innings).\n\nA few weeks later, India lost every match in a five Test series in West Indies. In the fourth Test at Port of Spain, Umrigar scored 56 and 172 not out and took 5 for 107 in the West Indian first innings. His fifty in the first innings came after India had lost their first five wickets for 30. India followed on and Umrigar reached his hundred in 156 minutes and 150 in 203. When Wes Hall took the second new ball, Umrigar hit him for four fours in an over. The last two Indian wickets added 144. Umrigar's 172* in 248 minutes were scored off India's last 230 runs. He finished the series with 445 runs and nine wickets. His chronic back trouble made him announce his retirement from Test cricket after he returned home.\n\nUmrigar continued to play first-class cricket for Bombay for another season and played his last first class match in 1967–68.\n\nUmrigar was a powerfully built man who stood just under six feet. An attacking player especially strong in front of the wicket, he was capable of destroying anything short of extreme pace. In this attitude towards the bowling, he was different from most of his contemporaries. \"He was a link between two generations\", wrote K. N. Prabhu. \"Theoretically he belonged to that assembly of cricketers of the thirties, but in practice his cricket was conditioned by the hard, professional approach of the immediate post-independence years\". From the early 1940s, Indian cricket had been dominated by the Merchant-Hazare school of batsmanship which put stress on preserving one's wicket. Umrigar's batting combined the tall scores of this era with the adventurous spirit of the thirties.\n\nUmrigar's bowling improved over the course of his career. He bowled off-cutters, hardly flighted the ball and moved it in off the seam. Occasionally he used to bowl medium pace and open the bowling, as at Bahawalpur in 1954–55 when he took his career-best 6 for 74 against Pakistan. Umrigar rarely bowled for long spells at medium pace. At Bahawalpur he only bowled about six overs \"at the maximum pace that he was capable of, which would be about Ramchand's\" (the wickets were taken in later spells), according to Sujit Mukherjee. (See the article on G. S. Ramchand for Mukherjee's opinion about Ramchand's bowling.)\n\nUmrigar's aggregate of 3,631 Test runs and 12 Test centuries were India's best until bettered by Sunil Gavaskar in the late seventies. He led the victorious Bombay sides in Ranji Trophy in 1959–60, 1960–61 and 1962–63. In 59 Ranji matches, for Bombay and Gujarat, he scored 4102 runs with fifteen hundreds at an average of 70.72 and 140 wickets. His highest Ranji score of 245 was made against Saurashtra in 1957–58. He twice scored 1,000 runs in an Indian domestic season. He also spent a few years for Church in the Lancashire League.\n\nUmrigar was the manager of Indian touring sides to New Zealand, West Indies and Australia in the late 1970s. He was the chairman of the national selection committee between 1978 and 1982, Executive secretary of the BCCI and the Mumbai Cricket Association Secretary. He wrote a book on cricket coaching and, for a time, he was the curator of the pitch at the Wankhede Stadium. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1962 and the C.K. Nayudu Trophy in 1998–99 for his contributions to the game. The national Under-15 championship is contested for the Polly Umrigar Trophy.\n\nUmrigar was diagnosed with lymph cancer and underwent chemotherapy in mid-2006. He died in Mumbai from the illness on 7 November 2006\n\nHe married his wife, Dinu, in 1951. He was survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171144", "title": "2nd Red Banner Army", "text": "2nd Red Banner Army\n\nThe 2nd Red Banner Army () was a Soviet field army of World War II that served as part of the Far Eastern Front.\n\nThe army was formed at Khabarovsk in the Soviet Far East in 1938 as the 2nd Army. After the Far Eastern Front was split in September that year it became the 2nd Independent Red Banner Army. When the front was reformed in June 1940, the army was redesignated as the 2nd Red Banner Army, stationed in the Blagoveshchensk area. It spent the bulk of World War II guarding the border in that area, sending formations to the Eastern Front while undergoing several reorganizations. In August 1945, the army fought in the Soviet invasion of Manchuria, capturing the Japanese fortified regions of Aihun and Sunwu adjacent to its sector of the border, and advancing into Manchuria to Qiqihar. The army was disbanded after the war in late 1945.\n\nDue to increased tensions with Japan, the 2nd Army was created in July 1938 on the Far Eastern frontiers of the Soviet Union from the 18th Rifle Corps as part of the Far Eastern Red Banner Front. It was commanded by then-\"Komkor\" (Corps commander) Ivan Konev. In September, the front was dissolved and its troops were split into two independent armies, which both inherited the Order of the Red Banner previously awarded to the front. The army, redesignated as the 2nd Independent Red Banner Army (2nd OKA), still under Konev's command, was headquartered at Khabarovsk and controlled troops in the oblasts of the Lower Amur, Khabarovsk, Primorsky, Sakhalin, and Kamchatka, the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, and the okrugs of Koryak and Chukotka. It was directly subordinate to the People's Commissariat of Defense and operationally controlled the Amur Red Banner Flotilla. The 2nd OKA included the 3rd, 12th, 34th, 35th, 69th, and 78th Rifle Divisions during its existence, as well as the fortified regions of De-Kastri, Lower Amur, Ust-Sungari and Blagoveshchensk.\n\nElements of the army fought in the Battles of Khalkhin Gol, a series of border clashes between the Soviet Union and Japan, in mid-1939 under the control of other formations. On 4October 1939, the Northern Army Group was established at Nikolayevsk-on-Amur, controlling troops in the fortified regions of Nikolayevsk-on-Amur and De-Kastri, Kamchatka and Sakhalin. Subordinated to the 2nd OKA, the group operationally controlled the Northern Pacific Flotilla. By an order dated 21 June 1940, the Far Eastern Front was recreated and the headquarters of the 2nd Independent Red Banner Army was abolished and used to form the headquarters of the 2nd and 15th Armies. The 2nd (Blagoveshchensk) Red Banner Army (2nd KA) was headquartered at Kuibyshevka. It included the 3rd and 12th Rifle Divisions and the 69th Motorized Division (the former 69th Rifle Division, stationed in the Blagoveshchensk area). The 34th, 35th, and 78th Rifle Divisions became part of the 15th Army. Lieutenant General Vsevolod Sergeyev became army commander on 22 June. On 27 August, the 31st Mixed Aviation Division (SmAD) was formed from its 26th Mixed Aviation Brigade. In March 1941, the 59th Tank Division was formed in the Khabarovsk area as part of the army. Lieutenant General Makar Teryokhin replaced Sergeyev on 11 March. By 22 June the army also included the 101st Blagoveshchensk and the Ust-Bureysk Fortified Regions.\n\nDuring World War II, the army covered the border around Blagoveshchensk and sent reinforcements to the active forces fighting on the Eastern Front. Following the beginning of Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union, on 22 June 1941, a directive dated 25 June transferred the 59th Tank and 69th Motorized Divisions by rail to the Eastern Front. On 28 June the 31st SmAD departed for the Eastern Front, and remaining units, including the 3rd Fighter Aviation Regiment, were made directly subordinate to the Air Force (VVS) of the 2nd KA. In August the 95th Mixed Aviation Division was formed in the VVS of the 2nd KA; it became the 95th Fighter Aviation Division (IAD) by 1September.\n\nBy 1September, the army included the Svobodny Rifle Division, and the 82nd Bomber Aviation Division (BAD) had been added to the VVS of the 2nd KA. By 1October the Svobodny Rifle Division had been replaced by the 204th Rifle Division, the 95th IAD had become the 95th SmAD, and the 96th SmAD had been created. By 1November, the 1st and 2nd Rifle Brigades and the Zeya and Blagoveshchensk separate rifle regiments had been formed in the army. The 95th SmAD had again been redesignated as the 95th IAD by 1December, and a separate cavalry regiment and the 73rd and 74th Tank Brigades had been formed. As of 1December the two separate rifle regiments had disappeared from the order of battle and the 1st and 2nd Rifle Brigades were shown as being part of the 101st Fortified Region.\n\nThe Ust-Bureysk Fortified Region was likely disbanded in December, as it does not appear in the order of battle for 1January 1942. The 95th IAD became an SmAD again in December. In January the 82nd BAD briefly transferred to the VVS of the Far Eastern Front, but transferred back to the army's VVS in February. Around the same time the 96th Rifle Division and 258th and 259th Rifle Brigades became part of the army. In March the 95th SmAD was disbanded and its units directly subordinated to the army's VVS. The 96th SmAD was converted into an IAD in May. In July, the 96th and 204th Rifle Divisions were shipped to the Eastern Front and the 17th and 41st Rifle Brigades were formed. The VVS of the army became a separate unit, the 11th Air Army, in August.\n\nIn April 1943, the 1st and 2nd Amur Tank Brigades were formed in the army from its separate tank battalions; in June, the 1st was merged into the 2nd, becoming the 258th Tank Brigade in July. The army's composition remained constant for most of 1944; the 342nd and 355th Rifle Divisions were formed in the army in late November and December, respectively, from its four rifle brigades. The 345th and the 396th Rifle Divisions were formed in the army in March 1945. In July, the 342nd and the 345th Divisions transferred out of the army to the 87th Rifle Corps and the 355th Division joined the Chuguyevka Operational Group, an independent unit directly controlled by the Far Eastern Front headquarters.\n\nIn preparation for the Soviet invasion of Manchuria, the army became part of the 2nd Far Eastern Front after the Far Eastern Front was split on 5August. For the invasion, the army had a strength of 240 tanks and self-propelled guns and 1,270 guns and mortars, and occupied a sector. It numbered 54,000 men out of a nominal strength of 59,000. The army's three rifle divisions were at around 90% of their nominal strength, with around 9,000 to 10,000 men each; the 3rd and 12th Divisions were slightly larger than the 396th. The 101st Fortified Region numbered 6,000 men and was almost at full strength. The army included three tank brigades (the 73rd, 74th, and 258th) and three self-propelled artillery battalions. Front commander Army General Maxim Purkayev initially tasked the army with defending the Blagoveshchensk area from Japanese attack, in cooperation with the Amur Flotilla's Zee-Bureysk Brigade and separate battalions of river ships. When the main Soviet attacks achieved success, the army was to launch an assault crossing of the Amur River, reduce or isolate the Japanese Sakhalian, Aihun, and Holomoching fortified regions and defenses around Sunwu, and advance south through the Lesser Khingan Mountains to Qiqihar and Harbin. The front's offensive operations were later known in Soviet historiography as the Sungari Offensive.\n\nAn operational group consisting of the 3rd and 12th Rifle Divisions and the 73rd and 74th Tank Brigades was positioned in the army's center and on its left flank. It was to attack south across the Amur from Konstantinovka to capture Sunwu and its fortifications, then advance south through Peian to Harbin. Another group with the 396th Rifle Division, the 368th Mountain Rifle Regiment, and the 258th Tank Brigade was to launch a supporting drive across the Amur from the Blagoveshchensk area, take the fortified regions of Sakhalian and Aihun, and advance south to Nencheng, Noho, and Qiqihar. The army's 101st Fortified Area, with artillery and machine gun battalions, was positioned on the Amur between the two groups to conduct supporting attacks.\n\nThe main offensive began on 9August, but the army remained in its positions until 11 August. During this time, it conducted reconnaissance and harassing attacks across the Amur, capturing several of the river's islands. The main bodies of the operational groups were placed in concentration areas, located in the army's rear. Due to the rapid advance of the other Soviet forces, Purkayev ordered the army late on 10 August to begin its attack early on the following morning. Aihun, Sunwu, and Hsunho were scheduled to be captured by the end of 11 August. That night, the operational groups moved forward to their attack starting positions. The attack began early in the morning under the cover of an artillery bombardment, as reconnaissance and assault detachments from the first echelons of the operational groups crossed the Amur, capturing bridgeheads near Sakhalian, Aihun, and Holomoching, coming into contact with Japanese outposts and covering forces. The 3rd and 12th Rifle Divisions commenced crossing the river shortly afterwards, less one regiment, east and west of Konstantinovka; the 396th Division and 368th Regiment near Blagoveshchensk and the 101st Fortified Region crossed south of Blagoveshchensk.\n\nDue to bridging equipment shortages, the army was not fully across the river until 16 August, forcing the piecemeal commitment of forces. Forward units continued to engage Japanese advanced positions south of Holomoching and north of Aihun on 12 August, as reinforcements landed. Sufficient troops to intensify the attack had arrived on the other bank of the Amur by 13 August, allowing the 3rd Rifle Division and 74th Tank Brigade to penetrate the Japanese defenses held by the 123rd Infantry Division's 269th Infantry Regiment on the heights northeast of Sunwu. A regiment from the 12th Division crossed the Amur east of Sunwu and advanced west along the Sunwu road, attacking the Japanese left flank. The 396th Division, 258th Tank Brigade and 368th Regiment pushed the 135th Independent Mixed Brigade back towards the main fortified region at Aihun, while small Japanese forces were destroyed by troops crossing the river father north at Huma and Santaoka.\n\nFierce fighting took place on 14 and 15 August for the main fortified regions east and north of Sunwu. Supported by the 73rd Tank Brigade, the 3rd and 12th Divisions broke through Japanese defenses at Shenwutan, scattering a detachment from the 269th Regiment, and driving another back towards Nanyang Hill, just east of Sunwu, and attacking the 123rd Division's main forces in the Sunwu Fortified Region. Meanwhile, the 74th Tank Brigade, reinforced by a rifle company, artillery battalion, and an antitank regiment, moved south and bypassed Sunwu, advancing to cut the Sunwu–Peian road. Taking advantage of the tank attack, the 396th Division and 368th Regiment advanced on Sunwu from the north, surrounding most of the 135th Brigade in the Aihun Fortified Region. A forward detachment was formed around the 74th Brigade to pursue the Japanese remnants southwest along the Nencheng road.\n\nThe 369th Rifle Division's second echelon 614th Rifle Regiment and the 101st Fortified Region were tasked with reducing the Aihun and Sunwu fortified regions, as the operational groups marched in two routes towards Nencheng and Peian, more than 93 miles (150 kilometers) apart. The advance was slowed by bad weather and muddy and rutted roads, and two engineer sapper battalions were attached to the lead detachments of the operational groups to speed up the advance. For the next several days, the bypassed Japanese troops continued to defend the Sakhalian, Aihun and Sunwu fortified regions, launching frequent attacks against the Soviet troops. After further heavy artillery and bombing from the Soviet 18th Mixed Aviation Corps of the 10th Air Army, Japanese resistance slackened on 17 and 18 August, and many defenders surrendered or were destroyed. Around Sunwu, a total of 17,061 Japanese military personnel were captured, while 4,520 soldiers at Aihun did not surrender until 20 August.\n\nThe Kwantung Army formally surrendered on 18 August, while the operational groups slowly advanced south, capturing Nencheng and Peian on 20 and 21 August before moving towards Qiqihar and Harbin. The army reached Qiqihar on 21 August, where it linked up with troops from the 36th Army. The Japanese around the fortified regions were subsequently described by historian David Glantz as the most formidable faced by Soviet troops in the campaign. The level of resistance and road conditions slowed the army's advance to an average of 20 kilometers a day, one of the lowest speeds of Soviet forces during the invasion; it advanced a depth of 200 kilometers into Manchuria. During the campaign, the army lost 645 killed, 1,817 wounded, and 74 missing.\n\nThe 390th Rifle Division of the 5th Separate Rifle Corps was transferred to the army by 3September 1945, along with the 32nd Guards Tank Brigade. After the war, the army briefly became part of the Far Eastern Military District, formed from the 2nd Far Eastern Front on 10 September. It was disbanded there in November 1945, the headquarters officially dissolving on 15 December. The 390th and 396th Divisions were disbanded with the army, while the 3rd and 12th Divisions transferred to the 26th Rifle Corps of the 1st Red Banner Army in the Transbaikal-Amur Military District.\n\nThe army was commanded by the following officers during its existence:\n"}
{"id": "2171153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171153", "title": "Lovey Howell", "text": "Lovey Howell\n\nEunice \"Lovey\" Howell (née Wentworth), referred to as \"Mrs. Howell\" by characters other than her husband, is a fictional character from the 1964 to 1967 television show \"Gilligan's Island\". Played by Natalie Schafer, the character was a rich, spoiled socialite, married to Thurston Howell III.\n\nWhile Mr. Howell always called her \"Lovey\", the other castaways always called her \"Mrs. Howell\". There are only two times someone besides Thurston calls her Lovey: in the pilot, when the radio is announcing the missing people, the announcer says \"Thurston Howell III and his wife, international hostess Lovey Howell\"; and in the episode in which Gilligan thinks he wins the lottery and invites all the people into the Howells' club, The Professor greets Mr. and Mrs. Howell as Thurston and Lovey.\n\nIn episode 31 of season 2, \"Mr. and Mrs. ???\", in which the Howells were having marital problems, she mentioned her maiden name was Wentworth. If \"Lovey\" is a nickname, her actual first name was never mentioned in the series itself or its unaired pilot episode.\nTrivia buffs are always getting annoyed when the writer of the show Sherwood Schwartz would throw out information on interview shows that were never mentioned in the series. Two prime examples were that Gilligan's first name being Willie and Lovey's first name being Eunice. Bob Denver, himself found that out during a \"Tonight Show\" interview almost twenty years later.\n\nNot much information was revealed about her life before being marooned with her fellow castaways, but she introduced herself in episode 6 of season 2 (\"Quick Before It Sinks\") as \"Mrs. Thurston Howell III, from New York, Palm Beach and of course, Paris, mon cher\". She also mentions in episode 17 of season 2: \"You've Been Disconnected\" that she spoke fluent French and Italian, hinting at a classical education. In episode 9 of season 3 (\"Ring Around Gilligan\"), Mr. Howell mentions her having studied at Vassar, saying \"Mommy warned me about you Vassar girls and your long gym classes\".\n\nDuring episode 4 of season 2: \"Smile, You're on Mars Camera\" Thurston Howell indicates that Lovey, or at least her family, had money of their own; Mr. Howell describes her as being an heiress who is \"loaded\". It is also revealed that Mrs. Howell's father gave them an oil company (apparently dry) in \"Dustbowl, Oklahoma\" as a wedding gift, which she claims he thought was a football stadium (episode 13 of season 1:\"Three Million Dollars More or Less\"). Two members of her family Mr. Howell cannot stand are her mother (Mr. Howell describes her as sounding like a screech owl and having fangs for teeth and claws for hands) and her brother.\n\nLovey claims she was a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) (episode 30 of season 2, \"'V' for Vitamins\"), to have been presented at the Court of St. James, and to have been selected the \"Queen of the Prune-Bowl Parade\" (episode 30 of season 3, \"Gilligan, the Goddess\"). A favorite movie star of hers is silent movie star Mary Pickford (\"Castaways Pictures Presents\")\n\nAlthough spoiled and preoccupied with social status, Mrs. Howell was also kind and genuinely cared about the well-being of her fellow castaways. She frequently served as something of a mother figure to the two younger female castaways, Ginger Grant and Mary Ann Summers, offering advice (though she sometimes also displays jealousy toward the two younger women). One of the Island \"visitors\" she can't stand is socialite Erika-Tiffany Smith (played by Zsa Zsa Gabor) because her name appears before the Howells in the \"Social Register\". She also claims to be close friends with \"Grace and Prince Rainier\" on several episodes.\n\nSeveral times she acted as a motherly figure to Gilligan, such as psychoanalyzing him, adopting him, and praising him for his accomplishments when no one else did. She plotted with her husband several times to steal/access/manipulate things from the other survivors. She once tried to get Gilligan and Mary Ann to wed, kept a gold mine secret from the rest of the group, divulged secrets about stolen jewelry from a parrot, schemed to convince a burnt-out artist to leave the island, and got through to an uncivilized jungle boy played by Kurt Russell. Although she gives the impression of being physically frail, in one episode [\"The Big Gold Strike\"] she actually resorts to physical manual labor in order to extract gold from a mine; in another [\"Ring Around Gilligan\"], under the influence of Mad Dr. Balinkoff's ring, she actually executes a judo flip on her husband! She adores dogs but is allergic to cats.\n\nIt was once quoted by Thurston Howell himself that their brilliance together was exceeded only by their greed. They had also proven to have a house in each state and several staffs of servants, including an upstairs maid, a downstairs maid and a butler who served him breakfast in bed. Thurston once quoted that the neighborhood of one million dollars apiece was considered a slum area where they resided.\n\nAlthough the Howells were portrayed as childless in the original series, their son Thurston Howell IV (portrayed by David Ruprecht) was introduced in the reunion movie \"The Harlem Globetrotters on Gilligan's Island\".\n"}
{"id": "2171155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171155", "title": "Michael Lawrence (writer)", "text": "Michael Lawrence (writer)\n\nMichael Lawrence is an English writer for children and young adults. He is best known as the author of the Withern Rise trilogy (known as \"The Aldous Lexicon\" outside the United States) and the Jiggy McCue series of sixteen books.\n\nMichael Lawrence was born in Huntingdonshire, England. His family moved to Sudbury, Middlesex when he was four. In his teens he attended Ealing School of Art before working in London as a graphic designer and photographer. Later, Lawrence became an art and antiques dealer, but when he sold a novel (\"When the Snow Falls\", published in 1995), he decided to concentrate on writing for young people. \"When the Snow Falls\" was later rewritten and recast for older readers as \"A Crack in the Line\", the first novel in \"The Withern Rise\" Trilogy. He also co-authored \"The Poppykettle Papers\" with Robert Ingpen, and his book \"Young Dracula and Young Monsters\" was the basis for the CBBC television series \"Young Dracula\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171164", "title": "Punch Sulzberger", "text": "Punch Sulzberger\n\nArthur Ochs \"Punch\" Sulzberger Sr. (February 5, 1926 – September 29, 2012) was an American publisher and a businessman. Born into a prominent media and publishing family, Sulzberger became publisher of \"The New York Times\" in 1963 and chairman of the board of The New York Times Company in 1973. Sulzberger relinquished to his son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr., the office of publisher in 1992, and chairman of the board in 1997.\n\nSulzberger was born to a Jewish family on February 5, 1926 in New York City, the son of Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Iphigene Bertha Ochs (daughter of Adolph Ochs, the former publisher and owner of \"The New York Times\" and the \"Chattanooga Times\" and granddaughter of Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise). Sulzberger graduated from the Loomis Institute and then enlisted into the United States Marine Corps during World War II, serving from 1944 to 1946, in the Pacific Theater. He earned a B.A. degree in English and history in 1951 at Columbia University. As a member of the Marine Forces Reserve he was recalled to active duty during the Korean War. Following completion of officer training, he saw duty in Korea and then in Washington, D.C., before being inactivated.\n\nSulzberger became publisher of \"The New York Times\" in 1963, after the death of his sister Marian's husband, Orvil Dryfoos, who had been publisher for less than two years. Sulzberger was 37 at the time, the youngest publisher in \"Times\" history. Prior to Dryfoos, Sulzberger's father, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, and maternal grandfather, Adolph Ochs, were the publishers, and also the chairs of the board of The New York Times Company.\n\nIn the 1960s Sulzberger built a large news-gathering staff at \"The Times\". He was its publisher when the newspaper won a Pulitzer Prize in 1972 for publishing The Pentagon Papers. He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1988. His son Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr. succeeded him as the newspaper's publisher in 1992. Sulzberger remained chairman of The New York Times Company until October 1997.\n\nIn addition to his work at \"The New York Times\", he also served as trustee from 1968 as well as chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1987 to 1998.He was elected as a life trustee of Columbia University in 1967.\n\nSulzberger was married three times. In 1948, he married Barbara Winslow Grant (of mostly Scottish and English heritage) in a civil ceremony at her parents' home in Purchase, New York. They had two children: Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr.; and Karen Alden Sulzberger (married to author Eric Lax); before divorcing in 1956.\n\nIn December 1956, he married Carol Fox Fuhrman; they had one daughter, Cynthia Fox Sulzberger Green, before his wife died in 1995. He also adopted Fox's daughter from a previous marriage, Cathy Sulzberger (married to Joseph George Perpich, brother of Anthony J. Perpich, George F. Perpich, and Rudy Perpich). In 1996, he married Allison Stacey Cowles, widow of William H. Cowles, 3rd (died 1992), who was part of the Cowles family that owns \"The Spokesman-Review\" of Spokane, Wash.\n\nIn 2005, the Newspaper Association of America (NAA) honored Sulzberger with the Katharine Graham Lifetime Achievement Award. Sulzberger dedicated the Wellesley College pub, aptly named \"Punch's Alley\", in honor of his wife, Allison, a class of 1955 Wellesley alum.\n\nSulzberger died of a brain hemorrhage at his home on September 29, 2012. He was 86.\n\nOn June 13, 1971, \"The New York Times\" published the first of seven articles on the \"Pentagon Papers\". According to Floyd Abrams, Sulzberger \"made the call to accept the risks rather than those of silence\", adding that \"In retrospect, the decision may seem obvious, but it was by no means an easy one at the time, and it remains one for which Sulzberger deserves enormous credit.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171165", "title": "Greatest Hits (1998 Mötley Crüe album)", "text": "Greatest Hits (1998 Mötley Crüe album)\n\nGreatest Hits (Stylized as GREATE$T HIT$) is the second compilation album by American heavy metal band, Mötley Crüe. It was released on November 14, 1998 on Mötley/Hip-O.\n\nTommy Lee recorded his drum tracks for the album's two new songs, the single \"Bitter Pill\" and the promo single \"Enslaved\" and then started a prison sentence of five months. Additionally, a remix version of \"Glitter\" is included. The tour for the album began after Lee's release from prison. It would be his last with the band before his return in 2004. The album does not feature any material from John Corabi’s two-year tenure with the band.\n\nThe album is an updated version of the original compilation \"Decade of Decadence\" released in 1991, which is currently out of print. Its cover art features a caricature of the band by artist/designer Erik Casillas.\n\nAlthough this compilation won a 1998 Metal Edge Readers' Choice Award for \"Best Compilation,\" it misses out on some Mötley Crüe hits, such as \"Live Wire\", \"Piece of Your Action\", and \"Too Young to Fall in Love\".\n\nThe original pressing is now out of print and in 2009, the album was reissued with \"Enslaved\", \"Bitter Pill\" and the \"Glitter\" remix excluded, \"Too Young to Fall in Love\" and songs from \"Red, White and Crue\" and \"Saints of Los Angeles\" included and the 1997 remix of \"Shout at the Devil\" replaced with the original version.\n\nThe album charted at number 20 on The Billboard 200. The compilation featured two newly recorded songs: \"Enslaved\" and the single \"Bitter Pill\" which charted at number 22 on the Mainstream rock charts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171171", "title": "Constitution of Lebanon", "text": "Constitution of Lebanon\n\nThe Constitution of Lebanon was adopted on 23 May 1926.\n\nThe most recent amendment of the Constitution was for the Charter of Lebanese National Reconciliation (Ta'if Accord), in October, 1989.\n\nIn an attempt to maintain equality between Christians and Muslims, Article 24 of the constitution mandates the distribution of offices on the basis of Confessionalism as an interim measure, but does not specify how they are to be allocated. (See National Pact.) It does, nevertheless, specify that half the seats shall be given to Christians and half to Muslims. Article 24 in its entirety reads as follows. \n\"Until such time as the Chamber enacts new electoral laws on a non-confessional basis, the distribution of seats shall be according to the following principles: \na. Equal representation between Christians and Muslims.\nb. Proportional representation among the confessional groups within each of the two religious communities.\nc. Proportional representation among geographic regions.\nExceptionally, and for one time only, the seats that are currently vacant, as well as the new seats that have been established by law, shall be filled by appointment, all at once, and by a two thirds majority of the Government of National Unity. This is to establish equality between Christians and Muslims as stipulated in the Document of National Accord. The electoral laws shall specify the details regarding the implementation of this clause.\"\n\nThe constitution describes the flag of Lebanon. The original version of \"Article 5\" read \"The Lebanese flag is blue, white, red with a cedar in the white part\". A change made on 7 December 1943 indicated that \"The Lebanese flag is made of red, white and red horizontal stripes, with the cedar in green in the centre of the white stripe\". Some flag manufacturers have created a more conventional looking tree, with a brown trunk. Some allege that this is unconstitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171189", "title": "Nita Naldi", "text": "Nita Naldi\n\nNita Naldi (born Mary Nonna Dooley; November 13, 1894 – February 17, 1961) was an American stage performer and silent film actress. She was often cast in theatrical and screen productions as a vamp, a persona first popularized by actress Theda Bara.\n\nNita Naldi was born in New York City to working class Irish parents, Julia (née Cronin) and Patrick Dooley, in 1894. Known in her youth as Nonna, she was named in honor of her great aunt, Mary Nonna Dunphy, a nun who in 1879 had founded Academy of the Holy Angels in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Later, in 1910, young Nonna herself attended the Catholic school, the same year her father “'left the family'”. \n\nHer mother's death in 1915 required Nonna to care for her two younger siblings. To support them and herself she took several jobs, including work as an artist's model and a cloak model. She soon entered vaudeville with her brother Frank, and by 1918 she was performing as a chorus girl at the Winter Garden Theatre in \"The Passing Show of 1918\". Her appearance in that Broadway production led to more stage jobs, and soon Naldi found herself in the \"Ziegfeld Follies\" of 1918 and 1919. It was at this time when Nonna Dooley changed her name to \"Nita Naldi,\" which she adapted from the name of a childhood friend, Florence Rinaldi. \nWorking under her new name, Naldi continued acting on Broadway; and after her well-received performance in \"The Bonehead\", producer William A. Brady in 1920 offered her a role in his play \"Opportunity\".\n\nNaldi was asked to perform in a short film with Johnny Dooley, a Scottish comedian who, despite his last name, was unrelated to her. She soon quit the film, however, after realizing that Dooley had romantic intentions with another woman. Naldi was then offered a role in \"A Divorce of Convenience\" with Owen Moore. Following those two films, she had small roles in several independent films before being cast as the exotic character Gina in Paramount Pictures's 1920 release\" Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\" starring John Barrymore. Barrymore himself reportedly recommended her for the role after he “spotted” her dancing at the Winter Garden. Her noted performance in that film subsequently afforded Naldi more career opportunities. It also established her long-term friendship with Barrymore, who affectionately nicknamed her his “Dumb Duse”.\n\nNaldi was selected by Spanish author Vicente Blasco Ibáñez for the role of Doña Sol in film version of his novel, \"Blood and Sand\" (1922). Naldi was signed by Famous Players-Lasky for the role, and it became her first pairing with screen idol Rudolph Valentino; the film was a major success, for it gave Naldi the image of a vamp, which would follow her for the rest of her life. Naldi and Valentino were never romantic, and she would be one of the few to befriend his wife Natacha Rambova though that friendship would sour when the Valentinos divorced.\n\nNaldi during this time posed for famous Peruvian artist Alberto Vargas, who painted her embracing a bust of a satyr. In Vargas's original “pin-up” painting, Naldi is depicted topless, although copies of the portrait that were published and widely distributed in the 1920s, such as in the art and entertainment magazine \"Shadowland\", were “modified” by the addition of clothing to cover her partially visible left breast.\n\nWhile Valentino went on his one-man strike, which prevented him from appearing on film, Naldi took on several Famous Players-Lasky roles with growing importance including \"The Ten Commandments\" (1923), directed by Cecil B. DeMille. When Valentino returned and fixed his contract woes, she joined him for his final Famous Players-Lasky film, the now lost \"A Sainted Devil\" (1924). Naldi left the company soon after.\n\nIn 1924 the Valentinos and Naldi traveled to France in order to do research for the film \"The Hooded Falcon\" which was never made. Upon returning to California, the duo made \"Cobra\". The film was not well received, and \"Cobra\" became the last film in which Naldi and Valentino starred together. The Valentinos' marriage was ending around this time. After Valentino signed a contract with United Artists, he banned Rambova from the set. She was given her own film as a consolation. Naldi starred in Rambova's 1925 production \"What Price Beauty?\" The film suffered distribution problems, was barely noted at the time, but is noteworthy for being actress Myrna Loy's first screen appearance.\n\nAfter finishing the Dorothy Gish film \"Clothes Make the Pirate\", Naldi left for France for a short vacation, where she married J. Searle Barclay during this time. Despite multiple rumors that she had retired, Naldi began work on several films, including Alfred Hitchcock's second directorial effort, 1926's \"The Mountain Eagle\". She is often mistakenly credited for appearing in Hitchcock's \"The Pleasure Garden\".\n\nNaldi made two films in France and one in Italy before retiring. Despite having an acceptable voice, Naldi never made a “talkie”.\n\nDue to the financial reversals caused by her retirement from films, as well as the Great Depression, Naldi filed for bankruptcy in 1932. She went back to the stage with \"Queer People\" and \"The Firebird\" in 1933. The press had been critical of her weight since 1924, but reviews of her appearances in both plays were especially harsh this time around — so harsh in fact that Naldi filed suit against one paper in 1934 for $500,000. The suit was dismissed in 1938.\n\nIn 1942, Naldi was considered for \"For Whom the Bell Tolls\" but did not receive the part. She never made another film. That same year she began appearing in a revue in New York with Mae Murray reciting the 1897 poem \"A Fool There Was\" in full kitsch.\n\nIn 1952, she had a notable role in the play \"In Any Language\", co-starring the legendary stage actress Uta Hagen. In 1955, she coached Carol Channing how to vamp, for Channing's new musical \"The Vamp\". Channing would be nominated for a Tony award for Best Actress in a Musical for that role.\n\nDuring the 1952 presidential election, she supported Adlai Stevenson in his campaign.\n\nAlso in the 1950s, Naldi appeared on the television series \"Omnibus\".\n\nIn 1929, seven years after the success of \"Blood and Sand\", Naldi was named as a party in the divorce proceedings between 54-year-old millionaire J. Searle Barclay from his wife of 16 years. Barclay and Naldi had met during her stage career a decade earlier and had lived together with her sister in New York since 1920. The pair married in France in August 1929. Naldi, alone, returned to the United States two years later and then filed for bankruptcy in 1934. Naldi did not speak publicly about Barclay until after his death in 1945. He died penniless.\n\nDespite Hollywood gossip and published rumors, Naldi denied ever being romantically involved with either Valentino or Barrymore. In 1956 she was also rumored to be engaged to a Park Avenue man named Larry Hall, but no union took place. Naldi had no children.\n\nNaldi spent her final years in New York City, where she died of a heart attack in her hotel room at the Wentworth Hotel on West 46th Street a little over three months after her 66th birthday. She was buried in the family plot at Calvary Cemetery in Queens, New York.\n\nFor her contribution to the film industry, Nita Naldi was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6316 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171194", "title": "Kiersten Warren", "text": "Kiersten Warren\n\nKiersten Nicolla Dale Warren (born November 4, 1965) is an American actress. Her best known roles include Alex Tabor on \"\" and Nora Huntington on \"Desperate Housewives\".\n\nWarren was born in Creston, Iowa. She is the mother of actress Misti Traya (b. September 23, 1981) who has a daughter (b. 2012). Warren is now married to actor Kirk Acevedo. In 2009, she appeared in an episode of \"Fringe\" (\"Unleashed\") as the wife of Charlie Francis, Acevedo's character. In 2003, she appeared in an episode of \"The West Wing\" titled \"Life on Mars\", and in 2009, appeared in an episode of \"Nip/Tuck\" titled \"Jenny Juggs\" as Jenny Juggs.\n\nShe has appeared in numerous films, including \"13 Going on 30\", \"Intolerable Cruelty\", \"Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood\", \"Bicentennial Man\" and \"Independence Day\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2171206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171206", "title": "Rusudan Goletiani", "text": "Rusudan Goletiani\n\nRusudan Goletiani (; born September 8, 1980) is a Georgian-American chess player with the FIDE titles of International Master and Woman Grandmaster. She won the 2003 American Continental Women's Chess Championship and the 2005 U.S. Women's Chess Championship.\n\nGoletiani won the Soviet Junior Championship for Girls Under-12 in 1990 when she was nine years old. In 1990, she was the Soviet representative in the World Youth Chess tournament for Peace in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. In 1994, she won the World Championship for Girls Under-14 in Hungary. In 1995, she won the world championship for girls under-16 in Brazil. In 1997, she won the world championship for girls under-18 in Yerevan, Armenia.\n\nGoletiani qualified to the Women's World Chess Championship, scheduled to begin on November 25, 2000 in New Delhi, India, by tying for first with Grandmaster Nino Khurtsidze in a zonal tournament in Georgia in May 2000. However, there were lengthy times when she was not able to compete in chess events because of the Georgian civil war at the beginning of the 1990s and the 1992-1993 war in Abkhazia, where she was born.\n\nAfter her arrival in the United States in May, 2000, she was prohibited from playing in the U.S. Championship for four years in a controversial ruling by Tom Brownscombe who was the USCF scholastic coordinator at the time. When Beatriz Marinello was elected USCF President in August 2003, her very first act as president was to fire Brownscombe. As a result, Goletiani was allowed to compete for the U.S. Championship for the first time and she won the 2005 Women's Championship, defeating Tatev Abrahamyan 2–0 in a playoff.\n\nGoletiani won the bronze medal with the USA team and the individual silver on board 3 at the 2008 Women's Chess Olympiad in Dresden.\n\nGoletiani scored 6/11 in the US Women's Championship in May 2015.\n\nGoletiani plays in tournaments infrequently, her last event a 3.5/11 score in the US Women's Championship in April 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171217", "title": "Legitimacy of Queen Victoria", "text": "Legitimacy of Queen Victoria\n\nThe parentage of Queen Victoria has been the subject of speculation. The speculation has largely centered on the familial incidence of hereditary diseases and circumstantial evidence, and is not widely believed.\n\nPrincess Charlotte of Wales was the only daughter and heiress presumptive of the Prince Regent (later King George IV). Her death in childbirth in 1817 set off a race between the Prince Regent's brothers, the six surviving younger sons of King George III, to see who could father a legitimate heir. Some of the brothers had been previously involved in scandals. Prince Frederick, Duke of York and Albany, the second in line to the throne, was amicably separated from his wife, Princess Frederica Charlotte of Prussia. The sixth son, Prince Augustus Frederick, Duke of Sussex, had contracted two marriages in contravention of the Royal Marriages Act 1772 (as had the Prince Regent before his marriage to Charlotte's mother). Three brothers, the third, fourth and seventh in line to the throne, married in 1818: Prince William, Duke of Clarence; Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn; and Prince Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge. The fifth son, Prince Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, was already married.\n\nThe Duke of Clarence married Princess Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen. Though he had been able to father ten illegitimate children with an earlier mistress, none of his children by his wife survived childhood. The second daughter, Elizabeth, lived the longest, being born on 10 December 1820 and dying on 4 March 1821. The next son to produce an heir was the Duke of Cambridge, whose son George was born on 26 March 1819. He would be displaced two months later by the birth of a daughter to the Duke of Kent and his wife. Their first and only child was Princess Victoria. She was born on 24 May 1819, just three days before the son of the Duke of Cumberland, also called George.\n\nBoth George III and the Duke of Kent died in January 1820. The Prince Regent became George IV and Victoria was third in line to the throne after her uncles, the Duke of York and Duke of Clarence (the future William IV). She would ultimately take the throne as Queen Victoria in 1837.\n\nRumours about Victoria's parentage centred on a controversial Irish soldier and adventurer called Sir John Conroy who was her mother's private secretary and the comptroller of her household. The Duchess of Kent was the same age as Conroy, whereas she was nineteen years younger than her husband; the court gossiped openly about their relationship. After the Duke's death Conroy assumed a parental role towards Victoria that she bitterly resented. This caused a near permanent rift between Victoria and her mother, as well as between the Duchess and her brother-in-law, William IV. Conroy expected that when Victoria became queen he would be made her private secretary, but instead one of her first acts as monarch was to dismiss him from her household.\n\nThe belief that the Duchess and Conroy were lovers was widespread. When asked by Charles Greville whether he believed they were lovers, the Duke of Wellington replied that he \"supposed so\". The Duke later recounted a story that when Victoria was young she had caught Conroy and the Duchess engaged in what were diplomatically called \"some familiarities\". Wellington reported that she told Baroness Louise Lehzen, who told her close ally, Madame de Späth, who confronted the Duchess about her behaviour. According to Wellington, the Duchess of Kent was furious and promptly dismissed de Späth. Victoria, when queen, appears to have disputed the story, stating that her mother's piety would have prevented any undue familiarity with Conroy.\n\nA. N. Wilson suggested that Victoria's father could not have been the Duke of Kent for two reasons:\n\nBoth arguments can be countered. Since hæmophilia is X-linked, in order for a father to transmit the condition he must have it himself, but Conroy was healthy. Hæmophiliacs were unlikely to survive in the early nineteenth century, given the poor state of medicine at the time. Indeed, life expectancy was 11 years or younger, even into the later half of the twentieth century, and is still as low in developing countries. Nor is there evidence of hæmophilia in either Conroy's ancestors or descendants, or any mention of any hæmophiliacs in any document associated with the Kents. It is likely that the mutation arose spontaneously because the Duke of Kent was in his 50s when Victoria was conceived; hæmophilia-causing mutations arise more frequently in the children of older fathers, and spontaneous mutations account for about 30% of cases.\n\nWith regard to porphyria (which famously George III may have had), there is no genetic evidence that the royal family even had the disease and its diagnosis in George III's case (and others) has been questioned. If the diagnosis of hereditary porphyria is correct, it may have continued among descendants of Victoria. At least two of her descendants, Charlotte, Duchess of Saxe-Meiningen, and Prince William of Gloucester are suspected of having suffered from it.\n\nConcrete evidence on the origins of the hæmophilia disease and paternity of Victoria could be achieved with a DNA test of her or her parents' remains, but no such study has been sanctioned by the Royal Family.\n"}
{"id": "2171222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171222", "title": "Intern architect", "text": "Intern architect\n\nAn intern architect or architectural intern is a person who is working professionally in the field of architecture in preparation for registration or licensure as an architect. An intern need not have attained a professional degree in architecture to begin accruing experience hours, but said degree is a prerequisite for licensure.\n\nIn the United States, Canada, and other countries, an intern architect is enrolled in a regulated program, such as the Intern Development Program (IDP) in the United States or the Intern Architect Program (IAP) in Canada, while working under the supervision of a licensed architect and preparing for professional registration exams.\n\nThe use of the title \"architect\" (or any derivation thereof) is legally protected in the United States, Canada, and other countries. Most U.S. states and all Canadian provinces, however, allow the use of the terms \"intern architect\" or \"architectural intern\" for a person enrolled in an architectural internship program.\n\nThe Intern Development Program (IDP) is a national program, developed and administered by NCARB, in the United States designed to provide structured training for Intern Architects to ensure that they are exposed to most aspects of the architectural profession prior to attaining professional licensure.\n\nA candidate works under the tutelage of one or more architects as mentor(s) on a regular basis. Additionally, the intern architect selects a sponsor, who is an architect who does not work for the firm where the intern is employed. Together, the mentor and the sponsor work with the intern to make sure that the intern is actively working towards satisfying the requirements of the IDP program.\n\nThe program prescribes the minimum experience hours required in various activities pertaining to practice in architecture before attaining professional licensure. Interns track these hours using experience reports that are verified and confirmed by their mentor. These activities fall into four categories: Pre-Design, Design, Project Management, and Practice Management, each of which includes tasks that architects will perform as part of their professional responsibilities. In total, interns must complete 5600 hours of reported experience before attaining professional licensure. In most states Interns may begin taking the Architect Registration Examination (ARE) while they are participating in the Intern Development Program, but will not attain professional licensure before successful completion of both the ARE and IDP.\n\nThe IDP was created jointly in the 1970s by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) and the American Institute of Architects (AIA) and is administered by NCARB.\n\nThe Intern Architect Program (IAP) is a national program in Canada that documents and evaluates internship activities, provides structure to the transition between education and registration, and encourages involvement of practitioners in the development of new architects. The IAP was established by the Committee of Canadian Architectural Councils (CCAC), which has representatives from each of the ten provincial associations of architects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171241", "title": "Arthur Hays Sulzberger", "text": "Arthur Hays Sulzberger\n\nArthur Hays Sulzberger (September 12, 1891December 11, 1968) was the publisher of \"The New York Times\" from 1935 to 1961. During that time, daily circulation rose from 465,000 to 713,000 and Sunday circulation from 745,000 to 1.4 million; the staff more than doubled, reaching 5,200; advertising linage grew from 19 million to 62 million column inches per year; and gross income increased almost sevenfold, reaching 117 million dollars.\n\nSulzberger was born in New York City on September 12, 1891. His parents were Cyrus Leopold Sulzberger, a cotton-goods merchant, and Rachel Peixotto Hays. They came from old Jewish families, Ashkenazi and Sephardic, respectively. His great-great-grandfather, Benjamin Seixas, brother of the famous rabbi and American Revolutionary Gershom Mendes Seixas of Congregation Shearith Israel, was one of the founders of the New York Stock Exchange. His great-grandfather, Dr. Daniel Levy Maduro Peixotto, was a prominent physician, director of Columbia University's Medical College and a member of the Philolexian Society. His great granduncle was Jacob Hays, the High Constable of New York from 1801 to 1850.\n\nSulzberger graduated from the Horace Mann School in 1909 and graduated from Columbia College in 1913, and married Iphigene Bertha Ochs in 1917. In 1918 he began working at the \"Times\", and became publisher when his father-in-law, Adolph Ochs, the previous \"Times\" publisher, died in 1935. In 1929, he founded Columbia's original Jewish Advisory Board and served on the board of what became Columbia-Barnard Hillel for many years. He served as a University trustee from 1944 to 1959 and is honored with a floor at the journalism school. He also served as a trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation from 1939 to 1957. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1950. In 1954, Sulzberger received The Hundred Year Association of New York's Gold Medal Award \"in recognition of outstanding contributions to the City of New York.\"\n\nIn 1956 Sulzberger received the Elijah Parish Lovejoy Award as well as an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Colby College.\n\nIn 1961, he was succeeded as publisher first by son-in-law Orvil Dryfoos, then, two years later in 1963, by his son Arthur Ochs \"Punch\" Sulzberger.\n\nSulzberger broadened the \"Times\"’ use of background reporting, pictures, and feature articles, and expanded its sections. He supervised the development of facsimile transmission for photographs and built the Times radio station, WQXR, into a leading vehicle for news and music. Under Sulzberger the \"Times\" began to publish editions in Paris and Los Angeles with remote-control typesetting machines.\n\nHe once stated \"...I certainly do not advocate that the mind should be so open that the brains fall out\". Sulzberger is also credited with the quote: \"We journalists tell the public which way the cat is jumping. The public will take care of the cat.\"\n\nHe died December 11, 1968 in New York City.\n\nA practicing Reform Jew, Sulzberger was an enthusiastic supporter of the American Council for Judaism, founded in June 1942 to oppose Zionism, giving it prominent coverage in his newspaper. In a 1946 speech, Sulzberger claimed that Zionism was to blame for some of the Jewish deaths in the Holocaust, and that the refugee crisis during the war had been “a manageable, social and economic problem” until “the clamor for statehood introduced an political element” into the issue. “It is my judgment that thousands dead might now be alive” if “the Zionists” had put “less emphasis on statehood”.\n\nHis stand against Zionism and a Jewish state of Israel on principle has been accused by Laurel Leff of deliberately burying accounts of Nazi atrocities against Jews in the back pages of the \"Times\". She alleges that Sulzberger went out of his way to play down the special victimhood of Jews and withheld support for specific rescue programs for European Jews.\nIn 1917, he married Iphigene Bertha Ochs, the daughter of Adolph Ochs and Effie Wise (a daughter of Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise). They had four children: Marian Sulzberger Heiskell (1918–2019), widow first of \"Times\" publisher Orvil Dryfoos and then of Time Inc. chairman Andrew Heiskell; Ruth Sulzberger Holmberg (1921–2017), publisher of the Chattanooga Times, married and divorced from Ben Hale Golden; Judith Sulzberger Rosenschein Cohen Levinson (1923–2011), physician, married Matthew Rosenschein Jr. (divorced), Dick Cohen (divorced), and Budd Levinson; and Arthur Ochs Sulzberger (1926–2012).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171242", "title": "Russell, Louisville", "text": "Russell, Louisville\n\nRussell is a neighborhood immediately west of downtown Louisville, Kentucky, USA. It was named for renowned African American educator and Bloomfield, Kentucky native Harvey Clarence Russell Sr. Its boundaries are West Market Street, 9th Street, West Broadway and I-264.\n\nDevelopment began in the 1870s as street car lines were extended to the area. The area was considered one of Louisville's most fashionable in its early years with many affluent white families building elegant mansion homes on Walnut, Chestnut Street, and Jefferson Streets, while working class blacks and whites lived in shotgun houses on adjacent streets. By the 1890s many white families began leaving the area for what would become Old Louisville and the east end, and both middle and working class blacks quickly moved into the area.\n\nBy the 1940s Russell had become \"Louisville's Harlem\" as African American theaters, restaurants, and night clubs lined area streets. However, in the years following World War II many of the middle class blacks left for newly integrated neighborhoods on the south and east ends. Urban renewal efforts in the 1960s had the area's business districts razed and many public housing units built. America's first public library open to African-Americans is in Russell. The Western Branch of the Louisville Free Public Library, on 10th Street off Chestnut, opened in 1908.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of Russell was 9,060 .\n\n"}
{"id": "2171243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171243", "title": "Common green bottle fly", "text": "Common green bottle fly\n\nThe defining characteristic of \"L. sericata\" and the one most used when identifying the adult fly is the presence of three bristles on the dorsal mesothorax, located on the middle of the back of the fly. \"L. sericata\" is almost identical to its sister species, \"L. cuprina,\" and identification between them requires microscopic examination of two main distinguishing characteristics. \"L. sericata\" is blue-black, as opposed to \"L. cuprina\", which has a metallic green femoral joint in the first pair of legs. Also, when looking at the occipital setae,\" L. sericata\" has one to nine bristles on each side, while \"L. cuprina\" has three or less.\n\n\"Lucilia sericata\" is common all over the temperate and tropical regions of the planet, including Europe, Africa and Australia. It prefers warm and moist climates and accordingly is especially common in coastal regions, but can also be found in arid areas. The female lays her eggs in carrion of all kinds, sometimes in the skin or hair of live animals, causing myiasis. The larvae feed on decaying organic tissue. The fly favours host species of the genus \"Ovis\", domestic sheep in particular, and sometimes lays eggs in the wet wool of living sheep. This can lead to blowfly strike, causing problems for sheep farmers. \"L. sericata\" has been known to prefer lower elevations relative to other Calliphoridae species, such as \"Calliphora vomitoria.\" \n\nThe life cycle of \"Lucilia sericata\" is typical of flies in the family Calliphoridae. After the female deposits the egg, it hatches into a larva that passes through three instars as it grows, then enters prepupal and pupal stages (which can eclose quickly or overwinter depending on temperature) before emerging into the adult stage or imago. To start, the female lays a mass of eggs in carrion. The eggs hatch between nine hours and three days after being deposited on the host, with eggs laid in warmer weather hatching more quickly than those in cooler weather. In this, they differ from the more opportunistic Sarcophagidae, which lay hatching eggs or completely hatched larvae into carrion and cut out the time it takes the eggs to hatch. The flies are extremely prolific; a single female \"L. sericata\" typically lays 150−200 eggs per clutch and may produce 2,000 to 3,000 eggs in her lifetime. The pale yellow or grayish conical larvae, like those of most blow flies, have two posterior spiracles through which they respire. The larvae are moderately sized, ranging from 10 to 14 millimeters long. \n\nThe larva feeds on dead or necrotic tissue for 3 to 10 days, depending on temperature and the quality of the food. During this period the larva passes through three larval instars. At a temperature of 16 °C, the first larval instar lasts about 53 hours, the second about 42 hours and the third about 98 hours. At higher temperatures (27 °C) the first larval instar lasts about 31 hours, the second about 12 hours, and the third about 40 hours. Third-instar larvae enter a \"wandering\" stage and drop off the host to find an appropriate location with soft enough soil, where they bury themselves to enter a pupal stage, which usually lasts from 6 to 14 days. Burial allows the pupa to more reliably avoid desiccation or predation. The larger the larva, the farther it will be able to travel to find a suitable location to pupate; \"L. sericata\" are noted to be remarkably active and can travel over 100 feet before pupating. However, if the temperature is suitably low, a pupa might overwinter in the soil until the temperature rises. After emerging from the pupa, the adult feeds opportunistically on nectar, pollen, feces, or carrion while it matures. Adults usually lay eggs about 2 weeks after they emerge. Their complete life cycle typically ranges from 2 to 3 weeks, but this varies with seasonal and other environmental circumstances. \"L. sericata\" usually completes three or four generations each year in cold, temperate climates, and more in warmer regions.\n\nThe larvae of \"L. sericata\" feed exclusively on dead organic tissue; as the eggs are laid directly into carrion, they are able to feed on the corpse they hatch into until they are ready to pupate. The adults are more varied in their diets, eating carrion and feces as well as pollen and nectar, meaning that they are important pollinators in their native range as well as important agents of decomposition. The pollen (which the flies are capable of digesting, perhaps with the assistance of bacteria in their digestive tracts) may be used as an alternative protein source, especially for gravid females who need large amounts of protein and cannot reliably find carrion. Notably, gravid flies are particularly attracted to sapromyophilous flowers that exude a carrion-like odor, such as the dead horse arum lily. These flowers are tricking the flies into pollinating them by mimicking the scent of a corpse. However, the flies also frequently visit myophilous flowers such as the oxeye daisy, and are attracted to the color yellow as well as to the scent of flowers. This indicates that the flies are attracted to flowers not only because they smell like carrion (in the case of the arum lily), but specifically for the pollen offered by the flower (in the case of myophilous flowers).\n\n\"L. sericata\" females lay their eggs on fresh carrion, avoiding older carrion because it can be detrimental to offspring (possibly due to bacterial activity or other factors). Like many blowflies, female \"L. sericata\" perform aggregated oviposition, laying their egg masses in carcasses that other flies are also ovipositing in. The presence of female flies eating or ovipositing on a carcass may attract other female flies to do the same, perhaps through chemical cues. Females exhibit preference for certain oviposition conditions over others; they attempt to maximize the survival potential of their offspring by laying eggs in only the best places. They often select natural orifices or wet fur, though they do not tend to oviposit in wounds, as is mistakenly thought by many. Gravid \"L. sericata\" prefer warm temperatures for their offspring, since this will decrease development time and therefore increase survival, and they will oviposit faster and with more eggs in warmer carrion. Egg load peaks at 30 degrees C. Research also suggests that sulfur compounds and indole are the major factors attracting gravid flies to carrion, raising the possibility that these compounds could be used to attract flies to traps in order to control them in agricultural settings.\n\nThe courtship process of \"L. sericata\" is complex and consists of several stages of display on the part of the male. First, the male identifies a potential mate and pushes her with his head; he then taps her with his foreleg multiple times. The male then mounts the female and attempts copulation, continuing to tap his foreleg on her body. If the female is receptive the copulation proceeds, genital contact is achieved, and when the process is over both individuals move away. If she is not receptive, the female will kick at the male with her hind legs, but this is not usually successful at dismounting the male and the mating proceeds nevertheless. Some males are left-biased and some males are right-biased in their foreleg tapping, but this bias does not appear to have an effect on their mating success.\n\nMales are able to recognize potential mates by the frequency at which light flashes off their wings, using the incredibly fast and precise visual processing that many flies rely upon for their maneuverability and agility in flight to \"read\" the flashes and determine the age and sex of the other fly. Under direct light, there is a flash of light off the wings of a fly on each wingbeat. Young females can therefore be recognized by males through light flashing at the frequency at which they fly, which is \"slower\" than young males or old flies of either sex. Eichorn et al. (2017) showed that male \"L. sericata\" show a strong preference for a diode flashing on an immobilized female fly at 178 Hz, the characteristic wing flash frequency of young female \"L. sericata\", over constant light on an immobilized female. This shows that the flies recognize the flashing frequency rather than recognizing another fly directly. Male flies also preferred a diode flashing at 178 Hz over diodes flashing at other frequencies. Furthermore, \"L. sericata\" mate less frequently on cloudy days, suggesting that they rely on direct sunlight flashing off of wings to recognize their mates.\n\nThe larvae of \"L. sericata\" are highly gregarious, to the point that their survival depends upon grouping. The aggregated oviposition behavior of gravid \"L. sericata\" females leads to large aggregates of even-aged larvae, which have been shown to experience faster development and lower predation as opposed to smaller aggregates or aggregates of uneven-aged larvae. The resulting larval masses are able to thermoregulate, raising their own temperature and therefore decreasing their development time, leading to better survival. This thermoregulation may result from the way larvae forage; they are constantly moving and turning over, which could at least in part lead to the temperature rise experienced in larval masses. They also benefit from the digestive power of multiple other larvae. Each larva secretes digestive enzymes and then consumes the resulting dissolved meat around it. If more larvae are present they secrete more digestive enzymes, which dissolve more meat and make food more accessible for the whole group. This easy access to food also contributes to a shorter development time.\n\nThese benefits are present not only in single-species masses of larvae, but also in mixed-species groupings. Both single-species and mixed groups of larvae have also been shown to have the ability to make collective decisions, perhaps by using signals that are shared between species. In this manner, groups of larvae are able to collectively choose a preferred feeding spot, allowing them all to benefit from their collective digestive abilities and thermoregulation. Similarly, if a group of larvae becomes too large and overcrowding begins to cut into the benefits of heat and collective digestion, larval masses can \"decide\" to split in two and move to separate areas of a cadaver. These collective larval decisions (and indeed the formation of larval masses themselves) are the result of chemical cues that larvae leave behind them as they crawl along the carrion, which other larvae are predisposed to follow; the result is that the more larvae are in a particular area, the more other larvae will join them.\n\n\"L. sericata\" is an important species to forensic entomologists. Like most calliphorids, \"L. sericata\" has been heavily studied and its life cycle and habits are well documented. Accordingly, the stage of its development on a corpse is used to calculate a minimum \"post mortem\" interval, so that it can be used to aid in determining the time of death of the victim. The presence or absence of \"L. sericata\" can provide information about the conditions of the corpse. If the insects seem to be on the path of their normal development, the corpse likely has been undisturbed. If, however, the insect shows signs of a disturbed life cycle, or is absent from a decaying body, this suggests \"post mortem\" tampering with the body. Because \"L. sericata\" is one of the first insects to colonize a corpse, it is preferred to many other species in determining an approximate time of colonization, and thus time of death of the victim. Developmental progress is determined with relative accuracy by measuring the length and weight of larvae at various instars while taking into account the temperature, which can affect development time to a large extent.\n\nMany blow flies have an impact in veterinary science, and \"L. sericata\" is no exception. In places such as the UK and Australia, \"L. sericata\" is commonly referred to as the \"sheep blowfly\" since sheep are its primary host in those regions. Although it affects mainly sheep, \"L. sericata\" is not host-specific.\n\nIn northern Europe, the fly often lays its eggs in sheep wool. The larvae then migrate down the wool where they feed directly on the skin surface in a process called myiasis. This can cause massive lesions and secondary bacterial infections, causing serious problems for sheep farmers. In the UK, blowfly strike affects an estimated 1 million sheep, as well as 80% of sheep farms each year. This causes a huge economic impact in regions affected by blowfly strike. Not only does it cost money to treat infected animals, but measures also must be taken to control \"L. sericata.\"\n\nA simple and effective way to reduce the incidence of such infection is to shear ewes regularly and to dock their tails, removing areas where thick wool can stay damp for long periods of time. Enacting simple sanitary measures can reduce blowfly strike. For example, timely and proper disposal of carcasses and proper removal of feces are effective measures. Moving sheep from warm, humid, and sheltered areas to more open areas can also help to reduce blowfly strike, for this eliminates conditions conducive to fly development. Trapping systems such as sticky paper may be used to control fly numbers. Treating a flock with chemical agents can be costly, but can aid greatly in maintaining the resistance of the flock to \"L. sericata\". For instance, plunge dipping in diazinon can directly kill the fly on contact. This method works from 3 to 8 weeks in controlling the fly. An alternate chemical method is a pyrethroid pour-on, which lasts 6 to 10 weeks depending on the type of pyrethroid used. Cryomazine and dicylanil, which are insect growth regulators, are also effective and last from 10 to 16 weeks. However, chemical treatment is not ideal, though it can be very effective, because it is costly, tedious, and takes up a lot of time. \n\n\"L. sericata\" has been of medical importance since 1826, when Meigen removed larvae from the eyes and facial cavities of a human patient. \"L. sericata\" has shown promise in three separate clinical approaches. First, larvae have been shown to debride wounds with extremely low probability of myiasis upon clinical application. Larval secretions have been shown to help in tissue regeneration. \"L. sericata\" has also been shown to lower bacteremia levels in patients infected with MRSA. Essentially, \"L. sericata\" larvae can be used as biosurgery agents in cases where antibiotics and surgery are impractical.\n\nLarval secretions \"in vitro\" enhance fibroblast migration to the wound site, improving wound closure. Larval therapy of \"L. sericata\" is highly recommended for the treatment of wounds infected with Gram-positive bacteria, yet is not as effective for wounds infected with Gram-negative bacteria. Also, bacteria from the genus \"Vagococcus\" were resistant to the maggot excreta/secreta. Attempts are currently ongoing to extract or synthesize the chymotrypsins found in larval secretions to destroy MRSA without application of the larvae.\n\nMyiasis by \"L. sericata\" has been reported, including a case of a dual genital infestation of a married couple wherein the larvae were transmitted from the wife's vagina to the husband's penis through sexual intercourse.\n\nDue to this species' high forensic interest, extensive research on its life cycle has been conducted. The ongoing medical research, however, centered around the secretions produced by \"L. sericata\" as an agent against MRSA and VRSA, and the larval applications for maggot therapy. A new antimicrobial agent was isolated from \"L. sericata\" secretions and patented under the name Seraticin.\n\nEfforts are geared toward making medical professionals more familiar to the current techniques. Like many other ectoparasites, \"L. sericata\" has a huge economic impact on farmers, so many studies and research projects have been put in place since the late 1980s to help farmers reduce their impact. Research is also being conducted on less chemical-intensive measures to combat blowfly strike, since chemical dipping and pouring is not only expensive and time-consuming but also toxic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171252", "title": "Architect Registration Examination", "text": "Architect Registration Examination\n\nThe Architect Registration Examination (ARE) is the professional licensure examination adopted by the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, and three U.S. territories (Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands). The exam is also accepted by 11 provincial and territorial architectural associations for architectural registration in Canada. The ARE assesses candidates on the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for providing services in the practice of architecture.\n\nThe ARE is developed and maintained by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB). NCARB currently offers ARE 5.0, which features six divisions that align to the experience areas of the Architectural Experience Program (AXP). Both versions are administered in Prometric test centers across the United States and Canada, as well as many international locations.\n\nThe earliest examinations were written and scored by each individual state board. Practicing architects, educators, and specialists in other disciplines were organized to prepare and score these tests. Since each state prepared its own test specifications, test questions, and passing standard, there was little uniformity among the boards on examination, no effective reciprocity system, and no equal protection for the public across the nation.\n\nAs NCARB grew, it organized delegates from its Member Boards into working groups during its Annual Meetings to address the problem of exam uniformity. Their efforts eventually led to agreement on a syllabus of written examination subjects. Subsequently, the length of each test and the dates of administration were agreed on, and this concurrence served to achieve the goal of greater consistency in examination questions and scoring.\n\nBy the late 1950s, standardized testing had made impressive progress. The NCARB examination committees studied the latest developments and converted sections of the syllabus to a multiple-choice format by the mid-1960s and made them available to all of NCARB Member Boards.\n\nIn 1979, NCARB conducted an extensive \"task analysis and validation study\" that led to the development of the forerunner of today's ARE. At that time, candidates were required to take all nine divisions over a four-day period and the exam was only offered once a year in major cities across the United States.\n\nIn the late 1980s, as the practice of architecture moved into the computer age, NCARB began to develop a computer-based exam. After a decade of research and development, the last paper-and-pencil test was issued in 1996, and the computer-based exam rolled out in 1997.\n\nNCARB conducted comprehensive Practice Analysis studies in 2001, 2007, and 2012 that led to improvements of the ARE. These improvements have since been rolled out in ARE 3.0, ARE 3.1, ARE 4.0, and ARE 5.0, which launched November 1, 2016. ARE 4.0 retired on June 30, 2018.\n\nBefore an ARE division can be scheduled, candidates must be approved to test and receive eligibilities from their state board. The majority of states participate in NCARB's eligibility services, which enable NCARB to manage a candidate’s eligibilities. Most states require completion of a professional degree from the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) (B.Arch or M.Arch), and some require candidates to record professional experience before testing. \n\nIn order to take the ARE, candidates must meet the requirements of the registration board he or she plans to receive an initial license from, establish an NCARB Record, and receive an Authorization to Test (ATT).\n\nEach division of the ARE is taken separately at a Prometric test center. Divisions are scored by Prometric as either pass or fail and then sent to the jurisdiction that grants the candidate the authorization to test, which then notifies the candidate. A pass score is valid for five years, sometime less depending on the jurisdiction's rules. Prior to October 2014, a candidate who failed a division would not be eligible to retake that division for six months; NCARB shortened that time to 60 days for all tests taken since August 2014.\n\nUnder the requirements of NCARB's Rolling Clock, a candidate must pass all divisions of the ARE within five years. Some jurisdictions require the exam be completed in less time.\n\nThe ARE assesses candidates’ knowledge, skills, and ability to practice architecture independently. It focuses on those services that most affect the health, safety, and welfare of the public. Because of this, the exams are rigorous and require demonstration of competency in each of the testing areas.\n\nNCARB currently offers one version of the exam: ARE 5.0.\n\nThe ARE 3.0 was introduced in 1998 and its use was discontinued in 2003. It utilized a similar structure to 4.0. Graphic vignettes and multiple choice questions were on separate tests.\n\nThe ARE 3.1 was introduced in 2003. Use was discontinued in 2009.\n\n\nThe ARE 4.0 was introduced in July 2008 and consists of seven divisions:\n\n\nARE 5.0 was introduced in November 2016 and consists of six divisions. These divisions include multiple-choice questions, check-all-that-apply, fill-in-the-blank, hotspot, drag-and-place, and case study questions.\n\nAll NCARB tests are held in strict security and confidence and are protected by U.S. copyright laws. Before beginning the test, candidates are required to accept NCARB's Confidentiality Agreement, which prohibits any disclosure of exam content.\n\nCandidates found to have violated the Confidentiality Agreement are referred to NCARB's Committee on Professional Conduct. The Committee reviews each case and then recommends a disciplinary action. The cases are then forwarded to the NCARB Board of Directors for review and final disciplinary action. All disciplinary actions taken by the Board of Directors are final and become a part of each individual's permanent NCARB Record. Individual candidates may also be subject to additional disciplinary measures from their state board.\n\nWhen exam content is disclosed, NCARB works with the test consultant, Prometric, to determine the impact on the exam. If NCARB finds that it is necessary to remove (or turn off) content, the ability to continuously deliver the ARE is seriously jeopardized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171258", "title": "Interspersed repeat", "text": "Interspersed repeat\n\nInterspersed repetitive DNA is found in all eukaryotic genomes. They differ from tandem repeat DNA in that rather than the repeat sequences coming right after one another, they are dispersed throughout the genome and nonadjacent. The sequence that repeats can vary depending on the type of organism, and many other factors. Certain classes of interspersed repeat sequences propagate themselves by RNA mediated transposition; they have been called retrotransposons, and they constitute 25–40% of most mammalian genomes. Some types of interspersed repetitive DNA elements allow new genes to evolve by uncoupling similar DNA sequences from gene conversion during meiosis. \n\nGene conversion acts on DNA sequence homology as its substrate. There is no requirement that the sequence homologies lie at the allelic positions on their respective chromosomes or even that the homologies lie on different chromosomes. Gene conversion events can occur between different members of a gene family situated on the same chromosome. When this happens, it is called \"intra\"chromosomal gene conversion as distinguished from \"inter\"chromosomal gene conversion. The effect of homogenizing DNA sequences is the same.\n\nRepetitive sequences play the role of uncoupling the gene conversion network, thereby allowing new genes to evolve. The shorter Alu or SINE repetitive DNA are specialized for uncoupling intrachromosomal gene conversion while the longer LINE repetitive DNA are specialized for uncoupling interchromosomal gene conversion. In both cases, the interspersed repeats block gene conversion by inserting regions of non-homology within otherwise similar DNA sequences. The homogenizing forces linking DNA sequences are thereby broken and the DNA sequences are free to evolve independently. This leads to the creation of new genes and new species during evolution. By breaking the links that would otherwise overwrite novel DNA sequence variations, interspersed repeats catalyse evolution, allowing the new genes and new species to develop.\n\nDNA sequences are linked together in a gene pool by gene conversion events. Insertion of an interspersed DNA element breaks this linkage, allowing independent evolution of a new gene. The interspersed repeat is an isolating mechanism enabling new genes to evolve without interference from the progenitor gene. Because insertion of an interspersed repeat is a saltatory event the evolution of the new gene will also be saltatory. Because speciation ultimately depends on the creation of new genes, this naturally causes punctuated equilibria. Interspersed repeats are thus responsible for punctuated evolution and rapid modes of evolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171262", "title": "Division of Sydney", "text": "Division of Sydney\n\nThe Division of Sydney is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales.\n\nThe division draws its name from Sydney, the most populous city in Australia, which itself was named after former British Home Secretary Thomas Townshend, 1st Viscount Sydney. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 21 November 1968, replacing the old Division of Dalley, Division of East Sydney and Division of West Sydney, and was first contested at the 1969 election.\n\nThe seat is a safe Labor seat; the Labor Party has never polled less than 60% of the two-party preferred vote at any election. Following a national trend towards progressive inner-city voting, the seat had the highest amount of Green votes in any federal electorate in 2004, though by 2013 it had dropped to seventh-highest. The current Member for the Division of Sydney, since the 1998 federal election, is Tanya Plibersek, a member of the Australian Labor Party and former Deputy Leader of the Opposition.\n\nAs at the 2001 census, the electorate had the highest number of same-sex couples in Australia ().\n\nThe division is located around the City of Sydney and includes many inner suburbs such as , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and parts of , and in the Inner West, as well as , , , and in the Eastern Suburbs. Lord Howe Island, within the Tasman Sea and some north-east of the Sydney central business district, is located within the division; as are the harbour islands from Spectacle Island to the Sydney Heads, and all the waters of Port Jackson, except for Middle Harbour and North Harbour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171268", "title": "Debtor finance", "text": "Debtor finance\n\nDebtor finance is a process to fund a business using its accounts receivable ledger as collateral. Generally, companies that have low working capital reserves can get into cash flow problems because invoices are paid on net 30 terms. Debtor finance solutions fund slow-paying invoices, which improves the cash flow of the company and puts it in a better position to pay operating expenses.\n\nTypes of debtor financing solutions include invoice discounting, factoring, cashflow finance, asset finance, invoice finance and working capital finance.\n\nMost businesses have to offer credit terms, usually of 30 days, in order to secure orders from customers. Current statistics show that these invoices can take up to 60 days to be paid. This delay reduces essential cash flow and restricts the growth of the business.\n\nSecurity requirements vary, but traditionally focus on the value of the debtors ledger, supported by a pledge of specific assets as collateral and a charge or mortgage over the business, along with the personal guarantees of directors. Apart from some specialised lenders, real estate security is not taken. By focusing on the value and collectability of the accounts receivable ledger, most debtor finance credit lines will automatically increase in response to increases in sales, and provide ongoing working capital to fund the growth of the business. Typically the advance rate ranges from 70% of accounts receivable ledger value up to 90%. The remaining 30% to 10%, known as the 'retention' is released following receipt of payment of each invoice by the customer/debtor/buyer.\n\nDebtor finance products, by whatever name, essentially fall into two categories:\n\nExport factoring is a highly specialised and selective form of factoring, and can provide non-recourse funding to exporters, paid at the time of shipment, and with solvency of the overseas importer underwritten by an overseas bank or institution.\n\nUnder each category there are a number of financiers, all with varying policies and guidelines regarding their procedures, security, pricing and target markets. There are providers of import and export factoring, and their conditions vary widely.\n\nMost debtor financing transactions are structured to operationally resemble an asset-based loan. The client submits its accounts receivable ledger to the finance company. The finance company processes the ledger and remits the funds to the client's bank account. Lenders often finance a percentage of the ledger, commonly 80%–85%, and hold the rest as a reserve. The percentage of the ledger that is financed varies and is based on the industry and risk profile of the client.\n\nThe reserve is remitted to the client once the advances settle, when customers pay their invoices.\n\nSome providers have minimum terms, exit fees, notice periods, audit requirements, etc. that need to be fully assessed prior to entering into any agreement.\n\nDue to the involvement by the financier with a factored customer, the advance rate on such invoices is higher than with a confidential facility. In addition, some facilities marketed as 'confidential' still require completion of anonymous 'audits' before invoices are funded.\n\nMost financiers will fund invoices for up to 90 days from the month the invoice was issued, and will 'recourse' any invoice not paid by the end of the 90 days. 120-day recourse periods are provided in exceptional circumstances.\n\nProviders in some countries will offer a non-recourse, or limited recourse facility, where the provider assumes part or all of the credit risk on a debtor. Other providers may insist on the client taking out credit insurance on their customers, with the policy and benefits assigned to the provider.\n\nCredit limits may also be set on individual customers to minimise risk by some financiers, and 'concentration' limits might also limit funding available to major customers, or to specific classes of customers.\n\nAn in-depth knowledge of all these issues is essential to ensure that a debtor finance partnership is with a compatible financier.\n\nA firm's eligibility to sell off its invoices by means of factoring is dependent on the terms of acceptance of the factor. These terms do vary from factor to factor. Most factors would consider the rate at which the firm realizes bad debts by checking the firms bad debts account while another could only consider the reputation of the firm. Most business that provide goods or services to other businesses on credit can qualify for debtor finance. Debtor finance is more difficult to place for contractors involved in the building industry, but there are some specialised providers that are comfortable with contract issues.\n\nThe use of debtor financing has grown strongly, as it has become more widely recognised as a valuable financing tool, supplementing or replacing traditional overdrafts or fixed-limit business loans. Internationally, debtor finance business has grown from €40 billion in 1978 to over €580 billion in 2003, provided by more than 1,000 companies, most of whom are associated with international banks. This volume is greater than the business written each year in leasing.\n"}
{"id": "2171279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171279", "title": "Human Resources (film)", "text": "Human Resources (film)\n\nHuman Resources () is a 1999 French-British film directed by Laurent Cantet. As the title implies, the subject of the film is the workplace and the personal difficulties that result from conflicts among management and labour, corporations and individuals. It stars Jalil Lespert. Most of the other actors are non-professionals. It won the César Award for Best First Feature Film and the César Award for Most Promising Actor at the 26th César Awards.\n\nSet in Gaillon, Normandy, the movie tells the story of \"good son\" Franck (Jalil Lespert), who returns to his hometown to do a trainee managerial internship in the Human Resources department of the factory where his anxious, taciturn father has worked on the shopfloor for 30 years. At first Franck is lauded by both friends and family for breaking through the glass ceiling and becoming \"white-collar\". But very soon hidden envy and rivalries erupt. Franck forms a friendship with Alain, a young worker whom his father has mentored. This mentoring in the blue-collar workforce is contrasted with the cagier, trust-less mentoring Franck receives in the white-collar world from his own supervisor, Chambon.\n\nFranck discovers that his boss is going to use Franck's field study on the proposed 35-hour workweek to justify downsizing - and that Franck's father is among those to be let go. This leads to a confrontation between the trainee and management, between the workers and the owners, and ultimately between son and father. In the emotional climax, Franck confronts his father and accuses him of imbuing him with a legacy of shame at being blue-collar.\n\n\n\"Human Resources\" received generally positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 97%, based on 31 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. On Metacritic, the film has a score of 78 out of 100, based on 25 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n"}
{"id": "2171311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171311", "title": "Shawnee, Louisville", "text": "Shawnee, Louisville\n\nShawnee is a neighborhood in western Louisville, Kentucky. Its boundaries are the Ohio River on the West, Bank Street and the Portland neighborhood on the North, I-264 on the East, and West Broadway on the South. Maps sometimes identify the area as Shawneeland.\n\nShawnee Park was completed in 1892 and residential districts sprung up around it quickly. In 1895, Louisville annexed Shawnee and extended street car lines. The land between Shawnee and Louisville was subdivided and many whites moved in during the early 20th century. The wealthiest areas were near the park and golf course, with middle- and working-class neighborhoods further east.\n\nThe Flood of 1937, as well as air pollution problems caused many white families to move further east. The neighborhood became integrated in the 1960s and was predominantly black following the 1968 riots when many longtime white residents moved. Many of the homes in Shawnee are examples of late-19th century architecture. The grand homes are still in good to excellent condition. The size and quality of these homes rival those found in other areas of the city, particularly Crescent Hill. As Louisville's West End is economically depressed and lacks many amenities, the housing costs are considerably lower than other areas of the city.\n\nLike other Southern cities, many of Louisville's public facilities were segregated. The park system was no exception to this rule. Shawnee Park was a segregated whites-only public park, while Chickasaw Park, to the south, was a public park for blacks until the 1950s. Fontaine Ferry Park, an early amusement park located at the end of Market Street from 1905 to 1969, was restricted to whites, with the exception of \"negro days\" which was a common occurrence for opening segregated facilities limited to whites in the south. The park was integrated in 1963 and operated without incident until opening day 1969 when a race riot erupted which resulted in the amusement park being closed by its owners citing safety concerns. In 1973 it reopened as Ghost Town On The River and later as River Glen Park until it closed due to poor patronage in 1977. Following a series of fires which destroyed portions of the park in 1978 the park was demolished. Aubrey Dude Ranch remained until 1983 when it closed.\n\nIn September 2007, Shawnee residents voted to ban liquor sales in four precincts of the neighborhood in an effort to combat crime. Shawnee suffered from a rash of unsolved murders in 2005, although crime rates have since declined.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of Shawnee was 12,630. Though not recorded, the race breakdown is estimated to be around 90% Black or African-American, 5% White, and 5% Hispanic. \n\nShawnee has a lending library, a branch of the Louisville Free Public Library.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171316", "title": "Robert Ingpen", "text": "Robert Ingpen\n\nRobert Roger Ingpen AM, FRSA (born 13 October 1936) is an Australian graphic designer, illustrator, and writer. For his \"lasting contribution\" as a children's illustrator he received the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Medal in 1986.\n\nIngpen was born in Geelong, Victoria, and attended Geelong College to 1957. He graduated with a Diploma of Graphic Art from RMIT in 1958, where he studied with Harold Freedman.\n\nIn 1958, Ingpen was appointed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) as an artist to interpret and communicate the results of scientific research. From 1968 Ingpen worked as a freelance designer, illustrator and author. He was also a member of a United Nations team in Mexico and Peru until 1975, where he designed pamphlets on fisheries and was involved in \"a number of Australian conservation and environmental projects\". He left the CSIRO to work full-time as a freelance writer in 1968. Ingpen's interest in conservation issues continued, and he was one of the founding members of the Australian Conservation Foundation.\n\nIngpen has written or illustrated more than 100 published books. These include children's picture books and fictional stories for all ages. His nonfiction books mostly relate to history, conservation, environment and health issues. His most frequent collaborator has been the author and editor Michael Page.\n\nIngpen has designed many postage stamps for Australia, as well as the flag and coat of arms for the Northern Territory. Ingpen has created a number of public murals in Geelong, Melbourne, Canberra and the Gold Coast in Queensland. He also has designed bronze statues, which include the Poppykettle Fountain in the Geelong Steam Packet Gardens (currently dry due to drought restrictions) and the bronze doors to the Melbourne Cricket Club. His most recent work is the design and working drawings for a tapestry, which was woven by The Victorian Tapestry Workshop, to celebrate the 150 years of the Melbourne Cricket Ground.\n\nIn 1982 Ingpen designed the Dromkeen Medal for the Governors of the Courtney Oldmeadow Children's Literature Foundation. The Dromkeen is awarded annually to Australians in recognition of contributions to children's literature and Ingpen received it himself in 1989 for his own work in the field.\n\nIngpen was illustrator for the centenary editions of J.M. Barrie's \"Peter Pan and Wendy\" and Kenneth Grahame's \"The Wind in the Willows\" for which he bases characterisations on contemporary figures and personalities.\n\nIn 2007 Ingpen illustrated a picture book by Liz Lofthouse called \"Ziba Came on a Boat\", which was nominated for many Australian awards including the Australian Children's Book Council Awards and the Western Australian Premier's Book Awards.\n\nIn 1999 Ingpen had a major retrospective exhibition in Taipei, which travelled to other regions of Taiwan for a two-month period. Also in 1999 an exhibition of the original artworks and book launch for \"Around the World in 80 Days\" was held in London.\n\nIn 2002 Ingpen had a solo exhibition in Bologna, Italy, and works from Shakespeare were exhibited in New York City.\n\nIn 2002 Ingpen's work featured in the inaugural exhibition at the Eric Carle Museum of Picture Book Art, Massachusetts, and he donated to the Museum the illustrations for Charise Neugebauer's \"Halloween Circus at the Graveyard Lawn\" (2003).\n\nThe biennial Hans Christian Andersen Award conferred by the International Board on Books for Young People is the highest recognition available to a writer or illustrator of children's books. Ingpen won the illustration award in 1986. Patricia Wrightson won the writing award that year, and they remain the only Australians among more than 60 Andersen Medal recipients. Ingpen had illustrated Wrightson's most highly regarded work, \"The Nargun and the Stars\" (1973), a children's fantasy rooted in Australian Aboriginal mythology.\n\nHe received the Australian Dromkeen Medal in 1989. In 2005 he was made honorary doctor of arts by the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and in 2007 made a member of the Order of Australia for \"service to literature as an illustrator and author of children's books, to art design and education, and as a supporter of health care organisations.\" \n\nAwards for particular works:\n\n\n\n 12 works named by Palazzo Editions in two pages on Ingpen. \"The Night Before Christmas\" and \"The Owl and the Pussycat\" differ in format, larger and much shorter than the \"Palazzo Children's Classics\" series (192 to 240pp, 235 x 195mm).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171326", "title": "SM U-135", "text": "SM U-135\n\nSM \"U-135\" was a German Type U 127 U-boat of the Imperial German Navy during World War I.\n\nBuilt at the Kaiserliche Werft Danzig, the U-boat was laid down on 4 November 1916, launched on 8 September 1917 and commissioned 20 June 1918.\n\nIn November 1918, \"U-135\" was ordered to help put down the German Navy mutiny at Wilhelmshaven. Along with the 4th Torpedo Boat Half-Flotilla, \"U-135\" ended the mutiny aboard two German battleships and by threatening to torpedo the ships.\n\n\"U-135\" was seen by later submarine designers as an excellent design. She was an inspiration for V-boats and .\n\nPrior to \"U-135\" being scuttled by the Royal Navy in the early 1920s, her engines and various other items of equipment were stripped by a team of 25 students led by Technical Officer Richard Finney [1888-1953] under the auspices of J. F. Driver from the then Loughborough College. This equipment was reassembled initially in a wooden hut in Packe Street, Loughborough, and later in a purpose built generating station opened in 1937. They were finally taken out of use, and replaced, in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "2171328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171328", "title": "Uniform Partnership Act", "text": "Uniform Partnership Act\n\nThe Uniform Partnership Act (UPA), which includes revisions that are sometimes called the Revised Uniform Partnership Act (RUPA), is a uniform act (similar to a model statute), proposed by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (\"NCCUSL\") for the governance of business partnerships by U.S. States. Several versions of UPA have been promulgated by the NCCUSL, the earliest having been put forth in 1914, and the most recent in 1997.\n\nThe NCCUSL's first revision of UPA was promulgated in 1992 and amended in 1993 and 1994. The 1994 revision was often referred to as the Revised Uniform Partnership Act (RUPA). Confusion arose when the 1996 and 1997 versions were also called RUPA. Because of this confusion, the NCCUSL now officially refers to each UPA version as \"Uniform Partnership Act (year),\" where \"year\" is replaced by the actual year that NCCUSL approved it. Many people still use the term \"RUPA\" to mean any version from 1994 forward. Thus, \"RUPA\" may actually imply any version of UPA except the 1914 version.\n\nThe UPA and RUPA provide rules as to many aspects of a partnership relationship including formation, the ownership of partnership assets, the assessment of fiduciary duties, the settlement of partnership disputes, and termination. Each allows modification of these rules in the individual agreement among the partners. RUPA is significantly more detailed than is the UPA as to the degree to which the partnership agreement may modify the default rules set forth in the statute. RUPA also clarifies the nature of a partnership itself by clearly defining it as an entity rather than an aggregation of individuals. There are also a number of other important differences between UPA (1914) and subsequent versions.\n\nThe 1914 version of the UPA was enacted into law in every state except Louisiana. The most recent revision has been enacted into law by 37 states. The NCCUSL website lists the states that it considers to have adopted these and other uniform acts. However, due to state variations it is not appropriate to rely upon this listing. \n\nThe NCCUSL website lists these states as having adopted UPA (1997): Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, \nArkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois,\nIowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota (substantially similar), Tennessee, Texas (substantially similar), U.S. Virgin Islands, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wyoming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171341", "title": "Just in case", "text": "Just in case\n\nJust-in-case manufacturing (JIC) is a term sometimes applied to traditional manufacturing systems used before the influence of modern technologies and newer transportation infrastructures. It is the contrary in many ways to the recently evolved just in time manufacturing system.\n\nIn JIC, manufacturers need to maintain large inventories of supplies, parts, warehousing resources, and extra workers to meet production contingencies. These contingencies, more common in less industrialized countries, can be poor transportation infrastructure, poor quality control, vulnerability to other suppliers' production problems, and natural disasters. These supply-chain instabilities could lead to costly production inefficiencies therefore a manufacturer may maintain and pay for excess inventory and backups of \"fragile\" production stages which could get out of sync, cause production shutdowns, or create supply-chain delays for other manufacturers. In JIC, manufacturers reorder stock before it reaches the buffer level or minimum level to allow themselves to have inventories to be sold while the suppliers are supplying the goods. This time range from the time the firm reorders the stock to the time the supplier provides the new stock is known as lead time. Thus a JIC inventory system tries to keep a minimum level of inventories just in case of emergencies, hence the name \"Just In Case\". One major reason for practicing a more costly JIC system are the potential losses paid (i.e. permanent loss of major customers, loss of suppliers, supply-chain collapse) if supply-chain shocks occur on several occasions. If the JIT response contingencies are too slow or fail to keep production flowing additional costs may be incurred. Under these circumstances the additional costs due to maintaining extra storage, resources, and system resiliency may potentially be more cost effective than using a more efficient JIT system. A JIC examples of buyers would be the military or hospitals who need to maintain large inventories because waiting for JIT producers to ramp up production for needed supplies may result in losses (i.e. wars, lives).\n"}
{"id": "2171345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171345", "title": "Georgia State Route 331", "text": "Georgia State Route 331\n\nState Route 331 (SR 331) is a state highway located entirely within the northern part of Clayton County in the U.S. state of Georgia. It is the numbered highway portion of Forest Parkway, which continues both west and east of this highway. It connects areas south of Atlanta's Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport with Forest Park and Lake City.\n\nSR 331 begins at an intersection with SR 85 south of the Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport and just west of Forest Park. Immediately, the highway travels to the northeast, to an interchange with Interstate 75 (I-75). Inside this interchange, it curves to the east-northeast and crosses over Mud Creek. Just after that interchange, the highway enters Forest Park at an intersection with Frontage Road. Just over later, SR 331 intersects US 19/US 41/SR 3 (Old Dixie Road). After a slight curve back to the northeast, it curves to the southeast, passing north of Starr Park. A little over after intersecting the northern terminus of Bartlett Drive, the highway leaves Forest Park and enters Lake City. Approximately after entering the city limits of Lake City, it meets its eastern terminus, an intersection with SR 54 (Jonesboro Road).\n\nSR 331 is not part of the National Highway System, a system of routes determined to be the most important for the nation's economy, mobility and defense.\n\nThe roadway that would eventually be designated as SR 331 was built in the mid-1950s as Thames Avenue, from SR 85 to the intersection with US 19 Bus./US 41 Bus. (now US 19/US 41/SR 3), and Georgia Avenue from there to the central part of Forest Park. In the early 1960s, the segment of Thames Avenue between SR 85 and US 19/US 41 (now I-75) was designated as SR 331. In the middle of the decade, the SR 331 designation was extended eastward to US 19/US 41/SR 3, which were then following their current path. In 1971, SR 331 was extended eastward to SR 54, and the entire roadway was renamed as Forest Parkway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171348", "title": "Francisco Palencia", "text": "Francisco Palencia\n\nJuan Francisco Palencia Hernández (born 28 April 1973, in Mexico City) is a Mexican former football striker, his last club was UNAM.\nPalencia made his international debut for the Mexico national team on June 8, 1996 against Bolivia national team at the U.S. Cup tournament in Dallas, Texas, scoring the winning goal.\n\nPalencia played in the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, taking his side to the quarterfinals where they were defeated by Nigeria, the eventual winners. He was a member of the national team for the 1996, 1998 and 2003 Gold Cup tournaments and the 1999 Confederations Cup tournament, where he helped Mexico win all four competitions. Palencia also played in two FIFA World Cups, France'98 and Korea-Japan 2002, but could only help his team reach the \"Round of 16\" of the tournaments before being eliminated.\nHe has also represented his country in three Copa América tournaments in 1997, 1999 and 2004, as well as two Confederations Cup appearances in 1997 and 1999.\n\nA veteran of 539 career games at club level with 137 goals to his name, 80 international caps for his country and 12 international goals. His experience has made him one of Mexico's best players. Palencia trained with the Cruz Azul youth system at age 13 and made his debut in the Primera División (First Division) in 1994 at age 21. After finishing the 1995–1996 season with highly anticipated performances, Palencia was awarded the \"Rookie of the Year Award\", for most outstanding young player in the First Division.\nPalencia would go on to play seven seasons, captaining and scoring 91 goals for Mexico City's Club Deportivo Cruz Azul, and leading them to two championship titles in the CONCACAF Tournaments of 1996 and 1997, one championship title in the First Division in 1997, and second place in the Copa Libertadores of 2001.\n\nAfter finishing second place to Boca Juniors in the Copa Libertadores, Palencia departed from Cruz Azul at the end of the 2000–2001 season and went to Spain (on loan) to play for RCD Espanyol in La Liga, where he played 35 matches and scored six goals. After his one-year contract expired, Palencia returned to Mexico in late 2002 to play one more season with his old club, Cruz Azul. In late 2003, Palencia joined another club of Mexican football, this time to the \"All Mexican Team\", Club Deportivo Guadalajara. He continued on with his success displaying his excellent form, taking the team into the semi-finals of the 2005 Copa Libertadores tournament and registering 5 goals.\n\nPalencia was originally slated to join C.D. Chivas USA for the start of their inaugural season, but he enjoyed so much success with Guadalajara that his arrival to the United States team was delayed until August 19, 2005. In his American debut, he promptly displayed his fine form and scored two goals. In 2006, Palencia was the team captain of Chivas USA and was also the highest paid player in MLS at that time, earning US$1,360,000 a year. In 2006, the veteran striker missed out on selection in Mexico's 23 man squad for the World Cup. On January 2007, Palencia signed to UNAM Pumas. On February 7, Palencia was called up by coach Hugo Sánchez to represent his country and play a friendly game against the United States. The Mexicans lost the match 0-2. However, Palencia played against Paraguay on March 25 and Ecuador on March 28, Mexico winning both matches and Palencia score a goal.\n\nPalencia had another opportunity to play in the Copa Libertadores on May 3 and 8 of 2007. Club Toluca signed him on loan for a couple of games to reinforce its squad against Corporación Nuevo Cúcuta Deportivo in both matches of the Round of 16. Unfortunately for Toluca, Cúcuta Deportivo won the first match at home 5-1, even though Toluca scored first on the very first minute of the game. This match was followed by a 2-0 Toluca victory over Cúcuta Deportivo, also starting Palencia. Toluca was eliminated from the tournament and Palencia will have to wait for another opportunity to play in Latin America's biggest club championship event.\n\n\nUNAM\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171349", "title": "Chickasaw, Louisville", "text": "Chickasaw, Louisville\n\nChickasaw is a neighborhood in Louisville, Kentucky, USA. Its boundaries are West Broadway, 34th Street, Hale Avenue and Chickasaw Park.\n\nChickasaw Park is predominantly black and middle-class. Before integration, Shawnee Park was reserved for whites, while Chickasaw Park was reserved for blacks. Integration has led to a decrease in use for Chickasaw as more persons prefer the larger Shawnee to the north.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171355", "title": "Leslie Sarony", "text": "Leslie Sarony\n\nLeslie Sarony (born Leslie Legge Frye; 22 January 1897 – 12 February 1985) was a British entertainer, singer, actor and songwriter.\n\nSarony was born in Surbiton, Surrey, the son of William Henry Frye, \"alias\" William Rawstorne Frye, an Irish-born artist and photographer, and his wife, Mary Sarony, who was born in New York City. He was christened as Leslie Legge Tate Frye at the Church of St Mary the Virgin, Twickenham, on 5 May 1898.\n\nHe began his stage career aged 14 with the group Park Eton's Boys. In 1913 he appeared in the revue \"Hello Tango\".\n\nIn the Great War, Sarony served (as Private Leslie Sarony Frye) in the London Scottish Regiment and the Royal Army Medical Corps in France and Salonika, and was awarded the Silver War Badge.\n\nHis stage credits after the war include revues, pantomimes and musicals, including the London productions of \"Show Boat\" and \"Rio Rita\".\n\nSarony became well known in the 1920s and 1930s as a variety artist and radio performer. In 1928, he made a short film in the Phonofilm sound-on-film system, \"Hot Water and Vegetabuel\". In this film, he sang, interspersed with his comic patter, the two eponymous songs – the first as a typical Cockney geezer outside a pub, the second (still outside the pub) as a less typical vegetable rights campaigner (\"Don't be cruel to a vegetabuel\").\n\nHe went on to make recordings of novelty songs, such as \"He Played his Ukulele as the Ship Went Down\", including several with Jack Hylton and his Orchestra. He teamed up with Leslie Holmes in 1933 under the name The Two Leslies. The partnership lasted until 1946. Their recorded output included such gems as \"I'm a Little Prairie Flower\".\n\nHis song \"Jollity Farm\" was recorded by Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band on their 1967 album \"Gorilla\".\n\nSarony continued to perform into his eighties, moving on to television and films. In the 1970s he appeared in hit programmes including the \"Harry Worth Show\", \"Crossroads\", \"Z-Cars\", \"The Good Old Days\", and \"The Liberace Show\", as well as the famous sitcom \"Nearest and Dearest\". In 1975 he appeared in the first episode of the hard-hitting police drama, \"The Sweeney\", in which he played a police informant known as \"Soldier\" in the episode \"Ringer.\"\n\nHe took over from Bert Palmer as the senile Uncle Stavely (\"I heard that! Pardon?\") in the fourth and final series of \"I Didn't Know You Cared\" in 1979.\n\nIn 1983 Sarony appeared as one of a number of elderly insurance clerks in \"The Crimson Permanent Assurance\" segment of \"Monty Python's The Meaning of Life\". He died in London, aged 88.\n\nHis sons are: Neville Sarony QC, a prominent practising barrister and author \"(The Dharma Expedient\") in Hong Kong; Peter Sarony, a successful gunsmith with a business in London; and Paul Sarony is an independent film producer (\"Mrs Brown\", \"Hideous Kinky\", \"Shine\").\n\n\n\n\"Bunkey-doodle-I-doh\" was the B-side of \"Jollity Farm\" by the International Novelty Orchestra on Zonophone 5513 (pressing no. 30-2138). \"Jollity Farm\" was pressing no. 30-2139.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171359", "title": "Sulzberg", "text": "Sulzberg\n\nSulzberg or Sulzburg may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2171366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171366", "title": "Souls (band)", "text": "Souls (band)\n\nSouls is a Bangladeshi rock band formed in Chittagong in 1972 by singer Tajul Imam, guitarists Sajed ul Alam and Momtazul Hoque Lulu, bassist Subrata Barua Ronny, drummer and keyboardist Ahmed Newaz. Since their formation they have been playing an important role in Bangladeshi rock and roll music. They are one of the pioneering rock bands in Bangladesh. They have helped define rock music in Bangladesh in the 1970s and 1980s with their albums like \"Super Souls\" (1982), \"College Er Corridor\" (1985), \"Manush Matir Kachakach\" (1986), \"East and West\" (1988).\n\nTheir first lineup consisted of Sazed Ul Alam and Lulu on guitars, Newaz on keyboards, Ronny on drums, and Tajul on vocals.\n\nTowards the end of 1973, founder member Lulu left the band before Naqib Khan joined the band. His induction into the band was followed by his brother Pilu Khan and Tapan Chowdhury.\n\nIn 1982, Nasim Ali Khan and Ayub Bachchu joined. The band started writing and composing their own songs while performing cover songs of western bands in hotels.\n\nIn 1982, they released their debut album, \"Super Souls\", which was one of the first albums released by a music group in Bangladesh, along with the debut album of the band Shocking Blue. The album features the song \"Mon Shudhu Mon Chuyeche\". The Kumar Bishwajit song \"Torey Putuler Moto Kore Shajiye\" is a Souls track from their debut album. Abdullah Al Mamoon wrote the lyrics of this song, \"Mukhorito Jibon\" and \"Voole Gecho Tumi\" of the same album.\n\nIn 1985, they released their second album, \"Colleger Er Corridorey\", which features the songs \"College Er Corridorey\", \"Forrest Hill Er\", \"Football Football\", \"Khujish Jaharey\", and \"Paharer AkaBaka\". After the release of their second album, Nakib Khan and Pilu khan left the band, and later formed the band Renaissance.\n\nIn 1986, a reconfigured Souls released their third album, \"Manush Matir Kacha Kachi\", which contains the songs \"Eitoh Ekhane Brishti Bheja\", \"Ek Jhaak Paakhi\", and \"Muthor Bhetor Poddo\".\n\nIn 1988, they released their fourth album, \"East and West\", which had six English and six Bengali songs. Even though they had started their career singing English songs, this was the first time they released them. The songs were all written and composed by the band.\n\nAfterwards, Ayub Bachchu left Souls to form Little River Band, which was later renamed Love Runs Blind and is also known by its acronym, LRB.\n\nIn 1993, Souls released their fifth album, \"E Emon Porichoy\", which was Tapan Chowdhury's last appearance in Souls. Afterwards, he left the band to pursue a solo career. Chowdhury was replaced by Partho Borua as the lead singer.\n\nIn 1995, Souls released their sixth album, \"Aj Din Katuk Gaane\", which features popular songs \"Keno Ei Nisshongota\", sung by Partho, and \"Bestota\" and \"Chaa-er Cup-e,\" sung by Naseem Ali.\n\nIn 1997, Souls released their seventh album, \"Oshomoyer Gaan\" which features the songs \"Oshomoyer Gaan\", \"Ami Ar Bhabbo Na\", and \"Oi Dure Neel\".\n\nIn 2000, they released their first acoustic album, \"Mukhorito Jibon\"; it compiled some previously released songs, some remakes of old Indian Bengali songs, and some newly released songs. \"Sharadin Tomay Behbe\", \"Bashi Shune Ar\", and \"Mukhorito Jibon\" were some of the more widely played tracks from the album.\n\nIn 2003 and 2004 respectively, they released their ninth and tenth albums, \"Tarar Uthan\" and \"To-Let\". \"To-Let\" was the last album that sound engineer Mobin worked on before his death in a highway accident in Bangladesh.\n\n\"Jhut-Jhamela\" was released in 2006. Their most recent album is \"Jam\", which was released in 2011.\n\nPresent members\n\nPast members\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171371", "title": "Bar/None Records", "text": "Bar/None Records\n\nBar/None Records is an independent record label based in Hoboken, New Jersey.\n\nTom Prendergast started Bar/None in early 1986 in Hoboken, New Jersey. Having previously worked in pirate radio and booked and promoted bands in his native Ireland, Prendergast moved to Hoboken in 1982.\n\nThe first release on Bar/None was by Rage to Live, whose leader, Glenn Morrow, soon became a partner in the label. Morrow had already built a network of contacts in the alternative music community having toured nationally with his previous band, The Individuals, and had also worked in the A&R department of Warner Bros. and as the managing editor of \"New York Rocker\" magazine. In 2000, Prendergast left New Jersey and moved back to Ireland, sold his shares to Morrow.\n\nThe Bar/None debut album of They Might Be Giants sold more than 100,000 copies and their follow-up, \"Lincoln\", more than doubled those sales.\n\nOther artists that started on Bar/None and went on to the major record labels include Luka Bloom, Yo La Tengo (Atlantic/Matador), Freedy Johnston (Elektra) and Tindersticks (London/PolyGram).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171373", "title": "Matthew 4:25", "text": "Matthew 4:25\n\nMatthew 4:25 is the twenty-fifth, and final, verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This verse is part of a brief summary of and introduction to Jesus' ministry in Galilee, which will be recounted in the next several chapters. This verse lists the many locations from which people came to see Jesus.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:25\n\nThis verse reaffirms the author of Matthew's affinity for geography, and especially place names, as previously seen throughout Matthew 2 and in . This verse lists the places from which people came to follow Jesus. These are:\n\nWith the mention of Syria in the previous verse this covers the entirety of the Holy Land, with the notable exception of Samaria. Throughout his gospel the author of Matthew seems to view that area in a negative light, as in .\n\n"}
{"id": "2171386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171386", "title": "Georgette Harvey", "text": "Georgette Harvey\n\nGeorgette Harvey (1882–1952) was an American singer and actress. She is perhaps most famous for creating the role of Maria in the original Broadway production of \"Porgy\" (1927) and the 1935 Broadway production of George Gershwin's opera \"Porgy and Bess\".\n\nAt age 18 Georgette Harvey left her native St. Louis, Missouri, for New York City. She formed a quartet, the Creole Belles, that performed briefly in the U.S. before going to Europe. After some years the group disbanded but Harvey stayed on, performing in nightclubs and cabarets. She lived and performed in Russia for 16 years, and left at the outset of the Russian Revolution. She briefly performed in Japan before returning to the United States. She became a character actress and singer on the Broadway stage. Her credits include \"Porgy\", \"Stevedore\", \"Porgy and Bess\", \"Mamba's Daughters\" and \"Anna Lucasta\".\n\nAlthough Harvey made a screen test for the role of Mammy in \"Gone With the Wind\" (1939), Hattie McDaniel won the role. Harvey's screen test survives today and a portion can be glimpsed in the documentary \"\" (1988).\n\nHarvey died February 17, 1952, aged 69.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171391", "title": "List of current provincial governors in Afghanistan", "text": "List of current provincial governors in Afghanistan\n\nThis is a table chart of the current governors of Afghanistan. Provincial governors are all appointed by the President of Afghanistan. \n"}
{"id": "2171403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171403", "title": "Siu Sai Wan", "text": "Siu Sai Wan\n\nSiu Sai Wan () is a residential area in the northeastern part of Hong Kong Island in Hong Kong. It is located in the eastern part of Chai Wan, and is administratively under the Eastern District. The population was 59,729 in June 2011.\n\nThe current perimeter of Siu Sai Wan includes the rest of Chai Wan east of Wing Tai Road. Prior to reclamation, Siu Sai Wan was a small bay east of Chai Wan. Chai Wan was once known as \"Sai Wan\" (; \"West Bay\"), and the small bay as Siu Chai Wan (; \"Small Chai Wan\") or Chai Wan Tsai (; \"Little Chai Wan\"), and over time the names combined into the current name Siu Sai Wan.\n\nSiu Sai Wan was originally an intelligence gathering centre for the United Kingdom. In 1947, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United Kingdom and United States signed an agreement to jointly pursue the gathering of intelligence. The British Armed Forces then set up an intelligence gathering centre in Siu Sai Wan, one of the largest in the Far East, to monitor wireless communications from Taiwan (ROC) to China (PRC). In 1985, shortly after the handover of Hong Kong to China was agreed, the centre was dismantled.\n\nAt the same time, along with the development of the Mass Transit Railway, the resettlement estates in Chai Wan were to be demolished. To accommodate residents from these estates and from the expanding urban population, the government decided to develop Siu Sai Wan. At that time the name Siu Sai Wan was deemed \"indecent\" by the Government, who suggested to name the area \"Siu Chai Wan\" instead. This didn't sit well with local residents, and as a result when the Siu Sai Wan Estate was built a few years later, the name Siu Sai Wan was returned to the area. Nevertheless, taxi drivers are known to use a similar-sounding profane term when they refer to the area.\n\nSiu Sai Wan faces Tathong Channel, an entrance to the Victoria Harbour. The government has built Home Ownership Scheme housing such as Harmony Garden.\n\n\nA number of schools including both primary and secondary schools can be found in Siu Sai Wan.\n\n\nWith the Island Resort now constructed, the population of Siu Sai Wan has been steadily increasing, at present, both First Bus and Citybus extended routes end at Chai Wan (East) and Siu Sai Wan Estate and Island Resort.\n\nThe government suggested to the MTR Corporation (MTR) in 2001 that they should consider extending the Island Line to Siu Sai Wan from Chai Wan. In June 2005, the MTR revealed that they had started planning for the extension. In 2014, the MTR withdrawn the plan of extension, due to the difficulties of extension.\n\n\nThere's currently no MTR service in Siu Sai Wan.\nOnly full-time serviced routes are listed above.\n"}
{"id": "2171409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171409", "title": "Nickel(II) fluoride", "text": "Nickel(II) fluoride\n\nNickel(II) fluoride is the chemical compound with the formula NiF. Its is an ionic compound of nickel and fluorine and forms yellowish to green tetragonal crystals. Unlike many fluorides, NiF is stable in air. \n\nNiF comprises the passivating surface that forms on nickel alloys (e.g. monel) in the presence of hydrogen fluoride or elemental fluorine, which is why nickel and its alloys are among the few materials that can be used to store or transport these fluorine compounds. NiF is also used as a catalyst for the synthesis of chlorine pentafluoride.\n\nNiF is prepared by treatment of anhydrous nickel(II) chloride with fluorine at 350 °C:\n\nThe corresponding reaction of cobalt(II) chloride results in oxidation of the cobalt, whereas nickel remains in the +2 oxidation state after fluorination because its +3 oxidation state is less stable. Chloride is more easily oxidized than nickel(II). This is a typical halogen displacement reaction, where a halogen plus a less active halide makes the less active halogen and the more active halide. \n\nNickel(II) fluoride is also produced when fluorine reacts with nickel metal.\n\nA melt of NiF and KF reacts to give the green compound K[NiF]. The structure of this material is closely related to some superconducting oxide materials.\n\nNickel(II) fluoride reacts with strong bases to make nickel(II) hydroxide, a green colored compound.\n\nNiF + 2 NaOH → Ni(OH) + 2 NaF\n\n"}
{"id": "2171410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171410", "title": "Greg Giraldo", "text": "Greg Giraldo\n\nGregory C. Giraldo (December 10, 1965 – September 29, 2010) was an American stand-up comedian, television personality, and lawyer. He is remembered for his appearances on Comedy Central's televised roast specials, and for his work on that network's television shows \"Tough Crowd with Colin Quinn\", \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\", and the programming block \"Stand-Up Nation\", the last of which he hosted.\n\nGiraldo was born in the Bronx and raised in Bayside, Queens. His father, Alfonso, was from Colombia and worked for Pan Am, and his mother, Dolores, was from Spain. Giraldo was raised Roman Catholic and spoke fluent Spanish. He was the oldest of three children (brother John and sister Elizabeth). Giraldo played the guitar in a band in his late teens/early twenties.\n\nGiraldo was an excellent student and was accepted into the private Jesuit Regis High School in Manhattan. After graduating from Regis in 1983, he earned a bachelor's degree in English from Columbia University in 1987. While at Columbia, he was an active member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. \n\nGiraldo was admitted to Harvard Law School after achieving a near perfect score on his Law School Admission Test (LSAT), scoring in the 99th percentile of students taking the test. He earned a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School in 1990.\n\nGiraldo passed the bar and began a career as a lawyer, working for eight months as an associate for Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom before changing his occupation.\n\nIn 1993 Giraldo provided \"pro bono\" defense counsel services to his friend and fellow comedian Jeffrey Ross, who was charged with inciting a riot. Ross was performing at a comedy club on Long Island when a member of the audience pulled out a toy gun that looked real. Ross grabbed the gun and fought with the man for control; he was arrested in the incident. \n\nWhen Ross went to court to face the charges, \"Greg volunteered to be my attorney as a favor. I remember we slept in his parents' basement in Queens. We drove to court in a Jeep and had dirty blue sport jackets on. It took him two tries, but he got the case dismissed.\"\n\nGiraldo said that, at the time of the case, he had never litigated in a courtroom before. When the case was upgraded to a weapons charge, he had nearly told Ross to plead guilty, which would have resulted in his friend serving jail time. \"The judge called us over... and I had to plead, 'I have no idea what I'm doing here.' We ended up having to get a real lawyer and come back a month later,\" said Giraldo.\n\nGiraldo found that, although he did well in law school, he did not like the practice of corporate law. \n\nHis family was disappointed that Giraldo left law practice, but he said, \"I always wanted to do something creative. I've always had real trouble knowing what my actual desires and goals are. I've just been dragged along by fate. I can't even tell you why I thought to go to law school.\"\n\nHe also said:\n\"Because I went to Harvard Law School it seemed like I had my shit together, but I did only because it’s not hard. Everyone is so self-motivated that they leave you alone. You get study outlines and just cram, but then when you get out into the real world, it gets tricky. Most comedians are people who couldn’t really work in the real world, they’re too disorganized, too lazy, too fucked up, too erratic, too unstable. If you could work in the real world you would have stayed there because it is so many years of misery in comedy before you really start popping.\"\n\nIn August 2000, Giraldo was featured in an \"Esquire magazine\" article that profiled several members of the Harvard Law School class of 1990 who ended up choosing career paths other than law. After turning to comedy, Giraldo rarely discussed his prior career; the \"Esquire\" article was one of the few times that he referred to his time as a lawyer.\n\nGiraldo started doing stand-up comedy in 1992. When asked who his comedic influences were, Giraldo stated: \"For me, I wasn't really influenced by the good people. I was influenced by the (crappy) people. I would watch 'Evening at the Improv' and those kind of shows, and I'd think, 'Man, those guys blow so bad. I can do that.' And I went from there.\"\n\nGiraldo performed regularly at the Comedy Cellar comedy club in Manhattan, as well as clubs all over the U.S. Additionally, he was the star of the short-lived sitcom \"Common Law\". Giraldo landed the sitcom after being spotted by Hollywood agents at the 1995 Just for Laughs festival in Montreal. From 2002 to 2004, he was a regular panelist on \"Tough Crowd with Colin Quinn\". Giraldo also starred in several pilots, including \"Drive\" for CBS and \"The Greg Giraldo Show\", \"Adult Content\" and \"Gone Hollywood\" for Comedy Central. In 2004, he was featured in the spoken-word Lazyboy song \"Underwear Goes Inside the Pants.\"\n\nGiraldo performed more than a dozen times on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"Late Show with David Letterman\", and \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" and appeared regularly on \"The Howard Stern Show\". He also appeared as a member of the panel in the NBC show \"The Marriage Ref\".\n\nGiraldo acted in two Adam Dubin features, 2002's comedic short \"American Dummy\", in which he played a psychiatrist, and 2008's animated film, \"What Blows Up Must Come Down!\", in which he did the voice of Jihad Jo. He also did the voice of President Theodore Roosevelt in the audiobook version of Sarah Vowell's 2005 book \"Assassination Vacation\".\n\nHe appeared on \"The Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn\", \"Politically Incorrect\", \"The View\", Fox News Channel's \"The Full Nelson\" and \"Beyond the News\", Louie Anderson's \"Comedy Showcase\", Comedy Central's \"Comic Cabana\", Showtime's \"Latino Comedy Festival\" and \"Funny is Funny\", as well as on the BBC's \"Live at Jongleurs\". Giraldo also performed at the United States Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as part of a USO tour in 2002.\n\nHe had two half-hour specials on \"Comedy Central Presents\", wrote segments for \"Last Call with Carson Daly\", and was a panelist on Comedy Central's \"100 Greatest Stand-ups of All Time\" special. In 2004, his stand-up material was featured in Comedy Central's animated series \"Shorties Watchin' Shorties\". He appeared in both English and Spanish-language commercials for \"1-800-OK-Cable\". Giraldo also appeared on the IFC show, \"Z Rock\", playing an angry record producer.\n\nGiraldo said on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" on July 7, 2005, that he had quit drinking alcohol. His series \"Friday Night Stand-Up with Greg Giraldo\" began on Comedy Central in late 2005 and ran until 2006. His CD \"Good Day to Cross a River\" was released in 2006 by Comedy Central Records. Giraldo was featured (along with Dane Cook and Sean Rouse) in \"Dave Attell's Insomniac Tour\", released April 2006. This 98-minute film is thought by many of his fans to be one of his best performances—showing him on stage at work and also behind the scenes, with a glimpse of life on the road as a comedian.\n\nGiraldo appeared in several Comedy Central's annual roasts, roasting Chevy Chase, Pamela Anderson, William Shatner, Jeff Foxworthy, Flavor Flav, Bob Saget, Joan Rivers, Larry the Cable Guy, and David Hasselhoff, as well as the TBS roast of Cheech & Chong.\n\nHe was a regular guest on Comedy Central's television series \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\" and was one of the advocates lobbying for his side to be considered the \"root of all evil.\" He won Black's decision in two of his nine appearances, but won the audience poll six times. Giraldo served as a judge during season seven of the NBC reality competition show \"Last Comic Standing\".\n\nIn 2008, Giraldo appeared in venues across the United States as the headlining act of the Indecision '08 Tour, produced by Comedy Central. \"Midlife Vices\", his only one-hour special for Comedy Central, was released in 2009. In June 2010, Giraldo performed at the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival in Tennessee. That same month, he hosted \"The Nasty Show\" in Chicago, and in July, \"The Nasty Show\" in Montreal.\n\nGiraldo was married twice. He married first at age 23, and the couple divorced after two years. \n\nHe married his second wife, Maryann, on January 23, 1999. She was a former waitress at Caroline's comedy club. Together they had three sons. Giraldo had the tattoo \"Maryann 1-23-99\" on his right bicep. Giraldo and Maryann separated in 2008 for a short time and had many reconciliations before his death. They were never divorced.\n\nGiraldo had a tribal design tattoo on his left forearm that contained the number 525. He was reluctant to discuss its meaning. Comedian Jim Norton of \"Opie and Anthony\" later said that it represented his sobriety struggle; May 25 was the day that he first sobered up. Giraldo had been to rehab for alcohol and drug abuse several times. He said that once he had been so intoxicated that he punched something and broke four bones in his hand while performing at Gotham Comedy Club. Through the early 2000s, Giraldo was candid about his struggles with drug and alcohol addiction, and the challenges of life on the road, often incorporating these themes into his act. In 2009 he said that he had freed himself from addiction.\n\nOn September 25, 2010, Giraldo overdosed on prescription medication; the exact medication is unknown. It is believed to have been accidental. Earlier that afternoon, he had been scheduled to appear at a concert at the 3rd Annual New York Recovery Rally, introducing singer Courtney Love. The event, held on Randalls Island in New York City, was \"to celebrate the reality of recovery from addiction and offer hope to those who have yet to find recovery.\" The concert was held between noon and 3 p.m., but Giraldo never showed up. \n\nAfter Giraldo failed to appear for a scheduled performance at The Stress Factory that evening, police were notified and officers went to his room at the Hyatt Hotel in New Brunswick, New Jersey, where they found him unresponsive and notified EMTs. Giraldo was taken to nearby Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, where he remained in a coma on life support. He was removed from life support by his family's decision, and he died on September 29, 2010, at the age of 44. Giraldo was buried at Good Ground Cemetery in Hampton Bays, New York, with the inscription \"Beloved Father / Always Loved / Forever Remembered\".\n\nOn September 29, 2010, on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\", Jon Stewart honored Giraldo during the end-of-show \"Your Moment of Zen\" segment by playing a clip of his stand-up and renaming the segment for that night \"Your Moment of Greg.\" John Popper, lead singer of Blues Traveler, dedicated the song \"The Mountains Win Again\" to Giraldo during the band's concert on September 29; he had worked with the comedian on the TV show \"Z Rock.\" On September 30, 2010, numerous comedians and celebrities expressed their sorrow for Giraldo's death on Twitter. Comedy Central posted a series of clips from Giraldo's past works, titled \"The Best of Greg Giraldo,\" on their website.\n\nOn October 9, 2010, Comedy Central aired a special titled \"Comics Anonymous: Addictive Stand-Up.\" Filmed prior to Giraldo's death, it featured several comedians who had been sober for 10 years or more. The show's executive producer, comedian Mike DeStefano, dedicated the special to Giraldo. On October 12, 2010, the series premiere of \"Nick Swardson's Pretend Time\", Swardson dedicated the episode to Giraldo.\n\nOn November 2, 2010, Comix comedy club in New York hosted the Jim Florentine roast, at which Giraldo had been scheduled to perform. Throughout the show, many of the comedians paid tribute to Giraldo, in roast-style fashion. Host Rich Vos joked: \"I wasn’t the first choice to host. Greg Giraldo was asked, but he said he’d rather be dead than host this.\"\n\nOn February 9, 2011, a benefit titled \"The Big Time Comedy Show\" was held at NYC's Beacon Theatre. It was to raise money for Giraldo's sons and for The Greg Giraldo Fund, founded in his memory. Maryann Giraldo said it was \"to help children living within families of addiction... to be educated, encouraged and empowered, and given the tools they need to make different choices in their lives.\" The lineup included sets by Jerry Seinfeld, Lewis Black, Colin Quinn, Dave Attell, Jim Norton, Ted Alexandro, Nick DiPaolo, Jesse Joyce, and Eddie Brill, and the event was hosted by Tom Papa. Another benefit show was held in Los Angeles at the Wiltern Theater on June 29, 2011, and featured sets by Jeffrey Ross, Daniel Tosh, Marc Maron, Ralphie May, Brian Posehn, Bill Burr, Dave Attell, and Tom Papa; it was hosted by Jesse Joyce.\n\nThe Columbia University Alumni Association staged two benefit shows on March 28, 2011, at the Gotham Comedy Club in NYC. The comedians who performed sets were Todd Barry, Amy Schumer, John Mulaney, Joe Mande, Morgan Murphy, Godfrey, Rachel Feinstein, Michael Ian Black, and Robert Kelly, and the shows were hosted by Gabe Liedman and Stress Factory owner Vinnie Brand.\n\nSeth MacFarlane, Anthony Jeselnik, and Jeffrey Ross paid tribute to Giraldo during the \"Comedy Central Roast of Donald Trump\" in March 2011, and dedicated the program to him. \n\nOn March 18, 2011, Comedy Central aired \"Give It Up for Greg Giraldo\", a two-hour television special honoring his memory in which multiple comedians, including Jon Stewart, Nick Swardson, Colin Quinn, Jeffrey Ross, Denis Leary, Sarah Silverman, Dave Attell, Tom Papa, Lewis Black, Bill Burr, Daniel Tosh, Chelsea Peretti, Conan O'Brien, Jesse Joyce and Whitney Cummings, talked about his life and career. It also contained short clips of his roasts and other acts. \n\nGreg Fitzsimmons dedicated his 2010 book \"Dear Mrs. Fitzsimmons: Tales of Redemption from an Irish Mailbox,\" to Giraldo and several other comedians. Holly George-Warren's 2012 book \"Bonnaroo: What, Which, This, That, The Other\" was also dedicated to Giraldo.\n\nSocial worker Joe Schrank, a friend of Giraldo's, has a tattoo that says \"Best Wishes, God,\" a phrase that Giraldo often wrote into hotel room Bibles.\n\nA biography by Matt Balaker and Wayne Jones, \"Greg Giraldo: A Comedian's Story\", was published in March 2019. It features interviews with family, friends, fans, and colleagues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171412", "title": "Parkland, Louisville", "text": "Parkland, Louisville\n\nParkland is a neighborhood in Louisville, Kentucky, USA. Its boundaries are 34th Street on the west, West Broadway on the north, Woodland Avenue on the south, and 26th Street on the east.\n\nIt was originally called Homestead and was incorporated in 1874. In 1884 the name was changed to Parkland. The neighborhood was initially a wealthy suburb of Louisville. A tornado on March 27, 1890 devastated Parkland, and Parkland was annexed by Louisville in 1894. When rebuilt, part of Parkland was called Little Africa, but many mansions were built in \"White Parkland.\" Little Africa was demolished in 1948 to make way for several housing projects.\n\nOn May 27, 1968, Parkland was the site of race riots. Two teenagers were killed, and the National Guard occupied Parkland for seven days. Most businesses and many residents left Parkland after the riots. The neighborhood has since been the subject of several urban renewal efforts.\n\nAs of 2000, the population of Parkland was 4,550 .\n\nIn 2015, the former Boxing Commissioner of Pennsylvania, George Bochetto, along with a real estate investor, Jared Weiss, bought Muhammad Ali's childhood home located at 3302 Grand Avenue in the Parkland section of Louisville. The home has been restored to its original 1950s condition when Ali lived there. Ali returned to this home in Parkland after his win of Olympic gold in the 1960 Rome Olympics. In 2016, the home opened as a museum called the Muhammad Ali Childhood Home Museum. Both Bochetto and Weiss hope that the renovation will help promote further pride and growth in the Parkland section of Louisville.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171417", "title": "Melchior Meyr", "text": "Melchior Meyr\n\nMelchior Meyr (June 28, 1810 in Wallerstein-Ehringen – April 22, 1871 in Munich) was a German poet, novelist and philosopher.\n\nHe read law and philosophy at Heidelberg and Munich. His greatest success was the \"Erzählungen aus dem Ries\" (4th ed. Leipzig, 1892), remarkable as an accurate and sympathetic picture of rural life and character.\n\nHe wrote also tragedies (\"Herzog Albrecht\", 1851; \"Karl der Kuhne\", 1862), novels (\"Vier Deutsche\", 1861; \"Ewige Hebe\", 1864), and, in later life, philosophical works with a strong religious tendency. Among these were \"Emilie\" (philosophical dialogues, 1863), \"Die Religion des Geistes\" (1871), \"Die Fortdauer nach dem Tode\" (1869), \"Die Religion und ihre jetzt gebotene Fortbildung\" (1871), and \"Gedanken über Kunst, Religion und Philosophie\" (1874). In these works he attempted to develop a Deistic system of philosophy. He was also the author of an Anonymous work entitled \"Gespräche mit einem Grobian\" (1866). \n\nHe is buried on the Old Southern Cemetery in Munich.\n\nGraf Bothmer and M. Carrière, eds., \"Melchior Meyr. Biographisches, Briefe und Gedichte\", (Leipzig, 1874).\n\n"}
{"id": "2171429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171429", "title": "Stand! (song)", "text": "Stand! (song)\n\n\"Stand!\" is a 1969 song by the soul/rock/funk band Sly and the Family Stone Issued as a single that year by Epic Records, it reached number 13 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 14 on the Hot Soul Songs charts.\n\nThe song's title and lyrics are a call for its listeners to \"stand\" up for themselves, their communities, and what they believe in. Like nearly all of Sly & the Family Stone's songs, Sylvester \"Sly Stone\" Stewart was credited as the sole songwriter.\n\nThe original mix of \"Stand!\" garnered a warm, yet unenthusiastic, reaction when Sly Stone had an early acetate of the record played in a San Francisco club. As a result, Stone went back into the studio and had the song's final section, a fevered gospel music-styled break, rerecorded. Most of the Family Stone was unavailable for the session, and Stone resorted to using mostly studio musicians for the rerecorded section.\n\n\"I Want to Take You Higher\", the b-side of \"Stand!\", was also a hit single in 1969/1970.\n\nIn 2004 the song was ranked #241 on Rolling Stone's list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171432", "title": "Dioxygen difluoride", "text": "Dioxygen difluoride\n\nDioxygen difluoride is a compound of fluorine and oxygen with the molecular formula . It can exist as an orange-colored solid which melts into a red liquid at . It is an extremely strong oxidant and decomposes into oxygen and fluorine even at at a rate of 4% per day: its lifetime at room temperature is thus extremely short. Dioxygen difluoride reacts vigorously with nearly every chemical it encounters – even ordinary ice – leading to its onomatopoeic nickname \"FOOF\" (a play on its chemical structure and its explosive tendencies).\n\nDioxygen difluoride can be obtained by subjecting a 1:1 mixture of gaseous fluorine and oxygen at low pressure (7–17 mmHg (0.9–2.3 kPa) is optimal) to an electric discharge of 25–30 mA at 2.1–2.4 kV.\nA similar method was used for the first synthesis by Otto Ruff in 1933. Another synthesis involves mixing and in a stainless steel vessel cooled to , followed by exposing the elements to bremsstrahlung for several hours. A third method requires heating a mix of fluorine and oxygen to , and then rapidly cooling it using liquid oxygen. All of these methods involve synthesis according to the equation:\n\nIt also arises from the thermal decomposition of ozone difluoride:\n\nIn , oxygen is assigned the unusual oxidation state of +1. In most of its other compounds, oxygen has an oxidation state of −2.\n\nThe structure of dioxygen difluoride resembles that of hydrogen peroxide, , in its large dihedral angle, which approaches 90° and C symmetry. This geometry conforms with the predictions of VSEPR theory.\n\nThe bonding within dioxygen difluoride has been the subject of considerable speculation, particularly because of the very short O−O distance and the long O−F distances. The O−O bond length is within 2 pm of the 120.7 pm distance for the O=O double bond in the dioxygen molecule, . Several bonding systems have been proposed to explain this, including an O−O \"triple\" bond with O−F single bonds which are destabilised and lengthened by repulsion between the lone pairs on the fluorine atoms and the π-orbitals of the O−O bond. Repulsion involving the fluorine lone pairs is also responsible for the long and weak covalent bonding in the fluorine molecule.\nComputational chemistry indicates that dioxygen difluoride has an exceedingly high barrier to rotation of 81.17 kJ/mol around the O−O bond (in hydrogen peroxide the barrier is 29.45 kJ/mol), this is close to the O−F bond disassociation energy of 81.59 kJ/mol.\n\nThe F NMR chemical shift of dioxygen difluoride is 865 ppm, which is by far the highest chemical shift recorded for a fluorine nucleus, thus underlining the extraordinary electronic properties of this compound. Despite its instability, thermochemical data for have been compiled.\n\nThe compound readily decomposes into oxygen and fluorine. Even at a temperature of , 4% decomposes each day by this process:\n\nThe other main property of this unstable compound is its oxidizing power, although most experimental reactions have been conducted near . Several series of experiments with the compound resulted in a series of fires and explosions. Some of the compounds that produced violent reactions with include ethyl alcohol, methane, ammonia, and even water ice.\n\nWith and , it gives the corresponding dioxygenyl salts:\n\nThe compound currently has no practical applications, but has been of theoretical interest. One laboratory used it to synthesize plutonium hexafluoride at unprecedentedly low temperatures, which was significant because previous methods for preparation needed temperatures so high that the plutonium hexafluoride created would rapidly decompose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171433", "title": "Takhar", "text": "Takhar\n\nTakhar or Taahkarr (in Serer and Cangin) is a demi-god in the Serer religion worshipped by many Serers (an ethnic group found in Senegal, the Gambia and Mauritania). Takhar is the god of justice and vengeance in Serer religion and worshipped at the foot of certain trees in the forest deemed to be sacred. The Serer priestly class play a crucial role in the evokation of the demi-god and the implementation of its laws that devotees adhere to.\n\nThe Serer people worship Takhar in order to appeal to him against the injuries, oppression or evil magic inflicted by other. Takhar is worshipped at the foot of trees, and in the new moon, the atmospheric spirits of the air and night are \"conjured with mysterious incarnations\". Offerings to Takhar are deposited at the foot of the tallest trees in the forest. Cattle and poultry are sacrificed and taken to the sacred sanctuary, along with millet, fruits and vegetables. Like the offerings to certain Pangool (singular :\"Fangool\", the Serer saints and spirits represented by snakes), the holy feast takes place in the sacred forest.\n\nThe transmigration of souls is a strongly held belief in Serer religion as evident in Serer funeral rituals.\n\nThe god Takhar is worshipped in the forests in , more specifically, in certain , such as the Sine-Saloum area of present-day Senegal. Somewhat similar to the \"Pangool\", the Serer people believe that both Takhar and his adversary Tiurakh (\"god of wealth and property\") reside in the tallest trees of the forest. It is partly for this reason why plants and animals are regarded as totems in the Serer-totemic and sentient worldly-view of nature in general, and afforded high spiritual status and respect, because these ancient trees are believed to be the sanctuaries of certain Serer entities.\n\nThe high priests of Takhar are usually very old men from notable . These Serer high priests preside over all cases relating to law and order, i.e. theft, witchcraft, etc. In the past, these high priests (the Saltigues) would concoct doses of poison which they would administer to the accused witch, taken orally. However, these concoctions were deliberately never made fatal enough to cause death. These high priests mostly depended on the fear of Takhar as dispenser of justice and vengeance, than their poisons.\n\nAs the god of justice, Takhar is the perpetual patron of all those who work within the judiciary and pass judgement on legal issues. In Serer ancient history, that role was primarily reserved for the Serer lamanic class.\n\n"}
{"id": "2171439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171439", "title": "Teairra Marí", "text": "Teairra Marí\n\nTeairra Marí (born Teairra Marí Thomas; December 2, 1987) is an American singer-songwriter, dancer, model and actress. At the age of 16, Jay Z signed her to Def Jam and she released her first album, \"Roc-A-Fella Records Presents Teairra Marí\". After disappointing sales, she was let go from her recording contract in the middle of production for her second album \"Second Round\". In 2008, she returned to the music scene with the Pleasure P-assisted single \"Hunt 4 U\". After constant leaks, she re-recorded a second attempt at her second album titled \"At That Point\", which was later shelved. In 2010, she starred in the film \"Lottery Ticket\" alongside rappers Bow Wow and Ice Cube. Since 2010, she has released several mixtapes including features from Nicki Minaj, Soulja Boy, and Gucci Mane.\n\nAfter Antonio \"L.A.\" Reid heard Marí perform live, he offered her a contract. According to VP A&R at Island Def Jam Music Group Shakir Stewart, in an interview with HitQuarters, \"Teairra was a star when she walked into the room. She captured the room when she did her audition. We fell in love with her from day one.\"\n\nMarí worked with Jay-Z in his first collaboration project since becoming president of Def Jam Records, to create \"Make Her Feel Good\" along with producer Sean Garrett, the lead single from her debut album on Roc-A-Fella/Def Jam that reached number 35 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #9 on the R&B charts. It was heavily played on BET but barely on MTV. The second single \"No Daddy\" had a video that led to commercial success on MTV. The video spent sixteen days on Total Request Live, reaching number four. Shortly after her third single \"Phone Booth\" was only sent to radio outlets and received a lukewarm response due to it not having a video and no promotion, she also made cameo appearances in various videos such as Biggie (\"Nasty Girl\"), 3LW (\"Feelin You\") Jay-Z (\"Show Me What You Got\") and played the leading lady in Sammie's video for \"You Should Be My Girl\". Teairra Marí's first album, Roc-A-Fella Records Presents Teairra Marí, was released on August 2, 2005 and was produced by Brian Michael Cox, Darkchild, Cool And Dre, Blackout Movement, The Trackboyz, Kwame and was co-executive produced by Sean Garrett. The album reached No. 5 on the Billboard 200 albums chart and No. 2 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart while modeling and doing ads for the Roca Wear campaign. The album sold 248,000 copies according to Nielsen Soundscan, as of November 11, 2009. Teairra started work on her second album entitled \"Second Round\" in 2006. The first single \"Play Me\" was scheduled to be released in the fall but production was stopped in the middle of the album. She received a phone call from her label before her high school graduation to inform her that she was being dropped.\n\nIn 2008, Marí signed a lucrative deal with Violator but decided to split and landed a new development deal with Fo'Reel Ent. under the wing of Cudda Love (the man responsible for Nelly's success). She was working on a new album titled \"At That Point\" with producers Rico Love, The Runners, The Underdogs and more. Featured on the album were Nicki Minaj, Flo Rida, Pleasure P, Soulja Boy, Gucci Mane, Kanye West & Rick Ross. On January 12, 2009 Teairra Marí released a Benny Boom-directed music video for \"Hunt 4 U\", which features Pleasure P. The second official single released from \"At That Point\" is \"Cause a Scene\" featuring Flo Rida. It was produced by The Runners. The third official single from the album \"Sponsor\" featuring Gucci Mane & Soulja Boy was released digitally on February 2, 2010 and the video was shot at a mansion in Los Angeles and was released on March 8, 2010.\nThe album \"At That Point\" was scheduled to release the summer of 2010 but was eventually shelved due to so many tracks getting leaked online. She decided to reenter the studio to re-record the album with a new title.\n\nLate 2009, Teairra Marí released her first mixtape \"Don't Make Me Cause a Scene\", hosted by DJ Papa Smurf. Besides throwing all her singles on there she released before she released \"Sponsor\", plus adding \"Diamonds\" (with Kanye West), and \"Automatic\" (with Nicki Minaj), and remixing, \"Birthday Sex\" (Jeremih), \"Turn My Swagg On\" (Soulja Boy), \"Blame It\" (Jamie Foxx, T-Pain), \"Turning Me Off\" (Keri Hilson), and \"Best I Ever Had\" (Drake). It also features an official remix to \"Cause A Scene\", featuring rappers Flo' Rida, and Rick Ross.\n\nShe released her second mixtape entitled \"Point of No Return\", hosted by DJ Drama on August 7, 2010. The mixtape contained leak songs like \"I Know It's You\", \"Coins\", \"Find My Way Back\", \"Holla\", and a song intended for the album called \"Lights Go Down\". She released 4 music videos to some of the songs she covered for the project. Usher's \"Daddy's Home\", covers to Drake's songs \"Over\" and his song \"Find Your Love\" titled \"My Lovin'\", and \"Super High\", a Rick Ross cover featuring a rapper named Cardan.\n\nOn August 17, 2010 she released \"Sincerely Yours\", a digital EP released via iTunes, featuring the single \"Sponsor\", and new songs like \"Body\", and \"Stranger\". It also features songs made for \"At That Point\" that had not leaked, \"Emergency\", \"Operator\", and \"Might Get Lucky\". She released music videos to \"Body\" and \"Stranger\". She performed \"Body\" on the Mo'Nique show. \n\nShe released her third mixtape entitled \"The Night Before X-MAS\" on Christmas Eve 2010. It features a remix to \"Devil in a New Dress\" by Kanye West with the help of Rick Ross and also Mr. Vegas's ballroom reggae song \"Boy Shorts\" with him on it, covers to Chris Brown's \"Deuces\" featuring fellow recording artist Dondria, her rendition of the Wiz Khalifa song \"Black and Yellow\" titled \"U Know What It Is\", a cover to Rick Ross's song \"Aston Martin Music\", Diddy – Dirty Money's \"Loving You No More\", and other songs such as \"Stay\", \"Round And Round\", and \"Back It Up\" featuring rapper YG. She made videos to \"U Know What It Is\" and \"Stay\".\n\nTeairra went into the studio with Rico Love, executive producer of the album, in early March 2011 to work on new music for her album. A snippet of a song is heard in a clip of them recording the first single from the album, \"That's All Me\", which features Rico Love. The song samples one of Diddy's early hits, \"It's All About the Benjamins\". \"That's All Me\" is a single on DJ T. Neal's album \"Not Your Average DJ\", which features Rico Love and was also set to be included on Marí's album. Marí performed the new song for the first time at R&B Live in Hollywood, and later revealed on the set of the video that she had departed from Warner Bros and had signed a deal with Rico Love's label Division1. Due to the large amount of leftover material from the album, Marí released a fourth mixtape titled \"Now or Never\" on May 30, 2011.\n\n\"U Did That\" was later released as the new first single from Teairra's second album, and was written and produced by Rico Love and co-produced by D-Town. Marí said that the single would be going for radio adds sometime in January 2012.\nMarí then released a video of her and Rico Love in the studio and talking about the new album. \"It's absolutely amazing the chemistry that Rico and I share. I couldn't ask for another partner in crime. [...] There are a lot of talented songwriters out there, but for me, my chemistry is with Rico and I haven't had a chemistry like this with anybody else. Everybody has their match and I think Rico is definitely my musical match.\" The song was later remixed featuring rapper 2 Chainz, and the music video was shot. Marí described the reasoning for the title of the album by saying \"It's reminiscent of a new jack swing, like '90s R&B, bedroom music but with a bounce.\"\n\nIn 2009 she appeared in \"The Magnificent Cooly-T\", followed in 2010's \"Lottery Ticket\" playing opposite Bow Wow. During 2013, the cable network UP premiered her in \"The Dempsey Sisters\" with Lynn Whitfield, Denyce Lawton and Clifton Powell.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2012, she had a supporting role on season two of the VH1 hit reality show \"\". In 2014, she appeared in a main role on the \"Love & Hip Hop\" spinoff \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2171452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171452", "title": "Hans Villius", "text": "Hans Villius\n\nVillius received his doctorate in history in 1951 with his dissertation \"Karl XII:s ryska fälttåg: Källstudier\" (\"Charles XII's Russian campaign: A Source Study.\") in which he critically analysed the narrative sources of Charles XII's officers during the campaign. In 1957 Villius joined Swedish Radiotjänst (now Sveriges Radio), Sweden's national public radio corporation, and began making popular historical documentaries and programming until he moved to Sveriges Television (SVT) in 1966. It was at SVT that Villius began working with TV-producer Olle Häger, a very productive collaboration that would span some two decades. During the 1980s and 1990s, Häger and Villius produced several popular documentaries like \"Fyra dagar som skakade Sverige\" (\"Four days that shook Sweden\") in 1988 about the Swedish \"Midsummer crisis\" during World War II and \"Raoul Wallenberg - fånge i Sovjet\" (\"Raoul Wallenberg - prisoner in the Soviet Union.\") as well as one of SVT's biggest and most popular documentary productions ever, \"Hundra Svenska År\" (\"One Hundred Swedish years\"), consisting of eight one-hour documentaries on the history of Sweden during the 20th century from many different perspectives.\n\nOther than his dedication to entertaining and educating, Villius was most famous for his narrating both his own and others' documentaries, and his soft Kalmar-accent is instantly recognizable to millions of Swedes (even to those who do not know his name). He also played the Minister of Justice in Bo Widerberg's thriller \"The Man from Majorca\" (1984). His voice has almost become a concept of its own, intimately associated with serious educational programming and spawning many parodies (e.g., in TV-commercials) and imitations among comedians.\n\n\nwith Olle Häger\n\n\nwith Elsa Villius\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171464", "title": "The Reynolds Girls", "text": "The Reynolds Girls\n\nThe Reynolds Girls were a short-lived British dance pop duo composed of sisters Linda (born in 1970) and Aisling Reynolds (born in 1972). They are best known for their hit single \"I'd Rather Jack\", which peaked at number 8 on the UK Singles Chart in April 1989, number 6 in Ireland, number 8 in the Netherlands, number 7 in the Flanders region of Belgium, and number 43 in Australia. It remained in the UK singles chart for 12 weeks. The sisters signed to the PWL record label after giving Pete Waterman a demo tape. Their single was produced by Stock Aitken Waterman.\n\nThe sisters grew up in Litherland, a suburb of Sefton, Liverpool, and were of Irish descent. The duo's younger sister, Debbie, played the original Katie Rogers, in \"Brookside\", from 1987 to 1989.\n\n\"I'd Rather Jack\" started out as a response to music critics who ignored the younger pop acts in the UK at the time, and to radio DJs who continued to play older bands on their playlists rather than Stock Aitken Waterman songs. It was also a response to a perceived snub at the Brit Awards, where SAW acts lost out to more \"mature\" acts such as Enya and Steve Winwood. After their one hit, The Reynolds Girls were dropped by the label. A second single, \"Get Real\", was released but this failed to chart and the duo have not made any real media appearance since. It is unknown what happened to them after they quit the music industry, and they could not be traced for a 2012 PWL reunion concert.\n\nIn a public poll conducted by Channel 4 in 2003, \"I'd Rather Jack\" was voted number 91 in a list of the 100 Worst Pop Records of All Time. In a documentary about PWL that aired in 2012, the people interviewed admitted that the single was indeed a tongue-in-cheek response to the critics, and in part did ruin the siblings' career after they'd recorded it.\n"}
{"id": "2171480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171480", "title": "Sulz", "text": "Sulz\n\nSulz may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171482", "title": "François Dominique de Reynaud, Comte de Montlosier", "text": "François Dominique de Reynaud, Comte de Montlosier\n\nFrançois Dominique de Reynaud, Comte de Montlosier (April 16, 1755 in Clermont-Ferrand – December 9, 1838), was a notable French politician and political writer during the First French Empire, Bourbon Restoration and July Monarchy. He was the youngest of a large family belonging to the poorer nobility.\n\nHe was elected as a stand-in diplomat from the nobility of bailiwick of Clermont-Ferrand to the Estates-General, where he was a member from September 1789. Later, in 1791, he was also elected to the National Constituent Assembly, where he sat on the Royalist side. He defended the French monarchy with obstinacy and talent and helped edit the French pamphlet \"Les Actes des Apôtres\".\n\nIn September 1791, after the dissolution of the Assembly, Montlosier fled to Germany where he tried to join the counter-revolutionary Army of Condé at Coblenz. After some protest concerning the liberal leanings he had shown in the Assembly, he was finally accepted.\n\nAfter the cannonade of Valmy, Montlosier withdrew to Hamburg, and thence to London, where he avoided English society, moving exclusively among the French exiles.\n\nIn his \"Courrier de Londres\", published in London, he advocated moderation and the abandonment by the exiles of any idea of revenge. He was recalled to Paris in 1801, with permission to publish his paper in London. The \"Courrier\" was soon suppressed, nevertheless, its editor being compensated by a comfortable sinecure in the ministry of foreign affairs. Next year he sold his pen to the government to edit the violent anti-English \"Bulletin de Paris\".\n\nAt Napoleon's request he undertook an account of the ancient monarchy of France, which should serve as a justification for the empire. After four years' labor Montlosier submitted his work to a specially appointed committee, by which it was rejected because of the stress laid on the feudal limitations of the royal authority. The work \"De la monarchie française . . . ou recherches sur les anciennes institutions françaises . . . et sur les causes qui ont amené la revolution . . .\" appeared in 1814 in three volumes, a fourth and supplementary volume in the next year containing a preface hostile to Napoleon.\n\nHis views were no more acceptable to Louis XVIII than they had been to the emperor, and he devoted himself to agriculture until he was roused by the clerical and reactionary policy of Charles X. His anti-clerical \"Memoire à consulter sur un système religieux, politique . . .\" (1826) rapidly passed through eight editions.\n\nIn 1829 he published \"De l'origine, de la nature, et des progrés de la puissance écclesiastique en France\" [On the origin, nature, and progress of ecclesiastical power in France]. In this book, Montlosier claims there were 500,000 affiliated Jesuits in France in the Chamber of Paris, in the Chamber of Deputies, at the court, in the army, in the courts, etc. He had no part in the revolution of 1830, but supported Louis Philippe's government, and entered the House of Peers in 1832. He died on December 9, 1838 at Blois. Ecclesiastical burial was denied him because he had refused to abjure his anti-clerical writings.\n\n\n\n"}
